Just to warm us back up, I uh started off with my conclusions last week. I will do it again today, that first bullet This is the strongest, most absolute, most necessary command in all of Scripture. I spent most of this week trying to finish my notes on Christ as King. And I can't tell you how impressed I was the entire time how this Well I I I even wrote something similar. I I'll just read this little piece to you. Put a pause on that previous thought, I'm sorry. When a person studies for this isn't in your notes, it's my notes for Christ's king. When a person studies for a sermon or lesson, they typically select a single verse Passage or chapter of the Bible and seek to mine it for a diamond or gold ingot of truth. When we study Christ, we must rope off the entirety of the Bible. And we seek for an uncountable wealth of diamonds, an inexhaustible vein of gold. So it is when we try to study Christ as prophet, priest, and king. And in that study, the uncountable wealth of diamonds or excuse me or inexhaustible or ends inexhaustible vein of gold. Of love, God's love, and its way it played itself out in Christ. And the way it was set as an example and a requirement for us, so that when we stand before God, the work of Christ the mediator will have been effective. He expressed God's love in so many ways. He taught God's love He required God's love. He enabled God's love through the Holy Spirit. He cultivated the fruit of love. Mostly in his offices as mediator, prophet, priest, and king, by the way. And then its derivative offices of things like serving or sacrifice or those other ones And what we will stand before God ultimately and give an account for is that we learn the lesson about God's love and the requirements that it places on our lives. So I feel more confident than I ever have to say this is the strongest, most absolute, most necessary command in all of Scripture. It would do no violence to my respect for the complexity of God's word. The awesomeness of God's word, the totality of God's word, to summarize it and say it is the story of God's love when you define love correctly. First John three, eighteen through nineteen. Little children, let us not love in word or talk. but indeed and in truth. I got distracted this morning for a moment by a desiring God article that comes in. I I get some I generally delete them if I don't like the Well I want to say if I don't like, if I'm not interested in the title of the whatever the blog post or message or whatever it is on the first thing, I don't even open the email, I just delete it. And I did that this morning and then my brain caught up to what the title was and I was like, whoop, I'm delete. And I read it and uh it was a blog by Greg Morris. Is it Greg Morris? Morris. I I like that guy. Um but he was talking about a Paul Washer sermon And Paul Washer said, we have become a church of decisionism. And I was like, I don't know exactly what that word means. And he basically said if you walked up to most Christians and you said, How do you know you're saved? They would say something like, Well, at some point in time I remember making a decision for Christ Where is that in the scriptures? Give all your life, take up your cross, follow me. Have your life transformed by the power of Christ love one another, not in talk or in word. I think it's interesting that they even use both in in the first John passage. Let us not love in word or talk, but in deed and in truth. By this We shall know that we are of the truth and reassure our heart before Him. I have shared with you many times that I used to teach a youth group a long time ago. I did it for about ten years. I was always looking for ways to take scripture and help people understand it concretely, young people to understand it concretely. I don't know that I much dumbed down the way that I teach, meaning I don't know that I taught them much differently than I teach today But I did try to find relevant metaphors or analogies that they could comprehend easily and lay into practice. And one of them that I did hear with regard to how do we know that we are in Christ is there's no doubt. That you're in the race when your lungs are aching and your heart is pounding and the sweat is pouring and your legs are burning and your eyes are fixed on the goal that is coming towards you too slowly. For the pain in your body. Nobody steps up to the side of the track and whispers in your ear, you're not really running, because your body is exhausted with the effort of running. You want to know if you're in Christ? Run. You want to know if you're in Christ? Love. Until the cost of it impresses itself on your life. In every aspect of your life. And by the way, Take those people that are in your home or in your church that are particularly difficult to love and move them up the list someplace Don't don't be dominated by them in your thinking, but move them up of the list someplace. By this we shall know that we are of the truth and reassured our heart before Him. When you are loving people at cost, There is no way for the evil one or any of the people that spread his lies to stand next to you and whisper in your ear, you don't know Christ. Because your body is telling you, metaphorically, right? Your body is telling you, I'm in the race. I feel the pain of it. I feel the exertion of it. I feel the exhaustion of it. As a matter of fact, I am relying on the Lord to do something that I don't understand how it can be done because I'm out of energy. I'm out of money, I'm out of patience, I'm out of good feelings All right. Are you warmed back up from last week? Long pause? Skip forward a couple tapes. a correction from last week. It's in your tables. Actually, if you look at table one on page seven I made several changes to these tables just to clean them up. There was so much material I was rushing to get it in last week that uh I I I wanted to do some cleanup. So I took uh the advantage this week of doing some cleanup But the only one that's super significant here is uh the one that's rank three on that table one, Eros. Um I got led astray by D. A. Carson. I have the paper if you'd like to see it, but uh I don't know w how or why, because he's a a great exegete and theologian, but he got it wrong here. Um And there was a reference initially in here to Song of Solomon, where he was indicating that the word Eros was used. That is not, in fact, true. I don't know what translation of the Septuagint he was looking at or how that error crept in. I don't actually care. I'm gonna stick with he's a great theologian and exeges. But he made a mistake, which is okay. He's he's a man And uh the observations there in that last column, the Greek translators generally eschewed or eschewed, depending on uh what part of the region you're from. the use of Eros, preferring instead agape or some other term. And that is in fact the lion share of translations of the Hebrew word which definitely has to do with sexual love or erotic love or physical love, that that's the rank five in table two. That word definitely means those things and occurs sixty-one times at least in the Old Testament So it it it's there. The idea is there, but the translators for the Septuagint generally didn't seem to want to do that. So they translated most of those words as agape There is only one occurrence that I could find where it's actually a derivative of Eros, and that's that Proverbs 7. 18 passage. So as near as I can tell, the best of my ability, that is the only use of it in the scriptures, and it accords well with the passage, talking about a harlot intoxicating themselves with love, and so on and so forth. Every other occurrence of that word form, lexine, um is actually lover. And it again has that same connotation of physical or erotic or sexual or whatever the case would be. But it's that second word there that you see in Hosea 2. 5. That was not correct in the notes previously, and I wanted to make that correction. So we will keep moving past the Greek and the Hebrew, except that I want to ramp back up a little bit in that N1. It's the middle of page three. You've got a table and just above that starts a section on TESSID. And we talked about that a lot. Depending on versions of your scripture, you're basically well you almost all use ESV. So you're almost all going to have steadfast love. Uh if I remember correctly, you all mostly use ESV. Previously, KJV and some of its derivatives, NASB would have used loving-kindness. We talked about that a little bit last week. I just can't get past uh or I we we can't go past the centrality of the word tested in scriptures. It it actually occurs More times. I might be on thin ice here. If my memory serves me correctly, just to leave me a little wiggle room. It occurs more times than any of the other words for love by a fair margin. I believe agape occurs about 260 times And I believe it says 245 here, but when you look up all of the different conjugations of it, it's closer to 300 times. In the scriptures. God's covenant love for us is foundational to the entire testimony of the scriptures, both old and new. It's hard for us a little bit because when we talk about a covenant, it's a legal document with requirements and promises. It's a king addressing either vassal kings, meaning subordinate kings, which would be good for God and men, for instance. Um or a king to his people. And it says who he is and what he requires of them And it makes promises for care of them and provision for them, and it it promotes stipulations for what happens if you violate the requirements of the covenant. So it's a very legal document, not what we would consider as love, voluntary and free and open and unconditional. That's not in the scriptures. That's not in the scriptures. It creates a little problem for us when we start talking, which we will toward the end, start talking about interpersonal relationships. Which is really funny because we want to talk, just real quickly, we want to talk about love in terms of it, oh true love is unconditional. But then you get into a real relationship and you talk about well it's impossible to be in a relationship with this person because and you fill in some fault because they don't respect me, because they don't treat me well, because of this, because of that. And so as it actually plays out in our lives, w we understand that love is a covenant that has conditions. You can't talk about Christ as King without Hasid. You can't talk about Christ as Savior without Hasid. You can't talk about Christ as loving without Hasid. You can't talk about salvation without Hess It's difficult to talk about much of anything from the narrative of the scriptures without standing on the foundation of God's covenant love. You can't talk about election without it. You can't talk about perseverance of the saints or preservation of the saints or however you want to say that. Eternal security You can't talk about any of that without God's covenant love. And to tell you I have it all figured out is not correct. But I'm gonna do my best as we go through this to talk to you about it in terms that are extremely biblical. I am going to risk provoking you. say that uh well I don't want to. That's that was the long pause. Is there any way out of this, you know, more gently, right? Um I am gonna r risk upsetting you and say that unless you can provide me an example of one that is not Yeah, this is a good feature of covenants. So I have I have a full list of the covenants. on the I heard Genesis 15, by the way. I'm not ignoring you, I'm sorry. In Table 4, I have a list of the covenants in the scriptures. And you're referring to the Abrahamic covenant, are you not? So if you look at the s the middle of the Abrahamic uh ones, I chose to broke it break it out here, initial promise, formalized promise, reaffirmed with a sign. It was a great one to pick. There's an implied condition to the initial promise if you go from this land If you go to the land that I'm telling you, right, there's an implied one to Genesis twelve. Um there's some implication of conditionality to Genesis 17 The problem I have with calling Genesis 15 unconditional is not all Israel. Not all of Abraham's seed. are members of the kingdom. And that was a specific fault that Christ took up with the Jews in the synoptics multiple times. That God would I'll make one more statement to hopefully ameliorate any offense I might have caused That God had decided to enter into a covenant with Abraham, in fact, as a man, and to his heritage. Not all of his heritage, but his heritage is in fact true, and he never deviated deviated from it. And in that sense, unconditional. What God said he would do He did. And he says, I will always do it. I will never fail from it. So in that aspect, unconditional. But that a man might turn around and go, Well God you made a covenant with that guy, so I'm in just because I came from his seed. That that's never there. in in context with the test of Isaac, uh you know that we all know Abraham had the test, he did not have to sacrifice I think verse eighteen, Genesis twenty-see. In your offspring shall all the nations of the earth be blessed because you have obeyed my voice. That gets often skipped in the evangelical world that it's there. Here, here I love this discussion. Here Is one of the major problem with words that we study in the scripture. That there is an inherent tension to them. And if we fall and we're afraid, right? We we camp out on is it conditional Or unconditional. Wow. That almost fell apart on me there. Right? And we see it like this a a precipice upon which if I decide wrong I'm gonna fall. And I might fall the wrong way And so we try to prop it up and reconcile the tension. Hold on real quick and then I'll get you I'm going to challenge you to be careful, very careful with that. That in the attempts to reconcile those tensions in the scripture, this is not the only one, by the way. But in the attempt to reconcile those tensions, we more often than not abuse God's word. Those whom the Father has given me will not fall out of my hand Right? And then the Lord talks about, if you have these characteristics, you are my disciples. Not all of you that use my name. Conditionality is written all over the scriptures. If you keep my commandments, if you love one another. Well, which is it? Am I eternally secure in God's hand? Or is it her first, then you? Don't let me forget though. I do want to hear what you have to say Oh, here now I forgot. Is it conditional? Well, it's it's this one, or it's this. I don't want to say it's both, that's a stupid answer, but you don't necessarily have to resolve those tensions. What you have to do is conform yourself to the pattern that Christ exemplifies Teaches, preaches, and requires. That's what you have to do. When God speaks It's done. And it doesn't matter what the rest of us do or think or say or feel. It's done. It's unconditional. But when he comes to you and says, choose the path that you will walk. Either value me or value the world or value yourself. Choose. You say, Lord, your word is unconditional in whatever promise you made me. But today, please, Lord, let me choose only you. Lest I fall down before an idol of myself or the world or another and prove that I have never been yours. You hold that in tension. You maintain that tension. You let that tension drive some fear into your heart so that you will love one another with a passion that we do not yet see. Okay, I'm sorry. So clearly the the Western church at large has fallen into the unconditional side And now it's creating issues within the universal church and in our interactions with the world, right? When did that happen and why? It's okay if this isn't true. You don't have to talk to me later. Go. No, don't do that. You know, very confidently lying. You'll get it wrong. There's some nuance here. I I need to just take that up with you, but it it is old. It it's not new. Right? We're a small group. We're studying in Luke. We're in Luke 14 and he's It's you know one of the last sections where he's actually having dinner. You know, Christ is working through with the Pharisees, he's clearly trying to exemplify something. I kind of summarized all their interactions at one point from early in Luke till here And he's teaching and he's teaching and he's teaching and he's teaching. And what is their big thing? It's it's Genesis as a matter of fact, perfect example. It's it's Genesis fifteen. You said if we were the son of Abraham, we're good It's unconditional. And Christ said, no, it's not. I tell you, matter of fact, this did you sneak into my head this morning? Sorry. It's Genesis 15. God's word unconditionally assigned, and I agree with you by the way, I'm not just patronizing you, unconditionally given to Abraham. And he goes, unless this is not a smiley face. Or a demonic smiley face. All right, never mind. This is not a good morning. Unless you love costly love with No expectation of rear war I don't know why I'm writing it on the board. You got me started with a marker. If you came to my office, you would see how obsessed I am. I write on everything. TVs, tables, all my windows. I write on everything. An addiction. Costly love with no expectation of reward. Well that sounds like a condition in the face of an unconditional covenant Well, I think and I know it just take what Christ taught. So it it started at the turn of the millennium. Now, a lot of reasons why the Western Church has likely, if I just use your phrase fallen too far on this side, and it's because for a while the Western Church went too far on this side, mediated by men. I will tell you if you're in or out. And people like Luther was like, sorry, we're going to sever that one right now. Right? So he tried to get back to center. Maybe we went too far. Maybe we didn't. I I'm not that's not church history was not my theme today But I can tell you that argument is not new with the modern church, and it existed here, and it existed 400 years before this, because the same themes are in Malachi. Right? So it goes way back because men screw around with words. And they try to I know I'm sorry, just give them the go ahead, here we go. Alright, so it was unconditional. It didn't Uh the unconditional part was um Abram did not partake in the cup. Right Well is that I agree with you it it doesn't apply to just all, but in the same chapter it tells you what it applies to. In Genesis 15, 6, and the New Testament quotes it's three times. And it's for salvation, it's in Galatians, it's in James. James, right? Romans. Abraham believed God and it was imputed or recognited as Roman. Righteousness. It wasn't an act. Ephesians tells us, Well, by grace you have been saved, through faith that is not of yourselves, it is the gift of God. The most reformed believe that that gift is The gift is from God. We don't we don't bel e even faith is a gift from God. Indulge my cowardice. We are not doing those words. Carrie, you gave an excellent presentation of true conservative reform theology But these are words that I want to discuss this quarter. And we are not hold on, I gotta get to Julie first. See your hand, Grace. We are not using these words consistent with the Scripture's use of these words, specifically regarding Abraham. Now. Julie. So when you say there's a a tension with can something being conditional or unconditional Christ says um if if you obey my commandments or if if you do what I say, we have to be careful not to turn that into a works based salvation, isn't it not isn't it more showing uh a a song Salvation. It's not the condition of your salvation, it's evidence of your condition. Evidence of what is clearly given I'm gonna pull the cord on that one. We are talking about these words and not this word. So I I'm gonna pull the cord on that one The answer is we're getting it wrong. It's not that every idea we have about it is wrong. It's not that every expression of an idea about this is wrong. It's that we are trying to clearly to divide these words in bulk categories that are not supportable from scripture. So that's all I can say about it for now. You can skip the classes that I do when we talk about these words, if you like. But my contention is we're wrong. And we need to refine our grammar and we need to reclaim the teachings of Christ himself, simple teachings that we appear to be ignored. No, grace first. No, no, I'll be patient. It is grace, right? Okay, just make it sure. Slides are related. Uh it seems like possible that some of the tension here is the fact that English is not expressing that linguistically in Greek and in Hebrew. Some of these like if statements they're denoting categories, not conditional. So it's it's not saying if you do this, if you do this, if you do this, then you get this, you earn this. It's saying if you do this, that puts you are in this category. category and that is an unconditional category. Just to let you know that I'm tracking, apidosis and potassis are two technical terms that deal with condition If then statements. And those are important categories in Greek, well studied, well documented, and have been for a long time since the fascination with rhetoric. So you're right. But we still need to be careful how we use those words. And linguistics alone are not going to get us there. Christ alone will. in his words in the New Testament, not like mystically. So it seems like the basic thing right now is that none of these definitions have the word un Every definition of love in the Bible, not a single one of them has the word unconditional in them And we're putting it in. I I would encourage you to stop this for a moment and only think about it in the words that the Bible uses. It doesn't talk about conditional love and unconditional love per se. We're very rarely at least. Talks about covenant love So I would like to use those words. And you say, well, I gotta get underneath of that. What you mean is I want to import my categories. And I am resisting that. You don't have to feel comfortable with this. You don't have to agree with this. The point of this is to challenge you in how you think about these words and to challenge you to dig into. Look at my notes. They are filled with verses. My teaching is just wrapping around verses because I want you to see what the Bible says about these words. Cassie, Kelly, great talk, horrible progress. three. Can't you hear me on? Still on page three. I haven't made any progress from last week. Um, One uh one thing I I just I guess I think is interesting more than anything else. Uh Our love for Christ, our covenant love for Christ or for God is mentioned in Hosea 6:4. And it says, Your love is like a morning cloud, like the dew that goes early away. And if, while I'm blathering up here and boring about half of you based on the looks on your faces, if you would like a great contrast to Hosea 6. 4, turn to Psalm 89. What a monumental testimony to God's kingship, God's covenant-making, and God's love for his people. even in the presence of their appalling rebellion. So such a difference, how God loves us in covenant versus how we love Him. You want to know what conditional love looks like? That's our love for him. When you're not blessing me, God, then I'm not thanking you. Ooh, there's an interesting dovetail into that word, joy and thanksgiving. How many of you have ever been honest enough to actually wonder how is it possible to obey the Lord's command, to be thankful, grateful? Joyful in all circumstances. Come on, God. You generally ameliorate it with something like, well that's a goal. I don't actually have to get there. It's not a requirement. It is a requirement. It's used with language that's an imperative command. But because our love is conditional, we find that command unbearable And so we just dismiss it because after all, a lack of Thanksgiving, how could that be bad? I don't know. Millions of Jews died in the desert because of grumbling. That's an exact quote from the scriptures Many of us will be surprised at how the Lord assesses our grumbling. God is love. New Testament, we already quoted it, that four first John four eight uh sixteen, right? So uh Anyone who does not love does not know God because God is love. We started with this, if I'm not mistaken. Oh, maybe we've been close, but not the same one. So we have come to know and to believe the love that God has for us So we have come to know. How do we know what it is? We know what it is because it's what he demonstrated through Christ. God is love, and whoever abides in love abides in God, stays in it, abides in it, lives in it, works in it, breathes in it, eats in it, sleeps in it, walks in it. Things Deuteronomy 5, 6 and 7, the Shema, right? Love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul. And teach his words diligently. When you lie down, when you rise up, or when you walk by the way. Old Testament declaration, God is love. There's a wonderful one there in Exodus thirty-four, five through seven. Yahweh descended in the cloud and stood with him there and proclaimed the name of Yahweh. Yahweh passed before him and proclaimed Yahweh, Yahweh, a God merciful and gracious slow to anger, and abounding in Peset, and faithfulness or firmness or truth In case the word faithfulness doesn't mean enough. In other words, this is almost to Carey's point. He made this this covenant. He makes this uh covenant love to us, and he is firm in it. Some might call that this. Although I like using the biblical language better Keeping steadfast love again. Firm keeping steadfast love for thousands Forgiving iniquity and transgression. That sounds more like this part, right? Uh and sin. But who will by no means clear the guilty visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children and the children's children to many generations. It says fourth generations here in another passage what I try to have to look up for you it says to thousands of generations. When God wants by the way, this is sometimes called the Yahweh Creed. In other words, scholars, uh you know, pious people have recognized that this is a fundamental disclosure of God to men. When God came and he revealed himself in this particularly special way. Think of the time, Exodus, right? They've come out of Egypt. You had the garden where men experience God directly. You had singular men over the course of history that had some interaction with the Lord, but it was very limited And here he does an amazing thing. He's like, whoa, let me show you. Right? Not a rainbow in the sky, but a god. with a name. And he discloses himself to the people that the it's it's impossible for me to make too much of what we learn of God right here in this passage. It is impossible. And this is what he says, right? Look look at the centrality of covenant. So this is who God says that he is in his own words. It's God's creed about himself. And it is quoted more than any other Old Testament passage in the Old Testament. About twenty-seven times Uh uh not always in its entirety, but in in significant chunks, so that it's clear that this is what's being referenced. I have a a timeline of the covenants here, and the only thing that I really wanted you to see on there is that we're kind of So we're kind of at that third arrow in the margin, right? I have first use use of Hesed. Lot seems to understand something about God's Hesed he ascri uh He assigns it to the angels when he gets rescued, but it seems to be something he knows about God and his messengers and his workmen are just working in a manner that's consistent with who God is. How he knew that I'm sure he got it from his uncle, but I don't know how, because that's not recorded for us in Scripture. God assigns his Hasid on Abraham in Genesis 2412 But here it's directly covenantal with with the larger uh group. And so that's where we are in the history of covenants relative to this main theme of God's covenant love appearing in the scriptures. Deuteronomy is in here because I want you to see this actually um I I guess I just want you to see this is like a foundational passage here. For you are a people holy that Yahweh your God. Yahweh your God is chosen you to be a people for his treasured possession out of all the peoples who are on the face of the earth. It was not because you were more in number than any other people that Yahweh said his love Cheshaht, that's a different word, it is in your tables in the back. This affectionate love on you. So you see the correlation? Right? I chose you for a treasured people, uh, but it wasn't because you were particularly great that I set my affectionate love on you and chose you again For you were the fewest of all peoples, but it is because Yahweh loves Ahab or Ahab, depending on how you want to say that one. I don't do Hebrew, so this is the best I can do. Because he loves you and is keeping the oath, chosen oath, do you hear the covenant language? Keeping the oath that he swore to your fathers. See Genesis 15. That Yahweh has brought you out with a mighty hand and redeemed you from the house of slavery, from the hand of Pharaoh, king of Egypt. Now therefore, know therefore that Yahweh your God is God, the faithful or firm God who keeps covenant And steadfast love, covenant, barit and steadfast love, Hasid, with those who love him, Ahav, and keep his commandments To a thousand to a thousand generations, and repays to their face those who hate him by destroying them. He will not be slacked with one who hates him. He will repay him to his face. You shall therefore be careful to do the commandments and the status and the rules. That I command you today, I'm sorry, I'm missing a verb verb there, uh uh uh pronoun there. Um that I command you today Even if we grant that all these Deuteronomic requirements are replaced by the two great commandments in the New Testament. Are we any better off? Like you you could come to here and say, well there seems to be a conditional aspect of that, and that's because God was working through laws at the time. That's that's really not interpreting Scripture well. Even when they obeyed the ordinances in practice, they tithed the the least amount of mint. And what Christ was saying to the Pharisee when he said that is, you have measured out Legal obedience to the law in such a degree that you have summed up your total wealth. And you are making sure that you give the last bit of the most insignificant herb to make sure that the the the total tithe is what you owe the Lord. You are accurate in your obedience And I despise it because inside you do not love me. I almost tongue in cheek, give me a little latitude here, I almost wish that we were only under the If you take the totality of my life and the requirements of the law, there might be significant overlap. It might look something like this. And the requirements of the law, but it would still leave me a little. But in the two great commandments, there is nothing left for me. Love God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength, and love others as yourself. There is nothing left for me in the two great commandments of the New Testament. Is amazingly exhaustive and encompassing. Alex. Why not? I think you're wrong because Christ in giving his two great commandments is summarizing the law. And so the law, the interpretation of the law, the true meaning of it was missed by the Jews because of various central reasons. But Christ is saying the true interpretation is you owe everything to God your creator. So I I do not disagree with that. I am attempting to be as careful as I can with biblical language and when Christ confronted the Pharisees, he said, this is law. And you are tithing mint. You you you you funny. Fine. I find no fault in you as a law But I agree with you, he is making an implied commentary that what the Lord really wants is not, now I'm going backwards, not sacrifice. But a broken and a contrite heart. So I I am not disagreeing. God did not become schizophrenic in the New Testament and change the way he was dealing with men in the Old Testament. But when we look at it, we often treat him as though he were schizophrenic. Can we list the six thirteen? Is that right? Did I get that right? I think that's the the rough number. I don't know what they all are, so don't ask me. That sounds like a question you asked. What's the total history of this tension in the church? I need all six hundred and thirteen loans. Well I don't know. I gotta I gotta work on that. So, right? Six thirteen in there We treat it like and we're so glad we ha we're not under the law anymore. You're right. You're not only under 613. You can't just give this portion of your life. It's all of it. It's all of it. I'm never going to finish this class. Oh summarizing what you were saying uh on the way I understand. So are you saying for example for them, you know, they keep six hundred of the six I think, you know, oh, my life overlaps with this pretty good. I'm standing pretty good before the law. Whereas when we then Take the law and summarize it into two parts. Love God with everything. Love others with everything. You realize we are over two. We're not six or six thirteen, we're over two. Mm. Is that a fair summary? Yes. And just to support both of you, right? Deuteronomy six five. You shall love Yahweh your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your might. And Leviticus 19, 18, where we get these two great commandments from, right, appear early in the testimony of the scriptures as requirements. As part of the covenant. You shall love not take vengeance or bear a grudge against the sons of your own people, but you shall love your neighbor as your In other words, he makes that command, that imperative, and then he signs it with his name so that you know that it is inviolable. So, yes, but again I'm I'm poking at the way we talk about things, right? And we talk about the crushing nature of the law as though it it were bad. And that's supported by Scripture. Right? So we're not wrong in that. But when we look at what God actually says, it's overwhelming Ezekiel sixteen selected passages. Just just read it. This is how God loves his people. There's a story in there, an analogy, if you will, about God finding a young uh the effectively uh late birth abortion looking thing in the in the weeds. And he cares for her and he loves her and he helps her to thrive and to live. There's nothing to merit that action. And then at some point in time she does get to an age of of being able to love her And uh the Hebrew, the Greek s translation is less clear, but the Hebrew translation is pretty clear. Like to physically love her, in other words, to enter into marriage. She was attractive and ready for a time of marriage. And so it's, you know, the analogy goes. Christ entered into marriage with her. And he overwhelmingly blessed her in that marriage and provided for her and loved her and cared for her and all this other stuff. She can miss Harlotries with the very wealth that she's gotten. And he does he does enact judgment. But at the end of that passage, and and I don't want to come down on this too hard because I'm not convinced exactly how that passage ends, or that I know exactly how that passage ends But it seems to me that God is restoring her in his covenant love. It's a wonderful picture of what we as men and women are like in the face of God's covenant love. And then this this graph or diagram showed up in my head. Right? Look what God does to love us. He went and even says this, how shall I not also freely give you all things since I gave you my son? And in case we missed it, right, Acts 2, 23, and Acts 4, 27 through 28 said, I did this. I paid the costliest of prices. to love you while knowing that sorry that clock is wrong so I'm trying to make sure I end on time. You're just gonna wave at me real big. Okay, that'd that be not obnoxious at all. Um, Acts four, twenty-seven through twenty-eight make it clear that that Christ did this knowing that we would rebel And so you see that. What he gets back from us is great sin and great rebellion. And what he persists in is great love. And it's in these passages that we begin to understand the nature of God's love for us and thus the requirement of our love for others. I think I'm actually going to end with a final statement and then just if it's early, it's early and we're done. Wow. One page. Um I think I shared with you last week, but I want to bring it up again because it's one of the things that I want you to take from this class the most. Christ loved us and paid the price for loving us. While knowing that we would rebel against him. That it would be a tooth and nail fight the whole way. And that ultimately He would have to do a work in some of us because we would all reject him. So in some, he determined to do a work in the midst of their rebellion to redeem them. Now can you put that in the context of your marriages? Your spouse is a sinful person. And as hard as they might try to run well before Christ, to honor the covenant with God and the one with you. They are going to stumble. And in some cases they will choose to keep stumbling in the same way over and over throughout time. Is there any excuse in that for you? to desist or wane in your love for that spouse. I can't love my I can't do this the other way, so ladies you're just gonna have to do the transformation in your head, alright? I can't love my wife in the way that I should, and I know that I should, in the way that Christ loved me. Because, and then you fill in some actual sin of theirs, and it's important that you label it that. Don't don't make an excuse, don't call it something it isn't. It's a sin So just man up and call it a sin. And then realize that it is in no way, just because you put that proper word on it and it seems so final That is in no way an excuse for you to stop loving in a costly fashion that woman To treat her with gentleness, to treat her with kindness, to treat her with dignity, to reprioritize the other things in your life. In order to address her needs. I'm not talking about building up wrong behavior. I'm talking about you manifesting the kind of costly love that Christ had for us in your home. And just to be clear, complacency, according to Zephaniah, will only get you a worse judgment. It would be better for you not to attend this class if you would like to be complacent, because once I teach you what the truth is, you're accountable. Your sons and daughters will rebel. I I don't know daughters so well because I didn't have any. I had sisters and they were monsters So if that's you know by extension I just assumed my wife didn't come through normal progeneration because she is not a monster. And but everybody I knew that got born a girl is a monster. So now that I've said all that You know, you're gonna raise sons and they're gonna rebel. And part of it is them not being able to figure out what it means to stand on their own feet like a man and take responsibility for their actions. And as they practice trying to do that, it's occasionally, maybe often, going to come out like rebellion And you get a chance, and maybe it's the most formative, meaning most important in creating a form that will follow later. How you handle that rebellion? may be the most formative thing you do in teaching your sons about God It's going to be hard to believe in a God that loves correctly when the Father that is right here in front of me, that's only talking about God, is getting it wrong. The moment I I cost him anything, the judgment of hell. Or disaffectation, meaning disinterest. Oh, you're never having to. He walked up to sinners and he laid hands on them and he said, You hate me, and I love you. You will hurt me. And I will love you. I have in my notes here the triumphal entry. The thickleness of the crowd here just amazes me. Just a few chapters earlier, there are so many thousands of disciples hoarding around Jesus that it says they are trampling on him. And he's on his way to Jerusalem. So time passes. I don't know if it's weeks or months, but some time passes, triumphal entry. Day one of the week. Hosanna, Hosanna, palm branches, coats out, the whole thing. He accepts that. He even prepares for it. He even prophesies to it and then fulfills it in the actual entry itself. So this was all part of the plan that he established. Five days later. Actual days. Five days later. Kill him in a horrible way. Not only kill him, but shame him. Destroy not his body only, but his image as well. That's love as God creates it You have a covenant with your wife. You have a covenant with your sons and daughters. And whether you know it or not, you have a covenant with the church members sitting next to you. Says it that thing would be no, I like that. It's very explicit. I'm actually a big fan of that, even though it takes forever to decide every time you guys like human membership thing. But it's here The moment you're brought into Christ, the moment you're adopted into Christ, you have a covenant of adoption with each other. You are brothers. You are sisters And we watch our brothers and sisters suffer all the time and because it is inconvenient or because they are unpleasant people or because they don't quite speak to us in the way that we wish they do. Would. No luck. Now I honestly don't know if I'm coming back to this. This is getting ridiculous. But I I have to make this last comment. And it's on my last pages. Just flip forward to those last pages. Where is it? I don't have my last pages. Page six. Top of the uh it depends. Page five at the bottom, if you got last week's notes, if you have this week's notes, it's page six at the top It's the two last bullets it says, Who are you loving? Who are you currently purposing and planning to love? It is not a narrow command, but start with just one person. Start with a spouse, a siblings, a parent, a member of your small group, a person in the church with a need. Who are you loving? In the race. I know I'm in the race because I'm getting a little closer to the goal, maybe too slowly. But I am paying the price of being in the race. I'm hot, I'm sweaty, I'm going, I'm hurting You cannot say that you love God if you do not love the brothers. That's right out of the scripture. So who are you loving? Loving God and loving others is costly. What excuses are you making to avoid doing it?