Alright, let's let's bow and pray. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for this Lord's Day. I thank you for this body of Christ here at Hope Bible Church. I thank you for your word, Lord, and Uh this wonderful opportunity we have to study it. We pray, Lord, that you would pour out your Holy Spirit on each and every one of us so that we could truly understand what you're trying to teach us from your word today. We thank you, Lord, for who you are, for your uh as creator, as uh sustainer, as uh redeemer and uh the rock of our salvation. We thank you, Lord, for your great love for us and especially demonstrated in sending your Son to die on the cross for our sins. We pray, Lord, today for uh peace in Israel. Uh we see uh uh terrible images and terrible violence and we pray, Lord, that uh uh that your peace would reign. And we pray these things in Jesus' precious name. Amen. Alright. So part seven. Um we're up to part seven. And so we're walking working our way through these letters that uh the risen Christ is sending to his churches. And today we're going to be looking at the letter to the church in Perdimum, uh, the letter to the worldly church. So today we're going to talk about this letter to this particular church. Uh but of course it has great application to churches throughout history and even churches today. So we're gonna look at the correspondent, who's it from, the church, who's it going to, the city where that church is, the commendation that Christ gives to that particular church, the concern he has, the command he gives to his church, and then the counsel Counsel that he gives at the end of the letter. But first let's take a look back and review what we went through last time. So the last time we looked at the letter to the church in Smyrna. Um and Smyrna is the one of the two letters that has no criticism. So they're rich uh in a certain way that we talked about last time, not uh materially but spiritually. Uh the exhortation is to be faithful. and the reward is not to be hurt by the second death. So of course we have this introduction at the beginning of each letter where Christ identifies himself in some way and It's um a a identification that has previously been made in the first chapter. So in this The letter from last time, he identified himself as the first and last who was dead and had come to life. So the first and last we talked about is a Old Testament title for God, and so it brings out uh Christ's divinity And his equality in nature with God. And yet we have this um this amazing thing. How can this eternal God uh be dead? And of course that's a r uh reference back to his death, burial and resurrection. He's come to life. As far as the church there in Smyrna, there's no other um there's no record elsewhere in the Bible about the founding of that church like there was with the church in Ephesus. Um it was a dangerous place for the church as and that's a common theme for these churches that Christ is writing to. The the the culture that they live is i live in is persecuting them. It's dangerous. Um it was a the city was a a a place where there was um uh fervent emperor worship. Um and so that's kind of the um um the background and setting for where the church is. Um it's an important city, um, although it's not as important as Ephesus and Pergamum in terms of politics and economics, but it was said to be a very beautiful city. Uh it had a famous street of gold that went by the hill where all the temples were, and it was also a noted center of science and medicine in that day. Of course we see that the the the Lord of the church sees his church. Nothing's hidden from him. Nothing escapes his vision. He sees that they're in tribulation Uh which means that Greek words means pressure, so that they're under pressure and they are standing up to that pressure, uh particularly in terms of uh worship. They they continue to worship Christ and not the emperor. Um they f they were faced by the blasphemy of those who say they are Jews and are not but are synagogue of Satan and And so this is a identification of some of some part of the opposition that they faced. Um and we see this as a common theme in the in the New Testament in the book of Acts especially there's continuous opposition to Christianity from the Jews. Uh let's see. And then they were um They were identified as poor materially, uh extremely poor. The the Greek word there for um poverty is the extreme uh version of the the the the most extreme Greek word for poverty. And yet they were rich spiritually. Once he commends them for standing up under persecution then he tells them And there's gonna be more. More persecution is coming. A a period of very intense persecution is coming. Um, but it's gonna be a very short time. A short time of very intense persecution is still coming for this church that has been under pressure, under persecution. He has no reprimand for this church, and he closes the letter with encouragement that those who remain faithful receive the crown of life. And then he says, Whoever has an ear to hear He closes each of the letters like that, stressing the significance of listening to what God has to say in his scriptures. And so everybody who is a believer uh who comes through the persecution, he who overcomes all all uh faithful believers will not experience the second death. So the first death is physical death, the second death is eternal damnation, and that will never touch those who are followers of God. of Christ. So that was what we we talked about last time. Any leftover questions from last time before we start into the new letter? Okay, if you open your Bibles to Revelation In chapter 2, we're going to take a look at the next letter. Letter to this church in Pergamum. It starts in verse 12. So, and to the angel of the church in Pergamum write, the one who has the sharp two-edged sword says this. I know where you dwell, where Satan's throne is, and you hold fast my name. And did not deny my faith, even in the days of Antipas, my witness, my faithful one, who was killed among you where Satan dwells. But I have a few things against you, because you have there some who hold the teaching of Balaam, who kept teaching Balak, to put a stumbling block before the sons of Israel. To eat things sacrificed to idols, and to commit acts of immorality. So you also have some who in the same way hold the teaching of the Nicolaitans. Therefore repent, or else I am. I am coming to you quickly, and I will make war against them with the sword of my mouth. He who has an ear Let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To him who overcomes, to him I will give some of the hidden manna, and I will give him a white stone and a new name written on the stone, which no one knows. but he who receives it. So that's the letter to the church at Pergamon. Uh Pergamum is right there to the north. Uh f you we've got uh here we've got F Ephesus and then Smyrna and then Pergamum going from uh remember John is here in Patmos and right across from here is Ephesus. And that was the first letter, and then Smyrna, and now we're up to Pergamon. And so there's a per there's a praise that they have remained faithful, uh in in fact in spite of the fact that they live in this uh in this place where Satan has his throne. But there's a criticism. They've got in their midst people who are engaging in idolatry and sexual immorality, and they're tolerating that There's an exhortation to repent from that. And the reward is this white stone with a new name. Uh hidden mana, a white stone, and a new name. It's actually three things, and we'll talk about those. Uh just a little bit of an intro from uh Uh John MacArthur to this section, he says, for many people in today's church, the term worldliness has a quaint old-fashioned ring to it. They associate it with prohibitions against things like dancing and going to movies or playing cards. Today's user-friendly, seeker-oriented, market-driven church doesn't preach much against wilderness. To do so might make unbelievers, not to mention many believers, uncomfortable, and is therefore avoided as poor marketing strategy. But unlike much of the contemporary church, the Bible does not hesitate to condemn words Worldliness is any preoccupation with or interest in the temporal system of life that places anything perishable before that which is eternal. Since believers are not part of the world system, according to John 15, they must not act as though they were Do not be conformed to this world, wrote the Apostle Paul, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, so that you may prove what the will of God is that which is good and acceptable and perfect. Romans two twelve. Because they have been redeemed by God's grace, believers are called to deny ungodliness and worldly desires and to live sensibly, righteously, and godly in the present age. Titus chapter 2. Pure and undefiled religion, notes James, consists in keeping oneself unstained by the world James chapter 1. Because friendship with the world is hostility toward God. Therefore, whoever wishes to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God. James chapter 4. And then in J in 1 John, so the same apostle John and his first Epistle, chapter 2, makes the believer's duty to avoid worldliness unmistakably clear. Do not love. the world, nor the things of the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the boastful pride of life, is not from the Father, but is from the world. The world is passing away, and Also its lust, but the one who does the will of God lives forever. The church at Pergamum, like much of today's church, had failed to heed the biblical warnings against worldliness. Consequence consequently it had drifted into compromise. and was in danger of becoming intertwined with the world, that would be the next step in the downward spiral from the Ephesian church's loss of its first love. So the Ephesian church lost its first love, and Christ warned them about that. This is worse. This is kind of the next step in that uh downward spiral to start loving the world. Lose the first love of Christ and what's the next thing that happens? Your love is transfor transferred to the world and that was what was happening here in Pergamon and uh Jesus was warning about that. So let's dive in the introduction. So we have the same kind of introduction as we had in the other letters and taking a different phrase from the uh uh the initial uh the the introduction from chapter one, we had this description of the risen Christ standing in the midst of his seven lamp stands, so standing in the midst of his churches holding the seven seven stars and he's dis described in various ways in that first chapter and then he keeps using a different aspect of that description in the introduction to each one of these letters. And for this one He uses the one who has the sharp two-edged sword to identify himself. So through this, through John, through the Apostle John, he's identifying himself. Christ is identifying himself as a letter, um, and using one of the descriptions. From John's vision in chapter 1. The sharp two-edged sword and other places in Scripture refers to the Word of God Uh Hebrews 4, for example, uh says that the Word of God is living and active and sharper than any two-edged sword, and piercing as far as the division of soul and spirit, and of both joints and marrow, and able to judge the thoughts and intentions of the heart. And so that's the picture that we have here in the introduction to this letter. Here's this sharp two-edged sword coming out from Christ. The Apostle Paul also uses the metaphor of a sword to describe the word in Ephesians chapter 6. And this two-edged nature of the sword um potency and power, exposing and judging the inmost thoughts of the human heart. That's the word picture that we get from all of Scripture and here in this particular passage of Scripture, that's definitely the image we get. So that description of Jesus here in the introduction to this letter pictures him as judge and executioner. That's what a sword does. And so when John describes the appearance of Christ in the second coming later on in Revelation chapter 19, He uses this same imagery. John writes that from his mouth comes a sharp sword, so that with it he may strike down the nations, and he will rule them with a rod of iron. And he treads the wine press of the fierce wrath of God the Almighty. Um and so this imagery is not positive. Uh we we get a we get an early indication that things are not quite right with this church and um it's not a a gentle uh Christ here in this picture when we have the sharp two edged sword coming out. Um uh it's the first negative introduction of Christ uh This one is not. The Pergamon church faced imminent judgment. So disaster loomed on the horizon for this worldly church. It was and is but a short step. from compromising with the world to forsaking God altogether and facing his wrath. And so that's the warning that Jesus is making. Um it's not too late, but it's close to being too late here. Uh so it's a harsh introduction. The church in Pergamum is symbolic of many churches throughout history. This has happened before, it's happened throughout history, it's happening today that have compromised with the world. That's spiritual. of compromise was especially evident. Uh later on in the fourth to the seventh century, um it got really bad. Uh after AD three thirteen, Emperor Constantine adopted Christianity and made it the religion of the empire, and the church became Entwined, essentially married to the political system in Rome, so that worldliness was synonymous with the church. So they were no longer persecuted, but things got much, much worse for the church when they became the official religion of the Roman Empire. empire and became entangled with the world. Uh today in some ways wilderness is still rampant in the church. That's been the case throughout history and um it it has gone and ebbs and flows, but it seems to be uh prominent in today's church. The visible church, anyway. Uh wilderness. We see that all around. Uh churches, sometimes even whole denominations, have departed from the true faith and embraced worldly Philosop roadly, uh philosophically and and morally. Um and in some places state churches still exist uh in spiritually impotent forms. Uh like the church of Pergamon they fall under judgment by the Lord of the true church. So we see that today We see churches that have compromised by the world, they've uh brought worldly philosophy into the church, um elevated above the word of God, and that's nothing new. We we see that having happened here. in the first century and it continued. It happened in the third through the s seven fourth through the seventh century, especially with Rome intertwining with the church, and we see it happening in our day as well. Uh the book of Acts does not record the founding of this church at Pergamon. Uh just like uh uh Smyrna the last church was not mentioned in Acts either, this one is not mentioned in Acts. Ephesus was definitely mentioned many times in Acts, but not this one. Um according to Acts chapter 16, Paul did pass through Mysia, which is the region uh where Pergamum is located. So yeah, he passed through the region, but there's nothing about him stopping in uh Pergamon. Uh that was on his second missionary journey. There's no record that the apostle ever preached the gospel or founded a church there at that time. So we can only speculate how it was formed. Most likely it was founded during Paul's ministry in Ephesus. Remember he was there three years, and Acts chapter nine tells us that during that time where he was in Ephesus for three years, the gospel went out from there to be preached throughout the province of Asia. So most likely, uh Paul founded a robust church in Ephesus and then there were church plants that s that radiated out from Ephesus and most likely that's how churches like Smyrna and Pergamum were founded. But we don't know. There's no definitive record of that in in the scripture. Because the church was surrounded by the pagan culture, it was exposed continually to the Lord and the the the s this strong um allurements to familiar sins, uh it also faced severe animosity from the persecuting emperor worships worshippers. So uh we we've seen this before in the other cities emperor worship. Emperor worship was evidently even worse in Pergamon than it was in these other cities. Unlike Ephesus and Smyrna, it was not a port city. So the first two that we looked at were had uh harbors. This one was uh far enough inland there was no harbor at all associated with Pergamon, uh not on the Aegean Sea. And it was also not on a major trade route. Uh yet it was the capital uh the ancient capital of the province of Asia. Uh and so it was considered a great city because it was the capital city. Um the Roman uh historian Pliny called it by far the most distinguished city in Asia. And that was because of the politics, b that it was the the political capital. Uh by the time John wrote Revelation, Pergamum had been the capital of uh the Asian region for two hundred and fifty years. Uh the king uh at in one hundred thirty three BC decided to make his kingdom uh part of Rome. Uh he bequeathed his kingdom to Rome and because he did that they made it the capital and uh it was still the capital uh at the time John was writing. Uh Pergamon survives today. It's uh the the Turkish city of Bergama Um and so uh some of the cities have disappeared, but this one still exists, uh Bergamon. Uh much of Perg Pergamon was built on a large conical hill. Um a thousand feet above the plane below and so it's um I've seen some pictures. Has anybody been to Pergamon? Uh did a footsteps of Paul trip or anything? Yeah, I it the from the pictures it looks like you can stand up on this hill you can see from miles and miles because it's a thousand feet up and the plane is all down below there. I just wondered if anybody had actually seen it with their own eyes. So a big uh big giant hill that this uh this city was built on. Um and And there are some records from archaeologists, for example, this man named Sir William Ramsey. an English archaeologist. He said beyond all other sites in Asia Minor, it gives the traveler the impression of a royal city, the home of authority The rocky hill on which it stands is so huge and dominates the broad plan of the Caicos River Valley so proudly and boldly. That's what Sir William Ramsey says about his uh time there uh investigating Pergamum. Uh it also had a huge library uh two hundred thousand handwritten volumes. So it was the second largest library in the ancient world. The Library of Alexandria in Egypt was the largest library And Pergamums was the second largest in uh in ancient times. Uh it was so it was an important center of culture and learning Um in fact the uh there was a little bit of a uh rivalry between Alexandria and Pergamum about these libraries, and so um the Egyptians wrote on papyrus and the papyrus plant was essentially Egypt had most of the plants that did been made papyrus. And when Ptolemy found out that Pergamon was trying to build a big library He banned the export of papyrus to Pergamum to keep them from being able to build up their library. And so Pergamum actually invented a new uh medium for writing um called parchment. And the word parchment comes from Pergamum. It it's the th the stuff that comes from Pergamum. That's what parchment is. Uh animal skin. And so they ha they were forced to find something else to write on because the Alexandrians wouldn't let 'em have any more um any more um writing materials. They had to come up with this new writing material. So anyway, that comes from Pergamum. Um important center of culture and learning. Um the it's also the hometown of the physician Galen, who was the second most prominent. So the only ancient ph uh uh doctor anybody's ever heard of is Hippocrates from the Hippocratic Oath. But the second most famous uh physician of ancient times is a man named Galen and he's from Pergama. So famous center of learning medicine. Library, 200,000 handwritten volumes. This was the city of Pergamum. So an important political and cultural city, as opposed to economically like Ephesus. Okay. Uh the city stall itself is the defender of Greek culture in Asia Meyer, so that's why they were building up this big library, culture and learning. Um there's a large uh depiction on the base of the altar of the Zeus that commemorates a victory over invading Barbados. Barbarians, they were defenders of Greek culture. An important center of worship of the four main deities of the Greco-Roman world They had temples dedicated to Athena, to Ascle Asclepius, Dionysus, and Zeus, all located on the top of that gigantic hill. There's still ruins there of temples on that giant hill. But over all those worships of Greek uh gods was the worship of the cult of the worship of the emperor. Most intense here in Pergamon. Uh it it existed and it was a big issue in some of the other cities, but it was worse here. worse than Pergamon than anywhere else. First temple devoted to Emperor Worship in 29 BC. Later the city would build two more temples. The first one was to Emperor Augustus and then one to Emperor Trajan. to Emperor Septimus Severus. So they were really serious about their emperor worship. Um it became the center of emperor worship in the province, which makes sense for the political capital. For the political capital but to be the center of the worship of the political emperor. Uh but that's that's what happened. Um so in Pergamon more than any other city, Christians were in danger of harm from the emperor worship cult. Uh elsewhere, as we talked about before, there was One day a year where you were required to bring sacrifices to the emperor. And in some cities you could get the death penalty, so we saw before, if you didn't bring the uh worship that one day But in Pergamon it was every day. They were in danger every day from uh people that were trying to force them into emperor worship. Not just once a day like we saw in in some of the other cities. Um and then we we get this uh we'll talk about This guy later, this martyr Antipas was executed, probably because he refused to worship uh the Emperor. Uh so I s there's a picture I've got here of some ruins on the very top of that hill, and the fact that you can see for miles and miles uh away because it's far from the ocean but you can see the ocean from there. So any questions about the city itself? Uh Pergamon. So we're gonna now we're gonna split the contents of the letter. Yes, it was destroyed also. So the the contents of this library was later actually transferred to Alexandria um in the six hundreds. And when the library in Alexandria was destroyed, all this stuff was destroyed too. Yeah. So the the the Muslims destroyed the one in Alexandria And at the time they destroyed it, all the the stuff, the books that were from this library were in Alexandria. Yeah. Yeah. So were this library given to uh Cleopatra or Cleopatra stole it. Yeah. Yeah, Cleopatra's she she walked through with her army and took it and took it back to Alexander. So yeah, so they try so her her and Ptolemy You know, t Ptolemy was the first one to try to stop it from being built, and then later Cleopatra came by and and took it. Yeah. Yeah. So uh if you go to Berlin there's a museum called the Pergamon Museum and the the German archaeologists went there in the eighteen hundreds and they took everything that wasn't nailed down and it's it's in Berlin. It's a it's a it's a beautiful museum. It's really nice. Uh I would recommend it if you go to Berlin go to that part It's it's wonderful. Alright, so the content of this letter. Uh so then so here's what Jesus says: I know where you dwell, where Satan's throne is, and you hold fast my name, and he did not deny my faith, even in the days of Antipas, my witness, my faithful one. Despite the difficult circumstances in which they found themselves, the believers in Pergamum courageously maintained their faith In Jesus Christ. So he commends them for that. He commends them for holding fast his name. Even though they lived in this place that was that Christ characterizes as as where Satan's throne is. Uh there have been many suggestions about what that means. Um some have identified it with this magnificent altar of Zeus, which the Germans were uprooted and took with them uh is now in Berlin. Others connect Satan's throne with the worship. This was one of the main centers of the worship of the God. Asclepius and that god was the god the snake god. Uh so the symbol of it was the snake. Um and they the supplicants would go to this temple and they would had snakes slithering around the floor and you would sleep over night in the temple and hope that one of the snakes would touch you and then you would be healed. Um th that was the idea. Well, they were all non poisonous snakes. So they had non poisonous snakes. Um and 'cause that wouldn't have been very good marketing for this for this uh temple if if everybody kept getting bit by the snake and dying. Um so um so that's symbolism that we have as um as Satan as the serpent is one possibility. Um so it could but it there was many reasons why we could uh the symbolism works for this place to be uh where Satan has his throne. Did I see a hand up over here? Can I miss a hand? No. Um so in the midst of those difficult and trying circumstances, the believers continued to dwell uh permanent residents, um not merely passing through. And so in modern terms what he's saying there is they hung in there in spite of difficult circumstances. Uh despite persecution and suffering Uh they endured the believers at Pergamum, continued to hold fast the name of Christ, and did not deny the faith. Uh they didn't deviate from fidelity to Christ or to the central truths of the Christian faith. Uh the faithful believers there exemplified the truth of Christ's words in Matthew chapter 16, I will build my church and the gates of Hades will not overpower it. There they were where the the gates of Hades were right there the throne of Satan, it was not overpowering this church. So that's his commendation that we're maintaining this faithfulness even in the days of Antipas. So there's he uh Christ references a specific example of martyrdom, uh and we don't know anything else about this Antipas guy. from Scripture. This is the only place he's mentioned in Scripture. But he gets this unbelievable um description from Christ, my witness, my faithful one. Uh imagine having Christ identify you with these words, my witness, my faithful one. Uh but he was killed among them where Satan's throne is, obviously killed in Pergamon. Uh Christ goes out of his way to make sure that he he identifies this one guy, faithful guy. I killed um as for being a witness for Christ there in Pergamum. Uh we don't know anything about Antibus other than this text. Uh but it it's probable from the way he's described as my witness in my faith. faithful one, but he was most likely a leader in the church who had been killed. There is extra biblical tradition about this guy. Um there is uh second century writing that says he was roasted to death inside a brass bowl during personality persecution instigated by Emperor Domitian. So that's um unfortunately there's uh there's lots of um evidence, uh written evidence about this particular way that Romans killed people. They put people inside a giant metal hollow animal, like a bull, and then they roasted him alive inside it. Um and that's what it's that's what the extra biblical writing says happened to Antipas, that he was killed for his Christian Christian witness by being roasted alive. inside a a metal bull. So the word that eventually became transliterated in English, uh this word uh martis Um witness means witness. Um it eventually came to mean the the word for a witness who was executed for Christ, killed for Christ, martyr. The word martyr comes from that that Greek word witness. So somebody who was not only a witness, but a witness to the point of being killed for his witness. Um the the word martyr. Because of his faith and faithfulness the Lord The word commended Antipas with a title that's elsewhere used of Christ, the faithful one, the faithful witness in Revelation chapter one. Christ is described that way and Revelation chapter three is as well. So he gives this Antipas a title of of his own to to this this man. Okay so that's the commendation. Um then we come to the problems. So uh he's built them up and now there's he's gonna deal with the issues. He's not gonna ignore the fact that there are issues here. Um But then we get to the problem. So verse starting at verse fourteen, but I have a few things against you, because you have there some who hold the teaching of Balaam who kept teaching Balak to put a stumbling block before the sons of Israel to eat things sacrificed to idols and to commit acts of immorality. So uh it's not everybody in the church, but you have some. You have some of these people there in your church. The church at Pergamum remained, and so they're as part of the church, that means that they're professing Christ these people that are doing this. Uh the church at Pergamum remained loyal to Christ and Christian truth it faithfully preserved at the very headquarters, as it were, of satanic opposition in the even in the face of martyrdom. Yet all was not well in Pergamon. He commends them and then he says He has these things against you, his concern was that they had some who hold to false teaching. Uh the majority of believers of Pergamon were faithful and loyal to the truth, as we just saw. There were some They were part of this church, members of this church, associated with the church, claiming the name of Christ, who came to believe false doctrine. Many in the church, not I don't know how many. Let's just say there are some in the church who make light of doctrine and biblical and theological error as viewed as unimportant, but that's not the perspective of the Lord of the Church. Uh he doesn't see it that way. Um the if there are those in the midst of the church who are Teaching false doctrine. Um it's a serious issue, and he comes at him with the sword of the double-edged sword Specifically, Christ was concerned about two heresies being tolerated at Pergamum. Probably they're intertwined, but it's he identifies them in two different ways. One associated with an Old Testament character and the other with with a New Testament person. First number following the teaching of Balaam. The story of Balaam, of course, is in the book of Numbers, Numbers 22 to 25. Uh he was a notorious Old Testament prophet or false prophet and he was he was hired to curse the Israelites, essentially, by another king. Balak, the king of Moab, hired Balaam to curse Israel. Um he tried he tried to do it and God wouldn't let him. God would not let him curse Israel. He tried three times. And since he couldn't get he couldn't do it that way, he came up with a different plan. He was unable to curse the Israelites. He decided to corrupt them, uh, by teaching Balak to put a stumbling block before the sons of Israel, to eat things sacrificed to idols, and to commit acts of immorality. So instead of just cursing them, He tried to um corrupt them instead. He plotted to use a Moabite woman to women to lure the Israelites to imitate the godless world around them uh in sexual immorality and adultery. Numbers chapter 25 and later on summarized in chapter 31. And so that sort of blasphemous union with Satan and false gods would debase the Israelites and destroy their spiritual power. plan succeeded to a certain extent, not to the extent he hoped, but the but it it did he did was able to introduce some uh Moabite women and sexual immorality and adultery and God took immediate action immediate and severe action. He struck down 24,000 of them in Numbers chapter 25, including many of the leaders. That drastic action halted the Israelites' slide into immorality and idolatry at that time. But you see the kind of uh swift and severe action that God will take if that sort of thing is creeping into his people. Um so like the Israelites were seduced by Balaam's false teachings, some in the church at Pergamum were lured to mix the pagan system. We see that in Jude 10 and 11. And just as God severely chastised Israel for such a union the Lord Jesus Christ threatens to do the same in this passage, uh to take severe action. Uh so that's one. The second way of looking at this kind of heresy that was being tolerated in Pergamum involved a New Testament figure. Uh we we s we saw this name uh before Nicolaitans. There were some there who in the same way held the teaching of the Nicolaitans. Uh we don't know much about the Nicolaitans. Um it s in some way it indicates the teaching of the Nicolaitans led to the same sort of wicked behavior as that of the followers of Balaam. It seems to be um making a comparison to those two, in the same way it says. is the the the same kind of heir as Balaam, you have these Nicolaitans. So we discussed this previously in the church in Ephesus. uh about the Nicolaitans. The E the Ephesians did not tolerate the teaching of the Nicolaitans. But here in Bergam they are. They're bringing in the teaching of the Nicolaitans. They're they're tolerating the t teachings of the Nicolaitans. Um some scholars say it's uh they're named after the man Nicholas, one of the seven men chosen to be to oversee distribution of food in Acts chapter six, so one of the original deacons. Um and we don't know it's not clear at this point whether uh this guy Nicholas became an apostate Some early church fathers have written that that was the case. Or that he had these followers that used his name and then perverted his teachings. Not certain. But early church fathers say it was Nicholas himself who went down this this path, one of the early deacons. Yeah. So um abusing the biblical teaching on Christian liberty, the Nicolaetans also taught that Christians could participate in pagan orgies. So they seduced the church with immorality and idolatry. This idea of synchronization, syncretism with the world um is what the Nicolaitans evidently taught and that had infected this church in Pergamon. Not everybody, but there were those in the church who said you could worship these idols over here and then come to church on Sunday. Um yeah. Oh yes, yeah. We'll talk about that here in a second. Uh uh Yeah, so uh he goes on to say, so you have some who in the same way hold the teaching of the Nicolaitans Therefore repent, or else I am coming to you quickly, and I will make war against them with the sword of my mouth. And so they were allowing them. They weren't they were tolerating them. Um and that was condemned. Majority of believers of Perdoman did not participate in the errors of either of these heretical groups. They remained standfastly loyal to Christ, but By tolerating the groups, refusing to exercise church discipline, they shared in their guilt, um, which brought the Lord's judgment on the whole church because they were tolerating these people in their midst. Now, We have to stop here and make a distinction. Um this is not saying that you don't um that that this is there's a distinction between uh what's happening inside the church and what um uh what your evangelistic field is. So you you have a field of evangelism, which is unbelievers that are engaged in idolatry and sexual immorality, and you're supposed to go after those in an evangelistic way. But if you have such inside your church that are calling themselves brothers, y you cannot tolerate them. That's the consistent teaching of the Bible, uh that you cannot tolerate that side of behavior inside your church by people who who are claiming the name of Christ, uh church discipline is necessary. Um and it's necessary for the church, the health of the church, the purity of the church, but it's also necessary for those people. Um those people are on a dangerous path. They're about to have the judgment of Christ. In the Old Testament we saw God strike down twenty-four thousand of them Um they're in danger. And so if we love those people who are going astray, uh just the tolerate the the twenty-first century word tolerate it in other words just lift the other way or s even celebrate their sin. Uh that's very dangerous to the church as a whole. and to the people that we're pretending that we love. We don't love them if we're not exercising church discipline when they've have gone astray. Okay. Any questions about that before we keep going? Yeah. Yeah, so in the Jerusalem Council they say don't eat meat, sacrificed, diet. Acts chapter 15. Paul later on is talking about if there's a weaker brother and it could cause him to stumble, I'll I'm not going to eat meat. And so the idea is if you're If you're in a situation where you've got a church where it's um in a city that has idol worship all around it, and so you most likely many of your um church members are coming out of the practice of idol worship. So that's the situation that I think that Paul is addressing. So if you have a brother like that um he he has grown up with the idea that this idol is a god and and and it means something to to sacrifice and worship, then you don't want to um uh you don't want to uh um damage that brother's conscience. E even if e even if you're a a mature believer and you were never an idol worshiper and so you know that that mead is nothing and idols nothing and so You can eat that with a clear conscience. The other brother who comes out of an idol worshiping background, he remembers sacrificing to that idol and it and it bothers his conscience. Um and so in order to avoid bothering his conscience, Paul said, bothering the other guy's conscience, I w I won't eat meat, even though I know The idol's nothing, the meat's nothing. I have liberty to do that. I won't exercise that liberty in front of a brother who came out of an idol worshiping thing. Um I I just won't do it. Um I I I uh there's a modern example, uh how do you how can you guys know uh a guy named uh pastor vody bakham ever heard of him vodie bacum so he grew up as a uh in a home where his mother was a Buddhist for a while. And so his mother had a little statue of Buddha and used to bow down to the little statue of Buddha. And he writes in one of his books how much it bothers him, really bothers him, to see uh any a statue of Buddha anywhere. Even though um he knows now that that little hunk of wood or that little piece of metal is nothing, it just it it's uh just to see that thing just sets him off. Because he watched his mother bow down to that statue. Um and so y you know I I may know as a mature believer that that little statue is nothing, but I I would never in front of Bodhi Bakam you know, deliberately take him by someplace where there's this little statue or, you know, have one of those even even having a a you know, a coffee table book with the pictures of that statue maybe from a a history lesson or something open. I wouldn't do that in front of him because it really bothers him because he grew up in a situation where he saw his mother worshiping that particular statue. And so that's the kind of uh Christian liberty issue that Paul's talking about in in his letter. And to avoid that um difficulty, that entanglement Um, and to avoid the temptation to go back to idol worship, the Jerusalem Council in Acts 15 said that all Christians should avoid eating meat sacrificed to idols because of that, because of damaging the conscience of possibly damaging the conscience of another brother. So they they failed to exercise church discipline when there were people inside the church claiming to be Christians that were following these practices, these pagan practices. Uh the only remedy for sinful behavior, of course, is repentance, uh to turn away from that sinful behavior. Uh repent, metanoeah, uh a word. used in scripture to describe a change of mind that results in a change of behavior. So repentance is not just saying you're sorry. Repentance is changing your behavior. Change of mind that that always, if it's true repentance, always leads to a change of behavior. Tolerance, of course in our modern culture is the the primary virtue, it seems. Uh however, in this context tolerating heretical teaching or sinful behavior in the church is not a virtue but a sin. Um and so that's uh uh that's something that uh we have to keep in mind that um when we engage with the culture i if somebody um you know, if somebody accuses you of being intolerant, that's like the worst epithet that somebody can hurl at you. Um but there are definitely s um uh Situations described in in scripture that says we're we're not to tolerate certain things. Um and it's not uh it's not up to us to identify what those things are. Those things are identified by Scripture. So Scripture identifies the Lord identifies what is good and what is evil. Um and he calls his people to holiness and righteousness. And that holiness and righteousness is defined by Scripture, uh not by us, uh, and certainly not by the Word. world. Um but we have all these admonitions in Scripture, do not love the world, don't be conformed to the world. Um and we're in many places called to um uh in this case particular condemn the church is condemned for tolerating worldly behavior inside the church. Um and so in many, many instances of course Um tolerance is good. But it's not good in every instance. And this is an instance where it's specifically identified as sinful behavior to tolerate something that the Lord condemns. Inside his bride. his church. So a serious matter is uh this misguided tolerance that should they fail to repent of failure to discipline Christ warns them, I am coming to you quickly, and I will make war against them with the sword in my mouth. So this is very harsh language Uh, they're going to be at war with Christ. Um, that's not a place you want to be. That's not a place that you want to be as a church. Christ's coming with the sword to make war against you. Um, I mean, uh think of Jesus. Joshua when he encountered um the preincarnate Christ, are you with us or with our enemies? Neither I'm here as the But just think if he ca if he had said, I'm against y you uh how terrifying that would have been to uh Joshua. But that's the situation here. He's coming to make war uh against them. Uh and and it's uh it's an interesting shift of program of uh pronouns. I'm coming to you, coming to make war against them. Um the implication really of that uh phraseology in Greek is that I'm coming for all of you. Because you're tolerating this group inside you, I'm coming for all of you. I'm coming to you, broadly, make war against them, but the reason I'm coming To you is because of them. But the implication is he's coming for the whole church. Because of them. The entire church faced the sword of Christ's judgment. The heretics for practicing their heretics. I have this against you that you're have these people among you. I have it this against you, the whole church, that you have them in the midst of your church. So uh very frightening, uh should be frightening, meant to be frightening uh to this church. So the Church cannot tolerate evil in any form inside the church. Uh and so there's other passages in the church that talk about tolerating things inside the church. And Paul at one point says, not to mean that you should separate yourself from unbelievers in the sense that You don't go out and evangelize unbelievers, um, but you can't you can't have somebody inside your church claiming to be uh a member of Christ and a member of your body who does these things. That's what church discipline is for. So there's another example, 1 Corinthians chapter 5, the boastful Corinthians proudly tolerating a man guilty of incest. Uh Paul says, Your boasting is not good. Do you not know that a little leaven leavens the whole lump of dough? Clean out the old leaven, so that you may be a new lump, just as you were in fact unleavened. What does Paul tell them there? that you you're tolerating and you're celebrating this wicked behavior a from a member of your church, you gotta get rid of that. You gotta get that behavior out of your church Because, what does Paul say, a little bit of leaven spreads through the whole church? So that's a a word picture he makes that if you're going to tolerate this sort of immorality inside your church, it's going to spread It's not going to stay with just this this one man. Error will never be suppressed by compromising with it. Um today's kind of non-confrontational attitude in some churches is largely repeating the error of the Pergamum Church on a grand scale and faces the judgment of the Lord of the church. Not a good place to be, um, if you're a church and so uh I can I'll just give So there's some major Protestant denominations like the Lutheran Church and the uh United Methodist Church that um that have openly practicing homosexual clergy, for example, that that do uh homosexual marriages in their church and op baptize openly practicing homosexual people and um th that That sort of thing is um the this the scripture condemns that behavior and of course we have uh Paul in another place says such were some of you talking about members of a church. So it's It's not like you don't go out and try to win the souls of people outside the church, regardless of what kind of behavior they're engaged in. But inside the church the the the you you put off the old man, you put on the new man, you're becoming conformed to the likeness of Christ in your process of sanctification. You you can't just have the same behavior that you had outside the church, inside the church. Um that is uh universally condemned in scripture. Um but we see that in many in in whole denominations now uh are tolerating that behavior and celebrating that behavior inside the church. Um and that's what's condemned here in to the church in Pergamum. And so uh you know, Jesus is the same today, yesterday, and forever. And so his attitude towards this um kind of uh uh immorality inside his church has always been the same. It was the same in the book of Numbers when he It was it was bad enough that he slaughtered 24,000 Israelites. It's bad enough that he's coming to make war against one of his churches because of it in the book of Revelation. And it's bad enough today that he's just as angry about it. Um, and it would bring just as much wrath in the twenty first century if a church tolerates what the Bible identifies as wicked behavior among its members. Um any questions about any of that? Yes, Raymond. Yeah, so yeah, there are controversies uh of many characters and many stripes in in many churches. Now, I would say that there are um levels of wickedness. Any deviation from the word is bad. But there are obviously levels to to wickedness. Um and this particular level of wickedness has Christ saying he's coming to make war on this church. That's different from what he said to the other churches. Even Ephesus they were they had lost their first love, but he wasn't coming with a sword to make war on them. But for this, he's coming with a sword to make war on them. Um and so there there are it's obvious that there's a distinction and um w while I think that it's wrong to have women pastors, um I I don't I don't see the same kind of combin that you get with something like having this rampant sexual immorality coming into your church. Um sin is sin. There there's there's we shouldn't tolerate any sin. within our church and we should exercise um spiritual discernment and we should exercise spiritual discipline uh church discipline. Um but just like there are There are different crimes, um, in terms of um the kind of punishment that you get in this world. I'm not talking about the punishment that's coming uh at the second death. Um At the s the second death, any deviation from God's hundred percent holy standard will land you in the lake of fire. Um just one. One deviation of any kind will land you in the lake of fire. Um Um but punishments in this world um have degrees, and they've always had degrees. But toleration of deviation from God's standard is always wrong and always is a matter of discipline will bring judgment. There are different levels of judgment though. Yes. So I I do not know. I don't I don't know what the fate of that church was. So it it disappeared some time in history. Um yeah, but yeah, they are. Yeah. Any deviation from God's standard will end end you out with a light of fire or something like that? Yeah. So how does that um So that's why we need Christ. That's that's why we need Christ. Because there's no there's no possible way that I as a human being can meet that standard on my own. I can't do it. Christ did and his ri righteousness can be imputed to me um if I if I keep repent and by the grace of God through faith um I can uh my sin is imputed to him, he paid for it on the cross, his righteousness, his righteous life imputed to me. Right. And we're gonna paid for that. And so think about it this way. God is a perfectly just God. So every sin Every single sin, every single sin of thought or action, or inaction, will he knows and will be paid for will be punished every single sin. And so i your sin can either be paid for by Christ on the cross or it can be paid for by me being tossed in the lake of fire. When it is here you had to Ever sin, one by one, all uh the books are opened. Uh the books are open at a great white throne judgment. Look through the deeds. Uh every deed has to be paid for. And so if your name is written in the Lamb's Book of Life, then that deed was paid for by Christ. If your name is not written in the Lamb's Book of Life then I have to pay for those deeds one by one and even one of 'em gets me tossed into a lake of fire. So uh in terms of keeping the church pure then Um there there are different levels of warnings in these letters. So obviously Christ sees the churches differently. However, w the an additional warning is that any deviation is leaven for your church that will the word picture is uh working dough and if you put a little bit of leaven in it goes through the whole lump and so if you put a little bit, if you tolerate a little bit of deviation from God's word, you end up with the the twenty first century Lutheran church with uh homosexual pastors marrying homosexuals and uh in the church. That's what you end up with. That's not where they started as Richard pointed out. But that's where they've ended up once the leaven worked all all the way through. And so what's the lesson for us uh Hope Bible Church in twenty twenty three is uh read the word, study the word and obey what the word says. Um and so uh and we as uh your elders take that very seriously. Uh to s to study the word Understand the word, apply the word in the life of the church, teach the word so that everybody in the body uh knows and understands the word, and exercise church discipline where necessary. to keep the church pure and to rescue a member of the church that's going in a dangerous direction. So the idea of church discipline is not primarily focused on um punishment. It's primarily focused on restoration. Um and so the idea is restore brother Who's fallen into sin by this process? Matthew 18, process of church discipline. And we take that very seriously here At Hope Bible Church. Um okay. So he's coming to make war. Uh error uh can't be you can't compromise with error and and hope that it'll go away. It won't. Uh it won't. Satan's not gonna gonna he's not gonna be satisfied with any If he if he gives Satan a an inch, he'll take a mile and it'll just keep going and going and going and going. Um and then we have the ending to the letter which is very similar to others, he was an ear, let him hear what the spirit says to the churches, but then we've got a little um a little extra Here on this one. To him who overcomes, to him will be given some of the hidden manna, and I will give him a white stone and a new name written on the stone which no one knows but he who receives it. So he's got this counsel and encouragement. Um it's once again stresses listen to the word of God. Listen to what God has to say and obey Christ's words. Um It's addressed to uh it at the end, this uh counsel and encouragement is him who overcomes. That's a phrase that encompasses all believers. Uh he promises three things to the faithful members of the church at Pergamon. First he promises to give them some of the hidden manna. Manna was, of course, in the Old Testament, the bread from heaven. The hidden manna represents, of course, Christ, uh the bread of life who came down from heaven. So Christ, that's a word picture of Christ. Um there's much speculation about what this white stone symbolizes. Uh some like it with the Urim and the thumbum on the breastplate of the high priest. Um they were used to determine God's will. and represented the right and high uh right of the high priest to request guidance from God for the leader who could not approach God directly, but had come through the priestly structure. Somehow God caused those stones to disclose his will. uh in a f in a way that we don't aren't clear uh how that how that worked. Uh but evidently the will of God could be determined by this Urim and Thummim. Uh according to this view the white stones uh by his white stones God promises the overcomers knowledge of his will. Others identify the white stone as a diamond, the most precious stone, symbolizing God's precious gift. However, um The white stone um in this particular culture, um the Roman had a Romans had a custom of awarding white stones to the victor of a athletic contest. So uh there's a lot of speculation, but m most likely this was a cultural reference for the time for these people that when you were a victor you got one of these white stones and The people that overcome are going to be victors and they're gonna get the victor's white stone with their name written on it. Uh white stone inscribed with the athlete's name served as a ticket to a special awards banquet in those days. Um, and so that symbolism sounds right to me. That in those days there was a white stone given with the athlete's name on it that was their ticket than to go to a special banquet for victors. Um and so I think that fits. I think that I think that fits. Uh yeah, and it's a new name. Uh in this view Christ promises the overcomers entrance to the eternal victory celebration. Uh new r name written on the stone. Uh as is self evident from the phrase we cannot know what that new name is until we receive it. And the word new there um doesn't mean new as a as a in terms of uh new contrasted to old and new in the sense of qualitatively different. Um so that word new doesn't mean new as opposed to an old name it it as new in terms of a qualitatively different uh name. Um so the new name will serve as each believer's admission pass into eternal glory. It will uniquely reflect God's special love for an adoption of every true child of his. So um still a little bit of speculation there though. Uh nobody uh I I saw I read a Number of different commentaries. Everybody's believes something different about this white stone. Okay. Uh the to so the church faced the same choices that every church faces. Do you you have some people that are going astray within your church, what do you do? Do you tolerate 'em? Do you exercise church discipline? Um and uh it could repent and receive the blessedness of eternal life and glory of heaven, or it could refuse to repent and face the terrifying reality of having, Lord Jesus Christ, declare war. on it. Maintaining the path of compromise ultimately leads to judgment. So any uh we have uh 90 seconds. Um any la last uh last question yes all right let's Let me close in prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for this time we have gathered around your word. We thank you for the truths we see in it and for the warnings. We pray, Lord, that uh here in Hope Bible Church we would uh uh maintain purity and holiness and righteousness and uh if there are uh cases of uh of brothers or sisters straying we pray Lord that through the uh the process of church discipline we would be able to bring them to repentance and restoration. Uh we thank you, Lord, that you've designed uh the church so that we can We can encourage one another and lift one another up and that we can also hold one another accountable. We thank you for the opportunity that we have today to gather as uh the local body of Christ and worship you and corporate worship and we pray Lord that the worship we're about to give will be acceptable in your sight and will bring glory to your name. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.