Let's get started with a word of prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for this Lord's Day that you have made. We thank you for your love for us. We thank you for the gift of your word. Thank you for the opportunity that we have now to gather around your word and to learn from it. We pray that through your Holy Spirit you would grant us uh wisdom to understand what you're trying to teach us from your word today. We thank you, Lord, for uh the gift of your son Jesus Christ for his life and death and for his resurrection. We thank you for your great plan of redemption. We thank you for your sovereignty over all of history. We thank you for uh what we see revealed. in this book of Revelation about the end times, what happens at the end of history. We thank you that you're sovereign over all of that. And we thank you, Lord, for the great promise of heaven that those who are given the gift of faith through grace are saved, not only for now, but forever. and that we will be with you in heaven forever. We thank you for this great promise, Lord. In Jesus' name we pray Amen. Alright, so we've actually come to part thirty-nine of thirty-nine. So uh as I was just mentioning before, it's a little bit bittersweet. Um it's nice to come to the end. End, but it's also sad to come to the end. Uh of the three quarters, thirty-nine weeks of studying This book of the revelation of Jesus Christ. So this last one is going to be called God's Last Invitation. So God finishes his word at the very end with a final invitation. And so that's what we're gonna look at today. Um so we're gonna look at this last invitation, what the invitation involves and the incentives that are listed here for accepting It's because of the person of Christ, because of the exclusivity of heaven, because of the truthfulness of Scripture, because of the certainty of Christ's return that people should accept this invitation. First we'll take a look back at what we did last week. So last week we took a look at the the middle Section of chapter twenty-two. It was the beginning of an kind of an epilogue to the book. Um all the prophecies have been given up to this point, and then we have this very last part, what we studied last week and what we're gonna study this week called the epilogue or are known as the epilogue to the book. So last week we had the believers' response to Christ's imminent return. So the first part of the epilogue is addressed to believers, the second part to as an invitation really to unbelievable. believers. And so John records that an angel tells him that these words are faithful and true. We've seen this phrase faithful and true before. They're applied to a title For Jesus Christ. And it's the same God, of course, pointed out here, the same God who uh provided the the Spirit, provided the inspiration to the prophets, both in the Old Testament and the New. And this angel is showing Showing to his bondservants, believers, what's going to take place, what will happen in the future. Then we had a shift of speaker from the angel to the Lord the one who's coming quickly and he gives the final beatitude. We said there's seven beatitudes in the book. This is the seventh and final one. Blessed are he who heeds the words of the prophecy of the book. We'll see the seventh one in today's lesson. And then we've got this call for believers to guard scripture, but also to obey scripture. Then we've got another shift. We had another shift in last week's lesson of speaker. So we had the angel, and then we had Christ, and then we have John who identifies himself here in the end of the book, in in chapter twenty-two, the same way he identified himself in Chapter 1. I John am the one who saw all these things. And then he he makes a mistake. The angel tells him, No, don't do that uh worship only God. Uh he's also told not to seal up the words of the book. There were there have been previous instances where uh people where prophets are told to seal up uh what they saw. Uh Daniel was Told that in Daniel chapter 8 and chapter 12. Uh John was previously told to seal up what the seven thunders said, but now he's told, hey, don't seal up what you've been told, the the rest of these visions of your book. Then we go back to Christ again. He says, I am coming quickly and he's bringing rewards with him. Uh the rewards uh rendering to every man what he's done. So believers eternal rewards are based on their faithfulness in serving Christ in this life. So that's what we did last week. Any any other questions or comments before we roll on to uh the the the final section of the book of Revelation and of Scripture itself. So we're gonna take a look at Revelation 22. 13 to 21. So if you'll open up your Bibles to Revelation 22 to the very last page of Scripture. So Revelation chapter 22, beginning in verse 13, the word of God says this, I am the Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end. Blessed are those who wash their robes so that they may have the right to the tree of life, and may enter by the gates into the city. Outside of the dogs and the sorcerers and the immoral persons and the murderers and the idolaters and everyone who loves and practices lying. I, Jesus, have sent my angel to testify to you these things for the churches. I am the root and the descendant of David. The bright and morning star. The Spirit and the Bride say Come. And let the one who hears say come. And let the one who is thirsty come. Let the one who wishes take the water of life without cost. I testify to everyone who hears the words of the prophecy of this book. If any one adds to them, God will add to him the plagues which are written in this book. And if any one takes away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God will take away his part from the tree of life and from the holy city, which are written in this book. He who testifies to these things says, Yes, I am coming quickly. Amen. Come, Lord Jesus. The grace of the Lord Jesus be with all. Amen. This is the word of the Lord. This is how the word of the Lord ends. This is the last thing in inspired scripture. Um so, um as I've done all throughout these thirty-nine parts, I'll give you a few paragraphs from John MacArthur uh in his introduction to this section of scripture. He says, In these In these, its concluding verses, the Bible comes full circle. It opened with the promise of a coming Savior who would redeem his people from their sins. That promise which came immediately after the fall is recorded in Genesis 315. I will put enmity Between you and the woman, between your seed and her seed, he shall bruise your head you on the head, and you shall bruise him on the heel. Just as the Bible opens with the promise of Christ's first coming, so it ends with the promise of his second coming. The second coming of the The Lord Jesus Christ is a compelling theme in both the Old and New Testaments. Zechariah fourteen, Malachi three and four, Matthew sixteen and twenty-four, first Corinthians one. 15 and 1 Thessalonians 2, 3, 4, 5, and 2 Thessalonians 2, James 5, and Jude 14, I'll talk about the second coming. But nowhere is it given greater emphasis than in the apocalypse, the revelation of Jesus. Christ. It is only fitting that this book, whose focus is on the second coming, ends with the final invitation in light of that glorious reality. Verses six to twelve of this chapter are addressed to believers, demanding their proper response to Christ's imminent return. Verses 13 to 21 call unbelievers to repentance. The inspired canon of Scripture closes with an urgent invitation, pleading with sinners to come to Jesus Christ and receive the free gift of eternal life before it is forever. Forever too late. God's final invitation to sinner come sinners comes in verse 17, but surrounding that invitation are several incentives designed to motivate people to respond To it. Thus, John MacArthur about this section of scripture. So let's take a look verse by verse at what the scripture says. So first we have of course Jesus saying, I am the The Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end. Blessed are those who wash their robes so that they may have the right to the tree of life, and may enter by the gates into the city. So there's a there's going to be an invitation in verse 17, but around that, before and after, are some incentives, some motivations about why people shouldn't accept this invitation. The first one is for sinners to accept God's invitation because it comes personally from the Lord Jesus Christ. So he identifies himself, a threefold identification here in verse 13, repeating the same truth for emphasis. Uh the original readers of Revelation of course the the the the language of uh commerce throughout the empire. So the language of government was Latin, the the language of commerce was Greek, and so it was a common language and so Jesus uses that common language to identify himself, uh Alpha and Omega, uh of course the first and last letters of the Greek alphabet. Um and he had identified himself then uh additionally as the first and the last as he had in in uh revelation chapter one as well. Uh and then he identifies himself as the beginning the source of all things, and the end, the goal of all things. Uh this expresses Christ's infinity and eternity. Uh this self identification. Uh the Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last, the beginning. and the end. Uh and of course it's a statement of his deity. So uh obviously there can be only one beginning and end, Alpha and Omega, first and last, and that's God. And so this is a statement of who he is and his His divinity. So next we have the seventh. So uh last time we did the sixth beatitude, this is the seventh of the Beatitudes in Revelation. There's one in chapter one, one in chapter 14, one in chapter 16, one in chapter 19, one in the 17th century. chapter 20 and now this is the second one in chapter twenty two uh one of verse seven and now we have another one in verse fourteen uh and each is pronounced with uh the word blessed Um and that this blessing is pronounced here by Christ on those who wash their robes And so that phrase portrays the believers' participation in the death of Christ. So we had, we've seen this before in Revelation. We saw it in Revelation chapter 7. The 24 elders said to Joseph. Don these, the tribulation martyrs, are the ones who come out of the Great Tribulation and they have washed their robes. So we had that same phrase in Revelation chapter 7 describing believers. And they had washed their robes, made them white in the blood of the Lamb, participated in the death of Christ. So those who have experienced the washing from sin that marks salvation, what does it tell us here in Revelation? They will have the right to the tree of life. Those who have washed their robes in the blood of Lamb have the right to the tree of life. So as we saw last time at the beginning of chapter 22 and in verse. 2. The Tree of Life is located in the capital city of heaven, the New Jerusalem. And here we're told that those who granted access to the Tree of Life will be allowed to enter by the gates into the city. So it's consistent with what we've just seen, the Tree of Life. is in there, the gates are always open, those who have washed their blood their their their robes in the blood of the lamb have access. They can go in and out of the uh the gates of the city and there's the tree of life. And so this is just consistent. Christ is saying the same thing. He's summing it up. what what's been previously told. Any questions so far? Okay. So we have these entering the gate, we have the tree of life, uh, we have this uh this is really a lead up to an invitation Invitation. Remember, verse 17 is an invitation. And and remember that this we've gone all the way through the prophetic part of the book that that talks in detail about what happens in the end times. And now we're in the epilogue. And so we've really gone back to the first century Um and so this is um we've got John speaking, I John testify to these things. We've got um an invitation that's open We'll see in verse seventeen for those to come. And so so we're not we're not now in time here after all these things have taken place and it's too late. In other words, we we're this epilogue goes back to the first century uh and now so we're we're he's making an invitation to people that still have an a a chance to to to accept the invitation. Obviously if this was still chronological and it was actually After all these things and after everybody had been tossed into the lake of fire, there's no reason to give an invitation. Uh but the epilogue goes back. It goes back to the we're back in the first century again. Okay, uh outside of the dogs and the sorcerers and the immoral person. So in contrast, in contrast to what we just saw, those who were coming in through the gate and going to the tree of life we have. Outside we have everyone else. We'll remain forever outside the New Jerusalem in the lake of fire. So there's a contrast. There's those who are going to heaven, those are those who are going to the lake of fire. Um and so we had in verse 21 uh a list of sins. Uh it's not exhaustive, it's just a representative list of sins uh that exclude people from heaven And then this one's given to John. It looks a little odd to our twenty-first century American ears to have dogs put in there Uh because we think of dogs as our nice fluffy pets and we don't want to have them uh representative of those who are thrown into heaven. But uh in ancient times dogs were not household pets uh like they are today. They were despised scavengers that mean And we see that over and over in Scripture in Exodus and First Kings and several different places. That dogs are uh there's a negative connotation in scripture on dogs. They're not the the fluffy man's best friend that we have today. So that's That's not what it's talking about. It's not saying your your pet rover is gonna be tossed into the lake of fire. That's that's not not what it's it's saying here. Um so so uh and then so we have of course this list of of sins that's as I said representative but not exhaustive sorcerers are those who engage in occult practices, immoral persons, those who engage in illicit sexual activities, murderers, uh are on this list, and they were also in the list in uh in Revelation chapter twenty-one, uh also in in chapter nine and Romans chapter one, uh the list of sins in Romans chapter one. Um Idolaters of course are those who worship false gods. And the final group that's excluded from heaven is everyone who loves and practices lying. And so, of course, this is not anyone who's ever committed these sins who are excluded from heaven, then everybody would be excluded from heaven. But rather it's those who love and habitually practice Any such sin and stubbornly cling to it and refuse Christ's invitation to salvation. That's really what it's saying here. And of course, those people we see will be cast into the lake of fire. Then we have Jesus um doing a self-identification here. Um in verse sixteen. Verse sixteen says, I, Jesus, have sent my angel to testify to you these things for the churches. I am the root and the descendant of David, the bright morning. star. So another self-identification here for Jesus. He tells him, I Jesus have sent my angel to testify to you. And so we've seen angels of course communicating Uh throughout the uh the book of Revelation to John in chapter 1, chapter 17, chapter 21, earlier in chapter 22, uh the source of the information of course is Jesus. Uh so Jesus is saying, hey, these angels that have come to you, I sent them. So uh the word angoloi angolos means messenger and so these are messengers of God to us but the source of the information is Christ. That's what Jesus is saying. Here. I've sent my angels, and the angels have told you all these things and revealed all these things, but they they come from me, Jesus is saying here. This is the only place this expression appears in Scripture. I Jesus uh it establishes his final invitation in scripture is not a human invitation. So the invitation which is coming up in chapter seventeen is is directly from Christ. It's a divine call issued personally to sinners By the Lord Jesus Christ. That's what we're about to see. And so he uh identifies himself in what seems to be a paradox. How can he be both the root and the descendant? We've seen this paradox before. He declares himself to be both the root, the ancestor of uh and also the descendant of David. And so that phrase kind of sums up here at the end the biblical teaching on Christ's two natures. In his deity, his divinity, Christ is David's root. In his humanity, he is David's descendant Descendant, he's the rightful king. Yeah. But he's also the root of David. Um and so the one who created David also. And so this is a a statement of who Jesus is, summarizing it again. at the very end of the Bible so we understand exactly who Jesus is, 100% God and 100% man. This is another way of saying that, to make sure we get it. Make sure we get it at the very end. The important stuff summarized here at the very end is that Jesus is God and man. He's the root of David as his creator, but he's also the descendant of David as a man. Okay. Yeah, so really important concepts that are summarized here at the very end of the Bible And then he describes himself as the bright morning star to call someone a star. It was in biblical times as it is today to exalt him. We still do that today. We call someone a star Right, he's a star athlete, uh or a s movie star. Right? We still use this term. A superstar, right. Uh to m to really you know, use the to make it as as spectacular as possible. But this idea of someone being exalted as a star is still with us, even in the English language. And of course, also in extra-biblical Jewish writings, the coming Messiah was called a star. They referred to him as a star. are in Jewish writing about the Messiah outside of the Bible as well. Any questions, comments? Uh verse seventeen. Moving along here. Uh So this is the invitation. The Spirit and the Bride say, Come. And let the one who hears Say come and let the one who is thirsty come. Let the one who wishes take the water of life without cost. So this is an invitation. This is the Lord's altar call here. So the first part of verse 17 is a prayer addressed to Christ. The Spirit and the Bride say, Come to Christ. The second part is an invitation addressed to sinners. Let the one who hears say, Come. So the first calls for Christ to come. The second is the last call for sinners to come to faith in Christ. So Jesus, to Jesus' promise to return, He's made these promises. promises to return himself, the Holy Spirit, the third member of the Trinity, says, Come. So the text does not specify exactly why. the Spirit especially desires Jesus' return. But the rest of scripture suggests both a negative and a positive possible reason. So negatively, men and women throughout history have continually rejected, ignored, and denied Christ. They have mocked and blasphemed the work of the Spirit Matthew twelve, whose ministry is to point them to Christ. Uh ja and Jesus made that clear in his earthly ministry in John chapter fifteen and sixteen about the coming of the Holy Spirit when he was explaining to his disciples that he was going to send uh the help to them that the helpers uh the spirits uh work in earthly ministry is uh is to point people to christ. Point people to Christ. And so uh and so people have responded negatively throughout history to that uh work of the spirit in in many cases. Uh on the positive side it's the desire in the ministry of the Spirit to glorify the Lord Jesus Christ. As ja as Jesus said in John chapter 16 when he was explaining about the Spirit to his disciples. So the Spirit longs to see his fellow member of the Trinity exalted in splendor, power, and majesty. And that's exactly what will happen. at Christ's return in the second coming. And so the Spirit is looking forward to that. Remember now we're back in the first century, and the Spirit and the bride say to Christ, Come. So it's the Spirit, the Holy Spirit is saying to Christ to come. But it's not just the Holy Spirit, it's also the bride. uh the church whose longing, uh is echoing this plea of the the Holy Spirit f to Christ to come. So it's both the Spirit and the bride, the Holy Spirit and the church who are saying to Christ, come, looking forward to his coming. And so that's been the case for the church throughout the centuries. Although we're going all the way back to the church in the first century, God's people have waited for, prayed for, hoped for, watched for Christ's return. And so This is summarizing all that uh here at the end of the the Bible, given uh uh in the first century. The Spirit and the Bride say come. The Holy Spirit is anxious for the return, is looking forward to the return of Christ, and so is the bride of Christ, the church. So the second use of the word come, the exclamation come, is a different perspective. It's the invitation no longer for Christ to return, but for sinners to come. So the first come is Christ come. The second one is those who hear, sinners, come to saving faith in him. So the phrase, let the one who hears, say, Come invites those who hear the Spirit and the Bride to join with them in calling for Christ's return. So those who hear from the church, the proclamation of the gospel, the Holy Spirit, uh prompting And regenerating in that person can then come to Christ, come to faith in Christ. So the one that rears is further defined as the one who is thirsty. And so this is another Word picture. Thirst is a familiar biblical metaphor or word picture for the strong sense of spiritual need. Thirst for salvation, thirst for the Lord. The sense of spiritual need that is a prerequisite for repentance. repentance. Um and so it's uh physical thirst is a thing that we can understand, is a physical thing that we can understand applied for a spiritual purpose here for a spiritual understanding of what it should be like for somebody to thirst spiritually for the Lord, it should be like physical thirst. And that's the that's the word picture that's being painted here. Like what we're learning in the Sunday preaching in John four, women. Exactly right. And so and she of course misunderstands it at first and she she thinks he's only talking about physical water that will uh quench your physical thirst, but he's got a higher purpose and meaning for what he's talking about. He's talking about spiritual thirst and the quenching of spiritual thirst with spiritual water Very good. And so yes, that's a a theme that we've seen and we saw it in the in the message last week. Um and so we have this water of life. Um And so uh it can also be compared to the watching of regeneration from Titus III. And it's offered without cost, um Isaiah fifty-five, to the sinner It's not without cost to Christ. It was an enormous cost to Christ, but it's without cost to the sinner, because Jesus paid the price through his death. On the cross. So that's what we see here. This invitation, this great final invitation to come to salvation in Christ Jesus. Then we have Uh another reason why this invitation should be accepted. We have the speaker testifying, who testifies to the authority and finality of the words of the prophecy, and of course it's none other than than Jesus Christ, as we've seen. Uh I who testify to anyone who hears the word Words of the prophecy of this book. If anyone adds to them, God will add to him the plagues which are written in this book. So he has a warning here about tampering with scripture. Um and it applies first and most obviously to the book of Revelation. So however, uh in light of the fact that we have Additional warnings already in other places in scripture not to tamper with it. It seems to be a general principle. So, for example, you shall not add to the word which I am commanding you, nor take away from it that you may. Keep the commandments of the Lord your God which I command you. That's Deuteronomy 4. 2. And then whatever I command you, you shall be careful to do, you shall not add to nor take away from it That's Deuteronomy chapter twelve. Uh so it's not like this is the first time in Scripture that there's been a warning not to add to or takeaway from Scripture. It seems to be a general principle, not just applied to Revelation. It's obviously applied to Revelation But it's also a general principle. Proverbs 35 and 6. Every word of God is tested, he is a shield to those who take refuge in him. Do not add to his words, or he will reprove reprove you, and you will be proved a liar. So we have this in Scripture already as a basic principle. Don't add to or take away from these words of God. And we have a really stern warning about it here at the very end. this consistent with previous warnings, but with a very specific added punishments uh uh revealed here. Uh so this prehib r prohibition against altering the apocalypse by implication extends to all of scripture because That has been the clear teaching of Scripture all along. So it's consistent with what we've already seen in Scripture. Don't do that. And then so the Canada of Scripture was closed at the end of the first century when Revelation was finished. Finished, and thus any false prophet, fraud, or charlatan who adds alleged new revelations to it, as the the Montanists did in the early church. So the Montanists were uh group Started by a man named Montanus, who said that he was a prophet and was receiving direct revelation from the Holy Spirit and making prophecies. Um and he was condemned as a heretic. Um all the way back in the second century. So he was in the mid-second century in the province of Phrygia, in uh the province of Asia. Um And so that th this happened right away in the second century. And it continues to this day. Uh we have Joseph Smith, who an angel gave a revelation to. We have Mary Baker Eddie the founder of the Christian science movement. Uh we've had false prophets all throughout history, second century all the way up today. And they will face divine vengeance. We we have a promise of that. God will add to such people the plagues which are written in the book of Revelation, so all the bad stuff that's happening, um, th that sort of thing is what's going to happen to these false prophets and anybody who follows the false prophets. And God's judgment will be equally severe on anyone who takes away from the words of Scripture. And we have examples of that all the way back to the second century. The heretic Marcion, also in the second century. He taught that the God of the Old Testament was a vengeful, angry, what he called a demiurge. It was sort of syncretism with Greek uh um philosophy. Uh but he taught that the God of the Old Testament was a demiurge and the Creator and Christ who he sent was a totally different substance and totally different the the loving, uh wonderful, uh benevolent God uh in the New Testament and they were totally separate. Um and so he took away from who Christ is, he took away from who God is, who who the Bible teaches God is. And he was condemned as a heretic, of course, in the second century. And so heretics like that, and of course we have those today, the the higher critics that really started in the 18th hundreds, uh the starting with the German higher critics, but continuing all the way today, uh who take away from who God is And so the promise here, the warning here is that God will take away their part from the tree of life and from the holy city. In other words, these people that are corrupting Scripture by either adding or taking Taking away things that God has said will not see heaven. People who do that. So both words both warnings of course are a play on words Uh those who add to Scripture get plagues added. Those who take away from Scripture get heaven taken away. Um so it's a kind of a a little uh little little play on words there. If you add things you're gonna have bad things added to you. If you take things away you're gonna have good things taken away from you. Um uh kind of a clever way of of stating it. So um I I came across this, um so I just wanted to share it. So there was a man named Joseph Seiss. He was a Lutheran minister born in Frederick County, Maryland, just north of here, about 200 years ago, 1823. And he wrote a commentary on Revelation. It was actually first a set of lectures and then it was uh it was put into a book and he ended his commentary on Revelation this way. He said, Oh my friend It is a fearful thing to suppress or stolify the Word of God, and above all, the words of the prophecy of this book To put forth for truth what is not the truth, denounce his error, condemn, repudiate, or emasculate what God Himself hath set his seal to as his mind and purpose, is one of those high crimes not only against God, but against the souls of men, which cannot go unpunished. With an honest and ever prayerful heart, and with these solemn and awful warnings ever before my eyes I have endeavored to ascertain and indicate in these lectures what our gracious Lord and Master has been so particular to make known and defend. If I have read into this book anything which He has not put there Or read out of it anything which he has put there, with the profoundest sorrow I would recant, and willingly burn up the books in which such mischievous wickedness, is contained. If I have in anything gone beyond the limits of due subjection to what is written, or curtailed in any way the depth and measure of what Jesus By his angel as signified for the learning of the churches, I need not the condemnation of men to heap upon me the burden of censure which I deserve. If feebleness or rashness or overweening confidence in my own understanding has distorted In anything, I can only deplore the fault and pray God to send a man more competent to unfold to us the mighty truths which here stand written. According to the grace and light given me I have spoken. If I err, God forgive me. If I am right, God bless my feeble testimony. In either case, God speed his everlasting truth. So yeah, so that really uh resonated with me. It's uh it's a f it's a fearful thing to uh to handle the word of God and to be have the responsibility of rightly handling it, uh and to to teach it or to preach it. Um it's a fearful thing. Yes, Rex. Would the Catholic Church by adding the apartment to teach their doctors be violation of faith? I believe so. I think so. Um so yes, so I I think yes, if if you've added anything Including something like the the Apocrypha. I think that's an issue that's addressed by that section of scripture. Um and and so th that's a that's a less obvious one uh than like the Mormons who have written themselves into Genesis. the end of Genesis. They I mean they've written Joseph Smith into the end of Genesis in their translation of the Bible. Uh that's a seven day advocate. Yeah, that's consider that the that's version too. Yes they do. Uh so there are There are various people who have added things to scripture and uh yeah, the Apocrypha I would think I think is a an example of that as well. Um but yes, so it's a uh it's a sobering thing, and and so this man uh felt the weight of uh of teaching and I I feel it too and so this resonated with me and I think I just thought it was interesting that this man who was born just uh a few miles from here two hundred years ago was wrestling with these same exact uh same exact So um John MacArthur in his commentary mentioned this guy and so I looked him up, I Googled him. Um and and there he was and and the Gutenberg project has all these ancient books that they've uh they've put on the internet. And I found uh a copy on the internet of this guy's book, but I can only find the the uh the s the the eleventh edition published in nineteen thirteen. So the original one was published in three volumes starting in 1870. 1870 through 1884 he published these lectures as three volumes. And the the the most recent copy that I could even find on the internet was the 11th edition uh from nineteen thirteen. Uh but it goes back much further than that. Um and so I just thought this was a an interesting way to summarize these the the burden of teaching and and also um the stern warning that God gives not to mess with his word. And so we need to be really careful. We need to be humble before uh the word of God and um you know what what the word says and says clearly we can very clearly uh teach and say what what are um what are less certain we need to make sure that we're when we're teaching, when I'm teaching, that you understand that sometimes it's It's my opinion um and not what the word says. Just look at the that's why that's the reason why I like to put the scripture itself at the top of every slide that I do here so you can see what the word actually says. And if there's anything that I'm saying that's contradictory to You can see it right there before your eyes. Yeah. There's a good point in here that um that if you are are earnestly trying to understand scripture and you get something wrong You there the you're not gonna be tossed into the lake of fire for that. Uh yeah, that's that's not what the Bible is saying and and don't pr please don't hear that, that you have to be terrified of being thrown into the lake of fire because you you don't understand um what what Paul said was when he said because of the angels. Um y you know, i there's some passages of scripture that are difficult to understand and you s you'll read ten commentaries and get ten different ideas about what that scripture means and and that doesn't mean that Nine of the ten guys that wrote those scriptures are being tossed into the lake of fire. Or maybe all ten. This was this was talking about people who are deliberately adding or subtracting from the word of God. Um yeah. Yeah. Okay. Um but there are there's a separate warning in um in scripture about teachers being careful. Um and that's what this man is is really uh is really getting at here. Uh okay. Uh any other questions or comments before we roll on? Almost to the end. So the very here's the very end. He who testifies to these things says, yes I am coming quickly. So who's that? Who's the one that's coming quickly? It's Jesus. Amen. Come, Lord Jesus. The grace of the Lord Jesus be with all Amen. So the book of Revelation closes and the Bible closes with one final reminder and a benediction. So it closes with a benediction. Uh and so the last recorded words of Christ in the in the Bible uh Um are this, he says about himself, he who testifies to these things, affirms, yes I am coming quickly. So that's what Jesus says The last thing he says to us in his word. So his coming is in imminent, just as Revelation and the rest of the New Testament teaches. So Revelation teaches us his coming is imminent. He taught that in his earthly ministry, that his coming was imminent, that there are no other there's nothing else on God's prophetic calendar that needs to happen before the second coming. So, and then John speaks for all true believers. So, John is writing the very end of this. He's inspired by the Holy Spirit to write after in response to Jesus saying he's coming quickly. Amen Amen, Lord. Um and then come Lord Jesus. So that's John's response and should be all of our responses. Uh is when Jesus says I'm coming quickly, the response is Amen. Come, Lord Jesus. Um we're looking forward to that second coming. Uh okay, so uh so we have this um um this response that John makes and it's really the response of all believers, uh, Amen, come Lord Jesus. So he speaks for all believers, Amen, come Lord Jesus. And so we've already been warned about scoffers 2 Peter chapter 3, where is the promise of his coming? For ever since the fathers fell asleep, all continues just as it was from the beginning of creation. So Peter says Peter warns about the end times that there will be scoffers who come and say things like this. He said he's coming again, but I don't see it. Not happening. Everything always has continued along. Where's this second coming he was talking about? But we see here in Revelation that yeah, it's gonna happen Um and we have details, not all the details, not everything we might want to know, but uh enough details to know what it's generally going to be like when he comes again. Uh Jesus will return just as Revelation predicts. And then fittingly the last word of the Bible, the grace of the Lord Jesus be with all. Amen. Uh so an expression of God's grace at the very end. So we're saved by grace through faith. And so the very last sentence of the Bible Focuses on God's grace. And so this is how the Holy Spirit chose to end the scriptures, to end God's word with pointing to God's grace in the Lord Jesus Christ. The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with all. Amen. That's how the scripture ends. So, um We're we've got uh we've we've ended a little bit early, so uh there's plenty of time for question or comment if you want. So does anybody have any yes. Any other uh questions or comments? Sir. the phrase that um he's coming quickly. You know we think quickly in terms of time to imminent. But it can also be without warning. Yes, and that's the emphasis that Christ makes about his second coming is without warning. Uh we get parables about that, we get uh uh his teaching in the Olivet Discourse about that, uh we get um descriptions of of the kind of the suddenness of things, uh the the the plagues that come. Um yes, so suddenness uh as a as a theme uh is not um um you know that's not far fetched that's that's what the scripture seems to teach. It's amazing how uh Christ used you know uh uh he's kind of like the faith in the night People want, they will tell you. Right. That's not going to be great. Yeah, so we have all these word pictures. in scriptures about how it's without warning, uh essentially, yeah. And no man knows the hour. Not even the Son, but only the Father in heaven. Yeah. I would like to thank you for this class. We're on your walk Well thank you. Thank you. So um yeah, it's been it's been I I hope you uh I I hope you uh have noticed that it's a joy for me as well. And I really like the interaction. I I I love the the way you guys are thinking through things and asking questions and um that's the way to approach scripture. It really is that um when when somebody's teaching you from the word, make sure you're asking questions that you're you're going through in your mind, what does that mean? What's the implication? What's the big picture? And if you if you're Struggling, please ask. Always ask. Um yeah. Yes. So when we have the warning about adding huge scripture to the played version of of the book will be added to you. Yeah. Um are we just kinda saying that that's basically figurative? I think so. Yeah, yeah, I think so. I I don't think it uh it means that any particular th thing that's in here is uh guaranteed to happen to each and every person that you know uh pr pretends they have a revelation that uh for example that uh Joseph Smith's gonna get some particular punishment in here Uh i it's I think it's a it's a word play to make the point that those people will be punished. Um yeah, I think that's right. He's already been at his punishment. Yeah, he knows he he knows he's wrong already. Uh Joseph Smith does, yeah. So there's another lesson. Check what people say. out there. Uh and you never know if something can sound really good, well that sounds right. Um and then you check and it's not right Um that's happened to me many times and I'm sure it'll happen to me again. Um I you know, I I'll get taken in by something that really sounds good. You know, that sounds good. Um and then it's just not right. Yeah. And the book of Daniel, Daniel, talk a little bit. Daniel asked the question, what does all this mean? And he was told, don't worry about that. you know what was going to happen, what was going to be revealed. He was just told, yeah, shut it up because there's going to be another revelation that's coming. And that is the apocalypse, the the revelation of Jesus Christ that that we see right here. Um yeah. So that was the the the plan that the Lord had all along was to reveal some things There in the Old Testament with the Prophet Daniel and Zechariah and Ezekiel. But then he was going to make this more uh complete revelation uh with the revelation of Jesus Christ at the very end. Right. He had that in mind all along. And um uh y y i it's it's difficult to put ourselves into the situation, the the shoes of those in the Old Testament that only had part of it, that didn't get the whole revelation. So we're in many ways we're blessed because Because we've got the whole thing. They didn't have the whole thing. And so they were just told to have faith. Right? They were told to have faith. And those who were genuine. genuine followers of of the Lord, they did have faith. And where did that faith come from? It was a gift of the Holy Spirit, just like it is for us. But they didn't have the whole revelation. All right, let's uh let's close in a word of prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for this time that we've had over these uh last nine months to study the revelation of Jesus Christ. We thank you so much, Lord, for what you've included in your scripture. We thank you for what you've left out, the things that you haven't told us. The things that you have told us are sufficient. And we thank you, Lord, for the great blessing that it is to know What we do know about the end times, what will happen with the second coming of Christ. We thank you so much that we have this assurance that Jesus is coming. And we have this assurance that for those that are in Christ, that we will be with him forever in heaven. What a great, wonderful promise that is, Lord. And also, Lord, we thank you for For all the warnings, we pray, Lord, that it would motivate us to proclaim the gospel to the lost and the dying, to the hopeless that so desperately need the hope that can only be found in Christ. Uh we pray, Lord, that you would give us opportunities with our friends and family members and co-workers and neighbors who are Who are not saved. And that you would give us, through your Holy Spirit, you would give us the words to say that they need to hear about the gospel and about salvation. In Christ Jesus. And we pray these things in Jesus precious name. Amen.