Well, I would invite you to take your Bible with me in turn to John chapter twelve for our study this morning. Our text is John chapter 12, verses 20 to 36. And as you can see by the title of this message, this is just the beginning of our study of this critical passage. But before we get to the text itself, I'd like to set the theological context for our passage, which will help us understand the significance of what we will read today and study for the next few weeks I would imagine that as John sat down to write his gospel, he thought back to the life of Jesus Christ. He would have been aware of the writings of Matthew, Mark, and Luke, knowing exactly what they had recorded, and more than that The promise that Jesus made was fulfilled in that the Holy Spirit brought to his recollection everything that Jesus had said and done. And as he thought about what Matthew, Mark, and Luke recorded, he would have been familiar with the specifics and the the themes and the accounts that they gave, and John determined that a a fourth gospel, effectively repeating what they had written, was not needed. You probably recognize that people didn't need a a fourth gospel, not only to repeat what they had written, but just to add more to the list of the same kinds of teaching, the same kinds of miracles just with different individuals, different cities, different scenarios, just adding to the list with the same ultimate themes. It seems, based on what he actually did write, that what he recognized was needed, and what he said in his own heart that he must write, and he determined to write. is an account of the glory of Jesus Christ. The other gospels Mention the future glory of Christ that he will receive after his or at his second coming, but none of them speak directly to the glory of Jesus Christ in his life Death, resurrection, and ascension. And so what is implied by the other gospels, John determined To make not only explicit in his gospel, but to make that the running theme of his gospel. Now the glory of Jesus Christ is His manifestation of the divine nature. Put another way, the glory of Jesus Christ is his display of the nature and the power and the character of God. John defines the glory of Jesus Christ this way in the prologue in chapter 1, verse 14: And the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory. Glories of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. And then he wrote in verse 18, no one has ever seen God. The only God who is at the Father's side, He has made him known Jesus exposed humanity to the glory of God because he is the glory of God. He did not make God known and the glory of God known by verbal explanations of something outside of himself, which is what all the prophets had done before him. No, he made God known because he is God. And by being himself, he put God on display. This is the glory of Jesus Christ. Now let's dig into that a little bit more. In the words of Hebrews 1, verse 3, P, Jesus is the radiance of the glory of God. The word glory is one of those words that we use all the time and generally understand what it means. But if somebody were to ask us what is glory, we might be hard-pressed to explain it or Well, think of it this way: glory is the splendor and beauty that radiates out from God. When God makes his presence known, his glory is seen as brightness that emanates from him Because God is spirit. He doesn't have a material corporeal being. He is invisible to the human eye. And so his glory, then, is the visible manifestation of God's being that is infinitely beautiful and pure and clean and bright. The Hebrew word for glory means weighty. And you could say that his glory is weighty because the perfections of his divine nature are utterly full and complete and indivisible and impenetrable. There's nothing about God's glory that is light or airy. In fact, it's so impervious that sin cannot taint it. And it is so pure that if it touches anything impure, it will make that which is impure pure. In fact, when it purifies, it obliterates that which is impure. This is what the prophet Isaiah experienced when he had a vision of the glory of God in Isaiah chapter 6 In that vision, as the glory of God was exposed to Isaiah, Isaiah's sin was exposed, and Isaiah said, I am coming apart at the scenes because I am a sinful man. And so the only reason he survived that encounter is because by God's grace, an angel brought a coal from the altar, touched his lips, and he says, Your sin has been atoned for. It's been taken away. Well, God knows that his glory, if he fully exposed himself to humanity, would destroy mankind because of our sin. And so in mercy he veils his glory and reveals it in in glimpses here and there. When Jesus came into the world, his glory was veiled by his flesh. And there was only one time when his flesh was pulled back such that some could see. The radiance of his glory. You may remember that account. It's in Mark chapter 9 when he took Peter, James, and John up to a mountain and Mark records, he was transfigured before them, and his clothes became radiant, intensely white, as no one on earth could bleach them. Those three disciples, Peter, James, and John, saw a glimpse for a moment of the resplendent glory of God in Christ. Aside from that, the glory of Jesus Christ was seen, manifested through his display of divine power After Jesus turned the water into wine at the wedding of Cana, John 2. 11 says, this, the first of his signs, Jesus did at Cana in Galilee and manifested his glory. Recall recently as we studied the resurrection of Lazarus that when Jesus learned that Lazarus was sick, or when he was told, So Jesus said, this sickness does not lead to death, but so that God, before the glory of God, so that the Son of God might be glorified through it. And then when Martha tried to stop Jesus from having the tomb open. Jesus said to her, Did I not tell you that if you believed, you would see the glory of God? In other words, his resurrection of Lazarus was an unveiling, a glimpse of the glory of God as demonstrated through divine power. Yet another way that Jesus manifested his glory is by the manner of his life, his words and his conduct. This is what John meant when he said in chapter 1, verse 14, We have seen his glory, glories of the only Son from the Father. Full of grace and truth. The way Jesus spoke displayed the heart of God for sinners and sufferers. His words were a perfect mix of truth and grace, such that no one was ever confused about the standard of righteousness. When Jesus spoke, those who thought themselves to be righteous were offended, and those who knew themselves to be sinners were comforted. Jesus' words really exemplified the truth that God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble Not only did his words reveal the glory of God, but so did the conduct of his life. He showed what a perfect life looked like He exemplified the character of God through righteous anger and endless patience, the love of enemies, surpassing kindness, selfless service, humble submission, and compassionate gentleness and more. I mean just think about this in contrast to your own life and the lives of others. There is nothing in Jesus' life. That fell short of God's perfect standard of righteousness. Jesus perfectly loved his Father And Jesus perfectly loved everyone he encountered. The author of Hebrews is right to say of him that he is holy, innocent, unstained, separated from sinners. And so, as John says, we have seen his glory full of grace and truth. So the glory of Jesus Christ is seen in that brief glimpse of his resplendent glory. In the demonstrations of divine power and in the manner of his life. But understand that as significant as those are, those are but glimpses in the life of Christ. The greatest display of his glory was not when his flesh was pulled back and his resplendent glory was revealed. Nor was it in the displays of divine power. As great as they are. Nor was it in the manner of his life as perfect as it was. Now the greatest display of the glory of God In Jesus Christ is at the cross. It's at the cross Everything in Jesus' life has been leading up to the display of the glory of God at the cross This is what we see in our passage today, which focuses on the arrival of the hour for this glory. In our passage, John marks the key turning point in Jesus' life. We know as we have studied through through this gospel that At various points, John would tell us that his hour had not yet come. After Jesus turned the water into wine, he said to his mother in John chapter 2, My hour has not yet come. He told his brothers in chapter seven, verse six, My time has not yet come. John tells us that no one could arrest him in chapter seven, verse thirty, because his hour had not yet come. And then again in chapter eight, verse twenty. No one again could arrest him because his hour had not yet come. And so what hour was he waiting for? It was the hour of his glory. From the moment of his conception until this moment, this hour, everything in his life has been leading to this one event. The moment when his glory would be seen in its greatest display on earth And so today we see that the time for glory has come. And as we work through this passage in the coming weeks, we will see that because the time, the hour for the glory of Christ came And he was in fact glorified. That means that the time for our glory has come as well. Well, with that in mind, let's read this passage, John chapter 12, verses 20 to 36, and then we will dive in. The Apostle John writes, Now among those who went up to worship at the feast were some Greeks. So these came to Philip, who was from Bethsaida in Galilee, and asked him, Sir, we wish to see Jesus. Philip went and told Andrew. Andrew and Philip went and told Jesus. And Jesus answered them, The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified Truly, truly, I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies, it remains alone. But if it dies, it bears much fruit. Whoever loves his life loses it, and whoever hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life. If any one serves me, he must follow me, and where I am, there will my servant be also. If any one serves me, the Father will honor him. Now is my soul troubled. And what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour? But for this purpose I have come to this hour. Father. Glorify your name. Then a voice came from heaven, I have glorified it, and I will glorify it again The crowd that stood there and heard it said that it had thundered. Others said, An angel has spoken to him. Jesus answered, This voice has come for your sake, not mine. Now is the judgment of this world. Now will the ruler of this world be cast out. And I, when I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all people to myself. He said this to show but by what kind of death he was going to die So the crowd answered him. We have heard from the law that the Christ remains forever. How can you say that the Son of Man must be lifted up? Who is this Son of Man? So Jesus said to them, The light is among you for a little while longer. Walk while you have the light, lest darkness overtake you. The one who walks in darkness does not know where he is going. Walk while you have the light. Believe in the light that you may become sons of light. Now this passage doesn't divide very easily into distinct sections. If you look up either uh other messages preached through this section or other uh books or commentaries, you will see that They are divided up in in various different ways. And so to help us track our progress, we're going to walk through this under ten different headings and if you will, ten signposts. To keep track of where we are and what is being conveyed to us by the Holy Spirit. The unifying theme of this section is glory. The glory of Christ. And the glory that comes to us in him. And my prayer is that as we unpack this passage over the coming weeks, And see what the Spirit has written, that we would delight in the glory of Jesus Christ, and we would follow him on the path to glory. Well let's begin by considering, first of all, the first signpost: interest in glory. Interest in glory. And we see that in verses 20 and 21. Look at that again with me. Again, he writes, Now among those who went up to worship at the feast were some Greeks. So these came to Philip, who was from Bethsaida in Galilee, and asked him, Sir, we wish to see Jesus. Every year, Jews from all over the world would come to celebrate the Passover and they would fill up Jerusalem to the full. But they were not the only ones that came for this feast. Here we are introduced to some who are made known to us as Greeks. These are non-Jews. This is not to say that they are from Greece itself, but rather they are Greek-speaking Gentiles. These Greeks could really be from virtually anywhere in the Roman Empire. They could be from the furthest reaches of Rome where the Greek language is spoken, or they could be as close as the Decapolis, which is a region on the eastern side of the Sea of Galilee. By calling them Greeks, John distinguishes them from what are known as proselytes, Gentiles who have become Jews. A proselyte was a Gentile born man or woman who would so devote themselves to Judaism that they would relinquish their Gentile identity and become Jews through rich various rituals including baptism and circumcision. Proselytes were so thoroughly recognized as Jews that they could enter the portions of the temple that were reserved only for Jews. These Greeks were not proselytes, otherwise they wouldn't be identified as Greeks. They were among those who are often called in the Bible God-fearers. God fearers. They worship the God of the Jews, but they didn't go so far as to keep the uh the entire Mosaic law for themselves and make the Jewish identity their own If you read through the gospels, God fears are not uncommon. You may remember the centurion in Matthew chapter 8, whose young daughter, or rather, whose slave uh Jesus healed and because of the man's faith, Jesus uh pronounced that he had not seen such faith anywhere else in Israel. So a A Godfear, a Gentile, had greater faith than all the Jews Jesus had encountered. In Acts chapter 10, there's another centurion named Cornelius, who became the first Gentile along with his family to convert to uh to Jesus uh after Jesus was ascended into heaven. These Greeks are like them. They are Gentiles who believed in and worship the God of Israel, but who didn't follow all of the stipulations of the Mosaic Now we're not told here where exactly they are having this encounter, but it's most likely in the court of the Gentiles At the t at the temple. That's where Jews would generally mill around, you know, spending time in the temple, especially those who were coming far away and didn't have much opportunity to be in the temple. The court of the Gentiles would be the largest court where most people would mill around, and then beyond that was the court of the women, and beyond that the court of the men, which were smaller and meant for more intentional acts, if you will, of worship. These Greeks, it tells us, come to Philip. Why Philip? Well, Philip, as one of Jesus' disciples, has a Greek name. And not only does he have a Greek name, but he is from Bethsaida, which is on the north side of the east of Galilee, which is the closest city to the Decapolis and to other Gentile regions, and it had many Gentile residents. Even though Philip was a Jew, he likely spoke Greek. He had a Greek name. He was a city where many Gentiles would have been, would have lived, and so he would have had more sympathy, at least in their minds. for the request that they had to bring. Certainly more than a Judean Jew who had more hostile thoughts toward Gentiles Whatever the case, they came to Philip and they say, Sir, we wish to see Jesus We wish to see Jesus. Now this is not a request to visually see Jesus. They could see Jesus just like everybody else and hear His teaching in this final week. What they wanted was a private audience with Jesus. They wanted to spend some time with him apart from the crowds. But they didn't just ask them. The verb asked here is in the imperfect, which means they were repeatedly asking this question. Some would go so far as to say that they were insisting we must see Jesus. And you can imagine why these Greeks were among those who came up to the feast for Passover, but they were probably not among those who would stay the 50 plus days through Pentecost. And so Whatever day of the week this was, their time there in Jerusalem was limited. And they wanted to get on Jesus' calendar before they had to return home. Everyone in Jerusalem is talking about Jesus, and those who are further away from Jerusalem, and certainly Israel, would have the least access to him. And so they are clearly interested in Jesus. They want to talk to him. They want to interact with him. And perhaps they know about the Old Testament promises of salvation for the nations. And they want to understand from Jesus how can we be right with God. without becoming proselytes. Whatever their specific questions for Jesus are, they have undoubtedly heard of the glory of Christ in his words, and his conduct and his in his demonstrations of power, and they have a genuine interest and desire in the glory of Jesus Christ. This is a good thing. They have some semblance of belief, we don't know exactly how much, but they want to talk to him. They want to spend time with him. They are interested in the glory of Jesus Christ. This is certainly more than what can be said for most people who hear about Jesus. So many hear about the unsurpassed life of Jesus. the untold wisdom of Jesus, the incomparable power of Jesus, and they just shrug their shoulders and walk away. Or perhaps something worse And you know, I know that's true for some of you who are here, especially some of you teens and children. Many of you are like I was. I grew up in the church hearing the gospel with believing parents, and I was totally disinterested. Totally apathetic, in fact, completely bored. I had no excuse for my disinterest as a child and as a teenager except for the fact that I was spiritually dead. It's not that I rejected what I was taught. I didn't rebel against what I was taught. I just had no interest. I was bored. I enjoyed the activities of church. That was my circle of friends. And my total interest in spiritual things was simply to know that that's what I was supposed to believe. But that dramatically changed when I was 14, and the Spirit of God gave life to my soul, and he convicted me of my sin. He opened my eyes to my spiritually depraved state, my desperate need for Christ, and he granted me the gift of faith. And from then on. My ears were attentive to the teaching, and my heart was drawn to know the Lord, and my energies were focused on growing in the Lord. And friends, that is when you know you have been saved. When your soul is awakened to the truth and your mind desires to know him and your heart is drawn to have a relationship with him, you are then experiencing life in Christ. And so if that is not there, whether you are a child or an adult, if you are apathetic, if you are interested, if you are bored with all of this, and you have to force yourself to read your Bible or force yourself to go to church out of obligation, those are signs of spiritual death. And if that's the case, the reason you are not interested in the glory of God is because you do not belong to Him. And so would that all of us would be like these Greeks, and that if Jesus were somewhere where we would get to him, we would walk every path, we would Enter every door where we would talk to anybody who would get us on Jesus' calendar so that we could see him and talk to him Well, the good news is you don't have to go anywhere. You don't have to talk to anybody to get on Jesus' calendar You can talk to Jesus even right now. You can hear from him in his word. You can see him in his glory. You can come under his lordship and experience true and eternal life. And I say this because I do not want you to be deceived about your spiritual condition. You cannot claim to be a believer and have no interest in him. You cannot claim to be a Christian and be bored with the glory of Christ. It would be better to be honest with yourself and with others You can't deceive God. You don't earn any points with God by pretending to be something you're not. And you risk eternity by convincing yourself that you are right with God when you are not. Only when you acknowledge your true condition can you repent and cry out to him in faith and repentance and experience what it is to know him truly Well, this is the last that we see and hear of these particular Greeks. It seems that Jesus is, by Jesus' response, that he denies their request for a private audience And that's not because he's unapproachable, it's because he has something of far greater importance to attend to. And so we move from the interest in glory to the announcement of glory. The announcement of glory. Look at verses 22 and 23. Philip went and told Andrew. Andrew and Philip went and told Jesus. And Jesus answered them. The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified Now, why Philip went to Andrew and not directly to Jesus, we can't say for certain, but the gospels seem to indicate to us that there are levels of closeness to Jesus. Peter and James and John, for example, are clearly identified as being the inner circle of Jesus' disciples. It was only those three whom Jesus took up to the Mount of Transfiguration and allowed them to see his glory and told them Not to tell anybody else until after he had risen from the dead. It was only those three whom he allowed to witness his raising of a little girl from the dead in Mark chapter 5. It was only those three who in Mark chapter 14, Jesus took further into the Garden of Gethsemane before Jesus collapsed and prayed to the Father. In all of the lists of the disciples after Peter, James, and John, Andrew is then the fourth name on the list when he's not listed alongside his brother, Peter. And then Philip is named after Andrew in every list in Scripture. Now, another interesting dynamic is that Andrew is often portrayed as the one who brings people to Jesus. It was Andrew actually who introduced Peter, who was at the time named Simon, to Jesus It was Andrew who brought the boy with the five loaves and the two fish to Jesus in John chapter 6. And so it may be that Philip was bringing This request for the next level up in closeness to Jesus, alongside the fact that he knew Andrew was the one who often brought Peter, or rather brought people to Jesus. Whatever the case, they come together to Jesus and they make their request. And Jesus' response here is clearly an implied denial But again, it's only because there is something on his calendar of far greater importance There was a time when he would gladly receive anybody who came to him. In fact, for the last two to three years, he has been the most interruptible person on the planet. He was even one time going to heal a young little girl who was on the verge of death, and he purposefully stopped that urgent destination so that he could minister to a woman who had been healed by touching his garment. He was not concerned in that moment that this little girl might die because he knew that he could, and in fact he would raise her from the dead because she did die before he could get to her. As he walked through towns and cities, as he entered the pathways, the entries, and the exits, there would be the lame, the blind, the beggars who would be crying out to him for healing. Once he was even teaching in a home, and some men cut a hole in the roof and let down their friend, and Jesus stopped his teaching so he could heal this man. There was no one more interrupted than Jesus. No one on earth was available to the endless stream of individuals and crowds that would come to him for his time and attention. But that time is over. Jesus is no longer available for personal ministry. His focus now is on the final phase of his earthly ministry, namely the demonstration of his glory. Notice what he says here. The hour has come. Hour here, not in terms of the time of the day, but as the appointed time. We would say that the time has come. The hour for what? For the Son of Man to be glorified. Son of Man was Jesus' favorite title for himself whenever he spoke of himself in the third person, which he often did. And you might remember remember that that title comes from the prophecy in Daniel chapter 7, verse 13, which is important for our understanding of what he says here. That prophecy reads, I saw in the night visions And behold, with the cloud of heaven there came one like a son of man. And he came to the ancient of days and was presented before him, and to him was given this is important dominion and glory and a kingdom, that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him His dominion is an everlasting dominion which shall not pass away, and his kingdom one that shall not be destroyed There, as you hear it, the term, the phrase Son of Man, is not a title per se, but it turned into a title for the Messiah who would reign over the everlasting kingdom of Israel. In fact, during Jesus' trial, the high priest at one point directly asked him the specific question, are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed? And Jesus answered in Mark 14, 62, I am. And you will see the Son of Man seated at the right hand of power and coming with the clouds of heaven. Quoting directly from Daniel 7, 13. At that moment the high priest tore his garments and the Counsel all condemned Jesus to death. They understood the Son of Man as a divine messianic title, and despite the evidence, they refused to accept Jesus' claim. Though that was the first time Jesus quoted that particular prophecy of himself, he preferred that title more than any other for himself and used it dozens of times as we have it recorded in the Gospels. And that is significant here because again, he says the hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. And friends, put yourself in the sandals of a Jew hearing what Jesus says. The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. Didn't Daniel say that we would see the Son of Man and he would receive dominion and glory and a kingdom? Is he saying that the kingdom is going to be restored for Israel now? That's the hour that has come? Is this when he will launch the campaign to oust the Romans? After all, this is a great time to do it. You have Jews here from all over the world. Everybody's talking about Jesus. They've just welcomed Jesus into Jerusalem just days prior, celebrating him as the Messiah. They are all primed to take up arms and revolt against the Romans. Even the disciples themselves were more than ready. It was just a few days prior to this moment when Jesus and his disciples were making their way back to Jerusalem for the feast, and Mark 1037 tells us that James and John asked Jesus this question. Grant us to sit one at your right hand and one at your left in your glory And now Jesus says, the hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. You can imagine their eyes are lighting up. Their hearts are starting to pound. Their excitement is rising. Did Jesus say what I thought he said? Yes, Jesus said the time has come for the glory for his glory the time has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. No, he did not mean that this was time for the kingdom to come. He will be glorified as king one day, but there's an even greater glory that is at hand now. And what is that glory? In what way will the Son of Man be glorified? That glory is the glory of his death. Look at verse 24 Jesus goes on to say, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless of a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies, it remains alone. But if it dies, it bears much fruit. Then look at verse twenty-seven. Now is my soul troubled, and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour? But for this purpose I have come to this hour. And then verse 32, and I, when I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all people to myself. He said this to show by what kind of death he was going to die. The Son of Man will be glorified in his death. For sure Jesus will be glorified one day when He returns with his people to establish his throne in Jerusalem and rule over the earth. But that is not his greatest glory Yes, Jesus was glorified when he ascended into heaven and sat down at the Father's right hand. But that was not his greatest glory. And absolutely, Jesus was glorified when the Father accepted his sacrifice and raised him from the dead. But that was not his greatest glory. His greatest glory, the glory that exceeds all other manifestations of his divine being, the brightest, most resplendent display of the divine nature is seen at the cross. From the cross emanates the brightest beams of divine splendor. Nowhere more than the cross can the brilliant perfections of the divine being be seen. More than the glory of the incarnation, more than the glory of his active obedience, more than the glory of his victorious resurrection, his exalted ascension, his anticipated return, the cross is where the glory of God shines most brightly in the face of Jesus Christ. Friends, he did not come for the hour of his resurrection. He did not come for the hour of his ascension. He didn't come for the hour of his second coming. No, he came for the hour of the cross He came to die so that in dying he would manifest and unveil the glory of God. Now, this is the most counterintuitive reality in all of the universe. The scripture tells us that the cross is foolishness to Gentiles, that it is a stumbling block to Jews To those who are dead in sin and under the wrath of God, the cross is the essence of shame It is the place of loss and defeat. It is the rightful home of the cursed and the damned. But for those who have eyes to see, the cross is the greatest display of God's glory. It's not the cross where the righteousness of God is seen in upholding the perfect standard of perfection and the consequence of falling short It's at the cross where the wrath of God is seen as the good and necessary response to sin. It's at the cross where the holiness of God is seen because Because of the sin Jesus bore, the Father turned away even from his own Son, with whom he had experienced nothing but divine, or rather infinite, joy and unity for all eternity. It's at the cross where the justice of God is displayed in perfect measure such that the penalty of sin is satisfied and the debt of sinners was fully paid It's at the cross where the immutability, the unchangeableness of God is seeing in that he did not change his standard of justice for the sake of his son. Nor did he go back on his promises to his people for the sake of rescuing his son from the cup of wrath. It's at the cross where the love of God is on full display as he sends his son into the world, and his son gives his life for the everlasting good of his people who were at that time sinners and ungodly and hostile to him It's at the cross where the mercy of God is seen most clearly in that sinners are not treated as their sins deserve. It's at the cross where the kindness of God is revealed in that he draws near to those who are far from him and he reconciles them to himself. It's at the cross where the patience of God is seen, in that it had been over four thousand years since sin entered the world. Judgment could have come sooner, but God was patient, and at the right time Christ died for us. It's at the cross where the faithfulness of God is seen in the fulfillment of promises made to his people throughout history, going all the way back to Adam and Eve It's at the cross where the forgiveness of God is secured such that sins previously overlooked are brought to justice and all future sins of his people are paid in full. It's at the cross where grace is displayed as the one who deserves as ones who deserve nothing but the wrath of God receive redemption. at the cost of one who deserved nothing but blessing and honor and privilege. It's at the cross where the power of God is seen in his victory over sin and death and the devil and his angels. says that all hostility and opposition to God are brought to nothing. It's at the cross where the joy of God is revealed, as he delights in the obedience of his Son and in the redemption of sinners It's at the cross where the humility of God is seen, in that Jesus looked out not for his own interests, but for the interests of others. In humility he took the form of a servant. Obeyed even to the point of death on the cross. That's at the cross where the authority of God is sealed as Jesus purchased with his blood a people for his own possession and earn the title deed of the earth. It's at the cross where the wisdom of God is displayed as the panoply of his perfections shine forth in splendor without contradiction or failure or diminishing. His righteousness and wrath and holiness and justice and immutability and love and mercy and patience and faithfulness and forgiveness and grace and power and joy and humility and authority and wisdom are all glorious reflections of the being of God that radiate out from the cross. And I'm sure that with more time to meditate on the cross, we would add to this list. Beloved, you can know God through many of his works. But it is at the cross of Jesus Christ that the most glorious manifestation of his being is on display The eternal decree whereby God the Father and God the Son and God the Holy Spirit determined to make themselves known by allowing their creatures made in their image to fall into sin so that the triune God could reveal his glory is fulfilled at the cross. This is what Jesus was born to do. This is what his life and his teaching and his miracles have been leading to. And this is the hour that has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. And it is because of this glory at the cross. That he will be glorified in the resurrection and his ascension and his return and reign. In Revelation 5, 9 and 10, we read the new song of the saints and the angels, who sang, Worthy are you to take the scroll and to open its seals, for you were slain. And by your blood you ransom people for God from every tribe and language and people and nation, and you have made them kingdom and priests to our God, and they shall reign on the earth The glory of the reign of Christ flows out of the glory of the cross As well, our glory in reigning in Christ and with Christ also flows out of the glory of the cross Because the Son of Man was glorified, not only will he receive dominion and glory and a kingdom, but we will reign with him in glory as well. And that's where we will pick up, starting in verse twenty-four, next time. Today we have focused on the glory of Christ on the cross. Ever briefly. Next time we'll see in verses 24 to 26 that the glory we are invited, this is the glory we are invited into when we travel the path of glory. Now let me end by saying to all of us who believe, does this not thrill your soul? Are you not lifted up and encouraged and strengthened to know that at the cross where Jesus died, the glory of God is what you see and all that He has done for you is put on display? We should delight in Jesus our Lord whose glory is seen at the cross. And we should not be surprised when he says to us, follow me in dying to yourself. Amen. And friend, if you came in this morning epithetic, disinterested But you're just starting to see some of the beauty and the majesty of the glory of God in Jesus Christ. I would urge you to fully embrace that reality that at the cross is what you deserve. The wrath of God. But that if you believe and embrace the glory of God at the cross as Jesus hung there, you can have your sins forgiven. You can be reconciled to this God and know Him who has loved you. By dying and displaying his glory that you might have eternal life. His death on the cross and all its work of paying for sin and securing eternal life will apply to you if you put your trust In him. And if there's a way we can serve you, we would love to talk to you and pray with you on how you can know this glory. And our Lord, let's pray. Father, we are amazed as we look to the cross We can look to the man on Jesus' right and Jesus' left. And we don't see glory there. But when we look to Jesus in the middle, we see the glory of God because of who he is. And what his death accomplishes for us, and the character that you display in putting him there And the life that He exemplified in staying there. Lord, help us to know your glory. in greater, higher, wider ways, that we would be delighted in our souls with Christ. Or forgive us Forever looking at the cross and being bored, disinterested, not seeing glory there. Help us to see what you have put on display and to be transformed by it. We ask in Christ's name. Amen.