Well, would you open your Bibles one last time in this series to Acts chapter two? Verses forty-two through forty-seven And we'll begin today by reading our text. Acts two, forty-two to forty-seven. They were continually devoting themselves to the apostles' teaching. And To the fellowship, to the breaking of bread, and to prayer. Everyone kept feeling a sense of awe. And many wonders and signs were taking place through the apostles. And all those who had believed were together and had all things in common. They began selling their property and possessions and were sharing them with all as anyone might have need. Day by day, continuing with one mind in the temple, and breaking bread from house to house, they were taking their meals together with gladness. And sincerity of heart, praising God, and having favor with all the people, and the Lord was adding to their number day by day those who were being saved. We've mentioned that not everything from this historical text is meant to be directly applied by every church and every time and every circumstance throughout church history. But from our knowledge of the rest of the New Testament, it's easy to see that much of this description is supposed to be modeled by the church. This is given to us as a positive, vibrant example of a church that was really doing what it ought to be doing, filled with the Spirit of God, having received the Spirit on Pentecost An example for people to take the principles from the text and then contextualize them into our situation in the present. That's what we're attempting to do in this series. Now Albert Barnes in his notes on the New Testament comments this. He says, this chapter deserves to be profoundly studied by all ministers of the gospel and by all who pray for the prosperity of the kingdom of God. It should excite our fervent gratitude that God has left this record of the first great work of grace and our earnest prayers that He would multiply and extend such scenes until the earth shall be filled. with his glory. I hope as we bring this series to a conclusion, this is what you desire too, that Hope Bible Church may begin to take on more and more of the flavor of what we read about here, which is not pie in the sky It's not an ideal, it is the way these Christians actually live. And I think that's important. Well already we've seen That this dynamic church in action has a number of descriptions to it. We've been through seven descriptions in our past two messages already. If you haven't heard those, this is what you missed. They were first of all, going back to verse 42, they were a word-driven church. They dedicated themselves to doctrine, to the apostles' doctrine. They wanted it taught. We ought to want it taught as well. They were dedicated not just to doctrine, but to the application of the things they were learning. They were also truly devoted to the fellowship. What does that mean? The fellowship of believers, the church. They were not in and out of church, coming by when it was convenient. They were not flighty kind of members, but they were committed. They understood who they were, where they fit in in the world. They fit in with these people, and more than anyone else, they were committed to these people. Committed, yes, to attendance, but more than that. Committed to them. Committed to a common life with them. Committed to meeting needs. Committed to being in ministry to them. Of course, it may go without saying they were dedicated to the head of the church, the Lord Jesus Christ. The symbol of that dedication was their partaking of what? The Lord's Supper, breaking the bread, focusing on Christ. He gave his life for us. He poured out his blood for us. He's the center of everything. And so he's the one we lift up as a church. They were doing that. Fourth description was that they were diligent in prayer, but not just in prayer, but in this context. the prayers, meaning the times of prayers or the corporate prayers. They were dedicated not just to praying. We pray at home over our meals, but they got together with other believers And they prayed with them. Some of that may have been going on in the homes. I think largely that was talking about the times of prayers where they gathered together in that massive temple complex and they as Jews who were also, though not called Christians at that time, followers of Christ, and they were dedicated to those times of prayers, most likely led by the men in their in their congregation. They also had a sense of divine awe, another description, divine awe. We see that they were reverent. They understood that God was working among them. They saw the miracles of the apostles. They understood how God was working in his spirit in the community and it gave the whole community not a frivolous sense or a light sense but a sense that God is here. He's living among his people and he's doing great things. And they had that awe among them. We ought to strive for that as well, a understanding of the very presence of God among us. They demonstrated their unity, another description. They wanted to be with other believers They wanted to be of one mind with those believers. That's something to strive for, that we would be of one purpose here at Hope Bible Church. You know, have someone over for lunch today, one of the applications we talked about. You're shy, you're not sure about your home, you're not sure how to get together with other people. Get beyond yourself. Open up your heart Be someone who is a catalyst for that kind of exchange. Don't wait for someone else to do it to you. Don't say I'm not a leader, therefore I can't do this. Yes, you can. If you have a heart, you've heard the word, you can do that. Invite someone over, share your life, share your food, share your mealtimes with them. They were doing that. They were doing it almost on a daily basis. They were a lot closer together there at Jerusalem So they had some advantages, but we uh we can work hard at this too. Also they were distributing care funds as were needed. We noted it wasn't Marxism, it's not communism. It wasn't a forced kind of giving. It wasn't that the money belonged to everybody else. It's that they really didn't consider it theirs. And on their own initiative, they gave. They decided Well, someone is in need, I have this piece of property, I'm going to sell it, and I'm going to distribute that, or let the apostles distribute it as it is needed. That is uncommon generosity. It's something maybe that seems to us far beyond what we could do. I mean, we're in modern day America, everyone looks out for themselves, they're into material gain, and yet here we have an example that they truly had financial freedom which is not Trying to find security in your financial future, but financial freedom is learning to trust God with your future and learning to give. We talked about our needs as a congregation. Some of them from folks who have less in the congregation have come. They have real needs. We need to be able to distribute to them. But even more so right now a facility that we need to improve our ministry. Give and trust God. That's really what it is about. Well, that is seven descriptions we've covered already from the first two times. Today we conclude with four more descriptions, and you can write these down. Number eight They were a church delighted in spirit. This is verse 46. They were delighted in their spirit. Look at verse 46 again. It says, day by day, Continuing with one mind in the temple, we already covered that part. Breaking bread from house to house, here it is, they were taking their meals together with gladness. With gladness. This is so nice. What an atmosphere that the devotion to the Word of God and the fellowship produced among them. They were taking their meals together with Gladness. So simple, isn't it? But how wonderful to hear of a group of people. They're taking their meals together. They're taking their meals together with gladness. I don't know anyone that wouldn't want to be a part of a community like that, do you? Part of a group of people, what do they do? If you knew nothing about them, they take their meals together with gladness. They like being together, they like being together so much, they eat their meals together, and as they eat their meals together, they're happy. That's nice. I mean that's attractive. That's something worth being a part of, wouldn't you say? It's just wonderful. They had this quality of gladness. I think actually gladness may be a bit of a weak translation, even though most of the translations use it. I think exuberant joy may be closer to what the word means This is the same word used in Luke 144 of John the Baptist while he was still in the womb of Elizabeth, and Mary came and Jesus was in her womb. And Elizabeth said, The baby within me leapt for joy. That's the word, joy. This is exuberant kind of joy. In Jude 24, there's a benediction. It says this now to God who is able to keep you from stumbling and to make you stand in the presence of his glory, blameless with great joy. There it is again. That's the word. In other words, these meal times were a great atmosphere. It was wonderful to be a part of this. It wasn't drab nor too stiff. It wasn't filled with complaining and gossip and divisive kinds of things, boastful debates. It was joyous. It was happy. Their conversation evidently was uplifting and edifying. It wasn't one of those quiet meals where little is said. No, there was interaction. There was talking. There was joy. There was laughter. People were enjoying their Lord, their salvation, they were filled with the Spirit. They were sharing their common life together Do you think they had any personality differences in Acts chapter two? Do you think they all had the same personality? I really doubt it. Many of them had traveled from faraway countries, and even though they were Jews and had that in common They had grown up differently and they had different ways of thinking about lots of different issues, but they had a common love for their Lord and they had a common purpose. in life. Now you can go to the best restaurant in town and pay whatever kind of money that you want to, but you cannot pay for an atmosphere like that. That comes from God. It is a gift from God and it is the best thing to have and to be around Maybe there were outbursts of song and joy that filled many of their homes as they gathered together. Too many people, but they stuffed them in anyways. People passing by on the street that weren't believers might have said, What is going on in that home? Listen to all that laughter You know? Come come over here. Check this out, Zachariah. It sounds like they're drinking sweet wine in there. But they weren't. They were filled with the Spirit of God. They had a better drink to drink. They were happy people. And the Spirit's fullness made them winsome people. Now, unfortunately, many people in society have to indulge in wine, or they have to indulge in drugs, or illicit sex, or some kind of entertainment. that just indulges themselves in order to to get their group up to the point where they seem to be having that kind of joy and happiness. That's all that some people can imagine. They just live for the weekends. If we get to the weekends and we stuff ourselves with this That is an admission that they don't have any joy in life at all. This was a built-in kind of joy. This didn't go up and down depending on whether or not you had the best wine or the worst wine. It didn't matter. It didn't matter. It was a joy that came from within. It was a joy that was given to them and couldn't be taken away because it didn't depend on changing circumstances. Here they weren't persecuted exactly. Later they would be persecuted, and you still hear about them that they had joy. One time the apostles were whipped. and were beaten. Why? They were preaching Jesus in Jerusalem. And after that, instead of saying, Woe is me, they ran out and they leapt for joy, saying, Wow, we were counted worthy enough in the kingdom to be persecuted. They understood that that meant that that was a compliment from God. And they were rejoicing. Now Luke also uses another description of them here besides joy, and that in verse 46 is that they had sincerity of heart. When we hear the word sincere, we think of someone who's true and honest, right? But this word really doesn't mean that. It it encompasses that, I suppose, but it has more to do with the idea of simplicity There wasn't a compoundedness to them. In other words, they were of one mind. They were not encumbered with a lot of other motives in what they were doing. They were just simple in their approach to the Lord. They were sincere in that sense. They didn't have this motive and that motive and this hidden thing and that hidden thing. They were about Jesus And they were about church, and they were about eternal life, and they loved it, and that's what they were all about, and so there was sincerity to them Now in a literal sense this word actually was used of a pathway that would be cleared of all the rocks. There's no rocks in the way. It's just a nice, smooth, clear, simple pathway. That's how their hearts were before God. There wasn't this mode, this hidden thing, or I have this agenda, and I'm in this church for this reason or whatever. They were there for the sake of Christ and for the sake of ministry. They were sincere. I think that's a beautiful thing. Their hearts were unhindered before the Lord. They served and worshipped in simplicity, uncomplicated by ulterior motives. There was an absence absence of pretense to them. They weren't coming to church to perform in a religious sense. Their praising of God, their giving of money. was not out of coercion. It was not out of duty. Oh, this is the thing we have to do on Sunday. There was no religious show to their hearts. Their joy was genuine in the life that they lived. How is that possible? Do you experience that in your own heart and life? Well, I want you to remember that all of this was driven by preaching and teaching of the truth. They were people that were dedicated to fill their minds, not with all the things we see on television, not with all the philosophies of the world. Their mind was filled with doctrine. They were constantly thinking truth. And when they were thinking truth, well that helps. That helps a lot. It cleans up the mind and it makes joy just come out naturally. There's so much that we have to rejoice about if we would be thinking on it. 1 John 3. 1. Anyone know it? See what manner of love the Father has bestowed upon us that we, particularly we, you look around that, that we should be called what? Children of God. A child of Almighty God. Wow. Acts 13, 52 says of the Gentile disciples that they were continually filled with joy and with the Holy Spirit. See the connection? Yield yourself to God, be filled with the Spirit of God, and what will come to your life? Joy, God's joy. 1 Peter 1:8. Though you haven't seen Christ, you love him. Have you seen Christ? Do you love him? Same thing in the first century Christians. You have not seen Christ, but you love him, and though you do not see him now, but believe in him, which is something that Christ blessed, right, to believe without seeing, you greatly rejoice with joy which is inexpressible and full of glory. That's a present tense rejoicing on the part of the church. 1 Peter 1. 8 That's why in 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 and verse 16 it commands, rejoice how often? Always. Always. That's an adverb that means all the time. Rejoice always. Paul says, 1 Thessalonians 5. 16. Only when we are rejoicing in our heart do we have a proper perspective on the Christian life. Now I say that to rebuke me as much as you, because I know the times I'm not rejoicing and I've lost my perspective. You know, Paul couldn't get enough of this exhortation of Philippians. Rejoice in the Lord always. Again I say rejoice. He had to say it over and over and over again to them. Rejoice. It's a command. It's a moral duty. If you're understanding who you are and what you have, you will rejoice. So rejoice. He pushes it on him. You should have joy. You should have joy, he's saying. You should have joy. And this is a guy who was shipwrecked, beaten, flogged, imprisoned, and all kinds of other things. And he kept saying, Rejoice. Rejoice! You'd be around and say if I follow that guy, I'm gonna have to rejoice and do what he happened to what happens to him happens to me. And I'm still supposed to rejoice, that's right He understood truth. He grasped it, and it drove forward his life. To the church of Corinth, he even said, Finally, brethren, rejoice, 2 Corinthians 13, 11. Be made complete, be comforted, be like-minded, live in peace, and the God of love and peace will be with you. Joy, peace, unity, those are the things that accompany the work of the Spirit of God in a properly focused life. Of course, a joyful congregation doesn't mean that there's no place for empathy or sorrow with those who are suffering and in need. Of course there is. 1 Corinthians 12, 26 says, if one member suffers, all the members suffer with it. One member is honored, all the members rejoice with it. Talking about the human body and exhorting us to be just like that in the church. Romans chapter 12, verse 15, rejoice with those who what? And weep with those who weep. Find out what their needs are, what their mood is. Someone's suffering, you don't walk into their hospital room and say, Pastor said to rejoice. Get up out of that bed and rejoice. He sympathized. Listen, earlier these disciples, when they were back with Jesus when he was on earth, they were jumping up and down with excitement because they found out that Christ had given them power to command demons. Can you imagine that? Thou demon come out of them. You're looking at each other like it worked, just like the Lord, He did it, and it worked with us, and they came back to Christ and they were rejoicing. He said, Don't rejoice in that. That's nothing really to rejoice over. What did he say to rejoice in? Your names are written in heaven. My name is written in heaven. That's my eternal home. Unspeakable treasures and glory in heaven. Unspeakable faith. My name's there. If you're a believer in Christ, your name is there too. Not even persecution can dampen our party. Jesus says so. Matthew 5, 11 and 12, blessed are you when people insult you and persecute you and falsely say all kinds of evil against you because of me. Now they may say evil things about you because you you you you deserve it. But if it's because of your association with Christ, he said you're blessed. And then he said in verse 12 of Matthew 5, rejoice and be glad, for your reward in heaven is great. For so they persecuted the prophets who came before you. We just have no idea of how fabulous our reward, if we could even use that term, because we're like the scripture uses the term reward, but we know we don't deserve any of it. Our reward is in heaven. We have no idea. And that's why with our knowledge of truth, coupled with this built-in joy, it makes our present celebration in Christ untouchable. Nobody can touch it. We have it every week no matter what Now I think this description is pretty easy to apply, don't you? I'll just say we have one main application this time, at least it's the one that came to me. Commitment to Christ, people. Commitment to Christ, giving time, sacrificing, not getting everything that you want when you want it, not having everything in the church that you want when you have it, giving of time, coming out, giving to another situation, another situation, none of that is like, oh woe is me. Woe is me. I have to give so much. And I have such a complicated life, and there's so many responsibilities I have. And now the church is asking me to do more. No, a commitment is supposed to bring joy, the deepest, richest kind of joy. I think that there are many people in church who are fairly well devoted people. They come to church, they're there on time, they attend regularly, they participate in the ministry, but you look at them, their lives are not visibly joyful. Week after week, I mean. Everyone has a bad week. Maybe that describes you. Maybe you're hearing about the gladness of heart that they had and you're saying, my heart's not that way. My heart's not glad. God says it should be. It should be. Week after week after week, you should be known as a person who is joyful. It should be true of you. If you don't sense the energy of the Spirit of God within you, if others who know you well, spend time with you, don't hear a tone of joy on your tongue, and I don't mean fabricated, you need to pray about what is your focus. in life. What are you focused upon? You can't be focused upon the things of the kingdom of God and not have joy. You can't be And then I think there are those who have to prove their spirituality on Sunday mornings by manufacturing that false happy face, you know. How are things going? Oh, just fine, praise the Lord. But you can tell you're not getting through them. You don't really know who they are. I think true joy only results when you are willing to break yourself down. You see, you know why we don't have joy? It really comes down a lot not just to distraction, but to our pride. I I deserve better than what you've given me. I'm looking around the church, I'm looking. Well. They're not treating me the way I know I deserve to be treated. So now you feel good about the fact that they're less than you. But do you have joy? I helped and gave. Where were they this weekend? Now, made yourself look good. Do you have joy? Don't have any joy that way, right? When you have a sense that the other people in your life, whether it's in your home, whether it's in your church, even in your workplace, which can be the toughest one, that they owe me more, you're never going to get joy that way. You break yourself down, you admit you don't deserve anything at all in life, that you're a slave of Jesus Christ, ready to serve him, no matter what he calls upon. You will have joy. Nobody will be able to take your joy away from you. It's your joy. You're untouchable. Your joy is untouchable. That's why joy is a command from God. We are to set our hearts on the great truths of the faith, believe them, act on them, not worry about ourselves, and rejoice and do that rejoicing together. Now the ninth description is that they also were a church that was declaring praises Not only delight in spirit, but declaring praises. Verse 47 adds that they were right at the beginning praising God Praising God. Just two words. The word praise is the verb I neo. It means to lift up. Literally just to lift up. Same word is used in Acts 3:8 of the layman who was instantly healed when he left. He stood upright, he began to walk. He entered the temple with them. He was walking and leaping, and there it is, praising God, lifting up the name of God. Why Well, he'd been lame and now he walks. So wow, praise God. God is great. Look what God has done for me. He was praising God. That's what these people were doing. When God's name is praise, then God's reputation is character and his honor is what? It's lifted up high. Higher and higher so that other people find up can see God. God is glorious. God is good. God has done this in my life. God is this way from all of eternity. And the praise of Almighty God, all that He deserves becomes the focus of the congregation, right? Not us. Right? But God, because He is a being worthy of all praise. They lifted it up high. Unfortunately, so many churches it's lifting up themselves very high, their self-esteem, their needs, their man-centered this They're psychological that they get focused on that. That doesn't get anywhere. That doesn't go anywhere. It's to be God. God is to be lifted up. God is to be praised. The application is simple. We need a God-focused church. A God-focused church, not a man-focused church. God is the one who's faithful, kind, just, righteous, loving, merciful, sovereign. He's in control of every circumstance in our life. For those who trust in him, he's working out every single detail in our lives for good, so says Romans 8. 28. It's fabulous. What God is doing for us, how he helps us, is unbelievable. It's believable, but it's unbelievable. He's so wonderful. He's so gracious. He's so patient. He's in absolute control of everything. None of the evil in the world will ever escape his notice. It'll all come to a just punishment in due time. He will win in the end, he will reign, he will be seen visibly. We know that through faith. We need to what? Lift his name up. Now this is not just formal praise. I believe there was formal praise. We sang praises today. We sang praise songs. Hymns have praises in them where God's name is lifted up. But it was beyond that. It was informal. When you get together with people, do you Maybe you're like me, you don't sing too well. But do you see do you sing? Do you sing with other people that come together? Praise God. Or in your prayer time, do you remember to start out in your prayer time thinking what God has done for you? Who God is, what his attributes are, and start with praise. Beginning your prayer time with that. God is great, Lord. I have these things heavy on my heart, but I I want to stop and I want to acknowledge what you have done for me and for my family and for my children. Church. Praise him for those things. A word-driven church will always be God-focused. You know why? Because if you focus on this book, there's only one hero in this book. You know who it is? It wasn't David or Daniel. It wasn't Abraham. It wasn't Noah. There's only one hero in this book. It's God Almighty, right? And his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. They go together. One hero. Everyone else is a loser. Everyone else in there is a loser. The only way they become a winner is to be connected to Christ. Christ won. He defeated death. We become winners only because we're connected to him. Everyone else on earth is a loser. He is the hero. So we praise his name, not our own. When Pastor Bobby visited this church a couple years ago, he said hope at Hope Bible Church only one person is becoming famous. God. I don't know if you remember that or not. That's what this is about. Praising God. Praising God. Formally, informally. Even before unbelievers, you get credit for something. Thank you. Not good enough. Oh yes, shucks. Thanks. Who gets the glory for that? Who gets the honor for a simple thank you? You do. You just absorbed all the honor for yourself. I'm not saying it's wrong to say thank you. You should say thank you. Let them see your good works in heaven and glorify who? Yeah. Not your mother who wait and raised you well. Right? Not your father who disciplined you hard. Glorify your father who is in heaven. See your good works. Glorify your Father who is in heaven. Pretty simple, right? It shouldn't be trite. Praise the Lord. Again. I know you see that in me. Don't say it like that. Say it like Well thank you. You know, God's had to do a lot of things in my life to get me to be that kind of a patient person. Because I'm not really naturally that way. God is God is so wonderful. Can I tell you about him? Give him the glory. Don't make it trite before unbelievers. Let them know who gets the glory in your life. Praise him. I'm sure they were doing that. Alright. The tenth description is they were distinguished in the community. Distinguished in the community, the unsaved community, that is. In verse 47, it says they were having favor with all the people. Now that all the people is the term Laos and it is a reference to those people outside of the church. All the people. Of course they had favor with one another. They liked each other. They got along. They have favor with all the people of of where? Of the city that they're in. This is still in Jerusalem. All the people of Jerusalem. They were the outsiders, so to say. They were on the inside, but as the outsiders looked on the inside They had favor with them. That's an amazing statement, isn't it? Now we know sometimes professing Christians find favor with unbelievers and outsiders, and that's not a good thing. They're liked by those on the outside because they really are liked those on the outside. They've become worldly and conform to worldly goals. Jesus warned of this in Luke 6. 26. He said, Woe to you when all men speak well of you, for their fathers used to treat the false prophets in the same way. False prophets come, and I always get concerned when there's some preacher on TV that all of the unsaved world likes. Maybe that's possible, but usually that's the indication Jesus said of a false prophet. They like him, they like what he says, he's gentle, he's nice, he's positive. And they like that And the undiscerning Christians are like, see, we're we're having a good witness. Everyone's liking us. No, they're liking you because you're saying the same things they say You're not confronting them with their sin. You're not telling them there's a judgment of God, that God has rejected them, that their religious deeds are not good at all. There's only one way to God. It's through his son. That's not our doctrine. Those are God's words. We won't be liked like that You take a stand for righteousness in your workplace. I will not participate in that. That's wrong. That's lying I cannot do that. You instantly shine a light on everyone else who either is lying or has no standards of integrity at all. You have become a problem. They may admire you for a while, but when you're in their way, now you're a problem. You won't have their favor anymore. But at this stage they did. They had the favor of the people. Now, don't think it's going to stay like this for this church. Again, we're reading history, and over time, as you just read the rest of Acts, you see that they fell into the most severe kind of persecution. Stephen was stoned to death. The rest of them were scattered throughout all of Judea and Samaria, and that scattering caused the church to spread. God used that persecution in a good way. But at this stage he was giving them this very wonderful time. Where the people didn't really understand all the implications of what was being told to them. This city was being given about forty years to repent following The crucifixion of their Messiah, 40 years of a God who was holding out his arms to them and his hands to them and saying, Repent, I'm being patient with you. An entire generation was being given 40 years to repent. And when they didn't, God used the Roman army to come in and absolutely devastate that entire city. But before that, they began to understand these Christians want us to be like them. And persecution broke out pretty soon after that Well, the Life Application Commissary sums it up this way. Unfortunately, such favor does not always last for long. For those who admire the life of Christians soon come to realize the implications of their message. They realize they are being challenged to make a decision about adopting Christianity and rejecting their own cherished religion. Vested interests of some powerful groups become jeopardized. Thus admiration is replaced by fear and opposition. And that's what happened today. But how can we apply all of this? Well, I would say, first of all, that we need to know, number one, that godly living is the best way to have an attractive church. Yes, we'll get persecuted by living godly. We're told that all who desire to live godly in Christ Jesus, 2 Timothy says what? We'll be Persecuted. It's going to happen. But godly living is the only way to have an attractive church. If we're going to attract folks to the Christian faith, we have to be living like Christ, right? That's what committed Christianity is. Now, unfortunately, sometimes churches like ours, which are strong in Bible teaching and really teach discernment about doctrines, forget they can't just hear the word and sit back. and listen and sort of uh build up their intellectual understanding and then just become hyper-critical kind of people. Everyone who comes in, oh that's bad doctor. Oh that's that's bad doc. Oh you read that book? That's a bad book And we just start to become hyper-critical people about everything. Because our discernment is being developed, that's good. Our understanding of the word is being sharpened, that's very good. But if we're not putting it into practice, we start to become sour. We start to become spiritual policemen of everybody else, rather than putting into practice what we're learning and being winsome and attractive and loving and patient and kind with all of the people who are in a position that you used to be in too, right? I mean you don't want to know what my theology was when I started out. It was bad And people were patient with me. I'm sure they shook their head behind my back, oh my, what is that guy talking about? But they were patient with me, people were patient with you, so we ought to be with others as well, right? We don't want to be hypercritical, hard to get along with, always feel we have to expose every little weakness of another person Complainers, judges of others, rather lovers of people, that's not attractive, that's petty, and that's proud We have to live Christianity with one another, be engaged with people. You can't be on your own little island, folks. Please get that from this series. You have to be willing to be taught and to change things, even if you're older. You have to learn new tricks. You have to learn how to grow. You need to learn what you need to change. Even if you've been in a church for 20 years, you still need to be willing to change and grow and be adapted so we can become this kind of a community. I think also number two, another use from this is that we need to be, we need to be aware that there are some people out in the world there who are looking for a group of human beings somewhere on this planet that are at least something like what we're reading about in Acts chapter two. I mean they're tired of the phoniness out in the world. They know the game out there They've seen it. God's begun to give them insight. And they look at it. They don't want anything else to do with it. They want to see people who are genuine. They want to see people who are committed. They want to see people who love Christ. Or if they don't understand loving Christ, at least love one another. And come in the midst of that and go, it's true. Look at these people. They can't argue with that. That's going to attract them. They want to see that And we need to think about its value to those kinds of people. Here's another use for us as well. Maybe this is really important right now. We need to do our very, very best, people, to cooperate with our authorities. with people that we have relationship with in the world and people who have authority over as we're in the school, Fulton Elementary School, we need to take very good care of it. We're here, it's a has a it's a borrowed place for us. We need to take excellent care of it. And that way we earn a good reputation with people who are looking for any kind of an excuse to bring against us. We want to be beyond excuse, blameless. When we get a landlord for a full-time facility, the same situation is going to be there. And then use number four, for all of you out in the business world or out there in public working, No matter who you are, please remember, if you attend this church regularly, you represent this church. They don't know whether you're a member, regular attender, or what. They don't understand status, whether you're baptized or not. If you're here and you're here regularly You represent whole Bible church to people that are out there. What you do out there reflects on who we are in here. That's why we have to discipline not just our members, but even attenders. You come in here and you have a sinful relationship out there, bad business practices, your your your your tongue is harsh to people, constantly cutting them down. You have sins that you will not repent of. If we allow that to go on with you and you attend here, then that reflects on who? On us. And if it reflects on us, who else does it reflect on? Jesus. So don't ask me to ignore that. I won't ignore it. I can't ignore it. It's my duty not to ignore your situation out there. Some of you are in tough situations. There's pressure put on you from the company. You need to do this, you need to do that, you need to speak this way before certain people, and you you you don't want to do that, but you begin to compromise. You need to stop the compromise You need to take a stand for Christ. Because you represent the church. You represent our reputation to the world. You represent then also the Lord Jesus Christ to them. Particularly if you have openly said that you're a Christian. I think that's very important. Alright, let's move on to our last description. And this one maybe is most exciting of all of them. It's neat to see the progress from the teaching of the Word all the way to verse 47. Look at that last phrase. Isn't this neat? And the Lord was adding to their number, day by day, those who were being saved. Wow. Day by day. You can't miss that And the verb adding is in an imperfect tense. It just goes along with that. It indicates this continual stream. It's a past tense verb, but it talks about something that was continued, ongoing in the past. Sinners, day by day, we're repenting and being added. Added to what? Added to the church. Added to the church Well, I think this tells us some things. First of all, that initial burst of evangelism that the Apostle Peter gave the church on the day of Pentecost, empowered by the Spirit of God, where he preached and three thousand souls came to Christ, that was not the pattern for the church. That was a tremendous exception. He preached 3,000 people repented on the same day. Man. So we think, how come 3,000 aren't repenting every day? We'd be like Peter. We'd have Pentecost power. Listen, 3,000 weren't converted every day, but there were some being converted day by day. The norm was not big events, public preaching of the gospel. That was an exception. The norm was what went on day by day with the witnessing that was happening in people's homes. and that the temple where they got into conversations with people, the community in action out there talking to other people, identifying with Christ As they talked with one another, as they shared, their unbelievers listening in, wanting to know what's going on, and they were winsome and they were attractive, and others were repenting, and and day by day they were repenting and they were coming into the church. It was like that. That's what it says. That's what was happening I mean, of all of the descriptions, this one maybe is the most exciting for those of you who love to witness and love to share your faith. And I think it also shows us that with all of these descriptions in verses 42 to 47, they all come about Because we have the preaching of the word and a dynamic community, and from that results tremendous ministry, people getting saved. Yeah, the preaching was powerful. The preaching was true. It says in Acts chapter 5 and verse 42, the apostles were constantly testifying to the truth. Let me read that for you. The apostles kept preaching and teaching Jesus in the temple and house to house. They didn't preach on the street corner. They found those things that were socially acceptable in Jerusalem. They preached the word of God where it was expected for it to be preached in the temple and house to house, where you're allowed to do whatever you want in your house. That's always true, or usually true. And so they preached the word and taught the word and got the doctrine out there and people were listening and inviting. And come on over here and listen to this and come over to our house for the meal tonight And listen to this because uh Philip uh the apostle is gonna be big, he's gonna be there, he's gonna be talking in our home tonight. He's gonna be telling us about the resurrection again. And they were sharing, and people were listening in. And they were getting saved. The salvation obviously is spiritual salvation here. They were getting added, they were getting saved because they had what? They had faith in Jesus Christ. How do you get saved? And what are you saved from? They are being saved from the wrath of God. God's anger is against this world because of sin. God is opposed to this world. God is not in favor with the human race. Why do you think we're dying? Right? If God, the creator, the giver of life, was in favor of mankind, we wouldn't be dying. We'd be living on and on. He put all of us to death. He's killing all of us off one by one. He's rejected us. There's a wrath, a greater wrath coming beyond that. That's just the death of the body. Then comes eternal pain and shame and rejection and blackness and darkness and the fires of eternal hell called Gehenna in the scripture. And these people were hearing about that. Oh, that's why the Messiah had to bleed and die on the cross. That's why he had to be rejected, and darkness came over the land that day. And they remember that sign and they saw that and they were repenting. The judgment of God is coming. The judgment of God is coming. It's marching towards us, even if we're not in the last Days, who knows, with all this stuff going on in Israel. I'm not saying we are, but you never know. Even if we're not in the last days, we don't have that long to live ourselves. And so they were repenting and they were getting saved from God's wrath. It's a good thing to be saved from. You know, you can be saved today. Any of you could be saved today. It's so simple. You're not saved because you go to church. You're not saved because you partake in the sacraments. You're not saved because you're better than the person next to you. You're saved because you say no to yourself and yes to Christ. That's it. Not me, but Christ. I'm a sinner. I'm lost. I'm unacceptable to God. God, your wrath will fall on me. I know it. I deserve it. Please, please, Almighty God, have mercy on me through your Son Jesus. That's it. You say that prayer, you believe that in your heart, Jesus was raised from the dead, God saved you right where you are. Simple faith saves a person. They were listening in this house, listening in the temple, listening there, listening, and they were believing and they were being added instantly to the church. They became Christians on the spot. They were born-again Bible-believing Christians right there. Even though the New Testament wasn't even written, they were Bible-believing. They were listening to the doctrine of the apostles. They were Bible-believing. They instantly started following Christ. They were saved. It's that simple. When we think about our own outreach ministries, when we think about application of this, I had a hard time whittling it down. I really did. You know, God's sovereignty and salvation is another very important lesson to learn here. Notice it doesn't say they were adding to their number day by day, those who were being saved. Right? Who was adding? Now, sometimes people want to know where in the Bible does it say that God elects people to salvation? Well it says in many places, but here, without saying it, it says it. The Lord. Who's the Lord? Jesus. This is the title that he just got in Acts 2. Peter stood before them. In Acts chapter 2, I think it's verse 36. He said, Let all the house of Israel know for certain that God has made Jesus both Lord and Christ. Kurios and Christos, Lord and Christ, Lord is master. God in human flesh, master. So the Lord, Jesus, was adding to his church, you see it? Day by day, those who were being saved. The Lord Jesus, the Lord Jesus, who was the one who was just yelled at and scourged and rejected in that very city of Jerusalem. In weakness, told to carry his own cross outside the city gates. Be lifted up naked before his people, mocked as the king of the Jews, nails driven through him, mocked by all the religious leaders. Save yourself if you're the Messiah. Come down from the cross. We'll believe in you. That same Jesus now, omnipotent in power, sitting at the right hand of God the Father Almighty. Could squash all of them in an instant for what they did. And in love, he's waiting 40 years, preaching the gospel to that city. Come, be saved And he actually was electing some of them, choosing that one, and that one, and that one, granting them even the power to believe and to repent and to come out of their own evil devices and to receive eternal life Because on their own they wouldn't want it. No sinner ever wants God. They love their sin too much. God has to even grant them the desire to come towards God. The Lord, in his sovereign grace, his sovereign bestowal of grace, the Lord Jesus was adding to his church day by day from among these scoundrels, these apostates, these rejectors of the Messiah, and bringing them into his kingdom. Amazing grace. Amazing grace. But continued love of the Lord Jesus Christ. 2 Timothy 2. 25 says, if perhaps God may grant them repentance. When you pray for an enemy, you pray for a lost person. If perhaps God may grant them repentance. He doesn't have to grant repentance to anybody. He doesn't have to save anybody. He doesn't have to bring anybody to heaven. He's under no obligation to save anybody, much less these people. And yet he was granting it. If you were a believer in Jesus Christ, you know what happened to you? You weren't smarter than people around you. You weren't more spiritual than them You didn't have a buddy-buddy relationship with God. You were an enemy, and God decided to grant to you repentance. Man, that is a privilege. That is a tremendous privilege. Ephesians 2 8 9 For by grace you've been saved through faith, and that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not as a result of works, so that no one should boast. John 6. 65, no one can come to me, Jesus said. No one can come to me unless it has been granted him from the Father. God is absolutely sovereign in the bestowal of his salvation. Nevertheless, God still uses the efforts of his church to win people. It was still in the context of the apostles' preaching The power of God and the salvation, the gospel. Romans 116. It was still in the context of this loving and giving and vibrant and holy and dynamic body of believers in their midst that they had to look at almost daily. See them in the streets, hear their praises in the temple. And it got to a lot of them. And God used that in salvation. Isn't that amazing? His sovereignty. And there's man witnessing and evangelizing. Doesn't matter that he's sovereign in salvation. They still were getting the word out. Sometimes God is sovereign and he bestows salvation. Why should we witness? I turn the whole question around. The only way anyone is ever going to get saved is not by listening to you or me. We can't save anybody. We can't make anybody believe. I often tell people, I have an impossible job. I gotta stand up here and teach you to believe, and I can't make one of you believe. I can't do that. At least the guy who built bricks, he could put one brick on top of another, and somehow it works, right? And he could put that there and when he's done, he can say, Look what I built. I can't do any of this. God has to grant faith, God has to grant repentance, God has to grant eyes to see. And if you see, you see, because he granted it to you. And he uses our efforts. Amazing. I know that I, when I go out to evangelize someone, if it was me going out to evangelize them, This was a doomed process from the beginning. It was DOA. Dead on arrival, the gospel. I had no chance. But if I know God has elected some people and he grants them, and I have no idea who they are And I look at the first person, he don't look like he's interested at all. Listen, that was me the very day I got saved. I didn't look like I was interested in God at all. What about you? You can't come with a little thing over the forehead. This is one of the elected ones. You witness to everybody. That person doesn't really look like. Nobody looks like. There's nothing to look like. Someone is arguing against Christianity hard today. Cussing at God will repent tomorrow. Some of the nicest people in the world who come and they're in church and they want to get involved. They have no heart ever for God. You don't know who. You just you just witness. By the way, one of the applications from here is that we ought not to be scared of church growth. This was a mega church. It was growing day by day. Wasn't a small little family church, us four no more. We have enough people in here. Did you feel how hot it was there on Sunday? Shh, we can't have any more people there. They didn't think like that. If God's sovereign and salvation, we'll do everything we can to get the word out. And if he leaves us small, he leaves us small If he grows us medium, we grow medium. If we get large, we're large. If we're super large, we're super large. It's not our decision. Did Alan and I pay any of you all to come to this church? God has to persuade you, your heart. He has to work in your life. And God will do that for others. We need to make ourselves available for Him. I want you to mark this down. As one of the uses of this. Just this one sentence. A dynamic church in action validates the truth of the gospel. The dynamic church in action validates the truth of the gospel. Do you ever wish that you could see the resurrected body of Jesus Did you ever wish you could go down to the tomb and make sure it really was empty? And to look in there and see the grave clothes like Peter and John did? It's not God's will that you do, or anyone does. He didn't leave the body of Christ on earth for us to touch and feel the nail marks. He left another body of Christ on earth. You know who that is? You and me. And you know what? People can come up to us and touch us. Are those people for real? Wow. They can't argue with what's before them. You're giving to you, and you are helping you, and you are rejoicing with you And you were over at so-and-so's house helping them with that problem, and you gave so-and-so a ride, and you, and they look at it, you can't argue with that. There's the body of Christ. It's an apologetic It is a defense of the faith. That's God's strategy. I'm not against the evidences. We need the evidences. The Christian faith is intellectually sound. It's historically accurate. The Bible is true. But this is what people look at. We becoming what we need to become is not just for us. It's for them as well. The whole in the New Testament commentary says: what happens to believers who worship, work, and witness for their Lord? The Lord grows the church. Let's not miss the order. First godly relationships with each other, then growth. MacArthur says, so unified, joyful, and spirit-filled were they that their very existence was a powerful testimony to the truth of the gospel. True evangelism flows from the life of a healthy church. The proper devotion to the duties of the Spirit produces the proper character, which in turn produces a powerful and saving impact. on sinner. And he also believes in the sovereignty of God and salvation. What can we do to improve evangelism here? I'm I have so many ideas. I don't have time. I ran out of time five minutes ago. I I have like I have like a dozen uses here and I'm gonna have to just give them another time. But here's one. What can we do to improve evangelism here? Here it is. Ready? It's the most profound You complicated system of evangelism ever invented any church. Here it is, you ready? Love one another. You want to improve evangelism here? Love one another. People will see it. We're working at one another's homes on work days. Over at the Bagley, Yolanda moved in also over there. People working at people see that. Look at that. A couple of girls were sitting on the front step there the other day right in front of Isaac's house. We got to talk to him briefly and they probably saw a lot of a lot of these people bringing things in. What's up with You know there's a Mormon family living in their home before that. But now they're seeing Christians, real Christians, in action. And that's a testimony to you, then that's a testimony to the church. That's a testimony to Christ that wins people's lives. The intellectual things that people deal with, most of them haven't read one thing at all about their intellectual problems. They don't have an intellectual problem. They love their sin. But when they see other people that don't love their sin, they love one another and love God, man, man. One last thing I gotta say. This man up here was born again primarily for two reasons, besides God's sovereign grace, which is the main reason. I had a mother who was praying for me constantly and interceding for me. And and I saw a guy on the college campus and I looked at him. He was an African-American man. And I looked at him and I Got to be friends with him and just looking at his life I thought, man, that is so different for me. He's so different from all the friends that I know. And it's better. And then a little bit of the fear of God came into my heart concerning judgment, and presto. Here I am. A repentance sinner. Is that true of you? Are you a repentant sinner? You can say. Give up your life. Quit holding on to whatever you are. Call on Christ to save you. He'll save you right where you are. That's the promise of God. In the scripture, let's close in prayer. Would you stand for the closing prayer? Almighty God, we ask for your blessing and your help, particularly in understanding the truths of this dear congregation. There's so much more we could have talked about from it, O Lord. And we never are able to mind the depths of your word, but we pray that this treatment of your word would give us a greater desire to study it and a greater desire to imitate what we are to imitate. Help us, Lord, to love one another, to praise your name, to have a good reputation, to be a joyful and delightful church. And Lord, by your sovereignty we ask, please add to our church, Lord, and grow and help us either to transfer growth. Some people come here and think they're saved and they're not. Save them. Others who've never been to church, Lord, give us an opportunity to give the gospel to them also. We pray this all in Christ's blessed name. Amen.