Last week um I had several people uh either stop me after class or I heard them in the halls or however the case would be, uh there were a number of people Um that said something to the effect that um my lesson was discouraging to them last week And I get why. I'm not even uh saying that it shouldn't have been, but I'd like to go back and touch on that for just a moment. And I'm actually going to spend more of the class, almost the whole first page, on that discussion. And it's interesting because in doing it, this wasn't necessarily linked all strategically when I came up with it But in working on kind of a review of last week in response to those people that said that they were discouraged I stumbled on Galatians 6, and it turns out it's it's a perfect introduction to what I did want to talk about, which is self-deception and fellowship. And those I know seem like strange fellows to be in the same lesson, uh, but they are heavily related, and I hope to demonstrate that to you. And then leave you with somewhat of an ultimate challenge. Uh so hopefully I don't discourage you again today, but if I do, I hope it's only for uh your good. So anyway, uh simply put, don't be discouraged. Uh discouragement, deceit, despair, uh disorganization, disunity, all those D words uh are only the tool of the evil one. The Lord punishes, the Lord gives pain and trials. Uh the Lord gives tribulation. Uh but there is no grammar in the scriptures that use all those D words as as a tool of anyone except for the evil one, the great discourager. God breaks. And if we take Psalm fifty-one as an example, he restores so that the joy we can have can be overflowing. And he gives us grace our word and strength in the midst of our trials. So as I understand it, the general tone of the discouragement stem from Amos five eighteen, woe to you who desire the day of Yahweh. Why would you have the day of Yahweh? It is darkness and not light. And that's What Amos is saying to people that are calling for the final day of the Lord, but they are not living in the righteousness that is demanded So that when the Lord comes they will see only darkness. The passage goes on and says, You seek for a lion, but what you will find is a bear. In other words, that which will mangle you when it finally when you finally find it. But you have to read the whole passage. And that's what I have in that next one, right? Discouragement is not a device of our King and Lord. Amos 5, 14 and 15 say, Seek good and not evil, that you may live. And so Yahweh, the God of hosts, will be with you. And notice this, I circled it on my own copy of the notes here. As you have said. In other words, he's saying you presumptuously want to enter the day of the Lord with all of your unrighteousness all over you. You don't want to change. You don't want to be conform to the image of Christ, you want Christ, you want the value of Christ, you want the treasure that is in Christ, you want the benefit of it for yourself. The only throne you're bowing down at is the throne that has you on it Mm-hmm. And and then you tell everybody, oh, oh no, we're God's people. We're we're God's people. We're God's people. And somewhat sarcastically here, Amos is saying, if you seek good and not evil that you may live. And so Yahweh, the God of hosts, will be with you, even as you had said previously. Hate evil and love good. And establish justice in the gate, and it may be that Yahweh, the God of hosts, will be gracious to the remnant of Joseph. There's no room for discouragement. Every part of the scriptures, the most severe passages, and this is a fairly severe passage, the most severe passages are intended to turn you From the idolatry of self and singularly focus you on the Lord that you may be saved But it requires right action, right response. It requires transformation. But let justice roll down like waters and righteousness like an ever flowing stream stream. Notice the abundant imagery there. Justice rolled down like waters and righteousness like an ever-flowing stream. That's what the Lord wants from our lives. I I don't care if you're a good person or a bad person. Um I don't care how often you do good things or how often you do bad things. Let me ask you this. Are you mediocre? Are you moderate Are you temperate? Are you mundane? If you were to characterize yourself in what you do, and obviously I'm most interested in what you do with God, right? But if you were to characterize yourself, are you passionate about what you do? And then once you answer that question, are you passionate about what you say you are? Does it mean something to you to identify yourself. And then when you identify yourself in Christ, does that mean something? Is it an abundance in your life that flows like living streams. Is that the impact you have on the world around you? That was the impact that Christ had on the world. It's the impact his disciples had on this world. It's the evidence that we're or the witness that we're given in the early church when People were saved, their lives were so transformed that they became radical in their valuation of God And it would it would have been appropriate to characterize their lives as justice rolling down like waters and righteousness like an ever flowing stream. The confidence we have in Christ is a life spending for the glory of the Lord. Do you understand that reference? A a life lived without great expense for the glory of the Lord is not what we're talking about here. I wonder sometimes and I I by the way, I don't think anybody that mentioned being discouraged last week, I this next statement doesn't apply to any of those people. Like I'm picturing their faces. It does not apply to them. So please don't be insulted with the next statement. But I wonder how much of our discouragement when we come to God's Word and hard passages like this really come from the same demeanor demeanor that that rich young Buller had. Go and sell all that you have and follow me. And he went away sad. He went away discouraged. And the implication is you would not part from it. You would not part from it. That's never in Christ. Lay down the worthless. Lay down the greed of your life, the the self-comfort and the idolatry, and start spending. If you cannot get into your mind at by the time we get through this whole lesson, this idea of being spent For the glory of the Lord, then you will never know what Christian fellowship is. And I may step on some toes here. I'm not sure I'm upset about it. Hopefully I make it back to my car. I know that we don't know how to spend ourselves in a God-honoring way in fellowship. You know why? We take vacations from our opportunities for fellowship with each other. We take long breaks in our fellowship. And we do useful things and necessary things and good things, but we don't offend on fellowship. And yes, fellowship is the single thing that God says, other than the vertical relationship we have with Him, it's the single thing we do in a horizontal plane on the earth as it were as it were, that we do that is the evidence that we are in him. You spend on fellowship. You spend your time, your energy, your comfort, your money, your pride. You spend on fellowship, and that's how you know that you are in Christ. Psalm one eleven does a good job Talking about spending for the glory of the Lord. But we talked about it last week. I'm not going to go over it again. Second Timothy one, six and seven. Regarding sincere faith. For this reason I remind you to fan into flame the gift of God. For God gave us a spirit, not of fear, but of power and love and self-control. And if you will, circle love and maybe write a footnote, fellowship. Not of fear, not of holding on, not I I don't want to be exhausted, I don't want to be too busy, I don't want to lose time, I don't wanna uh get distracted, I don't wanna whatever it is. Spend on each other. I'm not asking you to do anything that would be ungodly, and if appropriate bounds need to be put on that for the sake of your health or your mind or your heart or your family or your church or Something else, right? If appropriate bounds need to be set on it, the Lord will speak that in. You know why? Because you should be in fellowship with other believers. And some other believer will come alongside you and put their hand on your shoulder and say, Let me serve you You slow down. You take a break. We have this idea that if we go too crazy for the glory of the Lord, it'll get weird. Well it might get weird, but it won't. It will look like streams flowing. From God through you to his people. Galatians six, three through ten, but excerpted. For if anyone thinks he is something when he is nothing, he deceives himself. And there we we introduce this idea of self-deception. Anyone thinks he is something when he is nothing, he deceives himself by let each one test his own work. Notice the imperative there. This is Paul in Galatians, right? This is a prophet of grace. He actually is that, but I'm saying it sarcastically because so many people just use that as like, I don't have to do anything because Paul said it was all of grace. Well, here's the prophet of grace saying, You do these things. Test your own work. Do not be deceived. God is not mocked, right? Amos You say you're in God, you ask for the day of coming, but God is not mocked, and when he comes, he's going to ravis you because of your sins. Same message here in Paul. Uh Galatians, sorry Do not be deceived. God is not mocked, for whatsoever one sows, that will he also reap. For the one who sows to his own flesh, notice this, you sow it. Now That precious seed comes from Christ. Don't ever forget all the other lessons I taught you. But for now, I'm focusing on the imperative of your work. Whatever one sows, that will he also reap. For the one who sows to his own flesh will from the flesh reap corruption. But the one who sows, can I say spend there? D'y get the analogy? The one who spends on his own flesh will reap corruption, but the one who spends himself for the glory of the Lord in the service of others Specifically within the house of God, by the way. We'll touch on that passage here in a minute. Well from the Spirit reap eternal life. And here it is again. Don't grow weary. Of doing good. Some of these same themes that was in Enos, right? Let us not grow weary of doing good, for in due season we will reap if we do not give up. So then as we have opportunity, let us do good to everyone, and here it is, and especially to those who are of the household of faith. And that's where fellowship comes in. So we have self-deceit and fellowship. You say, well how is that not discouraging, Scott? It's not discouraging because God doesn't just tell us what we did wrong. He says this is what's wrong. And let me show you this better image in just a second. Let me show you the set of back. And I said price to positionally get you turned around and restored to where you can be in regulationship too. with me so that I can give you the gift of the Holy Spirit. I don't I don't I don't want to get too weird here, but if there was a way to describe the power of God It this isn't gonna work. I know it's not, but I'm gonna do it anyway now that I started. So I'll apologize up front. When I picture God in in creation, I just picture words I I I don't exactly know how to say that. It's just voice. It's not that he's ethereal or he's not something else, but there's this potent voice and from it this power goes out. Creation habits from from his word. It would not abuse our systematic theology books at all to describe the Spirit as that power. And that's what he gives us. Puts it in us so that we can spend abundantly. For the glory of the Lord. I am willing to guess that for most of us in the room, you have no idea how much you could spend for the glory of the Lord. of the Lord. Because all of our lives we've been taught to keep it in a box, keep it moderated, keep it balanced, keep it and I'm not against those things. Yeah, I I brush my hair, I'm not hippie, like you know. I'm a pretty structured guy. I like to keep it in the box. I describe myself as the world's greatest crude, right? I I have a box well defined. I stay in it, but I think you know what I mean I'll tell you why I love the Lord's Prayer in Luke 11. And it's specifically with regard to discouragement. Um on hm Looks like July twenty eighth, third? I don't know. Maybe twenty-third. On july twenty-third of last year, I studied this with um our small group. And I have loved it ever since. And I'll tell you why, because I often get discouraged while I'm studying, as I realize how badly I'm doing at the very thing That I'm learning and valuing most about the Scriptures. And the Lord's Prayer is an absolute response to that discouragement. And I just want to walk you through it real quick. Father Just like we've been learning that Ahava love, in the context of the teaching over the last couple of weeks, Revelation 19, 20, 21, 22 really needs to be read as a package. I uh not not No criticism about what you just said. That's a wonderful reminder of how it will actually turn out in the end. Right? Amos was alluding to something that we then get revelation of in revelation. But you really need to put that part of Revelation Together. And it's wonderful. I I'm forgetting exactly what the reference is in the twenties there someplace. But it talks about the robes of righteous works that are granted for the saints to adorn themselves with Did you notice that? The robes of righteous works that the saints are granted to adorn themselves with, meaning their works through the Spirit. In obedience to God, and when we are robed like that, the event that Bob describes is joy But I'll tell you what we know when we get there. We know that we are have either spent or are in the process of spending ourselves in justice and righteousness for the glory of the Lord. When the Streams of living water fill you and flow out of you into others. You are assured. And there's there's actually some passages about You can know that you are in God when the river of living water enters you and then flows out of you into others. And then at the coming of Christ, there is only rejoicing. The weariness and the spending in the midst of a broken world are done. And it's it's all good. It's all reward Great reminder, Bob. Thank you. Father, the one who loves us. This is how it starts. It's a shorter passage than the one that is in Matthew. The one who entered into a persistent covenant with us, the one who willfully remains in that covenant despite our sins. Right, I'm thinking about all those words in our diagram. Uh uh Ahava, Bari, uh Hesed, uh I'm missing something here, right? But you know, all those words, when we say father And uh uh just as a side note, right, that language of calling God our personal father doesn't even occur in the Old Testament. He was a father of the nation, but not until the intertestamental period is there any Jewish writing at all. And and actually it it's it's more like Arabic writing Uh so it's unclear to me what the original sources were. But it's not until that intertestamental period that you see any allusion at all to God the Father as our personal father. But here is totally that. The word is father, pater, right? It's a personal father, my father. And by the way, this is one of the few times in the scriptures that the disciples asked an overt question of Christ regarding his teaching. And there's more here, but it's not my source of my lesson today. There's so much more here to read through in the context, right? But the disciples literally go to him and say, Jesus We already know how to pray. Deuteronomy. Deuteronomy six. The Shema. But they realized there was something different. And they said, Teach us Scour the New Testament. It's one of the few times the disciples actually asked him about a specific teaching. Father, the one who loved me enough to enter into a covenant with me while I was still an enemy I'm the guy saying I want the Lord to come and I'm the guy living with a life filled with unrighteousness. And yet I can call him father because he told me I could. He told me about covenant and he told me about Heset and He told me about a king and he told me about an atonement and a redemption Hallowed be your name. Let me look at your works. You've got to go back to Psalm 111 to give an appreciation of hallowed be your name Study his works, study his words, see the faithfulness of them from beginning to end. God's love and God's covenant and God's tested and God's atonement and God's work as king and mediator. They're all the way through the scriptures They're persistent, they're faithful, they're testified to in different ways in different images and different times and different epochs and we say dispensations and uh they say covenants and but the message is there none the same. Nonetheless, is what I meant to say. But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts and be ready. It's the same as uh 1 Peter, right? Sanctify the Lord God in your hearts and be ready always to give an answer to every man that asks you or the reason of the hope that is in you. Notice that, right? Get a view of God in your heart such that when people see you, they're like, that's a hopeful guy. That guy lives in abundance. That guy spends as though he had an abundance. Hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come. And I don't want to read the whole quote to you, but I mean where God is reverenced, his kingdom comes. This wasn't a prayer for the future. As much as it was a prayer for today, to pray for the kingdom recognizes the work of Christ to bring the kingdom of God through his work in the Spirit. This is our current situation, and it is good. But The corruption of sin is still seen and felt in every area of life, and so we pray for the time when God's reign will be the central course of our lives, and that all that has been shattered by sin will be healed and It's not just oh God, I think you're a great God. You gotta get in. You wanna hollow his name. It's a work of study. It's a work that requires fingers and a Bible and maybe a pen. And then, Lord, I commit my my all that I am to you. I get off the throne of my life today, and I ask you to sit on that throne. That's what it means, kingdom come. So I see who you are, Father. Now shape me into the person that I should or must be. And that's those last few clauses there. Give us each day our daily bread, provide for us, and forgive us our sins Forgive us. You know why there's no room for discouragement in the life of the believer because this prayer is available to you at every moment of every day. What a wonderful thing. Forgive us, Lord. For we ourselves forget everyone who is indebted to us. Fellowship, not abstract, but costly spending without return. That's what fellowship looks like. And lead us not into temptation. In other words, deliver us. Shape me into the person that I should, I must be. Everything about the Lord's Prayer. re-establishes his authority as our king in our lives so that we can look forward to the final day with great hope and great courage. I hope that you will take The Lord's Prayer and write it someplace on a note card or someplace that you see it and work through it. Not casually or capriciously. Your kingdom comes. Lord, I've got a meeting at 930 with a grumpy bunch of people I I I don't actually, I'm just using this as an example. I mean, I actually do. I have a stand-up every every uh uh every day at nine thirty and they're all stin grumpy. But uh It's not the point. Whatever is in your life, can you put it before the throne and say, Lord, I want to get off the throne. of my life as it pertains to these things, you sit on it. And I know that my heart is inclined to worry and to fear and to dominate the situation and to do everything I can for myself and to hoard what I have, whether it's my time or my energy or whatever it is, my ego. D do you see how you can pray through this prayer so significantly each day with the circumstances of your life? Are you real with the Lord ever like that? Or is it all liturgies? Alright, self-deception. Psychologists consider self-deception as a ubiquitous phenomenon and view virtually all humans as constantly hiding the truth from themselves. That statement bothered me a little bit, it just seemed so universal, I was like, Well, what do you know? And the guy that wrote it wasn't a Christian, so I was like, mm-hmm. So I started studying And do you know self-deception has been a theme of man's thinking since almost the earliest recorded writings? It it was something that dominated the mind of Socrates, and for those of you that know, right? The philosophy of Socrates has set the world on a trajectory ever since then, either consistent with his philosophy or against his philosophy, but everybody frames it with reference to Socrates. And he wrote a lot on this topic. And until about a hundred years ago, this was a dominating theme in the study of the church. The church spent a ton of time. I was shocked. I found uh a a significant paper that I based a bunch of my study on for this, which I'm not really going to show you. Um but a significant paper. And as I got working through the bibliography, which was pages long, I was impressed with how much writing there is on this idea Specifically as it relates to the church and Christians of self-deception. But about a hundred years ago it kind of fell off the radar. And we don't talk about it so much And I think it's because we live in what's called an information age. I think we are so arrogant that we think because we have all this information flowing at us That we don't struggle against self-deception. Brothers and sisters, for as long as you walk this earth, you are going to struggle against the deceiver. Something else I've been impressed about in Luke, the number of occurrences of demonic influence And there's no place in the scriptures that I can find and say that's just gonna stop. Well, maybe I don't have a demon like the demoniac of uh is that right? That one. What she said. You know the one I'm talking about, the one that tried to bind him in chains and couldn't do it, and you know, at some point in time Christ comes and he's just like, sit down, let's light a fire and have a meal together. Right You you you are in a world where everything works to deceive you, except for God's word And God's Spirit and whatever He does in with those two things to redeem us. Why do we stop talking about self-deception? It used to be a practice that honorable people not Christians, just honorable people. If you wanted to be a virtuous citizen in a state, then you would practice disciplines that were intended to mitigate Or remediate self-deception. When's the last time you sat in a schoolroom where they taught you that? Now they just tell you to deceive yourself however you want. Oh, whatever you want, however you feel. Doesn't matter what you really are, you can be anything you want. No, you can't. Biblical grammar of self-deception, it shows up in a few different words. There's hypocrisy. Uh there actually is a few words for what I'm labeling self-deception here. There's double-mindedness and then there's a false self-assessment. So we're going to go over these quickly. I just want you to see that this idea is really all through the scriptures. Hypocrisy, you know, it's acting under a feigned part dissimulation, in other words, dishonesty, right? Acting in a way that's dishonest. Luke 12, 1. In the meantime, when so many thousands of the people had gathered together that they were trampling one another, he began to say to his disciples first, Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees. Which is hypocrisy. Notice this, you've got to get the picture in your head. Thousands of people are like, Lord, we want you, we want you, we want you. And there's so many, they're trampling on each other. And he turns to his disciples as though to Pass a commentary on these hordes of people trampling to get to him. He turns to his disciples and he says, Beware the leopard of the Pharisees Hypocrisy. And he begins a series of teachings that make it clear that most of the people in those thousands are not his disciples. That's the scene here in Luke 12. where this word hypocrisy comes up. We act the part, and as a matter of fact, the part that's being acted is a very religious act. It's a very religious part. It's a studiously religious part. But it's a hypocrisy. They have deceived themselves and they are deceiving others. First Peter 1 22 And then 2-1, having purified your souls by your obedience to the truth. By the way, I notice all that that should have been last week's lesson, right? Having purified your souls By your obedience to the truth, for a sincere brotherly love. There's that fellowship idea again. Love one another earnestly from a pure heart. So put away all malice and all deceit and hypocrisy and envy and all slander What do you need to put away so that you can operate in obedience to the truth with sincere brotherly love? And love one another earnestly, you need to put away self deception. And that's why the title of this is Fellowship, The Proof Against self-deception. You show me people that are not earnestly desiring fellowship, and I'm going to try to amplify that toward the end of the class here, but you show me a people that are not earnestly desiring fellowship And I don't just mean once a week in church, by the way. Neither do the scriptures. And I'll show you how people that are deceived. Self-deception. And then this word self-deception does occur in three uh different ways. One's diluted. Um it's it's eas well uh deluded to reckon wrong to cheat by false reckoning to deceive somebody by false reasoning right is to think about it and get it wrong. James 1 22 but be doers of the word and not Hearers only deceiving yourself. We've heard a number of good sermons and in this class we've talked so much about loving one another. And we we say we do it But I I don't actually know by which metric the way we love each other would be considered to be sufficient. Are there exceptions to that? Absolutely. And I am thinking of some people in the room that would get mad at me if I dimed them out about what a great testimony they are for loving others. And they've been a conviction to me for years. To stay in the race and keep spending for the glory of the Lord. If those people can do it, and it looks so wonderful when they do it, and I enjoy it so much when they do it to me, then I can do it for others. Colossians 2, 2, and 4, that their hearts may be encouraged, being knit together in love. Notice that idea of fellowship again there. That their hearts Yeah, I you just can't do it. You can't go through self deception in the scriptures and not keep bumping into fellowship. I don't have to tease it out. It's just there, everywhere. Um I didn't exactly intend that when I picked up all these passages. I was just working on self-deception and I we try to read around the verse I'm Picking so I don't get it wrong in the context, right? And it it was everywhere. Every one of the passages I went to. Don't be self-deceived, be in fellowship. That their hearts may be encouraged, being knit together in love, to reach all the riches of full assurance. Hear that? Not discouraged, but assured. Assurance of understanding and the knowledge of God's mystery, which is Christ. I say this in order that no one may delude you with plausible arguments. Anyone that says That you don't have to be knit together. Notice that word's pretty pretty big word. Knit together in love. And so prove your understanding and knowledge of God. Anybody that tells you that you don't have to do that? Those are plausible arguments, but the reckoning is wrong. Deceived, seduced, holy, beguiled, deceived. You see the one is a logical argument. This other one is more of a um What's the word I'm looking at an appetite type thing, right? To seduce somebody, to beguile them, to tempt their appetite in a direction This next word has more that that connotation. But I am afraid that as the serpent deceived Eve by his cunning, your thoughts will be led astray from a sincere and pure devotion to Christ. What is Paul talking about there? He's talking about self-deception, that you're deceived. It's all over the scriptures. This is just a sampling. One or two verses for each of these Greek words, but there were sections for each one. Like just trace the word through and it's verse after verse after verse after verse. To go astray, to deceive or err, seduce, wander, lead away from the truth, this word has more the sense of being unwise. I'm on a road and I I I unwisely take a wrong direction. Maybe I shouldn't have been on that road, maybe I shouldn't have been on that road at night. Whatever the what whatever the idea is there. This is is more that idea of Hebrews 3, 10 through 13. Therefore I was provoked with that generation and said, They always go astray in their hearts. That's that word Always go astray in their heart. They have not known my ways. As I swore in my wrath, they shall not enter my rest. Very similar to Amos, right? Take care, brothers, lest there be in any of you an evil, unbelieving heart, leading you to fall away from the living God, but exhort one another every day as long as it's called today. Well how do you do that if you're not with each other in fellowship every day? Some of you are already thinking in your head, how is that practical? We'll we'll worry about that in a minute. First I want to convince you That there is a biblical mandate for you to be in such close fellowship that it is daily. I just want to convince you that that is a biblical mandate first. And then we can worry about what practical ways We might be able to play that out in in the modern age that we live in. And I might have to get Doug in here and teach us on the busyness thing real quick, too, as a like a supplement to that lecture. Because busyness is killing us It's a shame. Well, it probably is. I haven't actually done the study yet, but I wonder if bibli bib uh excuse me is labeled a sin in the scriptures. I have to look that up. I don't know. Don't quote me on that. I don't know what it is. But exhort one another every day, as long as it is called today, that none of you may be hardened by the dis Seekfulness of sin, self deception again. And juxtaposed fellowship. Double mindedness Die too and sucos like psyche or soul or you know any of those other words, right? Two souls divided in loyalty, unstable. James 1, 6-8. But let him ask in faith with no doubting, for the one who doubts is like a wave of the sea that is driven and tossed by the wind For that person must not suppose that he will receive anything from the Lord. He is a double-minded man, unstable in all his ways. There it is, double-minded Self-deception. A false self-assessment. Um to think, to seem, to suppose. Galatians 6, 2 through 3 and 10. So popped up again. This is the second time it's popped up in our Study this morning to bear one another's burdens and so fulfill the law of Christ. For if anyone thinks he is something when he is nothing, he deceives himself. Right. There's two different words that we've we've picked up on here. Thinks is the one we're studying, disease is I think uh uh eight eighteen eighteen, the the second one down from the top. So then as we have opportunity, let us do good to everyone and especially to those who are of the household of faith Now uh simply put, there's a list of verses all that I went after just because I was looking for words that meant self-deception in the Greek. And did you notice how just about every one of them, if not every one of them, included fellowship? You want to know if you're self-deceived? Examine your fellowship. Examine your fellowship in light of the New Testament example that's given for it and I'm going to probably have to zoom forward to get there before the class does. But it's impressive, it's exhaustive, and it's cost Some of you are still, I can tell you're looking at me funny. You're thinking, what do you want us to do? I don't want you to do anything right yet, except for be convinced in a biblical mandate. I I don't know how to play it out I'm not doing it well. Or well enough. I had to put my own hands on the counter last night while I was working through this and writing up the notes and thinking about how I was going to challenge you and go, what a hypocrite, Scott. You're not doing it either. What are you going to do about it? I don't want to know yet. I was reading type of notes. I haven't had a chance to pivot and figure out how to do fellowship. I was reading the notes in the class. But I'll tell you what I am convinced. And I just want to convince you. Don't let an inability to figure out the next step be what prevents you from accepting a truth. I think that's a hand. So I'm I'm kind of struck by how much in these passages it's spring to mean developers. But I guess in my mind I'd often seen it as defellus as kind of like That once you have become someone in fellowship with you will then pull you back from it. Many of these passages it seems to be that by the in that fellowship divorce yourself, you are both being a guard to others, but you are also in a way being a guard to yourself by being I feel no need to decorate that profound statement with any other words. Thank you very much. Yeah, I mean you're a hundred percent, right? The Hebrews three passage even, but exhort one another every day as long as it is called today that none of you may be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin. Being in that fellowship is both a work and a means by which we stay in Christ. And he blesses every bit of it. Right? It's all from him. All from him when we just obey him. He'll give us the wisdom to know how to do it. He'll give us the strength. He'll provide what we need to spend to make it work. Um couple key texts. I'm gonna zoom fast because I do want to get to the uh it's a really short section uh on uh the fellowship piece. I just mostly gave you some verses to look up while you were at home. Uh but I do want to get to at least a a the uh a little bit of it. So uh moving quickly, we can and do deceive ourselves about ourselves. The heart is deceitful above all things. If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves. You see some scripture references there. We can and we do deceive ourselves about ourselves. Professing or professing Disbelievers can deceive themselves about their faith. Be doers of the word and not hearers only, deceiving yourselves. If anyone thinks he is religious but does not bridle his tongue, he deceives his heart. This person's religion is worthless. What a passage. I thought that one for sure this week. I really don't like it when people try to kill me with their cars Makes me angry. Um examine yourselves to see whether you are in the faith. Verbal confession without congruent life is a false Self-ascription. Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, but I will say to them, I never knew you. They profess to know God, but deny him by their works. Faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead Jesus explicitly targets role-playing religion. Hypocrisy. We read that passage earlier, right? This, you know, trampling on each other to get to me, this is uh not good. This is not this is not religion, real religion. This is the leaven of hypocrisy that the Pharisees have taught these people This people honors me with their lips, but their heart is far from me. Scripture diagnoses false self-evaluation within churches. You have the reputation. of being alive, but you are dead. You say I am rich not realizing you are rich. I'm gonna let you read the last part of that Fellowship, the mark of Christ Church, devoted to fellowship. Acts 2. 42 was just amazingly impressive to me. in some of the passages around it. And they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and the fellowship. I think we we always focus on that teaching. Well they devoted themselves to that teaching. Well they did. They did But they devoted themselves to the teaching and the fellowship, to the breaking of bread and the prayers. And so that in that sentence, when the uh the author wanted to amplify the previous Phrase, what what did they amplify? They amplified the fellowship that occurred with the teaching of the truth of God at its core Continually devoting themselves is the is the actual sense of that word. Technically only one word. They devoted themselves as only one word in the Greek. And it means they kept doing this. To adhere, right? Like adhesion. To adhere. To be steadfastly attentive to. To give unremitting care to a thing. I didn't make that up. I pulled that out of the dictionary. To give unremitting care to a thing. Or said in the context of some of our grammar from earlier in the lesson, to spend excessively on fellowship. Gotta look at the extended passage to get the whole thing. Verse 42, they are meeting constantly. All who believed were together and had all things in common All who believed were together constantly, and they had all things in common, selling their possessions and belongings and distributing the proceeds to all And any mm that's clearly busted. As any had need. Thank you. I'm sorry, people um as any had need. Day by day attending the temple together and breaking bread in their homes. Glad and generous heart, she said, It's not practical. Stop it. Just stop it. It doesn't matter whether it's practical. Are you convinced? Are you convinced that this is a biblical model and then from there you can Slowly try to figure out what the Lord would have you to do. What thing should I send first, Lord? Acceptable worship with reverence and awe. Notice that phrase. Acceptable worship with reverence and awe We always pull that passage out and then we talk about certain kinds of music or preaching or the way we dress in churches or the way women have to wear skirts and not pants or we always make it apply to something else. But the context of it is in the context of fellowship. Hebrews 12 28 through like 1318. But I'm only going to pull out a couple of the phrases here. Therefore let us be grateful for receiving a kingdom that cannot be shaken, and thus let us offer to God acceptable worship with reverence and all. For our God is the consuming fire. In other words, let us offer it, because we will be judged accordingly. Let brotherly love continue. Just the very next verse Let brotherly love continue. Do not neglect to show hospitality to strangers. Remember those who are in prison And those who are mistreated, let marriage be held in honor among all. Do not neglect to do good and to share what you have, for such sacrifices are pleasing to God. You say why did none of those had hospit or fellowship in them They all talked about acceptable worship with reverence and awe in the context of how we have fellowship with other people. How we have fellowship with our spouse, how we have fellowship with a prisoner, how we have fellowship with a stranger, how we have fellowship with a person that's in need So to amplify your point a little bit, Luke actually states that that's exactly what he's doing through the entirety of Luke and Acts. Inasmuch as many have undertaken to compile a narrative of the things that have been accomplished among us, just as those who on and on and on, right? It seemed good to me also, having followed all things closely for some time past, to write an orderly account for you most excellent Theophilus, that you may have certainty concerning the things that you have been taught. So those those are Luke's words about his own his own writing, which I think accord with what you said. Hebrews ten, twenty-four, and twenty-five, and let us consider how to stir up one another to love and good works, not neglecting to meet together, as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another. And all the more as you see the day drawing near. Now I'll tell you that we use this passage in our home all the time about going to church. Don't don't neglect to meet together. But in the larger context, that doesn't jive, right? It doesn't jive that once a week we get together for an hour in a classroom where we're not actually fellowshipping, I'm just abusing you with my mouth for an hour. And then when you get out, the service will be that much better because it won't be me, right? So you'll be like, great service. That's not fellowship. That is not what's being spoken about here, or at least Not in any way that does it just. I'll end with this little quote um that is from uh J. I. Packer's eighteen words regarding uh Fellowship is one of the words that he goes over. The first truth to grasp about Christian fellowship is that it is not an end in itself. Fellowship between Christians is for the sake of fellowship with God. And so if you remember our diagram, I had the king coming, I had the atonement justice and goodness. I do see you. I I'm not uh Justice and goodness, that's what he did for us to redeem us and restore us to the right relationship. But underneath of there, I've got what how we respond to it. And that response must fundamentally be a response of fellowship with God and His people and it must be costly fellowship. It's all of you given to God for the benefit of all the others. All of you given to God for all that He has done with you and for you and in you and is doing in you and will do in you, all of you, as a response to all that He is for you in the lives of others, or for the benefit of the lives of others. Now I still don't have it figured out for myself, so I'm not going to suggest how you can change your lives to be more in harmony with the Scriptures through more devoted fellowship. I like that word devoted. Continuously, costly, all that you are for all that he is. I can't at the moment teach a lesson on seven practical ways to do that. But if I have simply convinced you that we aren't doing it correctly, we have been self-deceived, and we have a long way to go to get there. But by God's grace, it will be wonderful the whole way as we pursue it. I've done what I intended to do today. There's so many more things we could talk about. It's uh God's word is rich. No matter how dig I how deep I dig, there's always more gold underneath that I haven't gotten to. We gotta we gotta stop. So let's pray.