Donald Trump has uh t sorry to go from that great singing to that topic. Has sure made a splash, big splash, in the news recently. Real estate mogul. For self-proclaimed love of country, turned straight talking presidential candidate, now even front runner to boot. Donald Trump is a prime example of a rich and powerful man. So is former President Bill Clinton. Who, along with his uh very powerful wife, have raised now into the hundreds of millions with connections around the world, vast influence in the United States of America. There are many people that don't want to cross these kind of powerful and influential people. Forbes magazine lists the richest men and women in America. I don't know if you've ever Googled that and Kind of look longingly at what they own. Usually near the top is Bill Gates or Warren Buffett, Larry Ellison of Silicon Valley. Mark Zuckerberg, a Facebook, you guys made them billionaires. The Koch brothers, members of the Walton family, i. e. Walmart. The world honors and looks up to such men, successful men, rich and powerful men. The world sees in these men the qualities to which they aspire. They dream of the privilege and prestige and lifestyle that comes with such success. Now the Church of Jesus is different. We're different. It has diametrically opposite priorities from the surrounding world. We're a society inside of a society. The church's faith leads it to value giving and serving quietly, without recognition, rather than getting. To value eternity, unseen things, investments we don't get to touch right now, rather than the temporal. To value Christ like humility, not braggadocio. Followers of Jesus know that Christ has promised All of his followers, each and every single one of his followers, a vast, imperishable wealth. No, we can't see it now or touch it. It's reserved in heaven, Peter said, right? It's where moth and rust can't destroy and thieves cannot break in and steal, Jesus said. But it's real and it will be seen one day. What do we do in the meantime? We wait patiently for it. We endure trial and disrespect upon earth. But what happens when the world's rich and powerful decide one day to come to church, to visit church? You know, that's an interesting thing, isn't it? The rich and powerful coming to church. Why would they want to do that? And how would the church respond? That's a better question. How would this church respond? Ah, now that's a that's a very interesting question. It's a good question. It's a question that the text we're coming to today forces us to ask. It's the scripture that confronts everybody in the congregation about the question of priorities. Are our priorities those of Jesus Christ or actually secretly the world's? It's great to get back to James today. James 2 verses 1 through 9. As we read this, I want you to remember what Jesus said. You can't serve God and what? Money. James chapter 2. I think from about four m four months now we've uh been apart from James. We come back chapter two verses one through nine. I'm going to read through verse nine. We're going to focus uh On verses 1 through 4 today. My brethren, do not hold your faith in our glorious Lord Jesus Christ with an attitude of personal favoritism For if a man comes into your assembly with a gold ring and dressed in fine clothes, and there also comes in a poor man in dirty clothes, and you pay a special attention to the one who's wearing the fine clothes and say You sit here in a good place, and you say to the poor man, you stand over there or sit down by my footstool. Have you not made distinctions among yourselves and become judges with evil motives? Listen, my beloved brethren, did not God choose the poor of this world to be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom which He promised to those who love Him? But you have dishonored the poor man. Is it not the rich who oppress you and personally drag you into court? Do they not blaspheme the fair name by which you have been called? If, however, you are fulfilling a royal law according to the scripture, you shall love your neighbor as yourself, you are doing well. But if you show partiality, you are committing sin, and are convicted By the law as transgressors. Really, verses 1 through 13 form A full unit of thought here in James's writing. This paragraph broaches the subject of favoritism. And it shows it to be not just rudeness but a sin. Actually, a violation of kingdom law We're going to focus on verses one through nine, the favoritism section. In verses ten through thirteen, it brings out the law portion of the text, and really verses eight and nine are overlap and a transition into that. You may remember my stating a while ago that the letter of James does not really fit a neat outline. As you're reading it, there are a lot of different commentators that have different outlines and they don't agree with one another. As much as they've studied James, that tells me there's not really a a very obvious outline to to the letter. But James, the brother of the Lord who is the author, does provide some word links from one subject, one section into the next. He'll have a theme or a word in it. Uses it just to link and connect as he rolls into the next section. This chapter 2 paragraph here picks up on some of the same themes that were mentioned back in the end of chapter 1. It's been a while, so you might want to glance back there and look at verses 19 through 27. of chapter one and remember what the Holy Spirit was teaching through James in that portion. It taught us back there not to be merely hearers of the word, but doers of the word. You remember that to practice what he called there the perfect law, the law of liberty. And of course he picks up on the theme of law here in chapter two To love those who are in need, even says that's what true and undefiled religion is like, to visit the orphans and the widows in their distress. And he he kind of brings up those who would be less privileged also here in chapter 2 He talks about keeping oneself unstained from the world, and then now he's bringing up what a worldly attitude of stain might look like in the congregation. And so these are themes and even some word links from one passage to the other. Here, James applies those thoughts to one scenario, and from that scenario teaches us about our hearts, and that is favoritism toward the rich You never really have to warn people in church about having favoritism towards the poor. You won't find that teaching in the Watch Out playing favorites with the poor. There actually are a couple of verses about that for judges in the Old Testament not to have so much sympathy towards the poor that you play favorites and partialities of the poor. But it's really the exception, not the norm. Usually it's watch out for the influence on your heart of the rich, favoritism toward the rich. This is not the first time that James has mentioned the rich, and it won't be the last either. Back in chapter one, if you remember the rich were told, rich who were inside the church and believers of Jesus, in Jesus, were told, don't brag in your riches. But glory in your humiliation in Christ. Be glad that He brought you to a humble repentance and you lowered yourself and you came to faith. in Christ. As we go forward in the book, we'll see in chapter four and chapter five, he returns to the subject of the rich. He he uh deals with some uh Imaginary rich Jewish businessmen who are very successful, and he will rebuke them in Chapter 4 for their presumption in life, a form of pride and sin. He will deal his toughest blow against the oppressive rich who actually oppress wage earners from getting what they are due, and he condemns that. But here, we're going to learn that true faith in Christ does not favor the rich and powerful of this world. If we as a congregation understand our Christian faith properly, We would, if anything, favor the poor. Polar opposite from the world. To prove this, James, he's going to kind of argue a case here in verses one through thirteen And it's quite effective, I think, the way he does it. He first puts right up front his main thought, his proposal. This is what I'm going to uh present to you. The jury who really you're going to have to pass judgment on your own self, your own heart, your own congregation, your own thoughts But I'm going to present it to you, and up front, I'm not going to hide what I'm doing. I'm going to give you the main proposal, the main point. That's verse one, okay? And then for clarity's sake, I'm going to provide an illustration. And he gives that in verses 2 through 4. Illustrations are always very helpful in trying to prove a case to people. But then he really gets to his reasons in verses five through nine, proving his case even more. So we're going to have the main point, then the illustration, and next time we'll get to the reasons. I don't think we'll get that far today. So first, look back at verse 1 with me again. Would you please follow along? You get so much more out of the preaching and listening to God speak to you if you're following along. Verse 1, the main point. My brethren, do not hold your faith in our glorious Lord Jesus Christ with an attitude of personal favoritism. Now, James was a leader in the church, right? We knew about him. He's the brother of the Lord. He's really more than a leader. He's a leader's leader. He's a leader among leaders, that is, in the Jerusalem church. He was maybe the most dominant of all of the leaders of the early church, even more respected and known than the Apostle Paul and Peter himself. We uh proved that in our first two messages on James way way back yonder. He was widely respected for his character, he was widely respected for his faith, for his commitment to Christ And James knew that he had to kind of root out a practice that was incongruent with the Christian faith. As the Christian faith was spreading, there were things that would happen in these enclaves and these meetings of the Christians and this was something that he probably had observed was far too common and he wanted to root it out. Something which amounted to a misuse and a misunderstanding of the Christian faith. And so he issues this negative command. As chapter two opens. Don't hold your faith with favoritism. They don't go together. Now Holding your faith is just another way of saying having your faith. In fact, that's actually what the verb is, having your faith. Very similar wording is found in the Gospel of Mark, chapter 11. Verses 22 and 23, where Jesus exhorts the disciples, have faith in God. Same verb form. Hold faith, have faith. 1 Timothy 1. 19, it says, keeping faith. Keeping is actually the same same verb. Keeping faith and a good conscience. Holding, having, keeping. So clearly, James is writing to believers in this letter, believers like you and me, that have faith in Jesus. He even calls them, notice, my brethren. So these are saved people. He's talking to a believing congregation And he's commanding them, don't hold that faith that you have in Jesus with one hand, so to say, and then with the other hand, be groveling before the rich to curry their favors. Don't do that. Faith in Christ is incompatible with favoritism towards the rich. In none of the churches should this be going on. Well that's because our faith, notice, is in who? Our glorious Lord Jesus Christ. That's the object of our faith, correct Who do we believe in? Our glorious Lord Jesus Christ. What a beautiful statement. By the way, only twice in the letter does James mention the name of Jesus, and this is one of them. By the title he gives, his now exalted half-brother, it clearly shows that he understands his relationship with his brother that he had on earth is completely changed now. He is fully submitted to him as a vassal to a king, as as a worshiper to the one worshipped. Jesus is not just a man, the guy he grew up with in Nazareth. He's not just that. He is the glorious Lord. He is the deliverer of the nation that James was a part of. He's the Messiah of Israel. And he writes of Jesus being presently alive, by the way. Remember that Jesus came to James and specifically gave James a resurrection appearance. And so he's writing of Jesus as, yes, one who's crucified, but he's no longer dead, he's alive. He was raised bodily from the dead. He was seen. And so there's a little subtle hint there that he believes in Jesus not only as Lord, but the risen Lord. So this takes on a confessional affirmation here, both of Jesus' authority and of Jesus' deity. That's what the title Lord carries with it as implication. By the way, this also proves how early the Christians regarded Jesus as divine. A lot of the misguided modern teachers, acting like they're being very scholastic, say that, you know, this idea of worshiping Jesus came along a couple of centuries later. And in the early church they didn't really believe he was God. And here you have a letter that was written fifteen years after Jesus was crucified, and he already has this title, Our Glorious Lord Jesus Christ. A title that is not compatible with just a mere human being. Glorious, Son of God, Messianic King, all of the early documents of Christianity show that the earliest Christians all recognize that it was improper to speak of Jesus of Nazareth in any other terms than as the divine one. Calling him a prophet, a good man, a rabbi, a moral teacher was dishonoring to him. No, he was God in human flesh, the glorious Lord. Very lofty title. They'll have to admit that the translations have had a tough time with the exact phrasing of this title that James gives Jesus here. It's grammatically complicated. In Greek, it's actually, for those of you that like looking this up, it's a string of five genitives. And then it has two more genitive articles attached in there. So you have these seven genitives in a row, and so you're wondering what is the relationship of the of this, of that, of that, of this. If you have a Holman translation, NASBY If you're reading the NIV, it will translate it like this. Our glorious Lord Jesus Christ. If you're reading the King James, the ESV, it will say our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory. A little bit of a different emphasis there. If the genitive glory is intended as part of the title James is giving to Jesus, as the ESV has it, then it is calling Jesus the Glory One, the One Wis Glory Himself. And that's an Old Testament title for God. And possibly referencing the Shekinah glory mentioned in Exodus 40, verse 35, and 1 Kings 8, verse 11. But though the New Testament clearly affirms the divine glory of the Lord Jesus in many places, John chapter 1 verse 14, one example, we beheld his Glory, glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. So you'll find that theme of Jesus' glory in the New Testament The New Testament doesn't actually use glory as a title for Jesus Himself. It does use glory, though, in the genitive as a modifier of God and of Christ. I'll give you a couple examples. Ephesians 1:17. God is called the Father of Glory. And then 1 Corinthians 2. 8, Jesus is called the Lord of glory who was crucified. So it's probably referring, as the Nasby says, to Jesus' glorious character, the glorious Lord Jesus Christ. He is glorious. He is literally of glory. That is, from glory, surrounded by glory, emanating and radiating glory, filled with glory, imparting glory to others. Wow. Just think on that. We could pause there and just do a whole whole meditation on the glorious Lord Jesus Christ. Why did James put that title in here now to back away from that? Because when when you remember who your faith is in That heightens the importance of this admonition that James is giving to the congregation. As you think about your faith, hold your faith, remember who your faith is in. Don't be thinking of that glorious one in heaven poised and ready to break back into this dark world and bring the light of his glory back in here Don't think about your faith in him that way and then try to dismiss all of that when you see some rich guy come into your congregation and then grovel before him because you want earthly benefits. It's incompatible It's disrespectful, you see. That looms large over the whole subject, as James is teaching it Sure, we're down here, and we're trying to spell out our faith down here. But you can't live well down here if you don't have an image of him up there. And the image of him up there is glorious. And by the way, we're going to be revealed with him in his glory when he comes and we get to win. And so all these people that are winning now, they lose then, right? So you have to remember, in the end, Jesus wins. You can add a little addendum, a little footnote, and us too. And I like that. Because sometimes it feels like we're losers. Without faith you're going to feel that way and you shouldn't. It's dishonoring to the one who told you I'm going to give you everything. He's coming back, he gets the whole planet, not just Israel. He gets the whole thing. All the real estate. He's the real mogul, the king, king of kings. He's gonna dole it out. Ah, see you served me faithfully. Here's this. That's amazing. It's just amazing. And it's quite concrete. So you say you're sounding like a prosperity preacher, Pastor, but that's future prosperity, not like the ones presently that say, shake all that money down from heaven right now. No, that's the lie. They want your money. They're the ones that are gonna get the money. It's gonna be your money. You're not gonna get any of the money. Listening to them Jesus himself perfectly exemplified this. Would you agree? Think about his life. How was he born? You know what? Yeah. Grew up in Nazareth. That was nothing. You know? People didn't think of Nazareth as anything. It's like somewhere outside of Des Moines, Iowa. It's nothing, you know. Sorry for the eye ones. And he was no respecter of persons. You know, he didn't stroll into Jerusalem like, wow, look at all these great buildings and these great people. Can I get your signature here? Can I get your autograph? He he he didn't he didn't act like that. He walked with fishermen and tradesmen, tax collectors. He gave spiritual attention to prostitutes and beggars, while others walked past them and even demeaned them. Luke 15, verses 1 and 2 records this. Now all of the tax collectors and the sinners were coming near Jesus to listen to him. Both the Pharisees and the scribes began to grumble, saying, This man receives sinners and eats with them. Eats with them. What kind of filth is that? When James and John requested the two best seats in Christ's coming kingdom, Jesus drew them to himself and he said Mark ten. You know that those who are recognized as rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and their great men exercise authority of them, but it is not this way among you. Different society, right? But whoever wishes to become great among you has to become what? The servant. One of the greatest people are at Hope Bible Church. They're the ones who are out constantly serving the needs of the saints. Honor them when you see them doing it. Because Christ does. Christ school's in here today. He would know the hearts of those of you that give up things. You get no recognition from anybody, and you're serving, you're the greatest in the kingdom of God. You are It has nothing to do with standing up here. It has to do with what you're doing day by day out there. Wow, that's what the Lord exemplified to us. So this attitude of personal favoritism towards the rich, it's not Christ-like. Now let's go to the word favoritism. What is that? You kind of know. In Greek it comes from a compound word which means to take or to receive the faith. Here, face. Face of a person, to lift up the face, and then the implication is therefore to regard the face, meaning the external appearance. It indicates that the person is being valued because of the way they look. The externals are more important than the internals. A person's value is estimated by what they look like and what that represents in society. Now you know that this kind of evaluating human beings has never sat all that well with the God of heaven. God always demanded equal justice for all based on deeds. In fact, in the law of God, God specifically commanded the judges in Leviticus 19, 15, you shall do no injustice in judgment. You shall not be partial to the poor, nor defer to the great, but you are to judge your neighbor fairly. When we get to the great white throne judgment, and hopefully it won't be any of us because that's a judgment of the unbelievers, but when we get to the time of the great white throne judgment as is explained in Revelation chapter 20 and the books are opened, and the dead stand before that judgment seat, and the one is sitting upon that throne, that's the Lord Jesus Christ, by the way. What is the criteria by which he will judge every man and woman at that judgment? The answer very clearly is given. He will judge them according to their deeds. Because they're all recorded in the books. A lot of books up there in heaven. A lot of recording. It's wrong to judge people any other way. You know, today the media typically runs these some controversial story. It boosts their ratings Helps them get a little bit of money because if it boosts their ratings, they get the sponsors, right? They're counting on you wanting to see it 25,000 times So just watch it two or three and turn them off, by the way. And people watch it and it stirs up their emotions the way it's presented and people Maybe you and me jump to conclusions about what they see. Before the trial has even happened, before all the facts are gathered. You know, we get three or four facts and we come to conclusions. That's so wrong. What are the conclusions largely based upon? Well, a person looks Young black guy roaming the streets at night. Huh? Rich white guy driving his privileged Lexus. Must be A Spanish guy on a border town tattoos up and down his arms. Uh-huh. Oh yeah. Do you know what prejudice is? It's pre-judging. It's in the word. When do you pre-judge? When you don't have all the facts and you don't know all the deeds. That means all of us are doing some pre-judging when this stuff is splattered all over the news and you're like, ah, you must feel guilty, you know. Even happens in the football world with uh deflate gate. Which I kind of find, you know, it's funny, but uh other things are not so funny. The sin of prejudice, by the way Cuts both ways, right? To the poor and to the rich, to black and to white, to old and to young. Old people judge young people all the time. And by the way, young people judge old people all the time. Judging based upon the faith, not the facts, is folly. Proverbs 24:23. To show partiality and judgment is not good. How do you like that for a verse? Is not good. Again, what is God's judgment based upon? 1 Peter 1:17. The Father is the one who impartially judges according to each one's work. Deuteronomy 10:17. For the Lord your God is the God of gods, and the Lord of lords, the great, the mighty, and the awesome God, who does not show partiality, nor take a bribe. Why would a judge take a bribe? Because he wants the money, and then he'll just kind of very subtly and craftily weigh certain evidence a little bit more than the other and come to the conclusion and still sort of look like he's a just judge Second Chronicles nineteen seven, I think it is. Now then let the fear of the Lord be upon you. Be very careful what you do, for the Lord our God will have no part in unrighteousness or partiality or the taking of a bribe. Money connects to the perversion of justice. Do you see that? That's why Jesus said in John 7 24, judge with righteous judgment. Had a guy once Come to me and he was making the argument. And he actually interrupted our breakfast at Bob Evans when we were there and he said, You know the Bible says, you know, do not judge. I said, you know, that's true. Did you know the Bible also said judge? And he looks at me scrambling at his head all over the place and I'm having a little bit of fun with it. Yeah, do you know where that is? Because I do I try to do that not so much to brag about the knowledge, but to let these very confident people that speak about the Bible let them know how little they know about the Bible, right? Yeah, John 7. 24, Jesus himself said, judge with righteous judgment. So it's very important that we judge, but that we judge with righteous judgment. Man pays way too much attention to the outward appearance. Wouldn't you agree with that? But God looks where 1 Samuel 16, 7, right? David is going to be anointed. Samuel sent to Bethlehem. The Lord said to Samuel, do not look at, and this was Eliab the eldest brother. You know, he's the tallest guy. By the way, if you're not the eldest brother, and you're kind of short like me, then you like this verse 'Cause there's Eliab and he's got the big broad shoulders, the tie head young and tall head and nice face and he's strong and everyone gives him respect and he's got like what, seven brothers younger than him The Lord said to Samuel, do not look at his appearance or at the height of his stature, because I have rejected him. For God sees not as a man sees, for God looks at the outward appearance, but the Lord looks at the heart. So there's David off tending the sheep, and each one of David's older brothers comes passing through, and it's like it seems like a feudal mission for Samuel at first. You know, nope, the Lord hadn't chosen that guy. Nope, not that guy. Nope, not that brother. Next. Don't you got any others? Well there's David. I mean he's out watching the sheep. He's the youngest. Go get 'em. God says, that's the one. I've chosen him to be king of Israel. Looks at the heart. Because God does not play favorites, news flash, we should not either. We want to be like him. Now, this lesson is important to learn, and I would say it's important to relearn, because I'm sure this isn't the first time you've heard this, but it's important to relearn it. If we, the church, fail at this point. We cannot represent Jesus to this world. We cannot It takes everything that he taught and he turns it on the head. If we're the same inside the church as they are outside the church, the church has become irrelevant. By the way, it's kind of uh ironic that the churches that are trying to act more and more like they're the same with the world to attract them into the world so that they can be relevant are the fastest ones to become irrelevant in the eyes of the world. And so they spike in their membership and over time they just drop because what's the point? I mean look at the whole ministry of what happened to Robert Schuler. He was the one at the cutting edge of all this stuff that taught Bill Heibels his things and his church was just The whole Crystal Cathedral thing was massive and now you look in there and they're all gray-headed. You know, they're not relevant. Because they decided to to to base their relevance not on eternal truth but on whatever it was. We don't want to be so relevant to the world that we're like the world. Then we'll become irrelevant to the world. We need to be different. That's our relevance. Alright, now second is the illustration in verses 2 through 4. Look at that again. So this is sort of a scenario. For if a man comes into your assembly with a gold ring and dressed in fine clothes, and there also comes in a poor man in dirty clothes, verse 3. And you pay special attention to the one who is wearing the fine clothes and say, You sit here in a good place, and you say to the poor man, Hm, you stand over there, or sit down by my footstool Have you not made distinctions among yourselves and become judges with evil motives? So James singles out, for illustration's sake, the distinctive seeding in a Christian worship service That favors the rich. By the way, seeding was very important in those days. It indicated status. You remember Jesus even told a parable in Luke 14, 7 to the invited guests when he noticed how they had been picking out the places of honor at the table, saying to them, When you are invited by someone to a wedding feast, do not take the place of honor for someone more distinguished than you May have been invited by him, and he who invited you both will come and say to you, give your place to this man. And then in disgrace you have to proceed to occupy the last place. Where you were seated was very important to the ancient world. It meant something. It honored people. And here James imagines the rich man being given favored seating over the poor man in the worship assembly. The word for assembly here, by the way, is literally the synagogue. Some actually dispute whether James meant a literal synagogue. Why would the church be in a synagogue? But it is the only way that the term is used in the entire New Testament. It means a literal synagogue, everywhere else it's used. And you may remember back from chapter 1, verse 1, that James was writing to the diaspora, that is the Jewish dispersion beyond the nation of Israel. And knowing that all of the early Christians were originally all what? Jews, right? There's no good reason to deny that many of the early believers in Jesus would be meeting in the synagogues worshiping just as Remember, James was writing somewhere around 45 A. D. to the Jews. These are Jews, many of them, who had fled due to the persecution that's reading. And so they were meeting in the synagogues as believers there gathered for their normal worship. and their learning. All the early Christians were Jews before they were even called Christians. And so even their understanding of How to do a worship service came from the Jews. It came from their experience in the synagogue. What happened in the synagogue? They would take time with instruction, within reading scripture. with getting testimonies from other people that would come visitors and tell what's going on in other parts of places. They would uh have some song, they would have prayers. This is what they did In the synagogue. And so that would naturally transfer right into what a Christian, early Christian worship service would look like. In these synagogues, the prominent men would get the prominent seats, of course Where were the prominent seats? Up front. And then along the walls. These were beautiful structures. Sometimes they'd have a mosaic kind of a floor. Well done. And so you'd have these very fancy chairs up towards the front The chair of Moses for teaching in the very front facing everyone. And then you'd have some seating along the wall as well, and that would be a prestigious place to sit. The others would have to come in and stand or sit cross-legged on the floor. And so James well envisions something that might have occurred, in fact, it's something he might have seen, and that is two visitors who come simultaneously on the same day into the same assembly. And the way it is worded, it makes the most sense that he's talking about two visitors here, not members who have been here on and on. Did unbelievers and visitors come into the worship services in those days? Of course. 1 Corinthians 14. 23 indicates that unbelievers did visit the Christian meetings. So let's focus on the first visitor, the rich man. He scrolls in. Immediately he's recognized. His stunning outward appearance attracts the eye of everybody. He's dressed better than most, if not everybody, there. And he looks good. It's a nice gold ring. Immediately their eyes recognize that. Actually, the word here means a gold fingered, which means that he could easily have more than one gold ring on there. And knowing how the ancients were, they they probably did have more than he probably did have more than one gold ring on. And uh they valued gold in the ancient world probably even more than we do today. It was uh available, but not anywhere near as available as it is today. You know, today everybody might walk in with a you know wedding ring and no one would say, Wow, you got a wedding ring. It wouldn't be quite the same thing. But back then it was more prestigious. It was something people would were trained to look at and look down at the eyes and notice, oh wow, see that? That's hard to get. And he has five or six of them there. That means he's someone special. So they they thought that way, they looked that way. Multiple gold rings Higher status, more favor. That's just the way it worked. Remember the rich father and the prodigal son parable in Luke 15? When he had re returned, the son had repented in return, he immediately said, Put a fine robe on him and a gold ring on his finger. That's how you honored somebody. Now look what else this rich man had there. He was dressed in fine clothes. It's interesting what that word fine means. Actually it means bright clothes. Lampras. A stunning clothes. Something that stood out. Not your common soil, dirty you know, well-worn kind of work clothes or everyday clothes. This was something that in their society, as soon as someone walked in the room, well that's not like what the most of us wear. Bright, maybe bright white, maybe vivid colors of some kind. Some suggest possibly a formal toga, Roman toga. So he's got all this gold, he's got these fine clothes on, and those are two pretty good indicators that he's a man of status, influential in the community, got a lot of riches I tried to imagine the modern equivalent of this because it's a little harder now. You know, good clothes are common around here. I'm not sure people are trained to be able to notice what kind of suit a person is wearing. You know, I had to do some digging. What are the good kind of suits, you know? I don't know what you picture, your imagination might do better than mine, but it maybe they come in with an Armani suit, you know, they got a Rolex watch, really good one Alligator shoes, I don't know. Uh stepping out of a jaguar, maybe better of horse And they come scrolling in and they look good. Hair's done well. Six hundred dollar haircut like Hillary just got, you know. And it's immediately noticeable to the society. I think it's implied that this rich man goes out in public and goes to his destination dressed like this on purpose. It's intentional. He knows he's going to get the respect where he goes. He probably coveted preferential treatment By the way, have you ever noticed if you dress up really nicely with your v, slap a few good things on, you go into some of these fancy stores, they actually pay attention to you? You go in there with sweatpants and it's like Don't even notice you're there. Same person, different clothes, walk in. How may I help you? Have you noticed our products? You know, squirt yourself with a little something too, you know, come in there. By the way, those of you that work in those kinds of environments, you've got to watch your own heart and attitude that you don't slowly over time drift into honoring that more and dishonoring people, even in those venues where, eh, look at that guy. Not giving him any mind. You know? So I think he did this on purpose. The man's entrance into the synagogue provided its own loud nonverbal communication. His attire was a trumpet of his status. And then comes in the other guy. Maybe a few minutes later, we're not really told. Poor man stroll in. Word poor, by the way, refers to economically poor. The illustration bears that out. This man enters in with what? Dirty clothes. Dirty clothes. The term dirty in Greek is the same word that was used for filthy moral Attitudes and behavior back in chapter 1 verse 21. This is stinky stuff, smelly stuff, bad stuff These clothes not only look bad, they just were grimy. Maybe he came from work and he's he's in his grimy clothes. Was he purposefully wearing his worst to church that day? No. This was probably the best he had. By the way, have you ever considered the difficulties and the trials of the poor, who, when they're at home and they look at what they have to wear, how they look, and they know they're going to go in public and they know they're going to be compared Not even necessarily with the rich, just the average people that everywhere they go, there's going to be a little bit of that comment, that look, that ignoring. They get slighted all the time. Slided all the time. And how embarrassing that is for them. How they might just sometimes just say, I'm staying home. What's the point? A constant trial that the rich don't even understand, they can't even empathize with Now please understand it's not a sin for a rich man to wear rich things and to go out in public, or a poor man to visit church and his rags. Neither of that is the point. What James is really interested in is the congregations Reaction to these two men, right? That's what James is really interested in. These two men become a test of the congregation's faith in Jesus. Outward appearance is the primary basis for how people show favoritism. And it is the point of the illustration. This attire reveals hearts. What did this congregation do with these two very different men? Well, in this scenario, they give very special attention to the rich man. Instantly the people are You know, they they look at this guy, and it's like if they don't say it out loud, wow, who is that visitor? Quickly bring him up here to a seat of honor. I'd like to get to know him a little better. Why? Well, we'll get to that. Make sure he's comfortable. Make sure he's not sitting on the floor, not with those clothes. And get him a footstool. Bring it over. Obviously, he gets the nice treatment. Men like this. They like to be treated this way. You and I like to be treated this way. That's why we choose the fancier places to go when we get a little money. Best places, pretty places. Remember what Jesus said about the Pharisees in Matthew 23, 6. They love the place of honor. They love it. It's nice. At banquets, and they love the chief seats in the synagogues. Banquets, synagogues, best places I don't know, maybe it was the leaders who gave those orders for this guy to be seated this way. Maybe the ushers in there just kind of knew what they were supposed to do. The sad thing, the unfortunate thing, is this attitude seems to have infected the whole church They're fawning over the rich. But the poor, oh the poor, poor man. He does not get so treated, does he? What did they say to him? They saw his clothes. Quick a quick judgment was made. This guy's a nobody. Oh, well there's room for you here in the back. Or if you'd like you can come sit on my footstool. Honestly, they really have a non-reaction to him. No one really much notices him. No one's going to be upset if no one talks to him or he doesn't come back the next week. The rich are sitting there with their feet up, eyes are gawking at them, trying to buddy up to them, the poor Barely even noticed, inconsequential. Very clear distinction has been drawn. Honor and comfort for the rich, disdain for the poor. This congregation has done a very good job of expressing the values of the world that surrounded them. They have shown that they love the things of the world, they love the riches, they love the power They love the influence, the prestige, the lifestyle, the fancy attire, the gold. This congregation has acted like their faith in Jesus made no dents or impact, not only on the people around the church, but on them. It was the same inside the church and the same outside the church. Do you see why James felt so compelled to bring this up as an illustration and correct this? Again, I say if the church becomes like the world, who needs the church? And so we come to verse four. And a rhetorical question, which is really meant as an indictment of their hearts. Have you not made distinctions among yourselves and become judges with evil motives? They have become judges with evil motives making distinctions. James equates these people and their motives with unrighteous judges who would take a bribe Unrighteous judges would take a bride to give to give out a decision because they favor the rich and they favor the favors of the rich and they favor the money of the rich. And they've done exactly the same thing, and so their heart and their motives are evil. This is not just that they have bad manners towards the poor man. This is evil. This is not just poor hospitality. This is totally wrong motives or thinking, the word is their thinking. Dio logismos, their thoughts were evil. And here is where the insiders in the church We're opened up, so to say, to the surgery of God. Verse 4 is probably the hardest part to listen to when the Bible exposes motives. When the Bible forces all of us to look inside. And see what you and I don't want to look at. When this portion of the letter was read out loud in the church the first time, I bet you the room got kind of silent. Heads might have dropped. Some people might have begun to feel remorse. Some maybe even sobbed. The hard-hearted ones might have tried to pass the book. Who me? I didn't do that. That was you that did that. The congregation knew the teachings of Jesus. They knew all were supposedly equal in Jesus, like what Paul wrote in Galatians chapter 3. All of you are sons of God through faith in Christ Jesus. For all of you who are baptized into Christ have clothed yourselves with Christ. This is the Church of Jesus, and it must be different from all of the other establishments out there Yes, there are going to be fancy places out there where money and fancy attire speaks. And what you wear matters very much to them. Not in here, not among us. No one buys a row in the front or along the walls in the back. Nobody gets the first spot always in the potluck dinners or whatever else is there. We don't ask anyone how much they make before we extend membership to them. By the way, mostly I commend this church for doing the will of God. I think most of you have had in your hearts this very thing. I have confidence in this church concerning your heart and motive. Still I wonder how some of us would treat the poorest of the poor if they came in here. Have you given much attention to someone that you've seen come in here to church that you look at them and they look like they couldn't return too much to you? Those that don't have much to offer you. What if a homeless man came in here? What if he looked like a homeless man? What if he smelled like a homeless man? What if you talk to someone you found out that they don't have a job, they're doing very poor economically, they might lose their apartment. And they come in here. Would you greet them with the same warm enthusiasm as somebody else? I don't know that seating in the church really matters that much in here, right? I mean who cares whether you're sitting in the back or the front or left side or right side? Is there a special spot? By the way, we're spoiled in here with great seats. You know I mean we got great nice comfy seats here, don't we? So for us the application has to go beyond the seeding, I think. It doesn't really matter where you sit in here. I don't think there's a spot of honor But what about taking a little extra time to talk to someone? You get in the conversation and after a minute or two you realize this guy's not much. I'm moving on. I'll find a polite way to just move on to the next conversation. Ever done that? What about when you're kind of thinking about who you're going to invite over to your home, you know? Oh, let's invite that person over. They are such and such. I wonder if we if we could show favoritism that way. You think, maybe? How about a needy young mother comes in here with four unruly disheveled kids? And you're like, man, that's going to be a lot of work. I don't want to be around that. Or are you going to talk to her in a way that she feels loved and supported and accepted right here? Maybe give her extra time. Listen, there's subtle ways of ignoring people. There's subtle ways of gravitating towards the people you really want to talk to and get to know. When we flock around the well-dressed, the well-positioned in society, and just s just kind of ignore those on the lower social ladder, doesn't that also reveal something about our motives? And shouldn't we give those on welfare the same reception as those making a killing on Wall Street? I wonder if sometimes you choose your associations within church based upon how nice their house and car and job are Let me broaden this application out just a bit. I wonder if we would treat famous people who might come in here differently from the run-of-the-mill guy or gal. Like a sports hero. You know, like one of the great Redskins who might come in here I say as a red skin, I wouldn't be interested in him at all. For you, the real test would be a raven. But seriously though, how would you feel you look over and there is uh RG3, Phil Flacco? Would you treat that person different than the ball boy? What about a politician? You may hate politicians. A favorite writer. Who would you fawn over? Who would you think I gotta get their autograph? That's where your temptation is. A movie star, comedian, business mogul You understand the point, right? One day, someone rich and famous is going to come walking through those doors. And I wonder if on that same day someone, the polar opposite, will walk in those doors. And if I wonder when you go home, you'll be saying, did you see that so-and-so was visiting a church today? But not recognize that other guy. What was his name? I don't know. I didn't get a chance to talk to him. Why not? Because I was over talking to the other guy. Brothers and sisters, let's check our hearts and not let them become worldly. Father, we pray as we come around your table. That we would recognize everyone sits equally at the table, with you at the head. Challenge our hearts not to love the things of the world, to treat others as more important than ourselves. Do not dishonor the poor man. Do your surgery in our hearts, we pray. In Christ's name. Amen.