Okay, so we are coming down on our last few lessons of gospel thoughts, of looking at the cross, looking at the sufferings of Christ to consider what we can observe Uh what do we actually see? And so uh today the two thoughts we're going to look at are uh s somewhat different uh from each other in terms of not entirely related. One re relates to God's love for us, even in our suffering. And then the other one relates to forgiveness. And then next week, the last two thoughts that we'll cover in this class relate to forgiveness as well. So that's where we're going to land next week. So just again, let's get in our minds this uh this idea of a gospel cyclorama where you you step into this 360 painting of the sufferings of Christ. You see him in the garden and walking through his trials and his torture and ultimately there at the cross. And when we look at the sufferings of Christ and we think about just suffering in general, there's there's something in us, I think it's part of the curse of sin. that causes us to naturally think that where there is suffering, there is a problem with someone. And in fact, Scripture even says, cursed is everyone who hangs on a tree. Cursed is everyone who hangs on tree. You look at someone who's who's lynched, someone who is crucified, someone who goes through the death penalty, and instantly we think that person did something wrong. That's our natural instinct. And so Scripture causes us to think very differently. Because part of the problem is when we exper we're on the when we're on the receiving end of any kind of suffering Uh we uh tend to think, man, what's what's wrong? Uh things should be easy. Um S something has gone wrong. God somehow maybe has lost control. Maybe even God doesn't love me. And so we need we need to get away from that and and learn, as the point is stated here Gospel thought number fifteen. Sometimes the Father purposes that those whom he loves deeply suffer greatly, even at the hands of others. Sometimes the Father purposes that those whom He loves deeply suffer greatly even at the hands of others. Now as we've done with other points, we're just gonna ride a train, if you will, and we're gonna uh build uh on this train or if if you want to use different analogy, we're gonna add building blocks uh to come to the f the full understanding of this point. So just follow along with this process. Again, when when people suffer, one of the common questions raised is the question of God's love. Does God love me? Uh what did I do wrong that God allowed this in my life? Is God mad at me? Does God love me as much as the other people that I'm around who aren't suffering as much? Now, obviously such questions are born out of the upheaval of the soul, where the vision, the soul's ability to see clearly is obscured by the tears of suffering. Uh but when those tears are wiped away, we can find the answers to these questions really by looking at the suffering and the death of Christ. In fact, when we stand inside the Gospel Cyclorama and observe the the physical and the emotional and even the spiritual anguish and distress We see in Jesus, we see a man who is deeply loved by God, and yet whom God is allowing. Not only to suffer in some general way, but even specifically to be painfully sinned against And if that's true of Jesus, that he can both be loved by God and yet be painfully sinned against as an outworking of the purposes of God, if that can be true of Jesus, then that can also be true of God of us as well. And so we can conclude that my suffering is not an indication of God's lack of love for me Rather, it is that sometimes, again, God purposes that those whom he loves deeply be painfully, uh suffer greatly, even at the hands of others. Now let's consider what Scripture has to say here. The Apostle John, more than any other gospel writer, gives us a unique and uh and extensive insight into the love relationship between the Father and and the son. It's interesting that the the other gospels, what we call the synoptic gospels, Matthew, Mark, and Luke, they they don't emphasize the love that the Father has for the Son nearly as much as John does himself. Matthew, Mark, and Luke, they all describe the baptism of Jesus in detail, right? And at the time when Jesus comes out of the water, the voice comes from heaven and says This is my beloved son, in whom I'm well pleased. This is God's public declaration before Jesus said anything about who he is as the Son of God This is the father's public declaration that this is my son, and I love him. He's my beloved son, and I am pleased with him. Now, Matthew and Mark alone speak of another similar declaration, and that is what we call the Mount of Transfiguration And on that mount is when Jesus went up with Peter, James, and John. They saw Moses and Elijah standing with Peter, excuse me, with Jesus, and Jesus is transfigured before them. They kind of see him in his glorious appearing. And out from the cloud cries the Father, this is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased. Listen to him, the Father says. And so again, these two declarations, as articulated by Matthew, Mark, and Luke, are really the extent to which the synoptic gospels convey to us that the Father loves the Son. But John goes, we could say, an extra mile or two or five to convey to us, no, no, no, you don't understand. The father loves the son. Let me give you some of those accounts just briefly. In John three thirty-five, as John the Baptizer is is being taught to by his disciples, remember they're seeing Jesus being Or Jesus baptizing more disciples than than John, and so they're kind of jealous for their um their teacher, John uh the baptizer, and so they're talking about it. And w among other things, John says to them The Father loves the Son and has given all things into his hand. So somehow John knows, and of course John is the cousin of Jesus John has in his mind the fact that there is a love relationship between the Father and the Son, Jesus. And he conveys that. That's in his mind as he's thinking about the ministry of Jesus. So that was John 3. In John 5, verse 20, Jesus is speaking to those who want to kill him. So now he's talking to his enemies. And they they are incredibly upset, to put it mildly, that Jesus dares to call God his father, because they know that means if you're calling God your father, you're making yourself out to be God And and Jesus, rather than backing off of that claim that God is my Father, that that He that I am the Son of God, he he leans into it and he says this Truly, truly, I say to you, the Son can do nothing of himself unless it is something he sees the Father doing. For whatever the Father does, these things the Son also does in like manner. The Father loves the Son, and shows him all things that he himself is doing. And the Father will show him greater works than these, so you will all marvel. So Jesus again leans into this declaration that he is uh the son of God the Father and he describes this intimate relationship between them that he only does what the Father tells him to do and the father is revealing to him uh things that he wants him to do. There's a there's a distinct and unique relationship that Jesus describes that doesn't apply really to any other human being. And then in John 10, Jesus is speaking to a mass of people, and he describes himself as the good shepherd who lays his life down for the sheep. And he says this, for this reason the Father loves me, because I lay my life down so that I may take it up again. So so far Jesus has spoken to the disciples, uh excuse me, John the Baptizer has spoken to his disciples, uh, Jesus has spoken to his enemies, and then he's also spoken to the crowds as to the fact that the Father loves him. And now Jesus in John 15 speaks to the disciples there in the other room. And as he's preparing them for his departure, he compares his love for his disciples with the Father's love for him. And he simply says, just as the Father has loved me, I also loved you. Abide in my life. And no doubt there's so many things that he has told the disciples over the course of those three years of ministry that aren't recorded in Scripture. And so when he describes to them, when he simply says to them, the Father loves me, they have in their mind uh similar things to what we've already talked about. the Father's love is an intimate, communicative relationship of revelation and participation in ministry. And and so there he he's just reminding them that as the Father has loved me, I have demonstrated that same kind of love for you. But there's one more time that we read about the Father's love for his son, and that's in John 17. Why don't you turn there? We won't spend too much time here, but I think it's worth just getting in front of our eyes. John chapter 17, which you probably know is the high priest priestly prayer where Jesus prays at the end of the uh the time there in the upper room before they go to the Garden of Gethsemane. And in John 17, verses 22 to 26, Jesus says this. He is praying to the Father. The glory which you have given me, I have given to them, that they may be one just as we are one. I in them and you in me, that they may be perfected in unity, so that the world will know that you sent me, and love them even as you have loved me. Father, I desire that they also whom you have given me be with me where I am, so that they may see my glory which you have given me. For you loved me before the foundation of the world. Oh, righteous Father, although the world has not known you, yet I have known you, and these have known that you sent me, and I have made your name known to them, and will make it known, so that the love with which you have loved me. may be in them and I in them. So you have here multiple declarations of the Father's love For the Son. And in particular, you see at the very end of verse 24, you have loved me before the foundation of the world. talking of the eternal love of the Father for the Son. So as Jesus ends his high priestly prayer here, he reminds himself, if you will, of the Father's love for him three times in this declaration. So we could ask the question, do you think that as Jesus is uh preparing himself to go through all of the suffering that he knows is about to come upon him Do you think that there is any question in his mind about the father's love for him? I think the answer to that has to be absolutely not. Jesus is utterly convinced that the Father loves him. There is no doubt in his mind, no inkling. That, well, maybe he loves me, but uh uh no, none of that. There's an absolute unshakable confidence that the father loves him And yet, even as convinced as Jesus was that the Father loves him, as he hangs on the cross Having endured the unspeakable torture and pain that we we cannot comprehend, instead of feeling the love of the Father, he feels the wrath. of the Father. So much so that in in the in the experience of that soul crushing moment he cries out, not my father, my father But my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Now But he knew why he That's right. He he absolutely knew why. But I think, you know, that that's a quote from the Old Testament, right? Psalm Psalm twenty-two, I think it's the first verse of Psalm twenty-two. I don't think as Jesus is hanging there on the cross, he's like, Oh This is where I'm supposed to quote Psalm twenty-two. My God, my God. That's not what's going on there. I think His his quotation of Psalm 22 is is him using the Psalms as a lament to express his confusion in his humanity. Of what is going on. So his suffering, at least for a moment, if we're going to take his word seriously, obscured his sense of the fact that the Father loved him. Now what Jesus went through was not a surprise to God. Right? It's not something that caught caught the father off guard where he's in heaven and he's seeing Jesus arrested and he's like, oh no, oh no, what's what's gonna happen? What's going on? This wasn't part of the plan, right? God, the Father knew exactly what was going on. And even though he loved the Father with an infinite love, the Father purposed that Jesus be sinned against. And endure the horrors of the cross. We learn this in Acts 4 after Peter and John were threatened and released by the Sanhedrin So they go back to the church and tell the church everything that had happened with their time of the Sanhedrin, and collectively the church comes together. And lifts up this praise and prayer to the Lord, saying together, O Lord, it is you who made the heavens and the earth and the sea, and all that is in them Who by the Holy Spirit, through the mouth of our Father David, your f servant, said, quoting the Old Testament, Psalm two, Why did the nations uh why did the Gentiles rage and the peoples divine feudal things The kings of the earth took their stand, and the rulers were gathered together against the Lord and against his Christ. They go on saying, For truly in this city there were gathered together against your holy servant Jesus, whom you anointed Both Herod and Pontius Pilate, along with the Gentiles and the peoples of Israel, to do whatever your hand and your purpose predestined to occur. So the Father purposed and predestined every experience of suffering, including his death, that Jesus went through. I say again, the Father had infinite love for Jesus. And yet he purposed that Jesus suffer greatly. And so we might be tempted to think, well yeah, of course. That's Jesus. He's God. He needed to go through that in order to accomplish our salvation. So of course the Father purposed that the Son, whom he loves, experience this form of suffering. That has nothing to do with me because my suffering doesn't atone for anybody's sin, so that doesn't help me Give me something else, Pastor Gabe. All right, turn to John eleven. John eleven By the response, I take it you some of you know what that passage is is about. This is the chapter where we read about uh Lazarus, whom Jesus raised from from the dead, but there's There's an interesting dynamic here that I think is worth taking note of in this thought of love as it relates to suffering. Let's start by just looking at verses one to three to set the context. Now a certain man was sick, Lazarus of Bethany, the village of Mary and his sister Martha. It was Mary who anointed the Lord with ointment and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother, Lazarus, was sick. So the sister sent word to him, saying, Lord, behold, he whom you love is sick. So here are these three people, Martha, Mary, Martha, and Lazarus. If you're not familiar, they are uh one brother, two sisters And they are and somehow they became really good friends of Jesus. As it said there, Mary's the one who wiped Jesus' feet with her hair. We read an account about that, uh how Uh Jesus used that to explain to a Pharisee that she loved much because she was forgiven much. And and so there that wasn't just a one-moment episode with that woman. That woman turned into a very good friend uh of Jesus along with her sister Martha and brother Lazarus. So this is now a family who have a close-knit relationship to Jesus Uh and so we don't know exactly where Jesus is at this point. I don't think we read that in the text. Um But he's off somewhere. And so however long it took for the news to come to Jesus, uh they send news to him saying, Your uh Lazarus, the the the one whom you love Is sick, please come because they know what Jesus can do. They know, hey, we we we don't call the local doctor. Uh he can't really do anything. We call Jesus and we know Jesus can can heal Lazarus, no problem In fact, Jesus doesn't even have to come necessarily, right? We've heard of him uh healing from afar, but certainly they want him to come because they love him and they want to see him So their expectation is as soon as we tell Jesus, Lazarus, whom you love as sick, of course he's gonna come. Because that's what you do when you love someone, right? And you have the ability to do something about it. So they they have in their mind this expectation. Now, read verses four to six carefully thinking about What is being said here about the relationship between Jesus' love and the choice that he makes. Verses 4 to 6. But when Jesus heard this, He said, this sickness is not to end in death, but for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified by it. Now, Jesus loved Mary, Mart Martha, and her her sister and Lazarus. So when he heard that he was sick, he then stayed two days longer in the place where he was. Jesus had kind of two things in his mind. Number one, he knew this wasn't going to end in death. Death was not going to have the final word in this situation. Okay, three things in mind. Secondly, uh Jesus had the glory of God in mind. I love these people. I really love these people. And so I'm making a decision to not come back But to delay, because I love these people and I know God's glory is going to be the result. says where he is. Ah. Be beyond the Jordan to the place where John was first okay, yeah. Yeah and I don't I don't remember exactly how far that is from where they are, but at least uh at least a couple of days distance. So Jesus knows not only the suffering that Lazarus is experiencing on his deathbed, But he also knows the suffering Mary and Martha are enduring as they're witnessing their brother dying. Right? So this is obviously a time before medicine as we know it, medical care as we know it. And if someone uh they had they had enough knowledge to know that there's likely uh to observe someone and to know if that's gonna lead to death or if somebody's gonna recover. And so Lazarus himself is experiencing whatever sickness it was And then Mary and Martha are suffering the experience of observing their brother, thinking, this is probably gonna die. I mean if they thought Lazarus is gonna recover, oh it's just a minor cold I doubt they would have sent for Jesus and said, come back and, you know, heal heal your friend of the sniffles. Uh they probably knew this is this is not going to end well if Jesus doesn't come back. And so there's this anguish in their soul Which is tempered certainly by the knowledge that, hey, Jesus loves us, so of course he's going to come back and heal So Jesus knows what they're currently experiencing, and he also knows the intense sorrow that will fill their heart once Lazarus dies. Because even though he knows this isn't going to end in death, he knows death is going to be part of this process. And so he knows that as soon as Lazarus dies, Mary and Martha are going to experience deep and extreme anguish in their soul. And it's out of his love for them that he chooses to allow them to go through this suffering. He chooses to allow them to go through this suffering. He knows exactly what they're going to go through, and yet he chooses to allow them to go through it. Why? Because their suffering has a purpose beyond them. As much as he loves them and would you know love for them to not suffer, there's purposes that go beyond them in this situation. And of course that purpose that's beyond them is God's glory. And ultimately God is glorified not just in the experience of what takes place, but also in the fact that we're talking about this right now, and we're talking about the glory of Christ and and how He uh how he responded in this situation. Well, you know the story. Jesus waits until Lazarus dies and then he makes his way back to Mary and Martha. And so by the time he gets back, Lazarus has been dead four days. And so they've been grieving uh and uh you know their their facial muscles by this point are likely sore It was a culture where expressions of grief were were loud, they were public, they were visible. Um and and add to this the reality that Their grief was not just what uh we might consider to be normal grief today, but it was compounded by the fact that they knew, they knew Jesus could have stopped this. Now, granted, we know that God can heal anybody, right? So in a sense, we we can get a taste of that. God could have stopped my loved one from dying. But they knew it in a different way, right? Because they knew that this physical man, this person, could have just come back And he could have healed Jesus, no question, no doubt. Not a 99% chance he could have healed him, but 110% he He absolutely could have healed Lazarus and prevented him from dying. So there's there's that that grief that is compounded with that reality. And so Martha runs out to Jesus when when he starts to walk into town. And the first words out of her grief-stricken heart in verse 21 is this: Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. If you had been here, my brother would not have died. And then later, when Mary comes out to see Jesus in verse 31, Excuse me, verse 32. She says the exact same thing. Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. Now the fact that they both said this as their first words to Jesus indicates to me that they likely said this to each other for the last four days. Why didn't Jesus come? We sent him the letter. There was plenty of time. He could have come. Why didn't he come? Doesn't he love us? I thought he loved us. Just probably over and over and over having those those thoughts and those questions and saying those things to each other. In the depth of their sorrow, they couldn't fathom how love combined with power to heal could ever lead to Lazarus dying. This just doesn't make sense He could have done it. But they suffer from the same thing that we suffer, and that is that in the fog of suffering We just can't see beyond our suffering. We can't see God's purposes beyond our own experience. Well after Jesus raised Lazarus from the dead, we don't know what he told them, uh in the sense of Uh did he explain that he had planned this from the beginning? Uh did he uh did they ask him uh why he why'd you have to do this with Lazarus? Why couldn't you choose some other guy that that you didn't love as much or that didn't have You know, someone that was close to you. Uh we we don't know what conversations they'd had with him. Um but the reality is Jesus unfolded the plan uh that was already established. He raised Lazarus from the dead. Joy came in that restoration of the family. And God was glorified through all of that. So again, here we have a situation where it is the love of God, Jesus, that led to the suffering of people that he loved. Where he allowed people to suffer intentionally and on purpose, knowing that God's glory would result. So we can put it this way in terms of a lesson from this account. Jesus' love was the reason for their suffering. Jesus' love was the reason for their suffering. Their suffering was not a reflection of a lack of love. And the reality is, neither is ours. So whatever suffering is in your life, whatever experiences you're going through right now, God's love has not left you. God's love has not been removed from you. Sometimes God purposes that those whom He loves suffer greatly. And sometimes that suffering is at the hands of others. The letter of 1 Peter is written to many churches of uh uh Asia uh who were experiencing various levels of persecution. There was animosity against Christians that was bubbling to the surface and starting to affect believers and real and painful ways. There was everything from just simple mocking and and and being uh um uh spoken against to outright physical persecution These believers were feeling increasing pressure to conform to the culture by their friends and their neighbors and family members, their employers. And by the end of um by the time we get to chapter four of First Peter, we uh Peter has already spoken about how to think and how to respond when you're suffering at the hands of others. But in 1 Peter 4. 12, he kind of starts a new section where he directly speaks about how believers should think about the fiery ordeals that are coming upon them. And he writes this in 1 Peter 4. 12. Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery ordeal among you, which comes upon you for your testing, as though some strange thing were happening. to you. Now what what we tend to do when we're reading scripture, or maybe I'll just say this for myself. Maybe none of you are guilty of this. Is when you see a paragraph that starts with the word beloved, you just run right past that word Because that doesn't seem to be all that important. It's just it's evocative. It's uh uh I'm just speaking to to you and I'm just, you know, calling you whatever But but we can't do that. That word means you are loved. You are loved. Don't feel that because you're going through this fiery ordeal that you're not loved. Because the reality is you are loved. Pastor Leek preached that passage in December of 2019, and he made this statement When you feel the sting of persecution or other kinds of suffering, don't think that you have been forgotten on high. Don't think God's disfavor has fallen upon you. Why? Why should we not think those things? Because even when you are suffering at the hands of God God loves you. Loves you. You are loved by God. Now he had demonstrated the full extent of that love at the very beginning. In terms of our relationship with Him, by sending His one and only Son to pay the penalty for our sin. So we can be confident of God's love because of that singular act which has of course infinite and eternal impact for each of our loves. Uh for each of our lives. And so there is really no greater way that God could demonstrate his love for us than having given his son. So we can't ever look at the fact that God gave his son and say, Yeah, but is there more? Is there something higher than that? No, there isn't anything Higher than that. That is the greatest demonstration possible. It's the only demonstration uh needed to demonstrate God's love. uh in a way that can never be questioned. Especially when you consider the fact that he didn't do that when you were when you and I were his his friends When you and I were his family members. No, he did it when we were his enemies. And so again, there's no greater instance of his love. You you have to look. Well, this is gonna take you. This is who is gonna take you, or is it gonna take you Yeah, verse ten. Let me get there real quick. So w what are you saying where is it gonna take you? Yeah I think this something this is something we do. Yeah. So verse ten says as each one has re received a special gift. No no sorry. Where where am I? Oh five ten five ten, I'm so sorry. Yeah, after you have suffered a little while, the God of all grace, who called you to his eternal glory in Christ, will himself perfect, confirm, strengthen, and establish you. That that's your purpose. Yeah. That's right. Right. Absolutely. Thank God he just That's right. Yeah, there's uh um uh maybe somebody remembers the reference where it says that the son uh learned obedience Through his suffering. Anybody remember that reference? Yes. Do you remember what it is? Yeah, that's what I mean, yeah. That's fine if nobody remembers. I don't remember either, so Okay, Hebrews 2. Yeah. Obviously not in his deity. Hebrews 5. 8, thank you. Um and so in the same way we learn obedience and we're perfected in our suffering. Yeah. Absolutely. So God has demonstrated his love perfectly and sufficiently on the cross through Christ. And because of that, we can never conclude that God's love has been somehow taken away or removed. Because once we have received the infinite love of God, that's it. It's over. There's no way that can be taken away. And this is what Paul says in Romans chapter 8, verses 35 to 39, where he says, Who will separate us from the love of Christ? With tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or peril or sword? Just as it is written, For your sake we are being put to death all day long. We were considered as sheep to be slaughtered But in all these things we overwhelmingly conquer through Him who loved us. He goes on to say, For I am convinced that neither death nor life nor angels, nor principalities, nor things present, nor things to come, excuse me, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor any other created thing will be able to separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. But if you think about the different circumstances that Paul lists out in terms of what are the things that that could potentially uh that we might think of could potentially separate us from the love of God. Uh he starts out with tribulation and distress, which are just more generic terms for suffering. And then he mentions persecution, which of course means when you're personally attacked because of your faith in Christ. He mentions famine and nakedness, which refer to suffering that comes to us in terms of natural disasters or sickness or poverty. And then it finally he mentions the sword. And since he has already mentioned persecution, he's not likely thinking of the sword in terms of uh religious persecution. being persecuted for your faith in Christ, but rather just suffering that comes in the course of living in a fallen world where you know other sinners are uh producing suffering in your life unrelated to your faith in Christ And so as you think about that list, again, tribulation, distress, persecution, famine, nakedness, peril, or sword, he's really giving us the full gamut of human experience and saying there is nothing that can happen in your life, either Because of other people acting on you or just for natural, no one else is involved, natural disasters, there's nothing that can happen in your life that can actually separate you from the love of God. There's just nothing There's no tornado, there's no earthquake, there's no uh windstorm, there's there's there's nothing, there's no accident, there's no nothing on purpose that someone can do. There's nothing that can happen in your life that can separate you from the love of God. And our brothers and sisters in Ukraine That's right. That's right. And then in verse 38 there of Romans 8, he says, not only can suffering not separate us from the love of Christ. But he says even death itself cannot do that. Of course, nor nor can angels or spiritual forces. So he says there's there's nothing real or imagined, nothing in the future that can separate you from God's love. You are loved. And so as we stand inside that gospel cycle rama and again we look at Christ hanging on the cross, a man who we would typically think of If we didn't know who he was or why he was there, and we would say that is a cursed man. That is a wicked man. Some you know, he did something wrong, something wrong happened to him to to land him there. We should come to the opposite conclusion as we look at Christ, and we should say the Father loves his son with an infinite love. And yet he purposed that his son hang there and suffer and die, even at the hands of others. And so therefore When I suffer, I can be confident that I have not been separated from the love of God, but rather the love of God is still at work in my life, even if I can't feel it. That's gospel thought number 15, just a confidence in the love of God. Gospel thought number 16. just to make a hard transition, uh, is forgiveness is suffering. Forgiveness is death. Forgiveness is crucifixion So three weeks ago we meditated on the reality that justification and forgiveness come to us through the shed blood of Christ. And that puts us in a position where we can freely offer forgiveness to others as well. And I am so convinced that the more we comprehend uh the disparity between my sins against God as opposed to the sins that other people commit against me, the more we understand that dynamic, the more easily and freely we'll be able to forgive one another. And that's not an attempt to minimize the pain that we feel when other people sin against us. It's just that's how Jesus in Matthew 18 teaches us, hey, if you wanna if you want to know how to forgive someone who has pain painfully sinned against you, this is what you need to be thinking about. It's critical. But at the same time, I don't want you to think that forgiveness is something that you do Once understanding this reality, you you naturally feel overwhelmingly ready to forgive, as if there's some chemical, spiritual chemical reaction that takes place as you're meditating on your sins against God and how much he's forgiving you then now I only forgive once I freely once I realize how how much I've been forgiven and and freely want to forgive. As if, again, I just wait for my feelings to fall in line before I forgive other people. Now that can happen Uh and the more that we meditate on the gospel, that that will happen. But more often than not, because we tend to be so forgetful and don't think actively about the forgiveness we have received. The truth is that forgiveness is suffering. Forgiveness is death. Forgiveness is crucifixion. In other words, we should expect that forgiveness does not feel good. We should expect that forgiveness is painful and that's hard. You know, there are phrases sometimes thrown around like you just need to forgive and forget. You just need to let it go. Forgive and move on. I dare say that those who say such things haven't been sinned against in painful ways. And that and they also don't really understand forgiveness itself. Uh sometimes people say, well why did why did Jesus have to die? I mean why couldn't God just snap his fingers and now you're all forgiven and and Jesus wouldn't have had to endure all of the suffering that he did Well, here's the answer. Forgiveness is suffering. Forgiveness is death. Forgiveness is crucifixion. The nature of sin is that it destroys. That's just what it does. It incurs debt, as we've talked about. It earns punishment. It demands retribution. And so someone has to pay. Somehow that needs to get dealt with. And so as you look at the cross, what we see is that the forgiveness Jesus purchased for us, He purchased with His own blood, paying the penalty that we deserve. He absorbed in himself the debt that we have incurred, and he was punished for what we ourselves have done. So his suffering and his death is our forgiveness. That's just going along with everything we've said about forgiveness earlier in this class. Now, what that means then is that when Jesus calls us to forgive someone else, he calls us to a ministry of death and suffering. Where we absorb the debt incurred by those who sin against us. Now this is going to take maybe a little bit of thinking because you know we have to make a distinction between the suffering that Jesus uh endured for the sins of others. Uh and so it it's not natural to think that we are incurring the debt, so just track with me here and Uh if if it's not clear, please feel free to to ask. But listen to this quote by Ken Sandy. Uh Ken was the author of uh uh The Peacemaker and a number of other books. Um he said this, forgiveness can be a costly activity. When you cancel a debt, it does not just simply disappear. When you absorb the liability that someone else deserves to pay. Sorry. Um I read that wrong. Let me let me start the quote over. Forgiveness can be a costly activity. When you cancel a debt, it does not just simply disappear. Instead, you absorb the liability that someone else deserves to pay. Similarly, forgiveness requires that you absorb certain effects of the other person's sins and you release that person from liability to punishment. This is precisely what Christ accomplished on Calvary. So notice that he said that you absorb certain effects of the other person's sin. So there is the when someone sins, there is the the sit the uh debt that they incur toward God, which if they're a believer is what Christ paid for on the cross. We don't we don't pay for their sin ourselves. But there are certain effects. There's relational effects in particular. Sometimes there's monetary monetary effects or other forms of material effects, other uh impacts in our lives that are the result of someone's sin against us. that we can absorb, that we need to absorb, when we're going to forgive someone. Let me tell you a couple stories When I was in high school, I had a friend who I worked with. I worked at a Christian conference center in their dining room, and I worked with this particular friend. Uh she was a lot of fun. We we just had fun together and uh she used to throw bread rolls at me after meals, you know, leftovers and we just had a lot of fun. But she was very sheltered, very, very sheltered And so a lot of just the normal pop culture thing that like everybody knows, she had no clue on. And I was always like, what, you don't know who Michael Jordan is? What? You don't know this? You don't know that? I was just shocked. But she was a you know great friend, uh she was a believer and anyway, uh so a friend in my life. In my other circle of friends at Youth Group, uh I tended to be kind of a a jokester, I like to try tell jokes, make people laugh. And so one of the ways that I did that in certain period of time was I would tell them about this other friend who was sheltered, you know, didn't know all these things. And so I would mock her. And I would try and get laughs at her expense. Well, at some point those two circles kind of came together and she started attending a youth group. Some of my youth group friends started working there as well. And so uh they told her at some point what I would what I had been saying about her. And so she did the very right thing, and she called me and through her tears was saying, this is what I'm hearing people that people are telling me that that you said about me. Is that true? Why would you say something like that? And God was gracious to convict me of my sin and just humble me and confess and acknowledge and ask forgiveness. I I just remember that phone call, not word for word, but uh certainly the emotions of it and uh in some senses the the physical environment where I was sitting and all that And God was gracious to uh give her the power to forgive me. She said, I forgive you. And from that moment on, except for my own personal pangs of guilt when I thought about what I had done, I never felt the consequences of that sin. But our our friendship actually grew after that. A couple years after that, a number of friends plus her planned a surprise birthday party for me at her house And we just there's I can give you multiple instances of examples of a strong, uh godly friendship. that uh grew out of that experience of I deeply sinned against her and yet she forgave me. She never once brought up what had happened. So if she struggled to forgive, if If she would look at me and feel the pangs of sorrow of what I had done, I would I'll never know. Because the Lord helped her to forgive me That's just one example of how she absorbed the debt of my sin and never, ever let me feel the consequences of my sin. Now think about this illustration. Put yourself in in this scenario. Imagine that you have someone over for dinner. And after the dinner you have a great time, your friends, and it's time for them to go home, so they walk out the door and uh they uh get in their car, we just sit there in the driveway And uh as they're uh turn on the car, put the car in gear, they accidentally put the car in drive instead of in reverse. and hit the gas, crash right into your garage door, damage it significantly, uh, where it's you know irreparable, it's not just a little bump, like it's it's broken Uh and you know you obviously you're inside the house, you hear this loud crash. So you run outside, you check on them, you make sure they're okay, you look at the garage door, you realize that's not okay. So they get out, they're of course extremely apologetic. And just I'm sorry, I'm sorry, for you know, forgive me, forgive me, you know. And they're, you know, I'll I'll help pay for it. And in the in in the kindness of your heart, you say, Oh no, no, don't worry about it, I forgive you. You know, don't worry about it, I'll take care of it. I'll take care of it That night you go to bed, obviously saddened that your garage door is busted, but you're thankful that in that moment the Holy Spirit helped you to respond graciously and generously and and you know not not accept their offer to pay for it but just to to deal with it yourself. Well, the next day You get up in the morning, have a wonderful quiet time with the Lord and His Word, and uh you're on your way out to work You walk into the garage door and there's that garage door. And you realize, I can't get to work. My car's stuck inside. That is, if you park in the garage. And You think, okay, well, you know, I forgive and then it's okay. So you make the phone calls you need to make and you find out this is gonna cost you two thousand dollars Right there, your forgiveness is tested. Do I continue to forgive? And do what I said I would do in terms of I'll cover, you know, so don't pay anything. Or do I say, hey, um, so I found out how much it was going to cost, do you think you might be able to help out a little bit Do you keep with your forgiveness or do you do you go back on that? Well, you decide, you know what, no, the Lord's going to provide. I have money and savings, I can take care of it. So you get it all fixed And everything's great. Six months later, you're starting to plan the vacation that you and your family have been saving for and longing for and talking about and You know, you're putting all the details together, you know, the travel and hotel and cost of activities, and you factor in all the numbers and you realize we are $2,000 short of what we need to do this vacation. And through tears in your eyes, you share with your family, I'm sorry, we're not going to be able to do this. We don't have enough money. Again, your forgiveness is tested. Are you going to continue to think in your heart, I'm so glad? I forgave this person. So glad I was able to show the grace of Christ and not, you know, have them pay for this damage that they caused. Or are you going to grow in bitterness in your heart? Because you know, man, if they had not done that, why would how could they be so stupid to put it and drive it on in reverse? How could I be so stupid to offer to pay for no? But then you see them as you are having this thought of we can't go on this vacation, you see them and you're tempted to become bitter In your heart toward them. Again, your your forgiveness is tested. And you realize in that moment, forgiveness is suffering. Forgiveness is death. Forgiveness is a crucifixion. It's a dying to yourself. Forgiveness doesn't feel so good anymore. Can you uh maybe uh reconcile what I think you've taught in uh biblical reconciliation class where I think you kinda got to the uh forgiven you part and you're forgiven of sort of financial debt or something like that, but also sometimes in order to achieve my uh forgiveness there needs to be some sort of action on your part to show me your uh truly regretful of what what you did. So uh maybe you don't have to do it this kind of I think there's a uh sort of this quote here kind of also goes onto the face of Sometimes to get forgiveness you actually also have to sort of show the the that you're regretful of what you actually did. Right. It's it's kind of different from this accident happening. You know it was an accident or whatever and that's when usually you're like, it was an accident. Right. But when it was like force or uh intentionally done to you then that's when you get into the more difficult of Okay. Yeah, now we get a okay, what's the repayment plan? Yeah, no, absolutely. Yeah, yeah, we do talk in that class a little bit uh about uh restitution um of when there is a material loss of the possibility that uh restitution is a uh appropriate and right as part of the reconciliation process. And I definitely set up this scenario today to avoid that. Okay, I'm just going to say you have to think of that's right. Y'all have to take the class next quarter. No, but um I I set it up the way I set it up just because that's the way I set it up. Um but the reality is it would be entirely appropriate if someone intentionally or unintentionally cause damage and they were to offer to pay for it. You know, certainly that you would hope that that would be the case. But uh but then you can choose Do you want them to do that? Do you need them to do that? Uh or or do you just want to not have that be part of the reconciliation process? In this case, the way I set it up is i it wasn't a a break in the relationship. Um but you could kinda intensify it a little bit to say, no, that they actually you know, you had an argument over dinner And so that they go out, they're thinking, Oh, I'm gonna show that, you know, bam and you know, then the rest of it's the same and you know, do you forgive that person? And you can choose to forgive them If you can actually do that in your heart genuinely and completely. Now, again, it wouldn't be wrong for you to say, hey, listen, man That wasn't right. And you know, this is here's the cost, and I really need you to cover this. Um this would be what would help make this right That wouldn't be a wrong thing to do. And if they refused and you know for whatever reason you chose not to uh not to uh remove that that concern uh that would be quite appropriate to bring to the leaders of the church and say, listen, there's this issue and and this um m material loss here that needs to be taken care of. I think that's part of what Paul is talking about in 1 Corinthians 6 The kinds of things we would normally go to a civil court, like a small claims court, uh to take care of those things, we can go to the church and say, help help us figure this out, help us uh arrive at a uh an appropriate uh solution to that this. So it's not that restitution is is wrong. Um I just didn't want to make that part of this particular scenario. So I don't know if that helps to answer your question at all, but that's that's what I was thinking there Um but e uh you know maybe just because of that, i if you can rewind the tape, make some modifications to to where actually there is anger toward each other and a broken relationship um that is this the the material is just one part of things You could very well decide, I'm going to forgive this person. I'm not going to demand that they repay me. I'm not gonna cause this to I'm not gonna allow this to stand between us in our relationship because I wanna I want to show the abundant grace of Christ. You could choose to do that Um not that you would be not that you would have to do that, but you could choose to do that as a demonstration of abundant grace. I hear you correctly. So say this is a heart, this is a relationship um hurt or whatever. Do you just keep telling yourself I forgive this person but you can't like and and just concede Yeah, so that's uh I think it's not quite as simple, but that's the right trajectory in the sense of uh it's it's not about uh vain repetition. If I just say I forgive him enough, you know the feelings will follow It's about filling your mind with truth and reminding yourself of how much you've been forgiven and praying for that person, praying for the Lord to bless that person, doing practical steps of blessing that person. Um you know, being intentional to have a at least as far as your side of the equation, uh uh a good relationship. Uh so there's multiple components that would come into uh allowing the the the feelings, if you will, to to be restored uh or improved. Um but there has to be You know, w when you're struggling with with forgiveness, when you're feeling that the pang of suffering, um, you do have to be intentional uh in thought, word, and deed uh to forgive and pursue a reconciled relationship. Uh and what happens when you when the person doesn't have that forgiveness and you Yeah. So meaning yourself. Yeah. The so one of the things we talked about in the reconciliation class is the difference between attitudinal forgiveness and transactional forgiveness. So just briefly stated, you can only have transactional forgiveness when someone asks you for forgiveness and you then forgive them as a transaction, a relational transaction. But if if they don't ask, um or and whether it's they're maybe somehow ignorant of what they've the hurt they've caused, or they're just stubborn, rebellious and they don't care. Uh we are called to cultivate an attitude of forgiveness, like, and this is we'll talk about this next week. Um Uh Jesus hung on the cross, Father forgive them, for they don't know what they're doing. Um where in our own mind, as we uh lay our heart and our burdens before the Lord in prayer We're forgiving them in our hearts so that when they do come to us, we're like, yes, I forgive you. As opposed to, I don't know, have to think about this So cultivating that heart or that attitude of forgiveness uh in in in just within our own heart, releasing them from the prison cell of of our mind, uh putting them in the in the Lord's hands for Him to deal with. so that as far as we are concerned we have nothing against them but we can't restore the relationship until they actually come and acknowledge their sin. Now there might be scenarios where like um uh um Well, w where you go and talk to them about their sin and say, I I don't know if you realize this, or you know, m maybe you know that they do and you just try and pursue restoration So that's certainly one of the options as well to see if they will confess their sin and acknowledge it and seek forgiveness. But if if for whatever reason they don't, then we should at least cultivate it in our heart. Yeah, and I think one of the things that we have to realize about the effects of unforgiveness is how it affects us. It takes away our joy. Yeah. So I I think the opposite of forgiveness or the alternative to forgiveness is bitterness. Um because even if we think in our heart, well I'm just not gonna think about it, um what that tends to do is it it boils up in our soul maybe in a less conscious way So that when we do think about it, we're, you know, maybe more upset about it than we were originally, or we're still upset about it, even if it's not more so. Uh and so to to deal with it and just cleanse ourselves from every form of bitterness we ought to have an attitude of forgiveness as well. Well just one more kind of illustration of this. Um you know I have the obviously joy and privilege to counsel a lot of couples in their marriage and one of the greatest challenges to forgiveness in marriage in particular is the fact that you can't you can't just like forgive this person and then all right we'll see you next Sunday Or we'll see you, you know, whenever. It's you have to live with this person, right? Day in and day out. You sleep in the same bed, you you you know, you're using the same bathroom and you just you're around them all the time. And so not only do you have their past sin, whatever it might be, if it was more significant than usual, but you also have their ongoing sins uh against uh you and of course your ongoing sins against them You have all of their idiosyncrasies, which part of bitterness is you you magnify their idiosyncrasies to be much bigger than they are. And so it's just a battle to forgive and move on and cultivate that heart of forgiveness. And so the only way to forgive your spouse when there's been some significant sin that's been committed is to die. It's to die to yourself. Because the opposite is is what typically happens, which is, you know, uh as couples in counseling, the husband or the wife will You know, maybe they'll both be putting forth some effort, but one perceives that they are putting in more effort than the other. Uh they're they're doing the homework, they're doing the reading, they're they're doing the actions that I'm encouraging them to do. But then they look at their spouse and and they're like, well they're not doing as much as I'm doing. And if they're not going to do it, then what's the point of me doing it, right? And that just reveals Right on the surface, I'm not doing this for God's glory, I'm doing this for some other purpose. If the broken relationship is going to move forward Healing and restoration, if if that's going to take place, at least one person in the relationship has to die. That's of course better if both die, if you both pick up your cross and follow Christ But at least one has to absorb the pain of their spouse's sins and failures and forgive not just once, but day after day after day. I think this is what Jesus means when he says, even if your brother sins against you seven times a day, forgive. I don't think he means if they sin against you in the same way seven times a day, because that definitely shows a lack of repentance. But I mean if you live with anybody you know that there's all kinds of ways we can sin against each other uh uh uh throughout a day in in multiple ways But we need to die to ourselves. We need to absorb the consequences of their sin and forgive. And I tell you, whenever I convey this principle to someone or to a couple, I get these blank stares or these wide-eyed stares coming back at me of like, what? You're asking me to do what? Are you seriously asking me to suffer like this? Well why why would we think that? Well it's because bitterness feels good to us. There's obviously a negative tinge to it, but there's also power that we feel with bitterness. But bitterness makes us feel better than the other person. It makes us feel more righteous. It makes us feel like we we know better, uh that we're the victim and therefore we have power over the other person. Forgiveness, not so much. Forgiveness makes us feel like we're underneath that person. Like we're a mat, sometimes it feels like, that we're just letting them walk all over us. uh forgiveness uh w whereas bitterness is us trying to let them feel our pain, which of course uh uh might happen is just how we treat them. Uh but forgiveness is us absorbing the pain. The problem is in the end bitterness leads to death, even eternal death. We've talked about uh that Uh if a person lives their life in unforgiveness, it may be a demonstration that they were never safe to begin with. We don't know the heart of man, but that's that's a danger to be aware of. Bitterness leads to death, whereas forgiveness leads to life and freedom And as we saw in week four, death is not the end, right? Life and power comes to those who die for Christ. And so even though we look at another person's sin, maybe our spouse, maybe someone very close to us, and we think, how can I possibly forgive them? How could I possibly allow them to quote unquote get away with their sin that they've committed against me, which, you know, isn't always what's actually happening when you forgive. But what we have to get in our minds is, yes, forgiveness is suffering. Forgiveness is death. It is crucifixion. But life comes to those who die for Christ. If I forgive the way I have been forgiven, I can experience that resurrection power of Christ, whereby he lived by the power of the Spirit, and I too can do the same and receive the blessings that come to those who follow Christ by taking up their cross. So just as the final thought, when you are on the receiving end of wrongdoing, remember That forgiveness is suffering, that it is death. But when we choose to die, we gain life and power and freedom and joy. I don't know what you all are going through. I don't know what experiences you've had in the past, ways that people have sinned against you. And so I I can understand if you hear things like this and there's just something that says, I don't know if I can do that. I don't know if I had the ability to do that. Well just know you don't have to do that on your own. Right? We're here as the people of God together to minister to one another, to encourage each other, to to comfort and strengthen and monish one another. And so don't don't feel like you have to go through uh the suffering on your own. Know that there are brothers and sisters in Christ around you who would love to uh work through your struggles with you, whether informally, just a a good brother or sister in Christ, or more formally in in a counseling type relationship. And uh and just know that the Lord will minister and care for you uh as as you seek help. Let's pray