Let's get started with a word of prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for this day that you have made. We thank you for the way you have designed the body of Christ that we are from every tribe and tongue and language and nation and that you have forged us into uh brothers and sisters because of the work of Christ. We thank you, Lord, for the opportunities that we have to worship you. We thank you for your word and yet chance we have right now to gather around your word and study it. We pray that uh through your Holy Spirit you would grant us understanding of what you're trying to teach us from your word And we pray, Lord, that we would be not just hearers of the word, but doers of the word. We pray, Lord, that your word would motivate us to proclaim the gospel. to those who so desperately need to hear it. We thank you, Lord, for your sovereignty over your creation and your sovereignty over your great plan of redemption. We thank you, Lord, for the love that it took to send Christ to die on the cross. for our sins. And we pray these things in Jesus' precious name. Amen. All right, we have arrived at the penultimate lesson, uh part thirty eight of a thirty nine part series. On Revelation. Uh so as we roll along, we're we're up to part thirty eight, as I said, we're going to talk about the believers' response to Christ's imminent return uh in this kind of middle section of chapter twenty-two. Uh what we're gonna be doing today is really an um an epilogue, it's the beginning of the epilogue to the book. So there's a prologue to the book if you remember all the way back In chapter one, there was a prologue, kind of an introduction to the book in chapter one, where John identified himself, and today we're going to see the start of the The epilogue, where John once again, for the first time since chapter one, identifies himself by name. And then we're going to get a final invitation next week. So we're going to talk about this believer's response to Christ's immunity. Return, immediate obedience, immediate worship, immediate proclamation, and immediate service is the believer's response to the fact that Christ's return is But first let's take a look back at what we did last week. So last week we looked at the capital city of heaven uh this new Jerusalem coming down out of heaven. There was uh uh not all the details that we might want, but some details of uh the new Jerusalem. So uh we have an angel uh who who uh one who's one of the seven angels that poured out the seven bowls and he speaks to John and he and he gives John essentially a toy Of the New Jerusalem. It's described as the bride of the Lamb. And he's taken up onto a high mountain to see this city. Um so there's a various descriptions of it. We we have it the fact that it's got high walls, that it's got twelve gates, there's twelve gates, uh there's three on each side, of the four sides of the city, and there's an angel Angel by there's twelve gates, there's uh there's an angel by each gate, the each gate is a giant pearl. We have uh over the gate you have the name of one of the Twelve tribes of Israel, and under it, on the foundation, you have the names of one of the twelve apostles. Um we have the so the twelve uh twelve um Tribes of Israel and the Twelve Apostles uh shows that uh that God's favor on his redeemed people, both the old covenant and under the new covenant. That's what we have here depicted in this New Jerusalem, the heavenly city. And then there's a measurement of the heavenly city. Uh it's literally it's twelve thousand stadia um which is about fourteen hundred miles. Uh sometimes some English translations like NASB put it as fifteen hundred miles, but it's literally twelve thousand stadia uh in the Greek. And so it's a big city. It's a big city because it's fourteen hundred or fifteen hundred miles on each side and it's a big square and it's also fourteen hundred miles tall. Uh then The w the walls are measured and the walls are either uh two hundred and sixteen feet high or two hundred and sixteen feet thick or both. Uh it's made of Jasper, which is uh clear stone, um and the city itself is made of pure gold, clear like glass, translucent gold. Up until this time there's always been a temple. Now there's no temple. Uh there's no reason to have a temple because everywhere we go, God is there. The the the worship of God is all pervasive And so there's no reason to go to a particular place to worship God anymore. Uh when this uh new new uh Jerusalem comes down out of heaven. Also there's no sun and there's no moon because uh God himself illumines this city. Then we have this little uh interlude where uh the nations walk by its light, the kings of the earth bring their glory in, uh there is no night, there's only day Um and we went through this uh uh this one uh translation by Thomas uh that uh uh this the theory that fits all the criteria he says that the nations are composed of safe people who survived the millennium without dying, without joining Satan's rebellion, who undergoes some sort of transformation that suits them for life in the eternal state, according to Thomas. And uh in that view, the statement that the kings of the earth will bring their glory into The New Jerusalem refers to the translation of those people before the uncreation of the present universe into uh the new heaven and the new earth. And remember throughout this particular passage that Ethnos is uh that that nations is the Greek word ethnos, that it's really people. It's not a political organization like we think of a nation. You know, one of the nations sitting at the United Nations, for example. That's not what this is s this is talking about. This is ethnos, so it's talking about peoples or people groups. And that Greek word is often translated Gentiles uh in the New Testament. Okay, um so the glory and honor of the kings and the glory and honor of the nations is uh brought into symbolically into this uh this new um new jerusalem and it's four there's a qu a clear distinction here and it's made throughout uh Revelation that it's uh it's black and white either written in the Lamb's book. Book of life, or you're not written in the Lamb's Book of Life. And those who are here in this New Jerusalem are only those whose names are written in the Lamb's Book of Life. And if you remember, all others have already been judged and thrown into the lake of fire. We we saw that at the Great White Throne judgment. Anyone who was whose name was not written in the Land's book of life has already been thrown into the lake of fire. So therefore, this is just reiterating. that the only people left are those who are written in the Lamb's Book of Life. Uh and then we at the beginning uh so then we get uh we trans transition from the end of chapter twenty one to the beginning of chapter twenty two. We get uh he actually goes the the angel takes him in his vision inside the city. So up to this point we've been looking at what it looks like from the outside. Now he sees what it looks like on the inside with the river of um the ri water river and the water of life. He's got the tree of life on on the side of either side of the river. uh with leaves and the the tree bears twelve kinds of fruit and the leaves are healing leaves. Uh this description of what it's like inside. And then he wraps up that section by saying there's no longer any curse. So the curse has been done away with. So we had the curse all the way back in Genesis after the original sin. The the the curse involves um bringing death to all mankind but it also there's a curse on the ground if you remember. And so the whole creation has been cursed all the way since Genesis and now that's been done away with. Um and of course since the curse is done away with there's no more death. Um and We also get the fact that even though there's no temple, there's still a throne. The throne of God and the Lamb is in it. Once again we get reiterated that there's no night, there's only day, because God's glorious illumination is always there. Um and then we get that uh they, those who have um um those who are written in the Lamb's book of life, will reign with him forever and ever. So that's what we did last time. We're gonna move forward into uh the epilogue. So the epilogue of the book, prologue in chapter one, epilogue starts in verse six of chapter twenty-two. So if you'll open your Bibles to Revelation chapter twenty-two We're going to start in verse six. So uh this is the shortest text that we're going to look at in one of these thirty nine lessons. Only seven verses. So Revelation chapter twenty two, beginning in verse six. And he said to me, These words are faithful and true. And the Lord, the God of the spirits of the prophets, sent his angel to show to his bondservants the things which must soon take place. And behold, I am coming quickly. Blessed is he who heeds the words of the prophecy of this book. I, John, am the one who heard and saw these things. And when I heard and saw, I fell down to worship at the feet of the angel who showed me these things. But he said to me, Do not do that I am a fellow servant of yours, and your brethren, the prophets, and of those who heed the words of this book, worship God. And he said to me, Do not seal up the words of the prophecy of this book, for the time is near. Let the one who does wrong still do wrong, and the one who is filthy still be filthy, and let the one who is righteous still practice righteousness. And the one who is holy still keep himself holy. Behold, I am coming quickly, and my reward is with me, to render to every man according to what he has done. So that's the the words of the Lord that we're going to take a look at today. As usual, I'll give you a few paragraphs of John MacArthur to tee it up. MacArthur in his introduction to this section of scripture says having taken the reader through the amazing sweep of future history all the way into the eternal state, all that is left for John is to read the to record is this divine postscript. By this point in the apocalypse all the glorious and gracious purposes that God ordained before the foundation of the world will have been attained. The devastating judgments of the tribulation will have been carried out. And their memory will remain only in the torment of the damned. The Lord Jesus Christ will have returned in blazing glory, executed his enemies, and reigned on earth for a thousand years. All rebels, both angels and humans, will have been sentenced to their Final eternal punishment in the lake of fire. The present universe will have been uncreated and the eternal new heaven and new earth created in which the King of Kings will be reigning with his Father. The holy angels and the redeemed of all the ages will be dwelling in eternal bliss with him in the new creation, particularly in heaven's capital city, the New Jerusalem. In a series of rapid fire, staccato statements that move breathlessly from theme to theme, verses six to twelve delineate the responses every believer should have to the imminent coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. These verses convey a furious rush of energy, a wild flurry of excitement excited effort to call forth the immediate reaction to the vital truth they communicate. The text is pregnant with urgency, pressuring every reader to take action based on the truths it presents. Thus John MacArthur. So let's take a look at these verses in detail. So verse 6 starts, and he said to me, these words are faithful and truth. True, and the Lord, the God of the spirits of the prophets, sent his angel to show his bondservants the things which must soon take place. So this is the epilogue Um and John records that he, the angels just been showing in New Jerusalem, uh said to me, These words are faithful. and true. So the angel's words provide kind of a heavenly verification of all that John had heard and seen during the apocalypse, during this revelation to of Jesus Christ to John, The angel saying these words are true, uh, faithful and true. So and that's the same affirmation uh that God got from that John got from God himself. Um in the previous chapter, chapter one, he who sits on the throne said, write For these words are faithful and true. That John had just heard that from the one who sits on the throne. Now he's hearing it from the angel again. And not only is John hearing them, but we're hearing them uh two thousand years later. Uh this this affirmation, attestation to these prophetic words, they're faithful and true. It's as if the Holy Spirit wants to make absolutely certain that we get this point, that these are Faithful and true words, just like all the prophecies contained in Scripture. The Old Testament ones that have already come true, and these prophecies that are still in the future. Um so it appears this phrase appears twice and twice in Revelation also as a title for the Lord Jesus Christ. We saw that in Revelation chapter three and in chapter nineteen. Jesus Christ is the described as the faithful and true. These words are described as faithful and true. And how is Jesus described in John chapter 1? The Word. So this is the the same theme here. The Word is faithful and true. Christ is faithful and true. Christ is the Word. Uh, both faithful and true. Um And so the angels' words are reinforcing this important truth to John and to us, but everything John has seen in Revelation, so it's wrapping up now He's seen all these visions throughout Revelation. And so the the angel is emphasizing here at the very end All these things are definitely going to take place. All these things you've seen. They're faithful and true. Any questions about that? Okay. Um, and so it's the God who uh moved the spirit. Of his spokesman, the prophets, to inspire everything in the Old Testament, everything in the New Testament. It's the same God who has sent the angel. to show his bondservants, believers. Uh and of course that word translated here is doulos in the Greek, which means slave, his slaves or bond servants, uh the things which must soon take place. Um and so this is a uh a a self-attestation of divine inspiration that we have here. There are many of the these in the in the Bible, but this is one another clear one. that this is divinely inspired. Uh so the prophecies recorded, of course, earlier in the Bible, uh the biblical prophets were those prophecies were literally fulfilled, and so will these prophecies here. in Revelation. So we have a perfect record. God has a perfect record of a pro perfect prophetic ref record. There are many examples. Let's just look at a few. Uh he predicted that Israel would go into captivity, and into captivity they went. He predicted the destruction of the great city of Babylon, the original city of Babylon And it was destroyed. Uh he predicted that the Messiah would be born in Bethlehem of all places. And he was born in Bethlehem. He predicted that the Messiah would be born of a virgin A ridiculous prediction that came true. Um he predicted that the Messiah would be killed by sinners, Isaiah 53, and he was. On and on and on and on, Old Testament prophecy uh came true and the same God who gave those Old Testament prophecies has given these prophecies here in the book of Revelation. And so when God predicts future events uh such as the rapture of the church, the rise of the Antichrist, the the judgments, the steel trumpet and bold judgments, uh the Battle of Marmageddon, the return of Christ, the millennial kingdom, when he when he prophesies these things, we have a a hundred percent track record to fall back on to say, yes, these things will definitely happen. And that's what we're being told here in the epilogue to this book. And then verse seven, uh and behold I am coming quickly. Blessed is he who heeds the words of the prophecy of this book. So what has happened here is we have a change of speaker. So it was an angel. But now this is not an angel. I am coming quickly. That's not the angel. That's Jesus. And so uh we have a Greek word kai And which marks a change of speakers. The speaker is no longer the angel who spoke in verse 6. It's the Lord Jesus Christ, the one who is. coming quickly. We have a couple of these changes of speakers and I'll I'll show you as we go along here in this small sampling of scripture. So it starts with an angel and then Christ comes in And gives like a c a little bit of a parenthetical expression here. He pronounces a beatitude. As I mentioned before, there are seven beatitudes, and this is number six. So before we've already had one and Chapter one, chapter fourteen, chapter sixteen, chapter nineteen. Uh we we have um one in chapter twenty And now this one is number six in the beginning of chapter twenty-two. Number seven is later in chapter twenty-two, verse fourteen. And this particular beatitude, blessed is he who heeds the words. of the prophecy of this book. So this is wrapping up, remember this uh this book and first there's an attestation that it is divine, divinely inspired and prophecy, and then there's a blessing. Just put on here. Blessed is he who heeds the words of the prophecy of this book. So everybody from John's day to now And into the future, uh, should the Lord tarry, uh, is blessed by reading these words, uh, and heeding these words, not just reading the words, but heeding the words of the prophecy of this book. Um and we've got uh this phrase uh three other times the words of this book, Revelation. Uh they're called prophecies in uh verse ten, verse eighteen, and verse nineteen. Um and the prophecy prophecy of course the technical definition of it can refer to uh a message from God about past, present, or future. This book, of course, is largely consisting of future predictions and promises. Uh Heeds here uh translates a participle form of the verb terail, uh which means to keep, to hold fast or to guard That same Greek word in chapter 14 uh is used to describe the perseverance of the saints who keep the commandments of God and their faith in Christ. They hold fast to it. Um that's the same word here. Uh holding fast. To keep, hold, guard. Uh that's what heed means here. So So we're told to heed these words. We're told to to keep guard, hold fast the words of this prophecy in this book. Uh that's what the that Greek word is telling us. Uh so we're called to guard or protect the book of Revelation. Uh it must be defended against detractors who deny its relevance, against critics who deny its truth or authority, as well as confused interpreters who obscure its meaning. So hold fast, heed. the words of this book. That's what we're being told here. But we're taught not only to guard scripture, but also to obey it. Jesus, especially in John 14 and 15, on uh several occasions, he says, variations of this: if you love me, you will keep my commandments. Uh if you keep my commandments, you will abide my comments. love just as I have kept my father's commandments and abide in his love. So obeying scripture is absolutely critical for the follower of Christ. Um and so then the question arises, what does it mean to hear heed for uh believers to heed the words of revelation. Um so before this there are no specific commands addressed to Christians in the parts covering future events. So we had from chapter four to chapter twenty-two we have all these visions of future events. There's there are no commands to present believers in those sections of scripture. There were in the sections about the churches. There are commands in Jesus' letters to the churches. And now we get more commands at the end here. So the prologue and the epilogue, the beginning and the end have commands to present believers. And one of them is to heed these words. So what does it mean then to heed? Uh it seems like it's a general command to long for Christ's return for our uh eternal fellowship with them, to to be fixing our eyes on the author and perfector of our faith, to keeping our minds and eyes on heaven, on heavenly things, not on on worldly things. It calls in believers to desire heaven, to desire holiness, to desire to see Christ triumphant over his enemies, to desire the lifting of the curse. and desire the glories of Christ's earthly kingdom to come and the new heaven and the new earth. So God is not commanding us to heed these words merely to satisfy our curiosity about the future. It's easy to get wrapped up in the details. Um and so uh our brother Henry was asking a question in in I think in that direction is There's all these wonderful details and there's these uh rabbit holes that you could go down. But what's the real point? The real point is to fix our eyes on Christ. And where is Christ? Well he's everywhere, but he's in heaven. And he's preparing a place for us. And we get a description here in Revelation of what that place is like. And Christ has told us during his earthly ministry that we're supposed to be looking towards that. So here's a little bit of a description. of that and so this is something that we can hold on to. We can heed, we can grasp, we can um we can make it a part of um our our daily uh our how how do we view life now? We view life now in light of what we see in heaven. Um but so uh for example, for me to live as Christ, to die is gain. Do we really believe that? Do you really believe that to die is gain? Uh well we've got a glimpse of what heaven's like. Um and it makes it it fits. It fits. If heaven is as glorious and wonderful as we've got this this glimpse of, then that that puts some um that gives us some um additional it gives a d additional proof to that text that to me