I would invite you to turn in your Bible with me to John chapter 8 as we turn our attention to the Word of God. Our text for today is John chapter 8. Verses 12 to 20 as we continue the study that we began last week. I'm going to try something a little bit new this morning. Uh just kind of on a whim, I've been thinking about this for a while, but I sent our uh A V team a few slides that would give just a high level outline for the message this morning. So if you're a note taker, uh it's not necessarily a complicated outline, but perhaps It may be helpful and I'd be certainly glad to receive any feedback of uh whether it's helpful or distracting or whatever it might be. Last time we considered the proclamation and the promise that Jesus gave here in John chapter 8, verse 12. And today t uh today we'll finish by looking at the proof of the claim of Jesus. But let's Pray once again to set our minds on the Lord. Lord, here we are once again. Ready to sit under the teaching of your word. This is an act By me as the preacher, by our church family, as the listeners, that cannot be done with positive effect unless you are in it. We need you, Holy Spirit, to illumine our minds and invigorate our hearts, to increase our love and bring clarity to our eyes. And work whatever change each one of us here needs. Whatever distractions might be in us, in our minds, or around us. Lord, cause our hearts to be focused on you so that we might see Christ. In his name we pray. Amen. Among other gods, the Egyptians worshipped Ra, the sun god. Ra was not the God over the Sun, he was effectively the Son. And they believed that as the Son, he was the creator. And the sustainer of life. They believed that every day when the sun came up Ra would make his way across the universe on a barge, and he would traverse the sky, if you will. And then at the end of each day he would descend into the dark world at sunset, and he would do battle with Apophys. I don't know if that's how that's pronounced. But uh Apophys was the giant serpent who wanted to destroy life, and the way to destroy life was to prevent the sun from rising again. But day in and day out Ra would have victory over Apophis, and the sun would rise again. When Moses and Aaron came to Pharaoh, they commanded him to let the people of Yahweh go. And Pharaoh said, Who is the Lord that I should obey his voice and let his people go? The Lord said, You want to know who I am? The Lord told Pharaoh who he was, not in words, but by exercising authority, power, and judgment over the pantheon of gods. of Egypt. And the second to last plague, Yahweh demonstrated his power over the sun. Exodus 10, verse 21 says, Then the Lord said to Moses, Stretch out your hand toward the heavens that there may be darkness over the land of Egypt, a darkness to be felt. So Moses stretched out his hand toward heaven, and there was a pitch there was pitch darkness in all the land of Egypt three days. They did not see one another, nor did any one rise from his place for three days. But all the people of Israel had light where they lived. This was not an extended night like our friends in Alaska might experience. This was not a supernaturally extended eclipse, which would be experienced all over the world. The sun was not blocked This darkness was a supernatural suspension of natural laws that prevented direct and indirect light from being seen by the Egyptians. It was not merely a lack of light, but a foreboding presence of darkness. When it says a darkness to be felt, it literally means a darkness you can touch. It was darkness, it was so pervasive, it seems, that not even fire would provide light. They were in pitch darkness for three days. It's as if there was a dome over the land where the Egyptians lived. where light particles could not pass through that dome. The the sun shone in its full strength above them And the Israelites had light, but the is uh the Egyptians could not see. This is a picture of the experience of humanity. All people are born with a heart enveloped in darkness. There's both the blindness that is experienced by everyone who is born into the domain of darkness, as Colossians 1:13 refers to the natural condition of mankind. There is a compounded darkness by those who worship false gods, speaking of idols that have eyes but cannot see. Psalm 118 ver or rather 115 verse 8 It says, those who make them become like them, so do all who trust in them So if you worship an idol that has eyes but cannot see, you will become like that idol and not see. On top of that, there is the blindness imposed by the God of this world, as it talks about in Second Corinthians four four. And then sometimes God purposefully blinds people's hearts to the truth. Jesus said to the disciples, To you it has been given to know the secrets of the kingdom of God, but for the others They are in parables, so that seeing they may not see, and hearing they may not understand. When someone rejects the good news of Jesus Christ that the forgiveness of sin and reconciliation with God and eternal life are freely offered. by that very God who loved the world that he gave his only son that whoever believes would not perish. When someone rejects that good news, it's not because they're unintelligent It's not because you didn't explain it clearly enough or you didn't offer enough evidence or arguments. No, it is because the light of the glory of the gospel of Jesus Christ has not penetrated into their heart. As Paul says in 2 Corinthians 4. 3, even if our gospel is veiled, it is veiled to those who are perishing. This is as true today as it was true for the Pharisees and the many Jews Who were with Jesus in the temple on the last day of the Feast of Booze here in John 8. Though the light of the world stood in front of them, They could not see his glory. And so they challenged him. That's what we see here. In this passage, and we see how Jesus responds to their challenge. Now follow along as I read John chapter 8, verses 12 through 20. Again Jesus spoke to them, saying, I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. So the Pharisees said to him. You are bearing witness about yourself. Your testimony is not true. Jesus answered, Even if I do bear witness about myself, my testimony is true. For I know where I came from and where I am going. But you do not know where I come from or where I am going. You judge according to the flesh, I judge no one. Yet even if I judge My judgment is true, for it is not I alone who judge, but I am the Father who sent me. In your law it is written that the testimony of two people is true. I am the one who bears witness about myself and The Father who sent me bears witness about me. They said to him, therefore, Where is your father? Jesus answered, You know neither me nor my father. If you knew me, you would know my father also. These words he spoke in the treasury as he taught in the temple. But no one arrested him because his hour had not yet come. Last week we learned about the temple lighting ceremony where at the end of the first day of the feast of Booze uh these massive uh these four massive candelabras in the temple would be lit. These were seventy-five foot tall pillars, if you will, each topped with four bowls filled with oil, and they would be lit and cast light on the entire city of Jerusalem. And of course they could be visible from far and wide Those lights represented the days long ago when the glory of God dwelled in the temple Due to Judah turning the temple effectively into a mall of idolatry for the various gods of the nations, the glory of God departed from the temple. And soon after that, the Babylonians came as God's servants to pour out his wrath on the people of Judah, and they destroyed that defiled temple. Many decades later, with the permission of Cyrus, the people of Judah returned back to the land. They rebuilt the temple, re-established the the true worship of God according to the Mosaic Law. They began once again the feast of booths. But the glory of God did not return to the temple. So now by the time of Jesus, it has been centuries. Since the temple has been rebuilt and yet it has been void of the presence of God. And so the lighting ceremony looked back to that day, remembering when God's presence through his glory was in the temple. The lighting ceremony also looked forward to the coming of the Messiah. The scripture said that the Messiah would bring light to the world. For example, Isaiah 49, verse 6 records God speaking to the Messiah, saying, Is it too light a thing that you should be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob and to bring back the preserved of Israel I will make you as a light for the nations that my salvation may reach to the end of the earth. The people of Israel embraced and celebrated the fact that the Messiah would bring light into the darkness. But they largely ignored the fact that this light would extend to the nations. They became so focused on desiring independence from the nations that they forgot that God had intended for them to be a light to the nations. This is not unlike how we tend to focus on how our lives have not worked out the way that we had thought, and instead instead of focusing on how the Lord places us in the various circumstances of our life so that we would shine his light to those around us. Well, the Messiah would do what Israel failed to do. He would not only bring the light to Israel, but his light would then be cast throughout the world, as Isaiah says, so that his salvation Would reach the end of the earth. Now, with that in mind, look at the proclamation that Jesus makes. Look at it again there at verse 12. Jesus says, I am the light of the world. I am the light of the world. In the temple with the Pharisees surrounding him, Jesus declares himself to be the long-awaited Messiah. And as we saw last week, as the light of the world, he brings the life of God to those who are dead in their sin. He reveals God to the ignorant He is the presence of God in the earth. He brings knowledge and wisdom to the naive, and he guides those who follow him. Now two months later, at the Feast of Dedication, Jesus will say in John chapter or rather John chapter ten says this little interaction with Jesus and the Jews, it says the Jews gathered around him and said to him, How long will you keep us in suspense? If you are the Christ, tell us plainly. And Jesus said, I told you. And you did not believe. And you can ask, when did Jesus tell them that he is the Christ? Well, there's no instance where he says, I am the Christ. But there's multiple instances, such as our text, where he effectively says, I am the Christ, by saying, I am the light of the world, or in John 10, I am the good shepherd. Or I am the bread of life, or I am the giver of living waters. In all these ways, Jesus made it clear that he is the Messiah. Notice here that Jesus says, I am the light of the world Though God chose the nation of Israel, Israel was really to be a conduit of salvation for the world. God promised in his covenant with Abraham, through you All the families of the earth shall be blessed. Genesis 12. 3. And then, many centuries later When he was giving the new covenant, the Lord said, The nations will know that I am the Lord, declares the Lord God, when through you, through the people of Israel, I vindicate my holiness before your eyes. Israel was looking for a Messiah to focus on them. Jesus, as Messiah, came for the world. In fact, when Mary and Zechariah sang their beautiful songs in Luke chapter 1 at the uh news of the Messiah coming and ultimately the birth of John the Baptist and also the of Christ, Zechariah sang The sunrise shall visit us from on high to give light to those who sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, to guide our feet to the way of peace. Both he and Mary focused on God's fulfillment of his promises to his people in the Messiah, which was entirely right to do. But then When Mary and Joseph brought Jesus to be dedicated at the temple, and they encountered Simeon, this man Simeon expanded the purpose of Christ and said You have prepared in the presence of all peoples speaking to the Lord. You have prepared in the presence of all peoples a light for revelation to the Gentiles and for glory to your people. Jesus is a light, not just to Jews, but praise the Lord, to the world. This is why we support missionaries around the world and why we send teams to far-off places, why we go on trips. It is because nations need to hear that Jesus is the light of the world. And they need to hear it not just once, but in every generation. What might once have been a center of gospel light, like Europe at the Reformation, can sometimes become dark and cold like Europe today. Sometimes where the gospel has reached places in the past like Africa, it has been distorted by false gospels like the prosperity gospel. Sometimes, even where the gospel not only has been preached, but continues to be preached rightly, the church needs to be equipped and built up and trained in a deeper understanding of the Word of God. And so we give and we send and we go, so that the light of Christ not only shines around us and through us in our lives today, but through us to the world. It will naturally be that wherever the light is, it will give its most powerful light in its nearest vicinity for us and our Jerusalem here in Howard County and surrounding counties. But our light, even the light of Hope Bible Church, should be seen far and wide. Because Jesus is not just the light of us. He is the light of the world. Notice also the promise that Jesus makes here. I am the light of the world, he says in verse 12. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. For those who follow Jesus, which means to believe in Jesus, to submit your will to him, being ready to go wherever he leads. Jesus promises that he will not, no not ever, that the person who follows him will not ever walk in darkness. This doesn't mean that we will never sin. This doesn't mean that we will never do the kinds of things that those who live in darkness do. Rather, this promise is that his light will never be taken from us. Think of it this way: once the sunrise from on high shines on us, it will never set, leaving us in the dark. No, true as that may be that word picture isn't perhaps the most accurate because it places the light outside of us The promise is not merely that we won't walk in darkness because the light around us won't be turned off. It is that we won't walk in darkness because his light will be in us. Jesus says here, He will have the light of life. And just as the life of God cannot be snuffed out, neither can his light in us be taken away. Friends, Jesus doesn't promise a religion where you have to go to a particular place to meet God, or where you have to perform certain rituals to appease God, or where you have to talk to a priest. To hear from God. Now he promises to be with you and even more than that, to be in you. He promises that he will make himself known to you through his word. He promises that his life will invigorate you, empowering you to walk in his ways. He promises to guide you and give you wisdom in life. He promises to give you a confident hope and a peace that transcends circumstances. He promises to give you joy and satisfaction beyond what this world can offer Just as the light of the sun makes all things clear, so his light enables you to see with clarity and live with confidence in him. Jesus promises In Isaiah 42, verse 16, I will lead the blind in a way they do not know, in paths that they have not known. I will guide them. I will turn the darkness before them into light and rough places into level ground. These are the things that I do, and I do not forsake them. Pre-incarnately as the Messiah. This is not a promise, of course, of a trouble-free life. It was not easy for Israel to walk around in the desert for 40 years. But it is a promise that just as with Israel, the Lord will protect us and provide for us and direct us. As I said earlier in my prayer, he will never allow anything into our lives which he does not intend for our good. That's what he will do for you if you will believe and follow him. Well, that brings us to the proof. Look at verse 13. Jesus makes this glorious declaration and promise. Verse 13: So the Pharisees said to him, You are bearing witness about yourself. Your testimony is not true. So, in response to Jesus' claim that he is the light of the world, not only of the Jews, but of the nations. The Pharisees try to reject his claim on procedural grounds. They disqualify him automatically. Notice that they don't ask what he means, because they know what he means. They don't even ask questions to try to discern if he is in fact the light of the world. They simply make a statement of objection. In fact, if you look throughout this chapter, it's an extended dialogue between Jesus and these Pharisees, but it's a very unbalanced dialogue. Jesus himself does most of the talking. If you have a red letter Bible, you see that quite easily But from time to time, the Pharisees will break in with either a question to challenge Jesus or a statement to either deny what he's saying or to defend themselves. At no point in this conversation do they show the most meager, sincere interest in truth. In fact, so clear is Jesus' self-revelation, and so profound is their rejection that this chapter ends in verse 59 with the Pharisees picking up stones to kill Jesus. That's the trajectory of this conversation. But it begins here where after Jesus declares himself to be the light of the world. Their abject dismissal of his claim comes to the fore. Again, they say in verse 13, you are bearing witness about yourself, your testimony is not true. Now, maybe you're familiar with the law of Moses, where it says that a minimum of two or three witnesses is required to establish the guilt of somebody who's charged with wrong. Deuteronomy 19, 15 says, A single witness shall not suffice against a person for any crime or for any wrong in connection with an offense he has committed. Only on the evidence of two or three witnesses shall a charge be established. And that rule was especially applied in cases of capital punishment where a guilty verdict would lead to someone's death. That is a just law, and it's carried forward into the New Testament in examples where Jesus gives instructions, for example, in how the church is to deal with sin. that there needs to be a minimum of two or three witnesses before the final process of church discipline is carried out. Or in 1 Timothy 5. 19, in how to handle elders who are being accused of sin But as was often the case, the Pharisees twisted the Word of God and extrapolated from that principle the idea that if two or three witnesses are necessary to establish guilt then a person shouldn't be able to testify on their own behalf on virtually any matter. In fact, the Mishnah, which is the record record of the rabbinic tradition written down around 200 A. D. It includes an entire section of case law specifically dealing with the question of who do you believe in a variety of cases. And it could get really silly. For example, they say this. And so two men, brings up two men, here's a case. One of them says, I am a priest. And that one says, I am a priest. Don't believe them. Or literally, they are not believed. But if they give evidence to each other, Lo, they are believed. So you can't declare yourself a priest, but you can ask your friend, hey, just say I'm a priest, and that counts. Well, that principle seems to be at work in the mind of the Pharisees here. In their minds, Jesus has no legal standing to declare himself to be the Messiah, regardless of the evidence for that claim. So they deny him, not so much on the claim itself, but on the technicality that he's making the claim about himself. Now obviously that's a smokescreen. This is about as flimli flimsy as of an excuse as one can give. Because by this point in Jesus' ministry The evidence for his claim has been well established. Though most of his ministry was carried out in the northern area of Galilee. He taught and healed and performed miracles all over the place and wherever he went, whatever he was doing, word about what he was doing spread everywhere. But, as is true for many people today, the Pharisees never let the evidence get in the way of their unbelief. Clearly, their response is a foolish one designed to mask unbelief under the curtain of supposed concern for the law. Jesus here responds with piercing wisdom. Proverbs 26, 4-5 says, Answer not a fool according to his folly, lest you be like him yourself. Answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own eyes. In other words, wisdom is needed to discern when to engage with a fool, answering their questions, responding to their objections And when to ignore a fool, lest you fall into the rabbit hole of their irrational mind and become like them, wasting time. Part of discerning what do you do in a given situation would be to consider the impact on others And I think Jesus is mindful here that as he engages with the Pharisees, they are surrounded by a crowd of men and women whose focus and attention is on Jesus and what he says. And so I suspect that Jesus says as much as he does more for the sake of the crowd around them than for the Pharisees themselves. Well, what does Jesus say? He effectively makes two basic arguments. First, he argues that their ignorance does not invalidate the truth. Their ignorance does not invalidate the truth. And second, he argues that he does in fact meet their legal standard of proof. Consider the first here. Their ignorance does not invalidate the truth. Look at verse 14. And Jesus answered. Even if I do bear witness about myself, my testimony is true. For I know where I come from and where I am going, but you do not know where I come from or where I am going. In this statement, Jesus does not submit himself to their standard, but instead asserts himself as the standard of truth. His knowledge of himself is the basis for determining the truth. Now, at first glance, this principle would seem to be a generally true statement for all of us When you introduce yourself to someone, it's not generally socially acceptable for us to challenge each other when we tell each other our names. I mean just imagine if you are a visitor here today and you go to the welcome center after the service. And you say, hi, my name is so-and-so, and they say, prove it. What would you think? Well, probably we would all think the same thing. That's the last time I'm ever going to that church. But in actual fact, this principle only applies when the stakes are low, and there's an acceptable risk of being deceived about somebody's identity. When the stakes are high, people are not allowed to give their own verbal testimony to themselves. Think of all the situations where you have to present evidence of your identity. When you go to the airport, when you rent a car, when you buy all kinds of things from a house to cold medicine, when you get a job, for many of you. Or actually many of us to get into this building, just to get into your job you have to prove your identity. So in many situations, we actually don't have the ability to give uh self-attestation to our identity and be accepted. But Jesus here is claiming the authority to be the proof of his own claim. And what's the basis of that? It's the basis that he knows his origin and he knows his destination. He knows that he came from God And he knows that he's going to God. John 13, 3 says, Jesus, knowing that the Father had given all things into his hand, and that he had come from God, and was going back to God, and then he goes on to tell us about how he washed the disciples' feet. Jesus knew that he came from God and that he was going back to God. He knew his heavenly origin and he knew his heavenly destination. He knew that his life did not begin at conception because he descended from the throne of God The Son of God was sent by the Father in the likeness of human flesh to accomplish the eternal plan of redemption. And he knew that once he finished that, uh, what he had come to accomplish, that his life would not end in the grave. But he would ascend in his body back to the right hand of the Father in heaven. Unlike us, who do not know what will happen in the next second, Jesus knew the end from the beginning. I was recently reading about Old Testament prophecy, and one author made an interesting distinction between foretelling and predicting People predict the future all the time, but they have no ability to control it. People predict the future of the economy, stocks, sports, businesses, weather. Even the most educated predictions cannot ensure that they happen. That's not what God does. It's not what Jesus did when he says, I know where I'm going. If I were to tell you I'm going to pound the pulpit. Is that impressive? Of course not. Because I'm only telling you what I intend to do with what I have control over. That's exactly what God does. He doesn't tell us what he thinks will happen in the future. What he hopes will happen in the future. Jesus here isn't guessing where he's going. He knows where he's going. And when you have perfect knowledge like Jesus does, you don't need anyone to testify on your behalf. What you say is true on the basis of who you are. On the other hand, Jesus says here, you do not know where I come from or where I am going. Verse 15, he says, you judge according to the flesh. In other words, Jesus is saying, you don't know me, you don't know my past or my future. The only basis on which you're able to judge is by what you see. To judge according to the flesh simply means to judge based on your physical senses, what you can see and what you can hear and perhaps what you can touch. And so the fact that they are ignorant of what is beyond their senses does not invalidate what is true and real. Perhaps there may be no greater sign of the sinful nature than when a person demands that God reveal himself through their physical senses in order for them to believe in him. This demand is foolish for one thing because first of all they exist They have physical senses, they have a rational mind, and they're able to think about God. And that itself is a proof that God exists. They are the proof that they demand. Because every explanation of the existence of humanity, whether it be evolution or seeding by aliens or whatever else, every other explanation is irrational compared to God's explanation. Well, these Pharisees, along with unbelievers, confronted with the glory of God in creation and the glory of God in the person and work of Jesus Christ, they reject the truth because though they see the evidence with their eyes, They are blinded to the reality of it. Again, first or rather, Second Corinthians 4 4 says, in their case, the God of this world has blinded the minds of unbelievers to keep them from seeing the gospel of the Or rather, seeing the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God. Now, all people are made in the image of God, but Jesus is the image of God. And so if an image bearer is proof of God's existence, how much more is Jesus, the image of God, proof of himself? Well, there's another reason that Jesus' words can stand on their own and are true, regardless of the ignorance of others. Look again at the end of verse 15. Jesus says, I judge no one. I judge no one. This statement has to be understood in the context of what he has just said. So he's effectively saying, I don't judge the way you judge. I don't judge based according to the flesh, based on outward appearances. He doesn't judge based on what people say. And in that sense he can say, I judge no one. Now he might also be meaning that he is not judging or he does not judge because that is not the purpose for which He came. In fact, he'll say in chapter 12, verse 47, If anyone hears my word and does not keep them, I do not judge him. For I came, I did not come to judge the world, but to save the world. Jesus came the first time to save, to give his life as a ransom for many. He did not come That first time to judge those who rejected him. Now when he comes again, that's a different matter altogether. But at least in his first coming, his purpose was not to judge. And perhaps that may be some of what Jesus means when he says, I judge no one. Now having said that, if Jesus were to judge, his judgment would be true because his judgment would be done in collaboration with God the Father. That's what he says there in verse 16. Look at it. He says, yet even if I do judge, my judgment is true. For it is not I who judge alone, but I and the Father who sent me. Now once again Jesus brings to bear his relationship with the Father. Remember that back in John chapter 5. Jesus gave an extended defense of his identity and he emphasized in that passage his relationship to the Father. In fact, flip back just a few pages to chapter 5 to look at verses 18 to 23 with me so we remind ourselves what he said there. Verses eighteen to twenty-three of John chapter five, it says this is why the Jews were seeking all the more to kill him because Not only was he breaking the Sabbath, but he was even calling God his own father, making himself equal with God. So Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, the Son can do nothing of his own accord, but only what he sees the Father doing. For whatever the Father does, that the Son does likewise. For the Father loves the Son and shows him all that he himself is doing, and greater works than these will he show him, so that you may marvel. For as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, so also the Son gives life to whom he will. For the Father judges no one, but has given all judgment to the Son, that all may honor the Son just as they honor the Father Whoever does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent him Because the Lord had not revealed his triune nature to the Jews prior to the coming of Jesus, the Jews were particularly sensitive to anyone who would make claims of deity In their mind, to be equal with God was in effect to claim or to set oneself up as a second God. And that's why they were trying to kill Jesus, because they thought he was committing the highest act of blasphemy. And so in response, Jesus didn't correct their perception that he was claiming to be evil with God. They were right about that. Instead, he corrected their conclusion that he was setting himself up as a God separate from the God of Israel. The concept of God the Father and God the Son and God the Holy Spirit, one God in three persons, one es one in essence, nature, and glory, and three in personality. That that was foreign to them. Now, if they had thought about it, they would see that and realize that everything Jesus claimed about himself was entirely consistent with how the Old Testament speaks of the the Word of God and the Spirit of God and the angel of the Lord and so on. But as I said earlier, they would never let the evidence get in the way of their unbelief. So Jesus here in John 5 explains, at least in part, his relationship, how his relationship to the Father shows that he's not another God. Or in any way in competition with God. Instead, He exists and speaks and works in complete unity and harmony with the Father. Now coming back to John chapter 8, verse 16, whether or not these particular Pharisees were there at that moment when Jesus made those uh gave those explanations of his relationship with the Father. Jesus appeals to that same reality of his relationship to the Father. And so the Father, in this particular sense, is not an external witness on behalf of Jesus, but Jesus Rather, it is Jesus' complete unity with the Father that certifies the truth of his words. That's the first argument that Jesus makes. Their ignorance of Jesus does not invalidate the truth. His testimony, his self-declaration is true on the basis of who he is and his relationship to the Father. The second argument is that though he doesn't need additional proof, he actually does meet their standard of proof. Look at verses 17 and 18. Jesus goes on to say, In your law it is written that the testimony of two people is true. I am the one who bears witness about myself, and the Father who sent me bears witness about me. And Jesus effectively says, not only can you not reject my claim on the basis of its own merit, but you can't reject my testimony on the merit of your own law. The Pharisees have cried out, objection! Not enough witnesses. And Jesus says, overruled. Your objection is invalid. Notice how Jesus says here in verse 17, your law. Most interpreters assume that Jesus is referring to the law of Moses, so they wonder, is Jesus distancing himself from From the law of Moses. That of course would be highly unusual since Jesus constantly affirms and upholds the law of Moses as the Word of God. So there's a couple possibilities here. It's possible that he is indeed referring to the law of Moses, but he's not intending to distance himself from it. Rather, he's forcing them to reckon with the reality that the very law that they claim to hold he adheres to. But I believe it's more likely that he's not referring to the Mosaic Law at all. First of all, Every time the Pharisees tried to charge Jesus with breaking the law, it wasn't so much the breaking of the Mosaic Law they charged him with, but rather the breaking of their traditions. And so Jesus, in response, would charge them with subverting the law of God by elevating their own traditions above the law of God. Second, in their charge in verse 13 that his testimony of himself is not a biblic is not a biblical argument. There's nothing in the law of Moses that teaches the testimony of two witnesses is true. They're not applying the law of Moses to Jesus. They are applying their own tradition. And then third, while there is no direct statement in the Mishnah itself that the testimony of two people is true. From the sections that I read, uh which I give you an example from on how they thought about the testimonies that people would give, it would be accurate to say that As a summary of their law, that the testimony of two people is true. That would be an accurate statement of their mindset. And so whether Jesus is referring to the law of Moses or whether he's referring to their Jewish tradition, his point is the same. No matter what standard you put And apply to me, my testimony is true. Notice again verse 18. I am the one who bears witness about myself, and the Father who sent me bears witness About me. Now it's obvious how Jesus bears witness about himself. He simply declares, I am the light of the world. How does the Father bear witness about him? How does God the Father publicly testify that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, the light of the world? Well, there are several ways which Jesus doesn't go into here, or at least it's not recorded for us, but we can certainly see them in other places. First of all, God the Father testified to the identity of Jesus through John the Baptist, who was a prophet of God, where John the Baptist declared, speaking under the power of the Holy Spirit, he pointed to Jesus and said, This is the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. A second, God the Father testified to the identity of Jesus by declaring from heaven publicly, when Jesus rose out of the waters of baptism, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. Third, the Father testified to Jesus' identity by empowering him to perform signs and wonders from healing the sick to casting out demons to raising the dead to controlling the weather to creating food. out of nothing. All of those evidences were publicly known and available to both the people of Israel and these Pharisees who were there at the Feast of Booth. None of that was secret. Now from our standpoint, after the cross, after the resurrection, the most significant testimony that the Father gave as to the identity of Jesus happened six months after this conversation. And that is when the Father raised Jesus from the dead. He demonstrated his approval of his life, his claims, and his sacrifice. There cannot be any greater proof of the identity of Jesus than what the Father. Now there are many here to there are many in the world today who would, in so many words, describe themselves as a seeker of truth. They are searching for God, they say. They are investigating religions of the world to see and find ultimate reality. However, someone might phrase it, they're on a quest for the eternal and the divine. And I just want to say, my friend, if that describes you, you will not find anyone. In history around the world, who has made the claims that Jesus made. And you will not find anyone in history or around the world who has demonstrated the proof of his claims through his actions. And you will not find anyone in history or around the world who has the substantial proof of their claims even by others and God himself. So let Jesus speak for himself. Let the abundance of the evidence prove to you that there's nothing more real or more ultimate than Jesus, who is the Christ. The Son of God. Friend, don't be like the Pharisees who, here again, despite the evidence, display their unbelief. Look at verse 19. They said to him, therefore, Where is your father? Jesus says, My father testifies or bears witness about me, and they asked, Where is your father? Now it's hard to tell here if they are feigning ignorance of the location of his father, or if they're mocking him, or if they're really thinking that he's referring to his earthly father who might be somewhere else Back in chapter seven, verse twenty-seven, some of the people there in uh Jerusalem, there at the Feast of Booth, said, We know where this man comes from. They know that even though Jesus And his family lived in Capernaum that they he had grown up in Nazareth, so he was known as Jesus of Nazareth. And Peter even calls him that when he gave his first sermon in Acts 2, and when he testified before the Sanhedrin in Acts 4. So the fact that Jesus was from Nazareth was well known, his family was well known. And it was likely known by now that Joseph, his earthly adopted father, was no longer alive. So, what exactly they meant by where is your father is unclear. But here's what is clear. They didn't believe. They didn't believe Jesus, so they just threw up another smokescreen. Well, instead of answering their question, Jesus brings this part of the conversation to a close. In verse 19, by saying, You know neither me nor my father. If you knew me, you would know my father also. Jesus had taught the Word of God. He had done the works of God. He had accepted the worship of God. He had taken the names of God. There is nothing more that he can do than he had already done to make clear who he is and his relationship with the Father. And so his point is: if you can't look at me and recognize God, then you know neither me nor God. And so with this question he chooses, or rather with his answer, he chooses not verse twenty. But no one arrested him because his hour had not yet come. It's not that they didn't want to arrest him, they were desperate to arrest him. But God ensured that they that they were restrained from doing what their hearts wanted because it didn't fit with his perfect timetable. That would have to wait for another six months. Well, what are we to take from this? There's a variety of things we could take. But for today, just consider the words of Jesus in John chapter 3, verse 19. He says, And this is the judgment. The light has come into the world. And people loved the darkness rather than the light because their works were evil. We've seen that here in the religious leaders' response to Jesus. They loved their darkness, so they rejected the light. We've seen that principle. Work itself out in the history of the world as mankind has rejected Christ over and over again. And many of us have seen that principle worked out in our families, in our workplace, among our friends. Where the light has been presented time and again, and yet they choose the darkness. My friends, don't uh whether you go around the world to proclaim the gospel Or whether you shine your light to those around you here, don't be discouraged when people don't embrace the light when you proclaim it and live it. If they didn't accept Jesus when he was standing right in front of them, we shouldn't be surprised that they would reject us when we shine his light. All we're called to do is exactly what Jesus did. Shine his light. Speak the truth. So whether and when God chooses to open open someone's eyes and cause the light to penetrate into their heart, that's that's up to him. We're simply to be faithful to live and speak so that God can take our efforts and use them according to his will. Be a light and let God do his work. Let's pray As we pray, if you're serving the Lord's Supper, you can come in preparation. Father, we thank you for This passage which sets our mind on this glorious truth that Jesus is the light of the world It's really impossible to say all that could be said, even all that is contained within the scripture on this principle, in this reality. But Lord, work in each one of us according to what we need. Lord, I would ask that you would cause us, the Hope Bible Church family. To burn for Christ brightly, that we would be examples of the life of Christ to those around us, that we would not bring repute on his name. But that we would display his character, show his love, demonstrate his grace and mercy and compassion. You know, through us, the world, whether they are across the street or across the planet, would know that Jesus is the light of the world. Lord, even now as we prepare to remember your sacrifice, cause us to celebrate in our hearts. And rejoice at your work, which has transformed us for your sake. In your name we pray. Amen.