My name is Carrie Weaver and I come from Baltimore Bible Church and there are some other sisters here from our church and I'm really thankful for that and I'm thankful for hope for having this conference and for having us all here today. I think you probably re read my bio. I'm married to a wonderful man and we have six children and um I get to serve and help out and multi-revival in lots of ways. And um When Laura had emailed us some of us um breakout speakers um about the different topics to speak on, you know, I saw the list and they were trying to aim for the attributes of God to um complement what Martha was going to be teaching on And I saw a sovereignty on the list and I thought, oh I should do that. And I'm like, no, I shouldn't do that. And I was like, yeah, I should do that, because I really want to like know more about it and understand it more. And so I said yes But every time I went to go sit down and plan, um, my mind would start to reel because God's sovereignty is so vast and it's so amazing. Um and every time I would say, you know what, I'm gonna walk away. But every time I come back, the same thing would happen. God was big and I was really small. Um but I knew, as my good friend Jennifer Lawson always says, and I think Elizabeth Elliott said it first, but need to do the next right thing. And so I forced myself to just sit and to read God's Word over and over and over again until I shouldn't say until um until I could grasp in some way, a finite way, to explain to you guys the wonderfulness of God's sovereignty. And I read a lot of other books to help me out along the way, and I just want to give them credit now. I stacked them over there as you can see. I read Trusting God by Jerry Bridges I read A. W. King's The Sovereignty of God, Martha's book, Precious Truths in Practice, parts of that Biblical Doctrines book, not the whole thing, and The Mystery of Providence by John Flavble. And um, in all honesty guys, the more I read, the more I knew God was God, and He is altogether not like us. As Isaiah 46. 9 says, Remember the former things long past, for I am God, and there is no other. I am God, and there is no one like me. The doctrine of God's sovereignty, you guys, is necessary. And as Charles Spurgeon says, there is no attribute more comforting to his children than that of God's sovereignty. So with that in mind, let me pray, and then we'll get started. Father, we are grateful and thankful for the opportunity to be here today to learn more about who you are. I pray, Father, that your word would not return void in our lives, and we know it won't, Father, because you say it won't. Lord, I pray that we would come away understanding more about your sovereignty and how it is absolute and how because it is absolute, Lord, that it frees us from fear, worry, and anxiety and allows us to live in a white and a Bless us to live in a way where we can trust you completely. We love you, Father. I pray, Father, that we would um hear the things that you would want us to hear and that you would guard our hearts and minds as we study this topic today. In Christ's name. Amen So this afternoon, I'm going to start with a definition. And there's an outline on page 33 and 34. So I'm going to start with a definition. Then from there I'm going to talk about the different places in scripture we can see that God is sovereign over everything. And then we'll consider some practical outcomes. Like what does this amazing truth actually do in our lives? As I stated in the title, and as I prayed, that this should have a freeing impact on our lives. And I pray that it does offer us freedom, girls, freedom to trust God for who He is and to put away all fear So with that, let's start with the definition. What does JAS absolute sovereignty mean? And A. W. Pink's definition was my favorite. Rather long, so I'm not going to read it all. And Martha mentioned it in her book too. I'm going to read the first sentence and then I'm going to give you a summarizing one that I kind of compiled together. It says, A. W. King says, we mean the supremacy of God, the kingship of God, the Godhood of God. To say that God is sovereign is declare that God is God. So to summarize, um, pull it down a little bit, is that God is God. He is the King of Kings, the Lord of Lords, and there is no other like him. God has absolute sovereignty over everything. I'll say it again. God is God. He is the King of kings and the Lord of Lords. There is no other like him. God has absolute sovereign rule over everything. And this isn't just about the title we give him. This is about his governance and actual guidance of all things. There is nothing he's not aware of, there's nothing he's not guiding, and because we know that God is wise and good Nothing is out of his control. We know he's not a tyrannical evil ruler trying to get us somehow. We know that he is sovereign with perfect wisdom and perfect goodness Do we need to fear anything? No. Because God is sovereign and is on his throne, he's not thrown off by evil or caught off guard by the things that may in ensnare us or distract us. John MacArthur said, you may think that grasping that God is absolutely sovereign is hard. But what's harder? Imagining that he's not. I mean, what would that look like, you guys? If God were only sovereign over some things and not others? That would be a really scary place for us to be in. But this is often how we think about God, that he's partially sovereign. Which means he's over some things but not everything. I mean, I get to be sovereign about that, but how could you let this horrible thing happen in my life? God would never let that happen to me. And maybe you don't say it that way. Maybe we've all had those thoughts run through our mind And I would challenge you, as I've been challenging myself, that as you move from category to category, that you would um ask yourself, do I agree with this? Do I submit to God's rule over this? Do I love that He rules over this? And the distinction, girls, is not small. Is God absolutely sovereign or is he only partial? So let's see how God is sovereign overall. The first under the Roman numeral number two, we're going to see how God is sovereign in the scriptures. And the first one is in creation and nature. And some of them are going to go faster on, and other ones I'll take a little bit more time on, because they're heavy and they're hard for our minds to grasp. Hebrews 1. 3 says, He upholds the universe with the word of his power. And Colossians 1. 17 says, In him all things hold together. God is literally upholding the universe, and all things are being held by him. You guys, God is the creator of all things. Think back to Genesis one. There was nothing until the God of the universe, with his words, willed it into being. He brought forth light, water, sun, moon, stars, plants, animals, man All of it has its being because God declared it to be. God is the sovereign ruler over it then. And God chose to create some animals with beauty and some that make us cringe to even look at. And I looked it up, you guys The naked mole rat was listed as like number one. Sounds like a blobfish, but I don't want to mention that one. God made some flowers with like bright and beautiful petals that make us smile, and others with thorns and thistles that hurt us God made one land fertile and another land barren. God made one man deceased and another man born blind. God is in charge of all these things. We have our beings because the God of the universe, the one and only God, willed us into existence. Psalm 1153 says, our God is in the heavens. He does all that he pleases. Did you catch that? He does all that he pleases, not what we please, but what pleases us or what we think is right. And God made male and female in the garden too. He sovereignly makes us with a unique gender. God decides this, not us. The world we live in today tells us that we get to decide, but the scripture is clear. God is sovereign over the creation, and that includes gender. I have created you male and female Revelation 4. 11 says, Worthy are you, our Lord and God, to receive glory and honor and power. For you, God, created all things, and by your will they exist and have their being. Our response needs to be one of adoration of a God who created us. He created you, me, exactly how he did. And he is sovereign over that We can also see his sovereignty in nature. In reading about this topic today, I always get convicted learning that God is sovereign over the weather Because when I'm complaining about it, I'm actually sinning. I'm saying, God, you know, I don't really like your choices today. Who am I? Um if it's raining on your wedding day then that's God's choice for the forecast that day. And of course you can be bumped. I mean, it's your wedding day. But you can trust that God is sovereign over it. Um are you worried about global warming? If it's if God is upholding the universe, we don't need to be afraid of this. We know how the world's going to end with a new heaven and a new earth. We don't need the fears instilled by us by the world to grip us. Psalm 147 says, He covers the skies with clouds, he supplies the earth with rain, he makes the grass grow. Did he say you? No. He okay. He spreads the snow like wool. He hurls down the tail like pebbles who can withstand his icy blast. God is sovereign over the terrible storms too. Sometimes it is hard to understand why a hurricane might take out an entire town or a tsunami might wipe out an entire village But God says that he is over it. Sometimes it may be for his judgments, like the pestilence that happened over Egypt in Pharaoh's day. And other times we may not understand the purposes because they are beyond us. Remember, his ways are higher than ours, and we can trust that he is in control of it. It's worthy for pausing for a moment before I move on to the next category, just to consider the magnificence and magnitude of a God who can control the weather. It's a that's a humbling reality to like the rulers in our world today who think maybe they're arrogant and they can control us or other people. And even in our own hearts to think that we want to control. The sun that rises, the cloud that moves, the rain that pours down. You have no control over that. How about creating things? Before you ever think about anything you ever made, just remember that God made all of his stuff out of nothing. So let's move on to see how God is sovereign over the nations and history. 2 Chronicles 20, verse 6 says, O Lord, God of our fathers, are you not the God who is in heaven? You rule over all the kingdoms of the nations, and power and might are in your hand, and no one can withstand you. If you were to look um over the Bible in the course of human history, you would notice that God has always been at work among the nations. I have loved teaching history. My friend Guru on the back knows that. It is what by far my absolute favorite topic to teach to my kids. And more recently, I've been teaching at a local co-op, High School American History. And I am in awe constantly of God's sovereign hand in his work among the nations. At Daniel 2, 21 says, He changes times and seasons. He removes kings and sets up kings. He gives listen to the wise and knowledge to those who have understanding. I think most days, at least for me, I take for granted um the safety of living in the country that I do. But don't let that ever distract you from what's happened in history. We live in an amazing time, as scary as it is at times We watch the news. But if you look over the course of human history, we are truly living um a gift. So don't let that our current circumstances um move you away from God's amazing amazing providence and how he has worked over the nations over the course of history. For this section, I want to look at the wonder of God's sovereignty of the nations in Daniel, specifically Daniel chapter 2. And in Daniel chapter 2, he is describing Nebuchadnezzar's dream. Nebuchadnezzar is troubled by this dream that he has, and he needs to know the meaning of the dream. So he asks all of his wise men, you need to first tell me what my dream was. And then tell me the interpretation. And none of his wise men could do it because none of them were in his head to know the screen. So Nebuchadnezzar says, I'm going to kill all of you, and all the wise men, which included Daniel. And Daniel hears of this matter, and he praised that the Lord would give him the wisdom to know the answer. And in verse 19 of chapter 2 it says, The mystery was revealed to Daniel in the vision of the night. So God had granted Daniel the wisdom to know the answer for Nebuchadnezzar. So then Daniel proceeds to tell Nebuchadnezzar of the stream. which was a large statue with a head of gold, a chest and arms of silver, middle and thighs of bronze, and legs of iron, and feet partly of iron and clay. And in the dream a giant stone struck the image on the feet with a stone not carved by human hands and broke the statue to pieces, calling it causing it to crumble. Interesting dream. Um, but God's involved. So Daniel then goes ahead and tells Nebuchadnezzar the interpretation. And this is where we see God's sovereignty over the nations plain as day. In verse 37, he says, You, O King, the King of Kings, to whom the God of heaven has given the kingdom, the power, the might, and the glory, you are the head of gold. So we see here that the Babylonian Empire on which Nebuchadnezzar was ruling was the head of gold in the statute. But don't miss what God said there, what Daniel said through God, to whom the God of heaven has given the kingdom. the power, the might, and the glory. Where do they come from? God. Listen, Nebuchadnezzar, God has the power at any point to dethrone you. He put you in power and he can take you out Then Daniel proceeds to tell him the other parts of the statue, which actually referred to subsequent empires. He tells Nebuchadnezzar um of these empires. But Nebuchadnezzar never actually knew what they were going to be or who they were going to be. God didn't give them that. He just told them that there are going to be empires that come after you, um, and you're not going to know when it's coming, Nebuchadnezzar But we've lived through history and we get to know that because God's sovereign of the nations and He makes it plain as day for us in his scriptures. First it was the Babylonians, this was Nebuchadnezzar, the head of gold. Then we have the Medes and the Persians, the chest and arms of silver And if you ever listen to MacArthur's sermon on this, he does an amazing job. He actually talks about how each of these empires loved the metal that the the statue was out of. But the Babylonians loved gold. The Medes and the Persians, their main um medal was silver. The Greeks were the middle and size of bronze. That's what they were made of. And then the Romans, the m the switch word the legs of iron loved iron. I mean, guys Amazing. And each empire will think that they are invincible, but God will see their rise and their fall. And we know this because we've lived through human history. We read the rise and the fall of the Persians after the Babylonians. Um Alexander the Great, aka the ruler of the world for Greece, fell. And then Rome, mighty Rome, who had lasted for centuries only to be overrun by barbarians in the end. So who was really in charge here? God And for the people living during that time, they it may it may have seemed like Nebuchadnezzar was in charge or each preceding empire, but God was orchestrating plans beyond their scope. And he prophesied it through Daniel before it ever even happened And guys, God uses all of our history, even where we are right now. God sets up kings and he removes kings. Don't ever worry about who wins or loses an election. God is not surprised. He is on his throne and he is over it all. And how does he often set up and break down these kingdoms? Proverbs 21, 1 tells us The king's heart is a stream of water in the hand of the Lord. He turns it wherever he will. Don't miss it. The rising and the falling of nations and the king's desires for the details that lead to all these events are under the rule of God. Psalm 2, verse 4 says, He who sits in the heavens lasts, and the Lord holds them in derision. God is in control, but we don't need to trust our country as the final savior. Because I love our country and I am so thankful to be in our country and to live here. I love 4th of July, I think it's a wonderful holiday and I again patriot. But This is not our final home. And God is sovereign over all of it. And I can't give way to fear because it does creep in. I mean if you just turned on the news and fault anything, you might go to fear. And I think if you talk to your unbelieving friends or neighbors, I mean they are afraid. But we don't have to because God is sovereign over the nations and over history But I want to challenge or encourage you that next time you pick up a history book, which I don't know how many of you do, but if you're a homeschooling mom, maybe you do a lot. I like it. Um or if you go to a historical site, that you would just take the time um to see how God providentially worked for that event to happen and to take place and all the things surrounding it and give God praise for that. So now we're going to transition from seeing God's sovereignty over creation and the universe and nature and the nations to how he's sovereign over individual people And we're going to talk about how he's sovereign over men and decisions. Proverbs 16, 9 says, In his heart a man plans his course, but the Lord determines his steps. I want to bring to mind the end of Genesis fifty, which has been mentioned several times today, when Joseph's brothers are apologizing to him, and Joseph responds to them, As for you, you meant evil against me, but God meant it for good. I would love to talk on the goodness of God here. I mean, we'll talk about that some. I was trying to stay away from that because of Martha's teachings. I want to focus on the word meant. But God meant it for good. That's the intentional actions of God orchestrating all things for our good. And the word meant here literally takes on the meaning of weaving. If you ever look at the back side of a weaver's loom, it's ugly. That looks terrible. And we're like, oh, I don't want to be my life. And a lot of times, that's the life we're living in. We think it's the ugly and the gross part. And then we turn it around, it's beautiful and lovely. And that's what God sees And he's working out something far greater than we could ever imagine or see. Um R. C. Sroll had a little illustration about this Genesis account that I thought was so helpful, and I kind of reworded a little bit, but I want to give him credit. He says you know, think about men's decisions, he said, I asked this question, well what led to my salvation? Let me think about all those different decisions. He said Jacob had twelve sons and he loved Joseph. He loved him the most and he gave him this beautiful colorful coat What's about the drinking? He tells his brothers that they're gonna all bow down to him and in their sin they want to get rid of him. So they plan to sell him into slavery. They take his coat, rip it, and put blood on it. They actually weren't gonna s plan to sell him, they were gonna kill him It just so happened at the right time a caravan came by. And we know from here that Joseph makes headway in Potiphar's house until he gets removed by a lying wife, and he's imprisoned and forgotten until just at the right time A cup bearer brings to mind Joseph in prison. Hmm, he can interpret James. And he interprets one and impresses Pharaoh and is given high status. And we know Joseph saves Egypt and the surrounding lands from starvation due to the famine You meant it for evil, but God meant it for good. And we know Joseph brought this whole family to live there and they survived. Years go by, and Joseph's greatness gets forgotten, and the Jews are now slaves in Egypt A woman makes a decision to place a baby in a basket. Sarah's daughter decides to save that baby and raise him a royal. And we know that baby becomes a man and flees into the wilderness. But God doesn't stop there. He uses this man, Moses, to bring his people out of Egypt. The poorest people plunder the wealthiest nation in the world. He uses Moses to bring them into the promised land, a land that would see the rise and fall of many of Israel's kings, and it would be captured and recaptured over and over until one day in a small town Bethlehem to be exact, a baby would be born from this people. And that baby would save us all. It all goes back to the code. What you meant for evil, God meant for good Did Joseph's brothers have evil intent in their decisions? Yes. But God meant it for good. He is sovereign over the decisions of men. And him being sovereign over our decisions helps us know that we don't be paralyzed by decision making. I'm a terrible decision maker. Um, maybe you can relate that sometime. Someone's like, whatever you want to do. My poor daughter struggles with it now too. You know, she's following after me. We can faithfully and wisely make decisions and then entrust that decision to God Or what about if someone makes a bad decision and it affects you in a negative way? You can trust that God is working out his plan and no decision is out of his guiding plan. In my blurb in this sec um well not about this section, but in my blurb, I use the word mystery to describe God's sovereignty because there's things that are just really hard for us to grasp, at least for me The Bible clearly says that we make choices and we're held accountable to them, and it also says that God is sovereign over those decisions. And it never explains the relationship. Another Jerry Bridges says, we must not misconstrue God's sovereignty as to make people mere puppets, but we also must not press man's freedom to the point of limiting God's sovereignty. It may not be easy for our finite minds to understand, but it's true. One man said, I liken it to two ropes going up through the ceiling, and above the ceiling, they go over a pulley. All we see are the two ropes. If I wish to support myself, I must cling to them both. If I only grab onto one, I go down. With childlike faith, I cling to both ropes, God's sovereignty and man's responsibility, fully confident that in eternity I will see that both ropes of truth are, after all, the same one So may I encourage you to rest in the truth that God is not on the same level of us as us? I mean if you would rather have a God that would have us do our will and what we think best, that is not the God of the Bible. He is all knowing. Do you want a God? That is controlled by our simple choices. Thank goodness that God is sovereign and He's sovereign over the decisions of men, whether they be good decisions or evil decisions. And I know this is hard stuff to tackle, but trust. Trust that God is exactly where he says he is, on his throne. Behold our God. Don't go to fear, but run to him and trust in all of who he is. So let me interrupt this broadcast to discuss the so-called problem of evil. Okay. God's sovereignty over Satan and evil. The devil is real. Back at the beginning of Genesis, we see the serpent tempting Adam and Eve. In the oldest book of the Bible, Job, we see Satan there too. And this is the framework from which mankind has seen from the very beginning. The devil is real. He's active and that he has to ask God for permission. The only power Satan has is because God allows him to have that power. Job 1, verse 12 says, And the Lord said to Satan, Behold, all that he has is in your hand. Only against him, do not search out your hand. So Satan went out from the presence of the Lord. Satan was only allowed to hurt Job to the degree in which God allowed. Don't be fooled thinking that Satan has power. God is not thrown off by Satan or by evil. Jesus, in John 6, verse 70 said, Did I not choose you the twelve, and yet one of you is the devil? Jesus knew that Judas was going to betray him. He knew that Satan was involved. But Satan was only involved because God, who is absolutely sovereign, allowed it. The Lord gives, and the Lord takes away, not Satan. Let's consider the topic of evil. We know there is death, dying, and calamity. All of our churches have struggled with that, even so more recently. Romans 8 says the whole creation groans with longing. We know there's moral evil through the wickedness of our human hearts. There's also supernatural evil through demonic beings. So evil exists. But we also know that Lamentations 3, 37 to 39 says, Who has spoken and it came to pass, unless the Lord has commanded it? It is not from the mouth of the Most High that both good and bad come We have to understand that God wills evil to exist. God is never the author of evil, nor can I look upon it. He is holy and cannot. Some people, you know, want to help God. Get him off the hook for evil, but they want to limit his sovereignty if they do that. And they make it partial and not absolute. Some say he's powerless over it. You know, God's good and he wants a good life for you. Um But he's just evil's just too powerful and he wants us to do good but he just can't control the evil. So he's a good God and he wants us to do good things, just evil's too powerful Or others want to limit his power. Some people say, well, God's in the process, like process theology. He doesn't know everything. But the more time goes on, he's getting better at stuff You know, he's getting more knowledge. Basically, he can change. And we know God cannot change. Does God know the end from the beginning? Yes Does he know how evil will be used for his purposes? The answer is definitely yes. Around fifteen hundred years ago, before Christ was ever on the scene, it was written in Genesis 3. 15, He shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel Seven hundred years when when this is written. Seven hundred years before Jesus even came on the scene in Isaiah 53, he was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. These referred to Jesus on the cross. How come it was written in the Old Testament match what happened in the New Testament? God knows the future. He's not in the process. He's not changing. He is sovereign So why then? Why does God allow evil if he's completely sovereign over it? And the answer is to the praise of his glory. God works all things for good, even evil intents. Think about the cross. That was the most wicked act ever. But did God use it for good? We're here. Pilate, Pharisees, they all meant it for evil, but God meant it for good. Why do we call Good Friday good? It was an awful day. Because God saw it as good The Westminster Confession of Faith says, God, from all eternity, did by the most wise and holy counsel of his own free will freely and unchangeably ordain whatever comes to pass. Romans 3. 5 says, But if our unrighteousness serves to show the righteousness of God, what shall we say? That God is unrighteous to inflict wrath on us? Paul is saying that our sins and the evil in this world put God's righteousness on display. Romans 9, 22-23 says What if God, desiring to show his wrath and make known his power, has endured with much patience vessels of wrath prepared for discret destruction in order to make known the riches of his glory which he prepared beforehand God allows evil to make known the riches of his glory. Guys, God's glory is the sum total of all of his attributes. We're talking about his sovereignty right now. Like all of them. God's glory is the sum total of all of his attributes. If we didn't know evil, we would never understand his holiness. We would never understand his hatred of sin, his providence, his love. I mean I could go on. For us to know God's glory fully, we have to understand all the facets of his attributes equally And we would never fully know all of them without evil. Will we ever be able to grasp his mercy? Paul describes this as riches for us to know. And John Piper described it like this. Oh, I plead with you, let it sink into your heart. Because once it penetrates to the deep part of your heart, once it takes hold of you, you will never be the same again You were made to know the glory of God. Guys, is God more glorious by being sovereign over evil or less glorious? I hope we can say more. And God's sovereignty over Satan and evil is so absolute, he's going to completely vanquish both. Revelations 20 Satan is thrown into the lake of fire along with all of those not found in the Book of Life. We know the end. God is sovereign over Satan and evil. I hope we can believe that, that he's absolutely sovereign over it. And now let's see how he's sovereign over suffering and disease Who's ever been in pain before? I mean everyone's hand. Yep, okay. So pain is really hard, whether it's a physical pain, like a debilitating illness, um, or an emotional pain, like um a death of a friend or loss of a child. Pain can consume us. But what if you really believe that that pain and suffering and trials had no purpose? It just happened by chance and now you're stuck to deal with it on your own. That would be really sad and hard The first point in comfort is this. Your disease, pain, suffering are not by accident, not a result of blind chance, and are not in vain. Exodus 32, 39 says, See now that I, even I, am He, and there is no God beside me. I kill, and I make alive. I wound and I heal, and there is none that can deliver out of my hand. God is the one, the only one, in charge of these outcomes. For some, the disease is a discipline, like Miriam. Who's stuck with leprosy for complaining? But for others, the illness or pain isn't a result of sin, but would provide the opportunity for God to glorify Himself. Maybe think about the man born blind in John 9 But I would also like us to give careful consideration to the conforming force of our suffering. It is the one means by which God's sovereignty accomplishes its goals. You've listened to this verse several times, and I'm going to read it again. Romans 8, 29, 28, and 29 says, And we know that for those who love God, all things work together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose. For those whom he foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son, in order that he might be the first one of my many brothers. Romans eight twenty-nine Reveals to us that God is working all things for our good and to conform us to Christ's likeness. He brings about all these things to make us more like his son. not to give us what we think is good. He desires to grow us and sometimes growth takes pruning. And pruning is painful. Suffering is a means by which God makes us more Christ-like. And he says it's not meaningless. He says according to his purpose. If God doesn't have a purpose, then he couldn't work all things out according to that purpose But we see in Job 42, 2, it says, I know that you can do all things and that no purpose of yours can be thwarted. If suffering is part of that purpose, then we can rest in his sovereign hand There's a purpose for it. And back in verse 28 it says, and we know. It doesn't say, and we feel, or we hope, like this sense of uncertainty. But we know. And how can we know that God's working all together for our good? Because he has an eternal purpose, which includes our salvation, and he's going to accomplish that purpose. He has predestined us to be conformed to the image of his son, and nothing can swerve his sovereign will over that Another way you could think about it is, I've been crucified with Christ and I no longer live, but Christ lives in me. Galatians 2. 20 states consistently with the rest of Scripture that the end of me is a good thing. I know sometimes when I'm suffering, we may think, you know, this is not what I signed up for. My husband and I were both really struck with Rosaria Butterfield's testimony. In brief, she was a former lesbian, liberal professor of women's studies and came to know Christ And one of her summarizing statements was, Becoming a Christian ruined my life. I lost everything I had before. But what will we say about this? Was it for her good? But can we say that about God when He sanctifies us in our suffering? When you look back over any trial you've had, or maybe you're currently growing through, do you see the hand of God? I know for me, when I've suffered in painful trials, it was very hard. I would go back and forth between trusting God's sovereignty and doubting why he would ever allow so much pain to come into one of his daughter's lives But it was never until I could actually thank God in the midst of these trials was I ever freed from my doubt. I was able to say, took me a while, thank you, Lord, for bringing this trial into my life You know with a childbirth or labor, for example, it's painful, but there's usually a really good outcome in the end. You know in nine months that baby is gonna come out one way or another. But most of our trials and sufferings don't have a fixed endpoint. They all end. We just don't know when or how. But God only knows that part of the story. And for some of us, we may never know this side of heaven. Which is hard. But he says he's sovereign over it. Does God use suffering for our good? I hope we can say yes. Is he sovereign over it? Yes. Because he has a purpose for it. And if we can't say that in this moment, I pray that you'll be able to trust that God is sovereign over your suffering and trust that his plans are good for you. So now let's talk about God's sovereignty over salvation. This is a harder one to tackle, and I have an analogy here, or a little illustration at the beginning. It's a finite illustration. Let's just say that. Imagine with me, God's the lifeguard on the beach. People are all around enjoying the beach. Some are sunbathing, some are in the water, some are playing volleyball. And God looks down to the ocean and he sees someone drowning. So he runs to that drowning person. He calls them a life preserver. They grab hold of it and they're saved. Too often we hear about this in regards to our salvation. I was a sinner needing to be saved, so I reached for that life preserver, aka Jesus, and I chose God, like choosing what cookie we're gonna eat out of the dessert case We wanted to be saved, so we did the work. And let me give you another illustration. God's in the lifeguard stand But instead of seeing the person drowning, he sees everyone dead in the water. No one's on the beach. No one's playing volleyball. Everyone is dead. Capital D E A. Dead Ephesians 2 says, we are dead and our trespasses in sin. Romans 3 says, no one is righteous, no not one. A dead person cannot save themselves. They can't reach for the life preserver because they're already dead. They need someone to rescue them. We were unable to ever choose the things of God because we have a corrupted nature. All of our free choices were only ever free to choose what was self-serving, self-pleasing, and what's not towards God Until we are regenerated, we are slaves to sin. We cannot and will not choose the things of God unless God does a work on us first. Um, if someone's heart is dead, darkened, and callous, will he ever make a free choice to honor God? The answer is no. Like a prisoner in a jail cell, he's free to pace up and down that jail cell all he wants But he has no freedom outside of that cell. The biblical doctrines book, that giant beast over there behind me, says unregenerate human will is free only within the limitations of human finiteness and depravity. Sins depraved human nature, cannot obey God, fallen humans are free only to sin. And we are held accountable to that. Our will is only truly free when we are in Christ In order to make good, God-pleasing, God-glorifying moral decisions, we had to have a new nature implanted into us. And God tells Israel to the prophet Ezekiel this. And listen to these pronouns Then I will sprinkle clean water on you and make you clean. I will cleanse you from all of your filthiness and your idols. I will give you a new heart and then put a new spirit in you. I will remove your heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh, and I will put my spirit in you. An unregenerate person cannot choose the things of God until God first works in his heart. From eternity past, you guys, God foreknew what was going to come to pass. If you were to look at Ephesians 1, I'm going to skip these verses quickly, it says, in verse 4, He chose us in him, He chose us in Him before the foundation of the world. Verse five, he predestined us for adoption to himself as sons through Jesus Christ. Verse eleven, in him we have obtained an inheritance, having been predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things to the counsel of his will. What a glorious truth that God saw you and me and saved us. From eternity past, He chose us to be saved. Not merited on anything they've ever done, but he saw fit to choose some. This should stop us in our tracks and make us praise him. But I know in my finite nature, I ask the question sometimes, well then how does God find fault? I mean, how can he blame someone who's already chosen? And I'm going to go to Romans 9. Romans 9 verse 14 says, What shall we say then? Is there injustice on God's part? By no means. For he said to Moses, I will have mercy on whom I have mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I have compassion. So it doesn't depend on human will or exertion, but on God who has mercy Verse 19. But then you'll say to me, why does he still find fault? Who can resist his will? Verse 20 This is where I'm humbled. But who are you, O man, to answer back to God? Well what does mold it say to the Molder? Why'd you make me like this? My own voice, sorry. Has the potter no right over the clay to make out of the same lump one vessel for honorable use and another for dishonorable? You guys, these are hard truths to grasp, why one person is saved over another. But we need to understand like this. We all like sheep have gone astray. There is no one righteous, no not one. We were all hellbound. We were already all there. And God in His mercy chose to save some of us out of that. This part of God's sovereignty should not make us question, but bring us in awe of a God who loved you and me and saved us I don't know why God chose to save me when I was 18 years old, but he did. And I could question about it, or I could trust him, and I can thank him for it. And guess what? We don't know who the left are. He's sovereign over that, not us. So praise God that he saves you and go share the good news of the gospel. We're called to go and make disciples in Scripture. We don't know who God's chosen. And we don't need to go. No. We're just called to go. What a praiseworthy God that He includes us in His work of saving others. What a privilege. What a God. What a savior. And lastly, we're going to look at God's sovereignty over our sanctification. And I'll go faster on this one. We know sanctification is a lifelong process of becoming more like Christ. And God's sovereignty over it is his ruling and governing of how it will take place. God says he will never leave us nor forsake us, and in Philippians 1. 6 said he who began a good work in you will bring it to completion on the day of Jesus Christ. God is going to see us to the end, sister, when we meet him in glory Would he sacrifice his own son to save us, but then leave us? No. He is sovereign over our walks here and now. Even when we mess up, he is sovereign over that too. But let us remember to never use God's sovereignty over our sanctification as a free path to let sin go in our lives. Deuteronomy 29, 29 says, The secret things belong to the Lord our God. And there are a lot of that in my finite, I don't understand. But the things that are revealed to us belong to us and to his children forever, that we may do all the words in his law. God has revealed things us in his scripture and we are called to live them out. Proverbs 20, verse 4 says, The sluggard who doesn't plow in the autumn is going to go seek at harvest and not have anything. God's sovereignty was never an excuse for us to sit idle in our home and just think, hmm, something's gonna be in the cupboard behind me tomorrow. No, we have to like work, we have to go to the store, we have to like use what God has given us. He's called us to work, He's created us to work God calls us to live according to his revealed word. Here's another example. Are you always late? Should you tell us when you're going to meet them there at eight o'clock, but it's okay. God's sovereign over it. He knows when I'm going to get there I'm gonna take a really long shower, I might just sleep in, but it's okay. That's being lazy. Of course there are situations that are beyond our control, like a car accident A baby throwing up all over you. Road closures. COVID. I mean Martha, please, we know, okay? That can delay us from getting to places. And that's not an ex and that is okay. But when we use God's sovereignty as a way to cover our sins, we are sinning Matthew 5. 37 says, let your yes be yes and your no be no. If you tell someone you're going to meet them at 8 o'clock, then you try in your best ability to do that. And if God's circumstances change that, then we trust that his plans for your day are different than yours, and that's okay. Guys, just like the sanctification process, we know the Holy Spirit is growing us, but we're called to work it out. I can't just put my Bible in my head and think, I'm gonna know all of it tomorrow. Well, what do we have to do? We have to read it. All right God is not going to let us out of his grip. Thank him that he is the Lord over all of that. May we work out our salvation with fear and trembling and trust that he is sovereign over our sanctification too. As I close out this first section, and don't worry, the second half is really short, I pray that we come in all today of trusting and knowing that God is sovereign over everything. Believing that he is over everything and that nothing slips by him. We see that he is sovereign over creation, nature, weather, nations, man, evil, suffering, salvation, sanctification, and as Pam talks about, sovereign over our prayers too. Do we need to fear? No. So for the practical, how does this actually have a freeing impact on my life? How can I actually apply it? Let me ask you a question. If God is not absolutely sovereign, remember that's what I'm trying to prove here. Then who takes on the burden in the areas where he's not sovereign? We do. We take on the fear, the worry, the anxiety. That's the problem with a God who is partially sovereign I asked you back in the very beginning, is God absolutely sovereign or only partial? I hope that we can see that He is absolutely sovereign and that it frees us to stop worrying, doubting, and fearing So what should our proper response be? Is it free us to worship instead of fear? Or should it cause us to be thankful and not bitter, to remember his faithfulness and not worry, and to walk in joyful obedience? So we're going to call this first one. It frees us to worship instead of fear. I know that I often get hung up on the, well what about this? Or um I don't understand something, so well how how does he work this out And it's fine to ask questions. I ask a lot. My husband often jokes with me that I call him Google sometimes. He's like, I don't know all the answers. I'm like, well what about this? Um well remember God is incomprehensible He knows more than us. We're not going to be able to control all situations and we're never going to know all the outcomes. But we can worship our God. The word behold means to stare deeply. If you take the time to slow down and look over all that we discussed today, how God sustains each of us every day, how the rain falls and cools the air and waters the ground, how the history of our world is not by chance a part of his grand unfolding plan. Beholding the greatness and magnitude of God's sovereignty is going to produce worship. We worship God for saving us. For bringing us up out of the miry pit and placing our feet upon a rock. For being far wiser than we ever could be. Praising God regularly and we're placing our fears. We as a region forces we put off and we put on. He put off fear and we put on praise. Lord, I am scared of this upcoming diagnosis, but I praise you that you're sovereign and control over it, and that no plan of yours can be thwarted. You meet me you knit me together in my mother's room, and you know how many hairs are on my head. Why am I afraid? It frees us also to be thankful instead of bitter. We already heard a wonderful thing by Anne if you were in here early about being bitter. It's really easy to get caught in that bitterness trap. Why me? I can't believe I let this happen But when we foster gratitude that God is sovereign over everything, it frees us from bitterness. We can thank God you guys daily, like moment by moment, like Again, I've been meditating on s for like weeks now, so I'm like it's all in my head. But like if you take the time to really even just stop and think about how he guards and protects you, like even from like when you drive home today, like we c we can thank him that he's sovereign. It is easy. It is really easy There are so many close calls. I remember feeling like a tiger in the middle of the road today and I was like, Oh my goodness And then I'm right Lord you're sovereign I'm gonna get there if I don't I'm not gonna three o'clock anyway. I'll get there eventually You know. But and I can thank him. I thank him that I have uh This is the Holy Spirit in me. I have a mind of Christ in the middle of the depraved world. We thank him for saving us. We thank him in the midst of our trials and sufferings. And that could go on and on. But this habit of thanking God is truly going to reorient your thoughts from doubt and despair and bitterness to trust and to hope. It also frees us to remember. Remember his faithfulness is going to put away all worry. I'm going to grab this book. This is one of my babies. Um it I will say that God's sovereignty and providence are a mystery. We're in the story, but we don't always know the ending. But it doesn't mean there's not an ending that's worthwhile. I mean just read Revelation. I cry any time I read chapter 21 But we can look back over our lives and see God's hand. We can look back and recall all that he's done and remember. Remember what God has done takes the worry out. We recall how faithful he was then, how he's going to be faithful now, he's always going to be faithful. In this book, John Table's book, The Mystery of Providence, he says, if we actually took the time to meditate on all that God has done for us both in the past and even in each day, oh the riches and the depth of what we would see. We would clearly see God's hand at work in so many ways. We just need to stop and take the time to look for it. So I listed some ideas that he had mentioned in his book about things that we can remember And some of them are like really simple, like thinking about your birth, and you're like, okay, yeah, I was born like 19, something, and I won't tell you, excuse 1980. Um or even think about your children's birth, but like If you think about the timely nature in which you were born, at this time in history, we can see God's hand of providence at work. The fact that I'm living at this time all think it's me at all. The fact I had to have 60 sections. I didn't want 60 sections. I wanted to have a natural birth and be like, I tried, I did it, woohoo! But whenever I get like frustrated about it, I think, okay If I was living a hundred years ago, I would have died in childbirth. God thank you that you have me alive in this day and age and that I was able to have all those babies. So I praise them and I thank him for that. And these sovereign over the smallest things Just have to look. We can also remember our conversion. Guys, this should bring a sweet like relief right away. The joys, the hardships, all leading up to the time that you were saved. What a wonderful example of God's sovereignty in your life Whether you've always done the Lord or with a night and day switch, it should be easy for us to see all the ways that God was working. His sovereign plan and exactly in every small detail to get you where you are today And I won't stay here long, but this is something that you can really meditate on as you leave here and the weeks to come. But God's providence in saving you and where you are right now. As I was signing this, something came to mind I was like, Oh I mean aga again, it's just like an onion, just keep feeling like, oh there's more, there's more. But um I was thinking about when I was in middle school A couple of years before I went to high school, they redirected our entire area and everyone I ever knew was going to like the high school that we were supposed to go to. And then my neighborhood was going to this other school. And you know, as a as a teenager that was like devastated. I'm like, I'm not gonna know anything about it. Um and what am I gonna do? But I can look back on that time and think, at that high school was where I heard the gospel for the first time. I mean guys, God is over everything, every little detail. Our conversion should bring us abundant gratitude for what God has done in our lives and how He's sovereign over the smallest thing. His word, I won't stay here long. He talked about a ton of scriptures and this whole conference we have too. The scriptures overflowing with God's sovereignty. Just read the book of Job and you will see his sovereign hand at work. Just like he used adversity to grow Job, God does the same for us He doesn't ask us how or when we want to serve him. He just leads us into these ways. He doesn't ask our permission either. When we want to when he w when he wants to grow us. He's the gardener. So he gets to sigh. We can also remember God's love. How could God sacrifice his own son to die on our behalf and not love us? Does he love us enough to save us, but not love us enough to walk through life with us? This truth should come to your minds daily. And lastly in this section, prayer. Prayer is key with communicating with God. She already talked about a ton about this, so I'll just say, we know it brings us to a deeper relationship. I love my husband. But when I communicate with him, I understand and know more about him. And the same it is with our Heavenly Father. Cry out to Him. You know the Psalms go back and forth with him. Why? Rescue me, O Lord, to I know you're God and you're in control So we can pray. And we will waver, did you guys? But we need to remember. Remember he's so faithful. I was reading 2 Peter recently, and several times he says, remember, remind them How forgetful are we? Right? I am. I'm not saying Norse I am. And then lastly, joyful obedience. Have you been wrongly treated? You ever been fired from a job that you were great at and you're like, what? That doesn't make sense. God's not shocked by this. He's over all of that too. We are called to trust him. We don't have to fear if the person out to get us in a lawsuit is going to surprise God. God's not up there sweating it out like we might He is over that too. It might not always make sense. And there's that mystery again. But just because our finite minds cannot fathom all of his infinite ways doesn't mean he doesn't have a purpose or a plan for it The scripture always calls us to rejoice. Rejoice always. Rejoice sometimes? Rejoice always That is clear. So let us walk in joyful obedience even when we don't understand. The other option is to sit by passively like a victim of chance. But we aren't victims. We have a loving Father who is guiding everything. As I close out today, let us be so thankful that God is absolutely sovereign over all. And because he's sovereign, we don't need to give way to fear, worry, or anxiety. God's sovereignty should have a freeing impact on our lives. He is an all-wise, all-good, all-loving, sovereign God who is over everything. How can I be afraid of that? We can live knowing that God is the same in everything, and all I'm called to do is trust Him and live faithfully to Him. And when I begin to doubt, I want to encourage you to worship. Thank him and remember all that he's done and then go walk in joyful obedience. Our God is a faithful God, and he rules with absolute sovereignty. Let me pray. Dear Lord, we are so grateful and thankful that you are absolutely sovereign. There is nothing that is out of your control What a wonderful truth that we can cling to in the midst of any trial or pain, when anything may seem off or scary, Lord, that you are over it, that you have a perfect plan, and that one day we will see you in glory. We will see you face to face Father, maybe long for that day, and in the meantime, maybe walk faithfully, trusting that you are over all things. Um prepare us, Lord, um, to hear what um Pam has to say about contentment in the next session. And we just thank you again for all those involved. We pray for safety as we travel home. In Christ's name. Amen.