Unfortunately, we see in our world these days a tragic devaluing of human life. It's all over the news. Whether through brutal acts of terrorism against innocent bystanders Or oppressive and murderous dictatorships killing the vulnerable with even chemical weapons, or the national disgrace of the murder of the unborn babies. in the heinous abortion industry, or the growing assisted suicide movement. What a name. Or innocent life daily gunned down in our city streets. Human life doesn't seem to have the value it used to have. In some cases, animals seem to be valued more than human beings. Clearly, there's something going wrong. There's some correction that needs to be made. God's word brings sanity and I would say what we used to call common sense back into the moral equation. It reminds us of God's estimate on human life when He made it and put it on this planet. An estimation that we must share. For that value really is the foundation of human society, and if you lose the value of human life, you're going to end up losing everything. So we actually today return to our ongoing study of the life of Noah. You do remember him. Genesis chapter 9 is our text today in verses 1 through 7. And we see how God established life in this new world and the estimate He put on life, the value of human life, we'll learn some lessons from that for ourselves. Genesis 9 Verses 1 through 7. God blessed Noah and his sons, and said to them, Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth. The fear of you and the terror of you will be on every beast of the earth and on every bird of the sky, with everything that creeps on the ground and all the fish of the sea. Into your hand they are given. Every moving thing that is alive shall be food for you. I give all to you as I gave the green plant. Only You shall not eat flesh with its life, that is, its blood. Surely I will require your life blood from every beast. I will require it. And from every man, from every man's brother, I will require the life of man. Whoever sheds man's blood By man his blood shall be shed, for in the image of God he made man. As for you, be fruitful and multiply, populate the earth abundantly and multiply in it. It may seem incongruent to some that right after God wiped out all human life In the flood, he now is strongly uttering these words on the sanctity of human life. But there is no duplicity with our Lord, for God who created all life made that life righteous and innocent, and therefore only that God has the right to take away life, human life. When human life is displeasing to him, when sin enters into humanity, when we are found to be evil in his sight and we are guilty, then he has the right to take away human life. As God did. We may remember, just to have us look back a little bit, in chapter 7, verse 23, there it told us, and we studied this a while ago, thus God blotted out every living thing that was upon the face of the land. From man to animals, to creeping things, and the birds of the sky, and they were blotted out from the earth. And only Noah was left together with those who were with him in the ark. God did that, and he wiped out human life. We know that. He has the right to do that. So now as they're exiting this massive boat, the Ark. God knows that man in the New World must learn the lessons that were never learned in the old world, and that is, human life must be respected. It must be guarded. Before the flood, the sanctity of human life was miserably lost in a pattern of blood feuding and unjust vengeance and outright domination. Slaughter and massacre and murder. We don't have any of the details, but we know that's what happened. Bloodthirsty men filled that old world. And so God, who created human life in his image, decided to wipe out all the guilty life and preserve the righteous life on the boat. Remember that pattern. God wiped out the guilty life and preserved the innocent life. Many fools in America today fight for the rights of the guilty lives. While not guarding the innocent lot. And that is a far departure from God's pattern and God's righteousness. For God places a premium on human life, especially the innocence. And therefore, we must have that value as well. That means that the Church of Jesus must be a voice not for shameful or guilty men, but for the lives of the innocent. The lives of the innocent. Here we see God's value of human life, and we see it in three decrees. Actually, there's a little more than three, but I'm lumping some of them together. The first decree is that life must be replenished. And I'm going to bracket verse one with verse seven because it's basically saying the same thing in those verses. Life here in the New World, life God commanded, He decreed that it be replenished. The second decree Refers to the sustenance of man. Life will be sustained. He promises that in verses two through four and he provides for it And then the third decree is that life must be valued. And there is an or else that is involved in that in verses 5 and 6. Life must be valued. So life must be replenished, life will be sustained, and life must be valued. So let's look at that first decree in verses one and seven. God blessed Noah. And his sons, and said to them, Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth. And then look down at verse 7. As for you, be fruitful and multiply, populate the earth abundantly and multiply in it. The repeating of this decree in verse 7 is a literary device that's called an inclusio, and it indicates to the reader that this is to be read as a distinct section, one bracket with the other. These words, of course, were spoken to Noah and notice to his sons. And it follows on the heels of God's promise if you look further back in chapter eight of an orderly and a reliable world that God was promising for those who came off of the ark. They had never seen this kind of a world before. And now God was explaining to them how it would be. And one of the first things he says to them is, I will never again wipe out the world in the flood. There will not be another cataclysm Then he goes on to the regularity that they'll find in the world. There's going to be a cycle of seasons. Why is it that the world works the way it does today and nature works with the processes that it works with? We're told right here by God. He doesn't say a lot, but what he says actually says a lot if you think about it. It it tells us what the pattern will be for life in the world following the flood. And that's what you and I have known and our parents have known and our great grandparents have known and all the way back. This is the way the world is It's orderly and it's provided for. God put in motion all of the processes that we see in nature. There's regularity in the world and we can rely on that. We can grow our crops We can provide for ourselves, build our homes, all because the world is the way it is that God had said. But Noah also has a responsibility to preserve human life in the new world, and that was very simply multiply children. Have a lot of babies, basically is what God is saying. I want there to be a lot of humans, humans and human life on the planet. Now, as far as we know, Noah had no other children. He had these three sons, and everyone is descended from these three sons So as far as we know, that's it. So the mandate here really is following not to Noah himself, but to his boys, to his grown sons and their wives. Here in chapter 9, Noah's sons, who are always present in the narrative up to this point in time, really come to the fore, and we see God's plan for them. You know, when you get to be older you start thinking about what is it that you've left behind. You start thinking about your children and your heritage. Well that's what's happening here to know. He's getting off and really the future belongs to his sons and to his grandsons and granddaughters and and on into the future. And so that's what we see. No longer would Noah be viewed apart from his sons. Really, his grown sons take over the storyline from here on out. In fact, by its very nature, this mandate, this divine decree, be fruitful and multiply abundantly, must include not just their generation, but the next generation, the grandchildren and the great-grandchildren. And the decree would have to last to the fifth generation, and the sixth, and the twentieth. Really the decree lasts all the way till today Basically, what we see here is that God was pointing to a vast and an empty new world. Imagine how big that world looked to them, how empty it was. And he was telling them, look out at this world I'm giving man a second chance back on the earth. The water has has come off of the earth, and the dry land has reappeared. It's like we're starting all over again. I'm giving you a second chance Humanity. In the last world man polluted the earth. How did man pollute it? Not by hurting the environment, but by spilling man's blood all over it And God said, Now it's polluted, I have to wash it, and so he washed it, and everyone that had breath died. Now here's a new world, and he says, I want you to multiply on it. And I want you to respect that life as it multiplies. John Calvin, the great church reformer, wrote, Lest these four men and their wives, seized with trepidation, should doubt for what purpose they had been delivered The Lord prescribes to them their future condition of life, namely that they shall raise up mankind from death to life. Bill Nye, the not so science guy, made a political statement recently favoring the idea of placing a tax on families who bear too many children. Too bad for the Mitchells, huh? I know moved on. Especially in developed countries, due to the supposed impact on climate change. He is not the first to raise concerns about explosive population growth. The Chinese government restricted births to one per family for over three decades, and now they've generously upped that number to two. However, God's decree has never been reversed. God never said, okay, that's enough people You don't need to be fruitful and multiply any longer. Abundantly, verse 7 really kind of adds to that word, that word uh sharats in Hebrew. Means it's sometimes translated swarm. It's used in Genesis 120. Then God said, Let the waters teem with swarms of living creatures. That's the same Hebrew term. Or Exodus chapter 8 and verse 3. Remember the plagues? that were brought upon Pharaoh in Egypt that said there that the Nile will swarm with frogs. So this means a lot of people. Some, it appears, are so brazen that they are telling the Almighty God that it's time that his mandate be ended. God has not agreed, and God has not reversed his mandate. Remember that this decree predates the Mosaic Law Code, and thus it transcends the law of Moses, and it transcends the nation of Israel. This is something long before Abraham. This was something for all of life post-flood. All the nations that would develop would still be under this decree. God's decree remains in effect for every age. Yes, it remains in effect in the 21st century as well. Those who argue that the world is overpopulated need to check their facts. The problem is less about overpopulation and more about how we care for one another and how we use our resources carefully. The Washington Post ran an article about a study demonstrating how the entire human race, 7. 3 billion at that time, could stand shoulder to shoulder and fit inside New York City. Just New York City, imagine that. Shoulder to shoulder, everybody fits inside. Of course you can't actually live that way. That gives you a little bit of a picture. If every human being could fit inside of New York City and the rest of the world would be empty. There's still a big world that is here. Another guy did some math and he concluded that there was some and you could check the math out of this 7. 5 trillion square feet just in the state of Texas. Well, you know, Texas is always boasting about being big. That's a lot of square feet. That means that everybody in the entire world could not only sit in Texas, but could be allotted a thousand square feet per person Pretty amazing. And that's only on one level, not building to a second or a third or a fourth level. And then the rest of America and the world would not have a single person in it. Texas boasts to be big, but do you know it represents only 3% of all of the land in North America, and that's just North America. I doubt non-Christian education even makes these kinds of facts known to its students. It's always just, we have too many people, we have too many people. God hasn't said that. Man has said that. Politics and selfishness is more to blame for starvation, not God's decree. God gave a wonderful and glorious earth with plenty that is there, and with a better use of everything we have, not only now, but In the future, much could be provided for. Please understand that when the intelligentsia of the world start foisting their ideas on the masses and even on the church, in it it's not an attempt It's not an attempt to help fulfill what God has ordained and God has commanded. Usually what we see from the world is rebellion against what God has said needs to happen. Population control is not God's will. Population control also diminishes the family, for then government begins controlling and telling families what they can and cannot do. God here was re-establishing the primacy of the family and how the world would multiply. The family is the foundational institution in the world. It's God ordained, and God is really blessing it here. Children are not being viewed as a problem to control. They are viewed as a blessing from God to fill the land and cultivate it. What do more children and more people bring? More cultivation of the land They unleashed creativity to help solve problems and advance civilization. And all of that was part of God's plan to happen starting here Psalm 127, 3 makes it very clear: Behold, children are a gift of the Lord. The fruit of the womb is a reward from God. Marriage, which is here implied, and which by definition can only be heterosexual, was again being affirmed by the Lord and treated not only as something that was good Marriage was being treated as something that was normal and was expected to help fulfill this mandate. And we know in the New Testament that Paul says in 1 Corinthians 7 that singlehood to the glory of God and the building up of the kingdom of God is also an honorable state. But marriage here was expected to be normal and it was to be protected Well, unfortunately, we have to protect marriage from an unenlightened society that doesn't even know what it is or with what purpose it was given, and lead us down the imbecilic path of homosexual marriage God values human life, and so he also values where that life is to start and be incubated and grow in, and that is in a marriage. And he would have it continue to multiply. He has a plan for every life and for all of it, and his decree is still being followed. The second decree is that life will be sustained. Life will be sustained. God promised He would sustain life. That doesn't mean that there'll never be a famine, that there will never be a disaster, but human life overall would be sustained. And that's in verses two. Verse two says, The fear of you and the terror of you will be on every beast of the earth, and on every bird of the sky, with everything that creeps on the ground, and all the fish of the sea Into your hand they are given. Every moving thing that is alive shall be food for you. I give all to you as I gave the green plant. Only You shall not eat flesh with its life, that is, its blood. This is very interesting. So to preserve human life, God has given us the seasons. God promised no more worldwide flood. He told us to multiply on the earth. All of this is about life in the New World. And here we see God taking measures to make sure that there is enough food and enough sustenance for mankind in the New World. And He only gives one restriction. Man is now told that he may eat the animals, he just may not eat the animals with the blood. So, obviously, man's relationship to the animals. As somewhat changed. This change is instigated when God says he's putting a fear about man. Indeed, it's even described as a terror on the beasts and the birds and the creeping animals and even the fish, a terror and a fear that as he's placing it on them, obviously that was not there previously. Otherwise, there would be no sense in announcing it. Please note the incompatibility of this truth for a moment with the modern evolutionary theory. Which requires the animals who have always had the terror and the fear for survival from one another and from man for a long, long time. The Bible makes it clear that fear for survival, even from man himself, who ruled over him, did not start until they walked off the ark. That's fascinating. That is the word of God. This is not for some of the animals, but notice for all the animals. There's even an emphasis there in the Hebrew text with the term coal. Every or all. It's repeated four times. To make sure he knew this this covers all of the different animal types. It shows there's going to be this pervasive fear among all of the animals. The big and really, really scary ones are going to have that fear in them as well. Of course, some animals would be more afraid than other animals would be. We see that even today. The terror of some animals would be overcome with domestication, as we're able to do, but most animals run away from man, and some run very fast away. Some have been very effective in hiding from humanity. They're very hard to hunt and their habitats are hard to enter into and to find. The reason for this terror in the animals is that God has given the animals into our hand, meaning we can now fill them and eat them. Seem to be somehow from God aware of that. God has allowed us now to begin to hunt them and kill them and cook them and eat them. The terminology in verse 3 is unmistakable. Every moving thing that is alive shall be food for you. I give all to you, as I gave the green plant. That language obviously harkens back to creation in Genesis one, verse twenty-nine, where God said, Behold, I have given you every plant yielding seed that is on the surface of all the earth And every tree which has fruit yielding seed, it shall be food. Same word, it shall be food for you. Plants are food for you, animals are food for you. You cannot misunderstand that God gave humanity the right to eat the animals. It is not wrong to eat the animals. No one has the right to take away from you the right gave that God gave you as a right, that is, to eat the animals. It is not a higher moral thing to not eat animals. Now, I should add that some believe that man was always allowed to eat the animals since the fall of man into sin. In other words, long, long before this point. One proof they put forward is that man performed animal sacrifices before the flood. Abel's sacrifice proves that. The ark, he very naturally started offering up animal sacrifices from among the clean animals. We read about that in chapter 8. The thought is that if they killed the animals and sacrificed them, they must have eaten them But that's not very persuasive evidence. For the animals seem to have been offered up as total burnt offerings to God, and portions were not even mentioned that they were eaten. And God's word here more naturally would be interpreted and taken as God is saying this here because it's beginning something new. Just like at the beginning, here are the plants for you to eat, now God is saying it's a new world, here are the animals for you to eat as well And that's the most natural and easiest way to interpret these words. Why else would he be saying this if it was already happening and they knew they already had permission for it? Still it may be asked, and I did ask, I don't know that I have a great answer to this question, why is it that God granted Man, the right to eat animals here and not earlier. Now that's probably not a question that you woke up this morning asking yourself when you were coming to church. But I'm going to try to answer it anyways. It may be because of the harsher weather conditions following the flood, which would have an adverse effect upon the crops and would cause some of the crops to fail in some of the seasons. And because of that, there needed to be an alternate source of food. They needed more flexibility in what they would be able to eat. Or it might be related to Genesis chapter 6 in verse 3, where God cursed man and restricted his life only to a hundred and twenty years. And that may have affected the deterioration of the genes, and so there was something about the need within the human body of nutrients that would come also from the animals. Not sure we have a definitive answer on that. Maybe there's a creation scientist that feels dogmatically about this, but for whatever reason, God knew that man would need more than the food options. More than the plant options for his food. And so he commences man's occupation here of hunting and fishing. If you're a hunter and you like to hunt, here's your biblical endorsement. If you love fishing, you can trace it right back to here because the fish are included. So the doctrine that is advanced in some circles in our society of forced vegetarianism is an error. Abstaining from eating animals, as I said, is not a higher moral stance. It's not something one should preach to another. In fact In First Timothy chapter four, it makes it clear that those, quote, who advocate abstaining from foods which God has created, and he goes on basically to describe them as false teachers. Now, of course, some people prefer not to eat meat, and that is fine. This verse is not saying you have to eat meat, right? It's saying you may eat meat But to the rest of us, this text shouts very loudly, grilling season has arrived. Cook your burgers, enjoy your lamb shish kebab or steak or whatever else it is And when someone frowns at you, you smile back. All is graciously given by God for nutrients that the body needs. In the words again of 1 Timothy 4, everything created by God is good, and nothing is to be rejected, this is in the context of food, if it is received with gratitude. That's why we thank God for it. There is one restriction, though, you probably noticed, in verse 4, and it is not the distinction of clean versus unclean animals that would be codified in the law of Moses later. Rather, it is that man may not eat the flesh of the animal with its blood. He may kill it, he may drain the blood and cook it and eat it, but he may not eat the flesh with the blood. Or obviously drink the blood of the animal The blood is divinely restricted. That's very interesting. And people want to know: does this apply for today? Or if it does, how does it apply for today? Well, as we noted, this is not part of the law of Moses. This transcends the law of Moses. And God's reason seems to be to respect even the life of the animal. Now we're talking about the value of human life this morning, but here, embedded in this, the animals that are put under man, we're told even to respect the life of the animal. That life that is in the blood comes from God, and even that life was to be respected. How are we supposed to do this? How are we supposed to apply this? The Life Application Bible, I think, makes a few interesting points here that might be helpful. It says: the prohibition does not require that no blood at all be consumed, such as in rare stakes But only that the blood must be drained. Ritually speaking, the draining of the blood before eating the meat was a way of returning the life force of the animal to God who gave it. This offers recognition that they have taken the life with permission and are partaking of God's bounty as God's guests. Its function is not unlike that of the blessing that we say before a meal in modern practice. This life's animal that is now giving me nutrition comes from God, and we respect the life. And therefore we pour out the blood. The life of the flesh, even of the animal, is in the blood. Because the life of the animal is in the blood, the life must be respected, and the blood must be respected. Why is that? Why respect the blood? The best answer seems to be because all life is from who? From God. He gives it And God has chosen to invest the life of creatures and humans in the blood. We lose too much blood and we die, right? It says Christ poured out his blood for us. What was he pouring out when he poured out his blood? He was pouring out his life for us, right? God wants us to respect life. And the way we do that is respecting the blood. Also, this restriction to not eat the animal with the blood. probably prepared mankind for more of the reasoning behind the necessity for animal sacrifices. Now there were animal sacrifices before this, but there was increased revelation about those animal sacrifices. in the time of Moses. And the need for blood sacrifices. Leviticus chapter 17 is a fascinating parallel verse to this. It's quite instructive and it says this. Leviticus 17 verses 10-13. It says, And any man from the house of Israel or from the aliens who sojourn among them, who eats any blood, I will set my face against that person who eats blood. and will cut him off from among his people. For the life of the flesh is in the blood, and I have given it to you on the altar to make atonement for your souls For it is the blood by reason of the life that makes atonement. Therefore I said to the sons of Israel, No person among you may eat blood, nor may any alien who sojourns among you eat blood So when any man from the sons of Israel or from the aliens to sojourn among them in hunting catches a beast or a bird, which may be eaten, he shall pour out its blood and cover it with earth Of course, the blood of the Messiah was to be poured out for us upon the ground there at Calvary Our everlasting life, our eternal life that we celebrate coming to church this day, is really Christ's life given to us. And Christ's life was poured out in his blood on the cross. For the blood is the life, and the life of the precious Lord Jesus Christ was given for us, and so his blood was poured out. It is fitting then That when we continually remember that lesson, that God has given us life through the death of His Son That God would still have us drink the wine or the juice in the communion as we remember the death of the Lord Jesus Christ poured out for us. The symbol of the blood of Jesus given on the cross at Calvary is there present with us when we take the Lord's Supper. And it is the life itself that has saved us, the life poured out. This is the blood symbolic that we are allowed to drink and to take within ourselves We are allowed to drink this one blood, because without this one blood, there's no life in ourselves And so Christ said the radical statement in John 6: unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in yourself. Your life, your everlasting life, your hope for the future is all in Christ. And so the blood is to be respected, and even with the animals, maybe because of the symbolism of all of that as well, for the blood is the life And so God gave us the plants to eat. He now gives the animals to eat, and all of that is to sustain precious human life in this world. Listen, God has taken great lengths to make sure human life survives and is cared for and provided for in this world because God values the human life that he made in his own image That brings us to maybe the heightened decree of the three, the third one, and that is that life must be valued. That's in verses five through six, if you'd look at it. Verse 5 says, surely, sort of an emphasis there, surely I will require your lifeblood. From every beast I will require it. Look how he speaks here so specifically. And from every man, from every man's brother, I will require the life of man. Whoever sheds man's blood by man, his blood shall be shed. And then the reason given. For in the image of God, he made man. Notice that has not changed, even though man has fallen into sin. If the animal's blood is valuable and not to be eaten, then human blood and human life are more valuable and more important. It's so important human life is that God requires an accounting for each life. God will never forget a human life. He wants it all accounted for. He so values human life in this world that he places the death penalty on anyone who takes it in a wrongful manner. Verse 5 three times mentioned the word required, the rash in Hebrew, which means an accounting. I love the way Kenneth Matthews translates this in his commentary. For your life, I will require an accounting. From the hand of every animal, I will require an accounting. And from the hand of Adam, man, from the hand of each person, his brother, I will demand an accounting for human life. Do you hear that? Each human life is precious to God. And whether that human life is killed and taken by An animal or man, God will require an accounting of that life. If Abel's blood cried out from the ground to God when his brother Cain killed him, Surely that of everyone's blood is precious to God and will be avenged by God. This accounting of human life really has far-reaching consequence for many issues that our society debates now. I can scarcely cover its breadth. It's so so important. Every single murder, every lynching, every brutal bloodthirsty act Every secret war crime. God says, it's not secret. I require an accounting. You know, with accounting, everything has to be accounted for. You can't close the books and say, oh well, we lost $500. And God doesn't do that in accounting for human life. Brothers and sisters, I can't help but think of the diabolical abortion industry in our country today. The devilish and damnable abortion industry in our country today. The slaughter of the innocent lives. The butchering and the slaughtering of lives made in the image of God How terrible, how terrible a blight on the United States of America. We're told that over one million soldiers have died in battle in all of the American wars combined since 1776. Over a million. Over sixty million children have been butchered and slaughtered in America since nineteen seventy-three, Roe v. Wade. God will require an accounting for every last life, for he values it, even if our country does not. In fact, in verse six, it tells us that man is to participate in the accounting that God requires. Look at verse six again. Verse six is not a prophecy. Verse six is not a prediction. It is not stating that whoever violently kills a human being There's a good chance that he'll violently be killed also by another human being. That is true, by the way. There is some truth to that. Those who live by the sword will what? Is that guaranteed in every situation someone who lives by the sword will die by the sword? No, it's a general truism. It's a proverb. How would that happen? Someone else is angry at them and in retaliation will kill them. Matthew 26, 52. There is a cycle of violence that is perpetuated by some groups. We see it in the Middle East, right? Every president wants to solve the Middle East and none of them can. One kills another, brother kills brother, and they kill and they'll do it, and they've been doing it for a long time and they're going to keep doing it However, this idea fails to fit the context of Genesis 9. For vengeance and bloodshed And the cycle of all of that were already pervasive before the flood. And was the main reason for the flood. Lammock, the bad Lammock, boasted, you may remember it in Genesis 4. 24: if Cain is avenged sevenfold, then Lamech seventy-sevenfold. That killing and slaughtering and cycle was already going on. That was nothing new. God didn't need to state that here. Rather, God is laying down his decree. This is the establishment of capital punishment for murderers in society. And it fits perfectly here in the flow of human history, right at the beginning of new life in the new world. Because there was untold and unchecked violence in that old world, no checks and balances in the pre-flood world. God was restraining evil by instituting something new. And that new thing being instituted was capital punishment for the taking of human life. So that human life would be protected, so that God would be able to state the preciousness of human life and that society would honor the preciousness of human life. Nowhere previous to this in the Genesis record do we see God decreeing By man, that is, by the hand of man, man's blood was to be shed. That instruction, that practice was not given to Adam. It was not given to Seth. It was not given at any time prior to this. As far as we know, this is its Genesis. And please notice, this decree makes a clear distinction, a clear distinction between innocent life When I say innocent life, I mean innocent before men. We're all guilty before God. Innocent life and guilty life If the innocent life is taken, take the guilty life out and take that life. God makes that distinction. Listen, God demands innocent life to be so valued and so protected That the guilty life must be forfeited. That life that takes another life is to be ended And it is to be ended by the hand of man. That is, man is to take it out. Now God knew that men were inconsistent. God knew that men were sinners. And he still gave that right to men. Some people ask, but what about the Ten Commandments? The Ten Commandments tells us thou shalt not kill. How could God be saying here, man is to kill? It never says in the Ten Commandments, Thou shalt not kill. That's a popular myth. The sixth of the Ten Commandments has been wrongly quoted. We must handle God's word carefully, beloved. It says, thou shalt not what? Murder, you know that Others object, but what about David? David maneuvered to have Bathsheba's husband, Uriah, killed in battle. That's right, and God had mercy on David, but David deserved the death penalty. What about the woman caught in adultery? Jesus was merciful to her. Exactly. Exactly. Jesus was merciful to a woman who deserved death. In that case, it wasn't even shedding blood, it was adultery. Mercy sometimes triumphs over judgment, as we learned in James. Mercy is God's prerogative, but mercy is not the norm, justice is the norm. God gives the right to humans to take the lives of humans who killed other humans It must not be done in a personal act of vengeance. It must be by government, and that's what many believe God is establishing at this point in human history, that He is establishing human government Force society to carry out justice, not in a emotional way, not in a prejudiced way But equal justice for all, as we have stated in our country, and we don't always live up to it Where facts are objectively confirmed, where prejudices are removed and emotions are kept at bay And a man is found guilty, that man's life is to be forfeited by the government In fact, with this decree, as I said, many believe it is at this point in human history where God instituted human government as his hand of judgment upon murderers. That when human government took the life of a murderer, it was really God saying, I'm taking the life of the murderer. For I have given that right and that decree to you That it's not really human beings killing other human beings when the government does it. It is the hand of God. It is the sword of God's punishment and wrath upon the murderer. I'm not trying to say that before the flood there were no societal structures, but it appears they would have been built around family clans. That would war and faction and feud and slaughter one another. Here we see a call for something that would be objective, and it would bring forth formal governments with kings and rulers. That interpretation makes sense here. Because Genesis, up to this point in time, has been very careful to point out everything that begins. We always want to know how did something began? We hear about the creation of the family. We hear about the creation of man. We hear about how sin started, how death started, even how the seasons got started. We see all of that. It makes sense that God would let us know also about the beginning of something very, very important, and that is human government. By giving man the right to eliminate guilty life, government was divinely established. Instantly. For if God has given government the right to take life, then God has obviously also given government the right to regulate things that are less important than life, such as property. In other words, if murderers can be punished by human beings in government, so can thieves and rapists and perjurers, etc. Again, what do we see in our society? But the foolishness and non-Christian ideas pushing and prevailing, opposition to capital punishment, beloved, does not come from God. In fact, it is in rebellion to God's statement, and it devalues human life. There's so much irony here God's wisdom makes foolish the wisdom and the education of the world. Those who stand against capital punishment say it's wrong to take a human life, but they have the whole issue backwards They foolishly defend the guilty life and devalue the innocent life. They march in protest to keep the guilty life alive while they devalue the innocent life God values the innocent life and puts such a premium on the value of human life, He demands that anyone who takes it has to pay with a very high price, that is, their own life. Only life for life expresses God's justice. All else makes a mockery of humanity. human life and a mockery of God's decree. Our society's morals are all backwards. They can't even think properly. Calvin wrote, God so highly estimates our life that He will not suffer murder to go unavenged That's why it says in Romans 13:4, government is a minister of God to you for good. But if you do what is evil, be afraid, for it does not bear the sword for nothing. For it is a minister of God, an avenger, who brings wrath on the one who practices evil. Capital punishment, as I said, is not really man killing man. As much as it is man obeying God and carrying out God's vengeance against the murderer. Of course, capital punishment can and has been abused. We don't want to defend its abuses. This decree includes The necessity of laws, and some people hate this, but laws to terminate the life of any animal that kills a human life as well. There should be no debate about that. An animal that kills a human must die. All of this because men Not animals. Men, men and women are made in the very image of our Creator. The image of God is intrinsic to humanity. It's universal in man. The image is not something we possess, it's not something we do, it's not something that comes and goes. It's something man is and is established. Own person. In the new theology book by MacArthur and Mayhew, they write this What is this structure that makes man the image of God, it is best not to narrow the subject to any one characteristic or quality. The image permeates man's being. The structure probably consists of the complex qualities and attributes of man that make him human. Even after the fall, as we said, Genesis 9, 6 and James 3:9-10 teach man is still made in the image of God, marred but not lost. When one strikes down a human being, they're striking at a picture of God. They're hating and killing the one who's made in the image of God, and so their hatred goes through that image and goes back to the God that they hate. Striking at the very image of God deserves death. And so I say again, opposition to capital punishment not only makes a mockery of human life. But it makes a mockery of God Himself. God is not behind that movement. We are constantly being assaulted by a non-Christian worldview in the media, in the universities, even in politics. Wherever society disagrees with Scripture, we must adamantly speak up on behalf of Scripture. This is God's will. They do not see man made in the image of God. Therefore, they err in morality and devalue human life We must not surrender our voice in the marketplace. This passage says every human being is a brother. To slaughter somebody or kill someone of a different nationality or skin color or social status is to kill a brother. Every life is valuable. Part of our calling as a church is to proclaim this truth boldly and broadly, to raise up educational institutions that will defend us and better train minds so that The church doesn't follow in the pathway of society. Shed the light of God's word on all of these modern subjects We need to be a voice of reason to a secular society that has lost its way. To this end, we must work and pray and preach and teach Father, please take this passage and the truths of this passage and the Corollary passages of Scripture to remind us of the value of human life help us to be a voice always to defend life, to speak up for life. Father, we know there are many that are downtrodden and taken advantage of by those in power, and we pray the church, this church, and the other churches will be a loud, resounding voice for what you declare here. And that is, as Jesus even said, we are of more worth than many sparrows. The very hairs of our head are numbered. And how you value value that life which you made in your own image, and how unworthy we feel to bear that image. Help us to bear it better. Father, and thank you that we have learned from your word. Apply it to our hearts. We pray. In Christ's name.