All right, let's uh let's bow and start with a word of prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you once again for another glorious Lord's Day where we get the privilege of gathering to worship you. We thank you for the privilege of the world. we have now to worship you through studying your word. We we thank you for uh your revelation and your word uh about who you are and about your great great plan of redemption. We thank you for the love that you've shown for each and every one of us by sending Jesus Christ to die on this cross for our sins. We thank you, Lord, for all the promises we see in your word. We thank you for your faithfulness to your promises. We thank you for your sovereignty over your creation. And we thank you, Lord, for what we see revealed here about the last days and the the second coming of Christ. What a glorious promise that is is for us to hold on to Lord. And we pray all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. All right. Part thirty-five. And so now we've come to the millennial kingdom. So uh we have the all the events surrounding the second coming and so we've uh we've kind of slogged through all kinds of horrible things that have happened to the to the world through that whole seven year tribulation period and now we come to the second coming of the king and the setting up of his millennial kingdom. So much happier times uh here. Uh at least for most. Not for not for all, as we'll see. see here today. Uh so we're gonna talk about this millennial kingdom, uh the removal of Satan, the reign of the saints, the return of Satan at the end of the millennium, and the revolt, the the final revolt of society along with Satan at the end of that millennial kingdom. But first let's take a look back at what we did last week. And so last week we had the glorious return of Christ in the last half of chapter 19. And so So we saw uh Christ coming now in his second coming, not um as the suffering servant or the humble servant like he did the first time. Now he comes on the white horse, the symbol of the victorious uh general. Uh he comes as the the faithful and true and he's no longer the suffering servant but now he's the king to wage war on his enemies. Uh there's a description of him with crowns on his head, all the crowns on his head, uh which he'll take to himself. Uh he's got a special name that no one knows except he himself. Uh but he's clearly identified as the Word of God, which we saw in John's Gospel and in John's first epistle is clearly identified Him as Jesus Christ. And he doesn't come alone, he comes with an army. Um and they're made up of the church, who we've already seen uh earlier in ch in chapter nineteen, clothed in fine linen, white and clean, and description here. Um and we've also got the so that uh we all we've got the church coming back. The church was previously raptured. We've got the tribulation believers uh also wearing white robes as we saw in Revelation chapter seven. We've got the Old Testament Saints resurrected at the end of the tribulation, as we see from Daniel chapter 12. And of course we have the holy angels as well. So it's this mighty host that's coming with Christ. But he alone has a sword. The rest of the army's not armed because it doesn't need to be armed. And then he's going to rule the nations with a rod of iron. We see the beast, the animal. Antichrist um defeated the kings of the earth that rule under him and their armies, they try to make war against Christ, um and they're instantly seized. It's really not much of battle, um and they're thrown alive, the beast and the and the false prophet thrown alive into the lake of fire. Uh and then the rest are all killed, um and the birds eat their flesh. It's kind of a gruesome uh gruesome image there. So that's what we saw last time. So we saw the return of Christ, the Battle of Armageddon, um, the victory of Christ, and now we're going to see him set up his millennial kingdom. So any questions about where we've come? before we start into the uh the new stuff for today. Yeah. Alright, let's start into Revelation chapter twenty. So if you'll take out your Bible or your device and turn with me to Revelation chapter twenty. We're gonna do So Revelation twenty, beginning with verse one This is the word of the Lord. Then I saw an angel coming down from heaven holding the key of the abyss. And a great chain in his hand. And he laid hold of the dragon, the serpent of old, who is the devil and Satan. And bound him for a thousand years. And he threw him into the abyss and shut it and sealed it over him. so that he would not deceive the nations any longer, until the thousand years were completed. After these things he must be released for a short time Then I saw thrones, and they sat on them, and judge and judgment was given to them. And I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded because of their testimony of Jesus and because of the word of God. And those who had not worshipped the beast or his image, and had not received the mark on their forehead and on their hand, and they came to life and reigned with Christ for a thousand years The rest of the dead did not come to life until the thousand years were completed. This is the first resurrection. Blessed and holy is the one who has a part in the first resurrection. Over these the second death has no power. But they will be priests of God and of Christ, and will reign with him for a thousand years. When the thousand years are completed, Satan will be released from his prison And will come out to deceive the nations which are in the four corners of the earth, Gog and Magog, to gather them together for the war. The number of them is like the sand of the seashore. And they came up on the broad plain of the earth and surrounded the camp of the saints in the beloved city. And fire came down from heaven and devoured them. And the devil who deceived them was thrown into the lake of fire and brimstone where the beast and the false prophet are also. And they will be tormented day and night, forever and ever. So this is the word of the Lord. This is uh the description of Christ sitting up is Millennial Kingdom. And so this is a few paragraphs from the beginning of John MacArthur's section on his commentary on this section of scripture. And he says this, the millennial kingdom is Called by many names in Scripture. In Matthew 1928, Jesus calls it the regeneration. In Acts 319, describes the kingdom as Times of refreshing. Well, verse 21 of that chapter calls it the period of restoration of all things. The Apostle Paul refers to it in Ephesians 1. 10 as an administration suitable to the fullness of of the times. God's kingdom may be broadly defined as the sphere in which he reigns. In its universal eternal sense, God's kingdom encompasses everything that exists, because God is the sovereign ruler over all of his creation. David declared that truth in Psalm 103. 19, The Lord has established his throne in the heavens, and his sovereignty rules over all. Historically, God has mediated his rule on earth through his people, first through Adam and Eve, then Abel, Seth, Enoch, Noah, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Joseph, Moses, Joshua, the judges of Israel, including Samuel, and the kings of Israel. In the present era, God mediates his rule politically through human government, Romans thirteen, and spiritually through the church, Acts twenty, Romans fourteen, Colossians one. In the millennial kingdom, the political and religious elements of God's Temporal earthly rule will be reunited in the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. Though not an exhaustive description of the earthly kingdom, this text caps off all the biblical revelation about the millennium. Thus John MacArthur introducing this section of scripture. So I want to pause just for a second and go through We we did this a little bit in the first couple of weeks, but it's been a long time since the first couple of weeks. Um more than half a year. I just want to go through the fact that uh there are different views uh within the church on this millennium. And so there are three main teachings about the millennium There's the pre tribu tribulational, dispensational, pre millennialism that we believe here at this church that you can see in our uh uh our doctrinal statement. And that includes a church age that we're in now, a rapture, uh just prior to the tribulation, a seven-year tribulation period, and the second coming of Christ comes before the millennium, thus pre- millennial. Premillennial me i the this the views of millennium are are tied to keyed to the return of Christ. And so when you say pre millennial view, that means that Christ's return is pre millennial. comes before the millennium. And so that's what you see right here. So second coming is before the millennial, thus pre-millennial. Another view which has been existed in the church for uh for as long as there's been a church almost is the post-millennial millennial view and that is the return of Christ is post millennial. It comes after the millennium. And so you have a church age and then you have a millennium, but that millennium is set up by the church. not by Christ in the post-millennial view. And so Christ only comes after that millennial period. And then you have the amillennial view, and there is no literal Millennium. So this uh s symbolic uh this church age that we're in now is a symbolic millennium It's not necessarily a thousand years, it's just a big long time where you have the church age. And so there is no literal millennium and so there's for what's called a millennial as non and so there's no millennium and then there's a second coming of Christ that comes. later, but there is no millennium. Everybody see that? Any questions about those three yes wrecks? Well the preterist fall in the almond one they believe everything's happened in sixty correct. That's correct. So preterist is another term that you may hear. And the the main the pretus really focused on the Olivet discourse in in Matthew 24 and the the especially the verse in there that says some of some in this generation And so they th they say, okay, well as Jesus was speaking those things, there's a generation that's there. And they can only live whatever eighty, ninety years past there, and so all these things have to take place before that last person dies of old age. Um and so they really key that to the Olivet Discourse and particularly that verse and say that all the things that we see in Revel well there's there's partial preterist, there's full preterist, uh th that a so they s they think that most of Revelation occurred prior to seventy AD or especially around the events of seven seventy AD. Uh many of them believe that the events that we see here in chapters twenty, twenty one, and twenty-two are still in the future. That's a partial And most I think are partial preterists, not full preterists full preterists is somebody that believes all this stuff happened. That that there was actually a second coming of Christ at seventy AD. That he actually came for the second time in seventy AD. That's right. But chapter twenty one after that probably Yeah, I think probably most of them do put the the uh certainly the new heaven and the new earth. They don't believe that the new heaven and new earth has already already come. Yeah. So that's preterist. That's another another view that's that's typically tied with our millennialism. They don't believe that there's a a s uh literal millennium. Yeah. Uh preterist um I th I I I I don't know exactly what the word means. In this context it means that these events all happened previous. The previous yeah, go ahead. Right for eight. Okay. Alright, could be. I I don't know. I don't know what the etymology is. That's as that could be. uh the ideals that were presently in the uh tribulation age? Well they're were prevalent presently in the millennium uh uh a um a symbolic millennium that the the church age is the millennium and and so typically they believe, not all of them, that the that the church will kind of uh the post millennials believe this too, that the church will kind of gradually take over or uh prevail over civil society. But and so that that view was particularly uh appealing when things seemed to be going really well Um especially in the eighteen hundreds when you had the Industrial Revolution, you had all these inventions of so many wonderful things and you had the um Um social conditions seemed to be getting better, s especially at the end of the eighteen hundreds. Um but then you had World War One and then you had World War Two and um And things didn't seem like they were marching towards a better and brighter future anymore like they did at the end of the eighteen hundreds. Um so i i that's i this has tended to kind of go in cycles depending on how things are going. Um but but these these views have persisted over centuries, uh these three views. Alright. So I'm sorry I don't know exactly what the word where the word predators comes from. Yeah, well it could be. It could be. I just don't know. Uh I don't know if it's Latin or not. I don't know I I don't know. I don't know where that word comes from. Um yeah. So uh but typically as Rex pointed out, it it is the millennial view is typically a millennial. That there is no um uh no literal millennium. Um and so you have these Views of the millennium, my millennial, post millennial, premillennial. Um and then you have the tribulation um usually the millennial view and post millennial view don't have a a literal tribulation. Premillennial view typically does have a literal tribulation. And Then you have different views of when the tribulation uh when the rapture, I'm sorry, um uh when the rapture occurs in conjunction with the tribulation. So you have a pre-tribulation rapture, that's before the tribulation, you have a mid-tribulation rapture, you have a post-tribulation rapture. There's also some uh views called the partial and the pre-Raph tribulation. Um the three main are pre-mid and post, and pre-tribulation rapture is what we teach, uh rapture before the seven-year-ulli. period. Uh there are those who believe that there's a mid tribulation rapture because the true um and that's usually sort of what the pre wrath the pre wrath are usually before the bowl judgments. The bowls are the wrath of God and so everything before that in the tribulation is not the wrath of God, and so therefore the tribulation only happens at the wrath of God, and so you have this pre-wrath tribulation view. So there are views, different views out there about when these things happen. I just want to make sure you're aware of that. Uh and it doesn't catch you by surprise if somebody disagrees with our particular view on when these happened. Right, that's for us, yes. Um but more importantly we have to remember that Christ is coming. Amen? Because no matter what you believe about the the millennial and and when when the rapture occurs, uh I think everybody agrees that Christ is coming. Um so uh that's the most important thing. So yes, change their views or they some people yes. Some people have changed their views over over the years when they've uh they've studied and learned different things and have come to different uh understandings. That that does happen with with this and other other doctrines. Uh okay, so uh pre tribulation, mid tribulation, post tribulation, depending on when uh the church is raptured. Uh this is what we believe a pre-tribulation rapture, so rapture of the church before all these events of the tribulation and then second coming with the church. Uh there's also the mid-tribulation rapture, second coming with the church, and there's a post-tribulation rapture where the events of 2 Thessalonians taken up into the air with Christ and then immediately returned with him for the beginning of the millennium. So there are different views and people and people don't just pluck those views out of thin air they have scriptures that they rely on to uh to for why they believe that. Um and I don't want to uh belittle or denigrate that because uh there are uh sincere followers of Christ who have different views on on this. Okay. Uh everybody understand that. I just wanted to go through that before we we get into this this millennium. Okay. Um so verse one, let's go verse by verse through here. Uh then I saw an angel coming down from heaven holding the key of the abyss. And a great chain in his hand, and he laid hold of the dragon, the serpent of old, who is the devil and Satan, and bound him for a thousand years. As we've seen in Revelation over and over again, the same Greek phrase, Caedon, then I saw. indicates a current chronological progression. Something happens next. Uh so the location of this passage in the chronological flow is consistent with the premillennial uh view that we teach of the kingdom. So it's after the tribulation, which is uh detailed in chapter six through nineteen. Uh Christ then returns in chapter nineteen second half of chapter nineteen, sets up his kingdom in chapter twenty, and we have the new heavens and the new earth in chapter twenty-one. So that's the basic chronology of the pre trib, pre mill view that we teach. Uh so the millennial kingdom comes after Christ's second coming, but before the establishment of the new heavens and the new earth. Uh this angel that we see here uh is not identified who it is. He's coming down from heaven to bind Satan. Could be the Archangel Michael, we don't know. Uh he's listed as the great adversary of Satan in chapter twelve. Uh he's also mentioned in Daniel chapter ten and Daniel chapter twelve and Jude Verse 9. But he's not identified, so that's only a speculation. It could be Michael. It doesn't tell us who that angel is in the text. Whoever he is, he's got great power. He's sent to earth with a specific agenda. He's decided. Seize Satan and for the thousand year duration of the kingdom, bind him, cast him into the abyss, and seal it, and then release him at the end of the thousand years. Um Abusos Abusa Abyss uh it appears seven times in Revelation. We've seen it five times already. Uh in chapter nine, twice three times, in chapter eleven, chapter seventeen, and then two more times here This is not the final place of punishment. The lake of fire is. So we'll see at the end of the thousand years Satan's taken out of the abyss and he's tossed into the lake of fire. So it's a temporary holding pen. In this case for a thousand years for Satan. Uh the angel has a key. Um and so he's been given the key. And the the and that signifies uh God's uh delegated authority to him to do this task, to lock up Satan. So he has the power to open the abyss throw Satan in and seal it again afterwards. Um that's what power that's that's what the key, the authority, the key symbolizes that God has given him. Uh the metaphor of the of biting demons with chains is something we've seen Other places in scripture, Jude chapter six, for example. Uh it's in this passage it's said to be a great chain uh because of Satan's former high status among angels. You see that in Ezekiel chapter twenty eight, the description of who Satan is uh the anointed cherub he's he's described as in Ezekiel 28. Uh so he's had a special place among the angels um before his fall and so he gets a great chain um for Satan to be bound and tossed into the abyss. So the angel lays hold of Satan, um, and he's he's very, very clearly identified by four four different names here. Um and titles that are given to him. At first he's called the dragon, and that's the title we've seen in Revelation uh twelve different times, uh starting in in chapter twelve. Uh so we know who the dragon is. It's Satan emphasizes his bestial nature and ferocity that using that symbol is the dragon. He's also identified here as the serpent of old. And what does that refer to the serpent of old goes all the way back to the Garden of Eden, where Satan appeared as a serpent uh to tempt Eve. So the serpent of old he's described as here. He's also described as diablos, uh the devil, which means slanderer and malicious gossip, which is an appropriate title for the accuser of our brethren. So the dragon, the serpent of old The devil, and then Satan. So he's given four names here to make sure we're really, really, really, really certain who this is who's being tossed into the abyss. Uh the Greek word, uh which is from a Hebrew root, uh, is used fifty-three times in Scripture, the Hebrew root and the Greek word, Satan. Um the Hebrew root and the Greek word both mean adversary. Uh, since Satan opposes God, Christ, and all believers. So we know exactly who this is who's being tossed into the abyss. And we're given an exact length of time that he's tossed into the abyss for. He's to be bound for A thousand years. And this is the first of six precise references to the duration of the millennium. So a thousand years is repeated over and over again here. Um which is which would be, I think, odd if it's symbol to be repeated like that over and over again with a very specific number, rather than some other way y y y y you would think if it was just a general reference that there would be multiple ways that you would talk about this general period of time or symbolic period of time. But it's all six times in a row it's exactly a thousand years. I think that's telling. Alright, continuing along to verse 3. Yes. It does. Isaiah 14 is another description of the fall of Satan. Very important, uh very interesting passage. because the first part of Isaiah fourteen seems to be and probably is talking about an earthly king. And then it shifts and it's clearly not an earthly king anymore. It's talking about uh Satan. Yeah. Very interesting passage, Isaiah fourteen. If you so there are very few passages in the Bible about the fall of Satan, uh about who exactly Satan is. Isaiah fourteen is one, Ezekiel twenty eight is another. Uh we get the confrontation in the garden, of course, with with Satan and Adam and Eve and her temptation. And we get the passages here in Revelation about him. There are many other passages about the things he does during this present age and we'll go through some of those here in in a minute. Yeah. And Roaring Lion. Roaring Lion, yep. Yep. Yep. Resist the the Satan and he will flee. Uh there's a lot of passages about his activity current currently, uh, that we'll talk about here in a minute. Uh any other questions about uh or comments about what we're we've gone through so far? All right, verse three. Let's take a look at verse three. So now the the uh the angel takes his action that he's been commissioned to do, and he threw him into the abyss and shed it and sealed it over him, so that he would not deceive the nations any longer until the thousand years were completed. After these things he must be released for a short time. So the testimony of scripture is that Satan is not bound now. Um he's going to be bound then, but he's not bound now. And so we see lots of passages about his activity now. Acts chapter five, second Corinthians chapter two, Ephesians chapter six, second Corinthians eleven, second Corinthians twelve, Ephesians four, James four. Thessalonians uh 1 Thessalonians chapter 2, 1 Timothy 5, those are all examples of Christ's activity in the present age. And so Satan uh Satan, I'm sorry. Yeah. Satan. Satan's activity in the present age And all of those passages are written after the cross. And so you will sometimes hear people say that Satan has been bound Since the cross. Um, a lot of times that'll be an argument against the millennial views. The almost millennials will say, Well, Satan can't be bound for a thousand years here because he was bound because of what Christ did on the cross. But we have all these passages that are written after the cross that talk about Satan's present activity. Um and so I don't think that fits. Yeah. Captured as well or so we have some demons who have been in the abyss since uh Genesis chapter six. We have some demons that were let out of the abyss uh earlier in Revelation during the tribulation. And we have the beast and the false prophet who were tossed into the abyss last chapter. And we'll see here at the end of this chapter that the text specifically says they're still there a thousand years later. being tormented when Satan gets tossed in a thousand years after the beast and the and the false prophet. So there are various Angels and people who have been tossed into this abyss. But we will see that when the Great One Throne Judgment comes, everybody gets tossed into the lake of fire. Um so uh Satan gets tossed into the lake of fire, the false prophet and the uh and the Uh have and the the the the the the beast and the false prophet have already been tossed in the lake of fire. We'll get death and Hades tossed into the lake of fire. We'll get everybody whose name is not written in the lamb's l book of life tossed into the lake of fire. And so the abyss is a temporary holding pen. The lake of fire is eternal hell. So So for the thousand years that we're not gonna be Right, that's right. So, however, as we'll see here in a minute, that doesn't mean we don't have a sin nature anymore. Uh so Yeah. So 'cause we'll see at the end of the millennium there's a rebellion against against Christ. Yeah. Uh unfortunately. So uh so th so here's the picture. So Satan is bound temporarily in this abyss At the end of the millennium he's going to be let out and he's going to be tossed permanently into the lake of fire. Um so the the abyss has been around as a temporary holding pen at least since Genesis chapter six. Because we have a description of that in the book of Jude, in the book of 2 Peter, the fact that these demons have been tossed in there So Yeah, so there's two there's different words for um what we traditionally think of as as hell. So Hades uh is one word. Tartarus is another Greek word, and that's what I think correlates to the abyss here. And so you have a so so you have a a place where, for example, uh dead unbelievers are now So where are dead unbelievers now? Hades. Sheol or Hades. And so uh death and Hades give up the dead that are in them at the second resurrection. Um and then there's the Great White Throat judgment tossed into the lake of fire. And death and Hades are tossed into the lake of fire. Um and so Hades or Sheol is a place where the dead unbelievers are. Uh the abyss is a place where a temporary holding pen for demons and others that are uh that are incarcerated by God until the judgment and they can be thrown into the lake of fire as well. Yes, Rex. There doesn't seem to be any scripture that that indicates that there was any opposition to Christ until the very end of the Satanist room. I think that's right. So yes, I I think we we uh we end up with a millennial kingdom where there's not Satan's bound, there's no demonic influence, but you still have human beings with a Uh who end up rebelling at the end uh against the king. Yeah. Good questions. So w it's good to talk through these things. So try to get your uh wrestler minds around what these terms are, what these places are. Um and some of the some of the concepts are not uh easy to understand. So what does it mean that You know, what does it mean that somebody is held in Hades right now? So we get some indications with the parable that Jesus taught about Lazarus and the rich man, uh, that that a dead unbeliever is being tormented right now, even before he gets tossed into the lake of fire. Um yeah. Yes. about purgatory? Is that anything I mean we brought to So um as far as I can tell the Catholic Church has invented purgatory without scriptural basis. Uh I don't I don't mean to be harsh but I I don't see any scriptural basis for purgatory. Um so uh as as somewhere that's between heaven and hell is basically what the the Catholic Church teaches is that there's another place, in addition to the places that Scripture actually mentions, called Purgatory, where it's not heaven, it's not hell and and you can be prayed out of it or you can uh and very they've they've had very various uh very convenient teachings throughout history about how you can buy your relatives out of purgatory by giving money to the church. Um uh yeah. None of that is in scripture as as far as I can tell. Anybody anybody Think of uh any scripture that the church uses, the Catholic Church uses to First Corinthians three. Okay, so they they do have a scripture they think refers to purgatory. Um three one? Um these extra um burned up the uh the work is burned up, whatever's done with it. Uh yeah, go ahead, Rick. Well that's true, that's a good point. They have extra books. Yeah, they do have extra books and so yeah, so and I'm not very familiar with that apocrypha, so they they could very well have written purgatory into their extra books. Yeah, just like the uh like the Mormon write uh Joseph Smith into the end of Genesis. Uh the the Mormon translation of the b of the Bible has Joseph Smith written into the uh the end of the book of Genesis. Um very convenient for them. Uh okay. Um so Satan's activity is not merely restricted or stained, but totally eliminated. He's not permitted to influence the world in any way. He's putting that abyss and sealed, shut over him, no influence on the world uh during that thousand years. That does not mean that people living during the millennium will be incapable of sinning, unfortunately. So amazingly many who were born of the believers. So it was only believers enter this kingdom, right? So that's all so it's only believers at the beginning of this thousand years. But then they have kids. Um and so uh many many of those And they're ov th over a thousand years you would expect s many generations of kids to be born. Um, and their kids and you know, grandkids and great grandkids and great great grandkids over a thousand year period, uh, who will love sin and reject the king. So those who yes. Justice that it starts all with the little numbers. Yeah, and Christ is king and so it's a perfectly just society. Um there's no injustice from the government. The government is Christ. Christ is king. Um and so But that doesn't mean people don't won't sin. Um that falling away. Correct. And so that yes, so uh absolutely the Bible teaches the perseverance of the saints that uh that people who are truly saved, uh no one can snatch them out of God's hand. Um y you know, n nothing Paul describes the the height nor depth nor anything can separate us from the love of Christ. Um and so yes, so those that are entering the kingdom are all saved, and so those that enter the kingdom will always all be saved. But that doesn't mean that their children all will be. Or their grandchildren or their great grandchildren. Yes. Hm? Oh so Yeah, so we're not going to be able to do that. Raptured and return with Christ and rule with Christ. Yeah. Okay. So we go into the I mean we don't know much but we go into Yeah, so uh this is a good question and and we touched on this last week. What exactly are the bodies like of those who have been raptured and come back? Um as compared to those who live through the tribulation and have ordinary bodies that came out of the tribulation. So all the unbelievers on earth at this time today all died out of one day. So and then there's only believers left on the earth, and then there's the church that comes back with Christ. I think yes, I think we've we've come into a ki a a period of where there's only believers coming into this this millennium. Um and so you have only believers but they have kids. And so kids and grandkids and great grandkids. grandkids and those kids could be believers or not believers just like we have today. So all the unbelievers are over died after I think so. Anyone have any other yes, go ahead. And then So who's reigning and who's who's reigned from first? So Christ is reigning. Yeah. And yeah, and so we we do have the fact that um there are s there are several people that are promised that they'll be reigning. Um so uh the the church reigns with Christ, the apostles are said to have thrones and reign with Christ, uh the Old Testament believers reign with Christ. Um place there as well. Well all the Old Testament saints. Which would include David. Yeah. So but it's not clear, but there's no clear description of who is being reigned over. I don't see that here, telling us who's being reigned over. However, we can certainly surmise that there will be generations of people born who are not included in these people who are coming back to reign with Christ. Over oh over uh born from Uh, especially well, so I don't know about people that have been raptured and come back, but we have all the people that survived the tribulation, came into this millennial kingdom in a r ordinary body, um and Certainly they would be able to have kids. And they would maybe they obey like the ordinary traditions of the millennials? I don't know. I don't know. So th a lot of these things are we just have a few verses of scripture that don't give us all the details we might like. And so uh we have a little kind of a broad description of this millennial kingdom but not not a a a great deal of Yeah, so I think long lives are uh kind of assumed in here. Yes, Rick. Yeah. Yeah, it's uh th there are indications of scripture that life spans will be long. Um, you know, w we once had long lifespans in the book of Genesis. We have nine hundred uh people living between nine hundred and thousand years old, and um I think we can speculate that perhaps that That will be you know, this millennial period you'd have people that would live through the whole millennial period, uh, for example. Um yeah, long, long lifespans like that. Yes, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. We got a thousand hands here. Since Satan is found at this point, um and he's um not able to do the nations any longer, where is the sim coming from at this point? So where does Tim always come from. Yeah. Yeah. So yes, so uh sin comes from our sin nature. Yeah. Yeah. And so Satan can aggravate it, he can tempt us, but ultimately sin comes from inside each human being. And so if each human being is born with a sin nature, then we're We sin. Even without Satan. Yeah. Yes. Um, I keep speaking back on that um I I think that the whole millennium is God giving us a picture fallacy of thinking that things could be good on this earth because you have a perfect earth, if you will. Christ himself is on the throne. I mean what more do you want? Satan and all his demons p powerless but they can't influence me the devil made me do it. No. The demon made me do it. It it's me. The heart is desperately wicked. Doesn't know it. And he's just showing that because they start out all Perfect. They end up as as many as the sea the sailings of the seashore against Christ coming to save them. I think that's definitely one of the lessons of the millennium. is that i i i to dispel the notion that if we just had the perfect government, for example, everything would be great, everything would be perfect, w everybody could live their lives and nobody would have a problem. Uh no. Even if you had the perfect person, Christ, at the head of the government, leading a perfect government, you still end up with sin and rebellion. And and with no Satan, no Satan roaming the earth and and causing trouble as well. No Satan, no demons A perfect government and yet we have the human condition uh causing rebellion against Christ. Yes, we're poor. Well s some of them are. Yeah, because we have that description in nineteen of who came back with Christ. So the the description in t at the end of chapter nineteen tells us that we have the this multitude that comes back with Christ. So it's not just Christ coming back alone, he's coming back with the church, those dressed in the white linen that's the description of the church that's given previously. And so we that we see that definitely the picture of the church coming back with him. And we have descriptions in the Old Testament of Old Testament saints coming back with him. Uh so yeah, so there's others coming back with him. Uh yes. Where does the skull of the people who died a ghost um eat the goal to have So where do the souls well they're under the altar in one of the visions. Uh we have them under the altar. Remember that? So those that God those that the souls agreed to do guys do in the new land? During the tribulation of the millennium. Oh, people that died during the millennium? Yeah. Um well yeah go ahead. Two two comments. Verse four is a promise by Christ that he has not forgotten about the tribulation of saints. Right. That's why it's addressing that here as compared with with verse five. Well, if you go back to Isaiah, it basically says no one is dying during the millennium except for rebellion. They're considered a child at a hundred years old. So there's no indication there is any death in the millennium except for rebellion. Right, so uh so there there is the passage in Isaiah that seems to indicate that there won't be death, physical death during the millennium. And so we don't have to wonder about where the people that die during the millennium will go 'cause they the people don't die during the millennium. Um yeah. So just a quick comment uh we talk about what will what will be coming back like uh first John is then Um now we are children of God and not appear what we will be. We know that when we see him Christ we will be like so we look up around a glorified body like Christ doesn't I think that's right. So that's the raptured church, some sort of glorified body. Uh but there's also a group that are the those who survive the tribulation and go into the millennial with ordinary bodies, I seem. Yeah. Uh Um yeah. And you have resurrected Old Testament saints. Uh so there's group there's different groups. And uh to to me the the scripture doesn't give enough information to know exactly what what the body is going to be like for each of these groups. Um you know, the way John puts it, we don't know exactly what will look like, but we'll be like Christ. So what does that mean? Um walk through all walk through all so Christ what well what was Christ like between his resurrection and his ascension? Um he appeared and he disappeared. disappeared, you walk through walls, and are we going to be able to do that? Or is Christ a special case? Um and and to be like him, does that mean exactly or similar in some ways. Um yeah. How do how do we get to the idea that um only believers will enter the Oil Kingdom? So um we get the Um so we get this description of who is in the kingdom. And so it it appears that that description fits uh a bunch of different groups. One is those who came back with him, one is those who survived the um um the tribulation who were the tribulation saints another is the description of we're about to see those who are beheaded during the tribulation for their testimony of Christ. And so it seems like this description of the people that are there are all descriptions of believers. But I mean if the problem was gone to dead and it was the nation together, you know that would have been every single person on earth. Yeah. Yeah, go ahead, Rick. judgment of the nations that takes place right after the Battle of Armageddon. And that's where all the lost people are killed. So that that that description of what happens right after the Battle of Armageddon is why I think most people believe that it's only gonna be believers in the in the millennium. Um Matthew uh twenty four uh uh gives the indication of when the Lord returns himself. uh talk about uh one shall be at uh mill brown two beings shall be at the mill grind grinding, one shall be taken, the other one shall left uh shall be left. And uh the indication is that the one that is taking is the one that's gonna be judged. Judged, yeah. Yeah, I I think that's right. And so and that ties with the description of the judgment at the end of the uh tribulation period, at the end of the Battle of Armageddon. Um and So I think all of those scriptures together mean that all of the unbelievers will be judged, um and so we're only gonna get believers into the millennial kingdom. Uh yeah. still uh was still uh you know and his heart was still sin uh against God. Uh but it won't be because of uh uh at this time it won't be because of deception. It would be cost guilt for the followers. But they would be conformed, you know, they would be conform forced to conform to righteousness because to take this out of the time. Well so yeah, we'll have a perfect government. So if you read uh Romans thirteen, what's the purpose of government? Is to punish evildoers, um and that will that punishment will be perfectly executed and judgment will be perfect and um and so yes there'll be perfect judgment of of evil wrongdoing uh but that won't stop people from Sinning. Uh it won't. So it will still you know have that since even outwardly they still have the sin sin nature. Yeah, so i i and it comes from the heart. It does come from inwardly, yeah. All right, yes. So uh we have Great White Throne judgment is for those who are whose name names are not written in the Lamb's Book of Life. So you have two groups. You have people whose names are written in the Lamb's Book of Life. go to the new heavens and the new earth. Anybody whose name is not written in the Lamb's Book of Life, then books are opened and they're judged according to their deeds. And so when you got page three? That's the great white throne judgment. And that is when? Uh that's after this millennium. After the millennium. Yeah. Yep. So that's called the last judgment. Yes. The Great White Throne judgment. Yeah. Yes. Um verse seven here, something too far ahead, uh, is indication that uh those who go through uh the millennial kingdom are not uh they don't actually sin until Satan is released, right? Well they don't rebel until Satan is released. Um doesn't mean they don't sin before Satan is released, but they don't rebel until Satan until Satan comes by they'll lead 'em in in rebellion. Um yeah. But during this time we'll during this time we'll be the rights I mean there'll be no lawlessness because Right? Perfect purposefully perfectly righteous government. And at the beginning of the millennium at least everybody will be a believer. And so things will be good But people who will still sin. And children will be born who are not saved and they'll grow up and they'll have kids and they'll grow up and they'll have kids. And by the end, by the end of the millennium Think about a thousand years and how many how the population can grow in a thousand years. Millions, hundreds of millions, especially when nobody's dying But if nobody dies, it's in their hearts that those that first entered will be broken because they'll be seeing their grandchildren, their great grandchildren just being so. I think that's probably true. I think we can probably anticipate the same kind of feelings that we have now when we see loved ones who are not saved. Um yeah. I think we can s anticipate that they will feel the same way as we do when we see loved ones who are not saved. Yes. Um when the church comes back by the kids up, does that mean very people overcome the church and get married? So I don't know, and I don't think so. Um I think uh when we the we see the past about uh w they'll be like the angels, they won't uh marry or be given in marriage. I think that applies to uh a church that gets raptured um and comes back with him. Um but the uh i g again w there's some holes in our knowledge here about exactly what we will look like or be like uh when we're raptured and then come back. There's some gaps there. And and I think we have to be okay with that. Um we have a natural curiosity. God made us with natural curiosity, so we're curious about these things. He he did. He said They're not keep married they won't marry or be given a marriage in in heaven. That's that's true. And I think that's right. I think that's the answer to her question, is that no, y if you're You know, if you're m married here and um you know you're widowed and you had two or three different husbands because you were married and and widowed and married and widowed. I mean, in history that was a common thing when people died young, it was common for somebody that that you know, could be widowed when they're twenty or twenty-two years old and have another well then w that would be awkward in heaven if you uh but Jesus is answering that and saying no Because they gave him a ridiculous thing where s one was married to seven different brothers and you know and Jesus saying, No, no, no, that's not how it is in in heaven Um Yeah. And so I think that's what the way we need to think about the raptured church and and coming back uh based on what Christ said there with that situation with the Pharisees. Listen to we're about this lost plane then. There you go. Yeah. Okay. Um yeah, let me uh let me move along here. So uh so John sees this glorious picture of people resurrected and reigning with Christ. He sees thrones, uh people set on them and judge uh judgment was given to them Uh the glorified saints will enforce God's will and adjudicate his disputes. Uh the identity of the s of the saints who sat on the thrones, I think, can best be determined by looking at who God promised would reign. Uh so for example Daniel 727 promises that the Old Testament saints will reign in the millennial kingdom. So Old Testament saints. In Matthew 19, Jesus promised the apostles You who have followed me in the regeneration, when the Son of Man will sit on his glorious throne, you shall sit upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. And so the apostles were promised that they would be on thrones with Jesus in the millennial kingdom. In first Corinthians chapter six Paul said, Do you not know that the saints will judge the world? Um and so the saints will judge the world. Uh so there are are scriptures that tell us who is going to be uh judging on these thrones. Um and then we get this description of the souls. I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded because of their testimony of Jesus, because of the word of God, and those who had not worshipped the beast. So who is this talking about This is tribulation martyrs. Tribulation saints that were martyred, beheaded, during the tribulation, because we see did not worship the beast in his image. So it's definitely during the tribulation this is talking about. And and it says right here that they will come So the the the tribulation saints that were martyred during the tribulation They're going to come to life and reign with Christ for a thousand years. That's what the scripture tells us here. So John sees this. He sees this in his vision. Uh martyr during the tribulation. We saw this previously. We've seen them in in chapter six underneath the altar saying, How long, Lord? Well now the time has come. Um beheaded, that Greek word means to cut off with an axe. And it's a uh um it's a figure of speech meaning uh ac to execute. Um and so this the the empire of antichrist, as we saw during the tribulation, uh they exterminated tribulation saints because of their testimony of Jesus, because of the Word of God, um because they were not obeying the law to worship the beast. Um that w there was a law that they had to worship the beast and had to get the mark on their forehead. And they didn't they wouldn't do it and so they were executed by the Antichrist and his um in his government. Yes. But uh they demand that that's a symbolism of them. thinking a certain way and uh acting a certain way. Supporting the beast. Yep. Yep. That was the symbol, the physical symbol that I support the beast. And these tribulation saints refused to do that and they were Executed for it. And they came to life and reigned with Christ for a thousand years. The rest of the dead did not come to life until the thousand years were completed. And so the dead unbelievers don't come to life. And so this is called the first resurrection. So the dead believers come to life, the dead unbelievers not so much. So because the tribulation saints were faithful to death, which is evident evidence of their true salvation, they came to life and reigned with Christ for a thousand years during this millennial kingdom. They came to life, the particular Greek word that's here uh used to came to life cannot refer to a spiritual resurrection. The tribulation Martyrs were already spiritually alive. So they didn't need to come back to life spiritually. They were already spiritually alive as believers. um is used throughout the New Testament to describe physical bodily resurrection resurrection. We see it in many different places in scripture. So this is definitely a physical revel re resurrection, not a spiritual resurrection. Uh John adds uh this little footnote, the rest of the dead did not come to life. until the thousand years were completed. Um and so these are the unbelieving dead of all ages, whose resurrection to judgment and damnation comes later in the second half of uh chapter twenty. We'll see that next week when we do a chapter eleven to fifteen we'll see these unbelievers coming back to life for their judgment, their final judgment. Res the this that that resurrection. So uh John calls this resurrection of the saints uh the first resurrection. Um and he says, Blessed are those who will see uh the first resurrection. So uh this word that's uh this Greek word that's translated resurrection here, anastasis, uh is further evidence of a physical resurrect resurrection. That also describes a physical resurrection. Uh not Anything spiritual. And then he goes on to say, Blessed and holy is the one who has a part in the first resurrection. Over these the second death has no power But they will be priests of God and of Christ and will reign with him a thousand years. Um and so this phrase, Blessed and Holy, is the one who takes part in the first resurrection, is the fifth of seven beatitudes. So we've got these, Blessed are, blessed are, blessed are. Those are called Beatitudes. We saw Christ give Beatitudes during the Sermon on the Mount. Well there's seven of them in the book of Revelation. Blessed are blank. And this is number five. We saw uh one in verse uh chapter one, uh we saw one in chapter fourteen, chapter sixteen, chapter nineteen, um and then here, and then there'll be two more in chapter twenty-two. So what are the reasons why the uh the the those who take part in the first resol resurrection are blessed? We're given a couple of reasons. Number one, the second death has No power over them. We'll see the second death specifically defined in verse 14 that we'll talk about next week as the lake of fire. The lake of fire is the second death. see that very specifically uh listed in scripture. So in other words, they're not going to be tossed into the lake of fire. Always a good thing. Uh not to be tossed into the lake of fire. So that's uh benefit number one of being part of the first resur resurrection. Um and so uh and with this that's a comforting truth, uh, that all um God's children always have. Um That uh, for example, Romans five, having now been justified by his blood, we shall be saved from the wrath of God through him. We don't have to experience the wrath of God as children of God. Those who participate in the first resurrection So they they are resurrected here so that they can be priests of God and s and reign with him. Serve uh in that capacity during the millennial kingdom. Uh and the final blessing of the first resurrection is that they'll reign for the for the thousand years, um, along with believers who survived the tribulation. So politically and socially, the will of Christ and his saints will be universal. We see that in Psalm 2, Daniel chapter 2, Absolute, Psalm 2 and Isaiah 11, and righteous Isaiah chapter eleven. So this is uh we have various descriptions of the quality of the millennial kingdom in Old Testament scriptures, what what it will be like in a qualitative way. Not a detailed description of what bureaus will exist in the government. Uh but an overall idea that it's a universal kingdom, it's absolute and it's righteous. Um spiritually it will be a time uh the believing remnant is converted. We get that uh um as the f the final uh promise uh to the nation of Israel that the remnant will be saved. Um the land the nation is restored to the land that God promised. Uh it's a time when Gentile nations will worship the king. We see that in Isaiah 11, Micah 4, Zechariah 14. And it's marked by righteousness and peace. Isaiah 32 and joy Isaiah 12 and Isaiah 61. So the overall description, these general descriptions of what this kingdom is like, we have in the Old Testament. And physically, um the curse is lifted to at least to a certain extent in that we have this description that people don't die Um we have a description that food will be f plentiful, Joel chapter two. There will be health and well-being, Isaiah 33 and 35, leading to long life, Isaiah 65, the passage that Rex read just a minute ago. Um and so we have these ideas, this kind of general idea of what this millennial kingdom is gonna be like. Yes. But the the lamb and the lions will lie down together and the the the animals are still appear to be any type. That's right, and and no animals uh doing anything uh to people. Um you know the the baby can put his hand into the the nest of the a a aspir adder. Um so in that respect that's another Another aspect of the fall, the the curse on the whole world that has made things not the way they originally were, not the way uh they they could be and will be in the new heavens and the new earth. Um so many of the things that um that were consequences of the curse are lifted during this millennial kingdom. That's the description we get, yes, that's millennial. The what being no more? The sea. The sea? Oh, that's the that's the description of the new heavens and the new earth. Yeah. No more sea, no more sun 'Cause the light uh the s the s Christ is the light, uh in the new heavens and the new earth, yeah. Before the fall people were vegetarians only vegetables, so are we that So I don't know. Uh but that's a good question. So uh God changed the dietary laws a number of times throughout scripture. It's a fascinating study if you want to do it sometime. So um originally people were only allowed to eat plants and other animals were only allowed to eat plants as well. Um that was uh Genesis chapter one. Um and then In Genesis chapter nine, actually, coming off the ark is the first time after the flood is the first time when people were told they could now eat meat. Now they they may have already been disobeying and eating meat before the flood because they were disobeying generally, but uh they were formally allowed, people were formally allowed to eat meat starting in Genesis chapter nine. And then you had all All kinds of laws about what were clean and unclean things that you were allowed to eat um in the ceremonial laws uh in uh for Israel. And then in Acts, Peter's told You eat anything you want. Uh so God has changed those rules. Only plants. Then you can eat animals in in chapter nine and then Leviticus you have all these rules that but you can't and can't eat and then Acts you you can eat whatever you want. Uh Um and what what the rules will be here in the millennium I don't think are specifically laid out. Uh but it could be that God's gonna change the dietary rules again uh for the millennial kingdom. Yes, same saying seeing as how animals are our friends again maybe we won't be eating them in the uh millennial kingdom. I don't know. But it does not specifically say and and therefore just like Genesis one, you won't eat meat. It doesn't say that. Uh at least nowhere that I can find. Okay. Um when the thousand years is complete Satan's come up he's released from his prison Gather to the nations from the four corners of the earth to gather them to give for war. The number of them is like the sand of the seashore. So those who rebel against Christ are many, many, many like the sands of the seashore. Um he's released from his prison. Christ. Um and so we have a a final rebellion. This is the last uh rebellion really. Even though you have this perfect environmental and social conditions in the millennium uh along with l lengthened lifespans that we see from Isaiah 65. Um so there'll be many children you would think, if everybody's very, very healthy and living forever that they could have lots of kids. Um so we end up with lots and lots of unbelievers who rebel against God as n many as the num sands of the seashore. Many will love sin and reject Christ. Um so when Satan is loosed, he provides supernatural leadership for these uh rebellious people. Um all all the sin latent sin and rebellion left in the universe. He comes out and deceives the nations once again, collects them from the four corners of the earth. It means the rebels will come from everywhere. And uh they they're given the symbolic title of Gog and May Magog uh after the force that will assault Israel during the tribulation from Ezekiel 38 and 39 Um some equate this battle with the Battle of Armageddon and say that the m uh the Ezekiel thirty eight and thirty-nine is describing those, but Uh there are a couple of things that uh would tend to lead one uh away from that idea. Uh the events from Ezekiel 39, 17 to 20 seem to be ascribing the same events as Revelation 19. The battle of Marvington that we've just seen. And they fit chronologically in Ezekiel before the millennial temple, which is chapters 40 to 48. While the battle depicted in Revelation 2, twenty takes place after the millennium. We we clearly see that. Satan's in in prison for a thousand years and then after the millennium these events happen. And so it doesn't really fit the chronology in Ezekiel. Um that's that I think that Ezekiel's describing the the Battle of Morm again. Okay. Um so uh the topography we've seen the topography change during the tribulation the mountains uh fled away and the islands are no more and uh so we have a different topography most likely that's described here. Uh we have the rebels coming up on the broad plain of the earth and surrounding the camp of the saints in the beloved city. Uh the war City of course is Jerusalem, uh, which is the where the Messiah's throne is, the center of the millennial world. Um and then they come to attack. They all gather there to attack, and like the Battle of Arg Mageddon, there's really no battle. They come up to start a battle, and then fire comes down from heaven and kills them all. So there's really no battle. There's just fire coming down from heaven and killing them all. Fire came down from heaven and devoured them, is what the scripture tells us. So swift and total extermination, really without a battle And of course we've seen that in Scripture before fire coming down from heaven as a way for God to judge sinners. uh 2 Kings 1. Th these descriptions of fire coming down from heaven uh to judge sinners and and we'll have the ultimate and the final example of that here in Revelation twenty with this final rebellion. Um they don't get very far in their rebellion. Fire comes down from heaven and kills them all. And so the and of course the devil th is then thrown into the lake of fire. And notice it's where the beast and the false prophet are also. They were thrown in there a thousand years ago, and they're still there Think about that. So the devil who's deceived and thrown into the lake of fire, he joins the beast. That time will have been in torment for a thousand years. That those two humans are still there after all that time refute the false doctrine of annihilationism. So annihilationism is a false doctrine that says that a a good and loving God could never torment ev anybody forever and so really what happens is the unbelievers just just evaporate into nothingness when they die. Because a a good God could never torture them forever. That's a that's the doctrine of annihilationism. But here we see for certain, these two people th who are human beings, the the Antichrist and the Beast, they've been tortured already for a thousand years at this point in the lake of fire, and they're still there when Satan gets tossed in there. Um, yeah. So hell is a place of both mental and physical torment. We see that in many scriptures that describe that. Um and so those sentenced to that place will be tormented day and night is what the the scripture tells us forever and ever. Tormented day and night forever and ever. Not a moment's relief. Really harsh. But this is truth It's an important truth for us to understand. Uh explicitly teaches that the hell is eternal. I've mentioned this before, but the same Greek phrase that's translated forever and ever here is the same Greek phrase that describes Christ's eternity. So it's either both or neither. Either Christ is eternal and hell is eternal, or neither one of them are. It's exactly the same Greek phrase. Uh it's also the same Greek phrase used to talk about God's eternity. Um and also the same phrase used to determine the duration of Christ's reign, um, forever and ever. Um and so the scripture is really clear that that hell lasts forever. just like heaven lasts forever. And so what does that uh what does that teach us? What does that um how should that motivate us? This idea that unbelievers are going to be tossed into a place where the trips are described as tormented day and night Forever and ever. And so that's where our unbelieving friends, our unbelieving family members, our unbelieving co-workers and neighbors are headed to tormented day and night forever and ever. And so that should really wake us up and motivate us to share the gospel with them. Uh any questions about anything any of these tough things that we've wrestled with here today. Richard climate today. It stands to reason that the one that's going to be developed our teenagers. Yeah, well that may be a s that may be a a a goodly sampling of those who rebel, but I think you'll probably get a pretty wide swath of people that will be rebelling to have as many as the sands of the seashore. But yeah. Any any others? Let's close with a word of prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word and we thank you that you've revealed this glimpse of what things will be like uh in the last days. We thank you for uh the joy that the second of coming of Christ will bring. And we thank you that uh about your judgments, that you will judge truly and righteously. We rejoice in that as well, Lord. And we thank you so much. that you have saved us, that you have created a way to redeem fallen mankind, such that we can be in your presence, the presence of a holy God, because of the righteousness of Christ. What a wonderful thing. That is Lord. And what a sobering thought it is that those who are unbelievers will be tossed into this lake of fire, to be tormented day and night for ever and ever What a sobering thing that is, Lord, and please let it be a motivation to us to reach out to those in our sphere of influence, those that we know, those who are our friends and family and co-workers and neighbors that uh that we can reach out to today when it's not too late. Uh please let us let it motivate us, Lord. We thank you, Lord, for uh the body of Christ, for the way you've designed the church, uh so that we have all these brothers and sisters wherever we go and uh we thank you that you've designed uh corporate worship the way you have so that we can have this one day of the week where we uh get together and worship you as the body of Christ. We thank you uh for all of that, Lord. In the precious name of Christ we pray. Amen.