Salviati say, we seek to ennoble and perfect the earth when we strive to make it like the celestial bodies, and as it were. Place it in heaven. If you remember last week the geocentric view of the world really came about because they thought we were at the bottom of good things, basically. So starting with the circle of the moon You you got into heavenly things, were better things, and there was actually a I'll say a profound humility in the idea that we were the center of the earth. We were at the core of the thing. We were at the lowest level of the heavenly things despite what you would read in many encyclopedias or history books of the time that says us being geocentric was the uh or that geocentric view of the world was us expressing an ultimate arrogance. It was actually the other way around. But you do see what Galileo did with this, right? I seek to ennoble men in this action. I seek to put us in the heavens And I don't know too much about what he meant with that, like where did he go with that, but I know where it was gone with. I know how other people took that and and went places with it. And we're going to switch to them in just a minute. So here he is, the linchpin of the scientific revolution. Isaac Newton shows up next, 1642-1727. So you see the time periods involved here. Between us and Isaac Newton is a fairly short period of time in the history of the world. And uh so the philosophies that we have adopted today uh based on this uh aborition of actual history uh are are really only about 200 years old. Quote English physicist, Isaac describing Isaac Newton, English physicist and mathematician who was the culminating figure of the scientific revolution of the 17th century. Nobody argues that. secular, religious, whatever you want to say, Isaac Newton is a culminating figure of scientific development that is either either the explanation of so much that happened before or the foundation of so much that would happen thereafter. He is responsible for the basic principles of modern physics and numerous other fields of study. Newton settled the debate over the heliocentric model of the universe by developing mathematically tractable models for motion and gravity. I don't know if you remember, but we talked about um Ptolemy, and we talked about Copernicus, and we talked about those others that had other had views of cosmology. uh orbits of celestial planets and things like that, but they were so complex that even they complained about the inelegance of the argument. And while I'm on this, there was some discussion last night with a few of us about truth, beauty, and goodness, those things being necessary and constituent parts. Right? Don't talk to me about truth without talking to me about beauty and goodness. Don't talk to me about beauty without talking to me about truth and goodness and so on and so forth. And you see much of the perversion of the current world, by the way, an obsession with beauty without goodness and truth. An obsession with goodness without beauty and truth. An obsession with truth and I have to caveat that because I don't understand how you can actually be true unless God is magnified. And if you don't magnify or if if you're not magnifying God, that you then you can't really have the beauty of the goodness parts of it too. But an obsession with truth is that the beauty of the goodness And and those men appreciated that they actually wrote about it at some length when they were evaluating their own arguments They were concerned about the lack of beauty and goodness in their arguments that seemed true to them about the views of heavenly objects. Uh but Newton covered that, right? He came up with these beautiful, uh cohesive, coherent Fairly simple. I mean a high school physics student can figure it out, right, once taught. He came up with these amazing uh equations that model motion and gravity. That along with Kepler's ideas, not so much Galileo's, but along with Kepler's ideas, helped ensure the adoption of the heliocentric model of the universe. And I had already read you some quotes from Kepler. I don't have time to go back and do those again. But certainly this is from a book that I would highly recommend by a lady named Nancy Pearce. I actually recommend pretty much anything she writes uh buy everything she writes, read everything she writes once every other year. But this quote says, Newtonian physics tends to be identified as materialistic and deterministic. Yet Newton himself was neither a materialist nor a determinist. In fact, he explicitly rejected the clockwork image of the world. arguing that it led to materialism. I got called on this last night in the conversation, so let me just stop on that materialism. We often talk about materialistic as I want more money and I want more stuff And there is there is an outcome of what I'm calling materialism here, or what what philosophers call materialism, that is that, give me more money and more stuff, because there really is nothing else But in this sense, materialism is just matter. It's literally just material. There is nothing else. There is material, it's motion, and it's movement And that goes all the way back to the foundations of early philosophy, if you will. Philosophy is actually older than Aristotle, but we always kind of trace it back to Aristotle. So consistent with normal habit. All the way back to Aristotle. He spoke a lot about material and its movement Uh it's motion and its change or its modification, right? And he developed theories of the world and reality based on that. But what materialism does is pulls you out of anything that's in the supernatural realm. It pulls you away from intelligence It pulls you away from beauty. It pulls you away from goodness. Those are all constructs that somebody lays on absolute materialism. And you see, despite the fact that the modern scientific revolution would put their badge on Isaac Newton and say, there it is, right? That's the guy that ultimately did it for us. He's the one that ultimately freed us from that old cultish religion saying we can get away from uh suspicious, you know, barbarism Or cultic barbarism, and we can move forward like dignified men who think. But that's not what Isaac Newton said. Isaac Newton said, I am really concerned about the materialism that I see, this idea that there is no intelligence, that there is no design, that there is no goodness and beauty. And he set off in an endeavor to show that there was design to show that there was order and that it had purpose. To show that there was intelligence. I don't want to go too far. I don't I don't actually know where Isaac I don't know where any of these guys came out. I know that they wrote things about God, but a lot of people talked about God at the time, and I don't know that we would have called them Christians in the way that we are So I want to be careful not to do the same thing the scientific community is done and be like, oh, Isaac Newton, he's on our team. Maybe Isaac Newton is on my team and maybe he's not. I don't know. What I do know is that he was anti-materialistic. He was attempting to demonstrate the beauty of what he called God with a capital G, a one and only God. and his the imposition of his goodness and his order and his intellect on all matter Okay. Just to be clear, right on. So grand subjects. I get it, I get it. I I'm being DP, alright? Like I get it. But do you understand how that plays out in your life for just a second? Your life is filled with matter Constructed into stuff that you use and it moves and it pushes on you, right? Sometimes painfully, actually a lot of times painfully And and there's a mindset that we've adopted that just says that that's it, that's what it is. Those are our experiences. That's how things work. It's just matter pressing on you, or being used by you, or being used against you It's all matter, motion, and modification. Like we'd love for our matter to never, you know, once I get something good, I don't want it to change, but it does. Everything does. Usually for the worse. It deteriorates. But if you have a mindset that is awake to the things that you can see around you You can see that there is order and beauty and goodness. It is the heavens declaring the glory of the Lord and his activity to hold and to keep And to provide and to direct you. There's an absolute, relevant necessity to you having your mind awakened to these ideas in science and philosophy. You cannot, you cannot live in the culture that we live in and not be influenced by this materialism. It's everywhere. Every advertisement, every piece of news that you read, I don't care if it's Christian or not, it's still there. But you have an opportunity to call your mind back to the order and the goodness and beauty of God. And and if you call your mind back correctly, it won't be a general order, goodness and beauty. It'll be a goodness, order, and beauty that is meant to care for you. Because that's the testimony of the scriptures. Did I finish my quote? I don't think I did. Keep reading. Yet Newton himself was neither a materialist nor a determinist. In fact, he explicitly rejected the clockwork image of the world, arguing that it led to materialism. Meaning even if God started it, he's just letting it go now, right? It's just he built the machine and the machine is moving. And Newton rejected that. A highly religious man, Newton even used his physical theories in the service of apologetics to persuade his contemporaries of the existence of God. That's a book I did talk to you about previous week and bring it back. But Nancy Pear pe uh uh Nancy Pearcy's The Soul of Science. Fantastic book. It's only about this size, so if some of you are wearing the per material is approachable, this is not that book, but It's only about this size, a little bit thicker, fairly large font. Um it wouldn't take you too long to read. Amazing book, really readable, um just fantastic. I can't recommend it enough to you. She did the the um with Chuck Chuck Colson. Somebody said it. LeBri, yes. She, Shackson, very much. Yep. Um Okay, so those are the pieces of the battle for the scientific revolution. Wow, I'm struggling Um if the the board is set as as the phrase goes, right? And there's all the pieces and they're ready for the engagement now. Uh and although they were not uh arguing or com uh fighting with each other, they are certainly the pawns that are used. to play out this battle over the next 200 years. So we'll pick up just a not too long after Isaac Newton with a fairly well-known character, Charles Darwin. And I'm not going to spend a ton of time on him. Uh you all know that he wrote on the origin of the species of the descent of man. He was laughed out of every scientific uh group, community, circle, whatever you want to call it, when he first uh presented that. Even by Thomas Huxley, who in a few short years will be called Darwin's Bulldog. He wrote about the ridiculousness of Charles Darwin's theories. And some good quotes I just want to share with you here. Again, I just want you to see the synthesis of ideas. I want you to see how And again I I guess I've had people interacting with me over the last little bit and I'm like, well we don't think like this, God, and we don't think like you. Yes you do. You do think. Or you have put off thinking, which is equally bad. Actually it's it's maybe worse. Right? If you're thinking and you don't have a a solution or you have a wrong solution, if you're thinking If you continue to think, you'll eventually get an irritation in your mind about the wrong idea because it doesn't fit the experience that you have. And you will continue scratching at it, much like Nancy Pearcy did, by the way, and so many others that give testimony to this. You will continue to work at it. And by God's grace, and with a little bit of humility, probably also given by God You may find him. Well we've already found him. We're Christian. Oh come on Why was the whole New Testament written to people after the cross? Why are all the epistles written to the church? To call us back to thinking rightly about who our God is. Because we were constantly slipping into either not thinking or wrong thinking. But again, I think our challenge today is not thinking. Nope, read that quote. Don't read it again Charles Darwin, as Charles Darwin put it, man's godlike intellect has penetrated into the movements and constitution of the solar system. Man's godlike intellect has penetrated into the movements and constitutional of the solar system. Once we were blind and we could not see, but now we have penetrated by force of will and activity By courage, we have penetrated into the movements and constitution of the solar system. We see By any standard, Darwin was like an elementary student when it came to the totality of things that can be seen and known. And then he's talking about penetrating into it. And that philosophy, more than anything that he said that had any scientific relevance whatsoever More than anything else, that philosophy that exalted man is what was picked up on and has been made the foundation of modern thought. So he did a lot there. I'm just not going to go on about him too much more. I feel like you're very familiar, and if you're not, all you've got to do is put Darwin in a Google search and you will be overwhelmed with research Two men that are actually guilty for the scientific revolution. And the belief that science is at odds with the truth of God. You know what? I want to stop and make one statement. here. It is not my purpose today to procure my purpose is what I said it was, to talk about the scientific revolution revolution. My purpose is not to write a historical criticism of the church, but I will make this statement because I believe that it's relevant to us thinking today. When Copernicus published his first set of writings on the heliocentric view We were in the beginnings of the Reformation, the early to mid-1500 period of the Reformation. And men like Calvin and Luther weighed in on what they thought of Copernicus's ideas. And they frankly railed against him. And I under I shared with you last week that there were some theological potential, there were some potential theological consequences to a heliocentric view of the world. And I don't have time to rehearse those right now But there were some. There were some legitimate fears, right? If heliocentrism is true, these other things might be true, and that's concerning to us based on how we interpret the scriptures, and it couldn't Change what we think about the Lord. All possibilities, not necessities, of a heliocentric view. And so Martin Luther and Calvin and so many other people in the church waving on it And it was a it was a sh it was bad. I mean they just should have shut up, frankly. They didn't have good things to say, and there was no good basis for the argument. It was a dogmatic argument without substance They didn't use what was observable. They didn't they didn't discuss the merits of the truth of the argument. They just condemned it. with some language that really wasn't appropriate for that form They had it right, there was an established body of doctrine, and they believed that there was a risk Not not fully identified, but there was a risk that a heliocentric view of cosmology would put on their established body of doctrine. And so, no, we're not going to think about it. Well guess what was true? What's true is a heliocentric view of cosmology. And it turns out it didn't have the consequences that they thought it was going to have. And as a matter of fact, it allowed men to see the amazing fingerprints of God, just like you would have expected from the Psalms that said that the heavens declare the glory of God And the skies proclaim his handiwork, just like the Bible said So it turns out this thing that was rejected by the church really on a very dogmatic, very kind of biased argumentation The very thing that was rejected turns out to be true and turns out to help magnify the very verses that we find in Scripture. What do you do with those verses? when you're not actually understanding the truth of them written in the natural order. And then you understand the natural order, you open your eyes to what is actually true. God draws the curtain back and lets you see it, and all of a sudden those verses are amazingly meaningful. And they speak of a personal God who is constantly conveying himself to you and to I Who is gracious to keep a night sky open? You hear about all this stuff in the environment, and we can't see the sun and we're melting down, and yet those stars are up in the sky on any clear night, visible for you to see Drone in pictures. How many of you are any good at all with constellations? I stink at it even though I've been trying it for years. I don't know why. I don't have a memory for it for some reason. I can remember stupid things about bits and bytes. I walked up to a screen literally with hexadecimal characters. It doesn't matter that you know What that is. Hexadecimal characters this week, and I said, Oh, you got a problem, and here's the problem. The guy looked at me and he looked at the screen and he's like, What are you? Like, how do you know that means that he said? And I was like, Well, I've been doing this for 30 years. I can see what's on your screen, right? But I can't remember stars in the sky. Don't ask me why. That was for free, by the way. Completely irrelevant. Um I held up a systematic theology book a few weeks ago and got told that only about 95% of those it was accurate. by the way. I have up a systematic theology book and I held up to make the point that I I love uh orthodox systematic theology It helps me with a framework to think about God. It words, my thoughts, and my studies. It provides a foundation for me to branch out and to study greater. Hold on. Let me just finish my thought and I'll get right at you. But if that's the end of what you do, if somebody else has done your thinking for you and handed it to you a book in a book and you you've learned it and memorized it and you can repeat it, you're not thinking. You're not thinking Think about who God is. I I I grew up Like so many of us do, I I am maturing in Christ. And systematics was where I was when I was younger in Christ Systematics was required for me to learn how to walk and how to read and how to think. It was so instructive and I still love it. I still buy systematics books to get new perspectives from different people But the same tyranny of science that has told you that you are able, you're not capable to apprehend the fingerprints of God In the created order, for whatever reason, we do the same thing in the church. The tyranny of the expert. Don't let it happen. Don't let it happen. Study, look, observe, think. And what's your primary motivation? To know God. That's what this is about. This isn't building you up in your arrogance. I just want you to know your God. And I want you, as you see those things, I want you to see the words Written in your Bible come alive in a way that refresh and renew and excite you. I want to watch disappointment and grim resignation turn into joy Joy motivating service. And I'll steal my own thunder from something I hope to say tonight when Theresa's talking. I loved watching that young woman in Togo Because she did that. Because life isn't easy there. Like literally, it's just naive. I grew up in third world countries and it's i it was worse there And yet everything about her life, why she's got no water and no power and dirt everywhere and you know crazy motorcyclists all over the place and people dying and I mean it's just rough And and you never see her unhappy. I'm sure she gets unhappy. She's a person. But she she She just keeps going. And she goes so hard and so fast, I worry about it. Like, you're gonna burn out, woman. Slow down. Take a break. Whatever it is you're doing, I'll do it for you I want to see all of us motivated like that. And I don't know how to do it when all we do is think somebody else's thoughts and then stop thinking. And so please don't let that happen to you John Dra I forgot you, Doug. It's okay. Uh I just wanted to I don't know. I was I had some thoughts in my head that kind of felt like it supported what you were saying and that is I think the GSCO be able to teach us in the pulpit that we need to be careful about just trusting our favorite people and everything that they say. Including if our favorite thing for Calvin and Luther, uh for whomever it is. I you know, I like this guy John Lennings a lot. other things that he says, but you can't listen to everything that he says. And there you it's gotta be like you said. I I hope that supports it. That quote I gave you earlier? Oh. It's John's like, how didn't he know? I didn't know who wrote it. That's pretty funny. That was a crazy moment. John Draper and Andrew White. I don't want to spend too much on these uh things. John Draper wrote two um he was a a chemist, a very very good chemist, by the way But he wrote uh a two-volume set uh called The History of the Conflict Between Religion and Science, um and and it as near um excuse me and a history of the intellectual development of Europe And uh it's uh the only copy I could find, the way it's typeset, it's it's a thousand and forty-nine pages. This guy went on about this topic Um but it it systematically established two false claims by the way. It's systematically established And of course, in so doing it It falsely characterized religion. It went to all the places where religion was used wrongly and badly and was like, well look, that characterizes religion. And it went to all the places where science was in some way used to bring dignity to men and goodness to men and something else and it and it did that. Um it also completely um abolished the now historically accepted fact that the scientific scientific revolution in the sense of the growth and explosion of science was uniquely rooted in in Christian Europe And so he goes on and on about, you know, science in Asia and science in the Mediterranean and science and by the way, science was happening in those places, but most authors will make a very well, I don't have time for this There is a distinction between the type of science that was uh accomplished, very valuable science, but the type of science that was accomplished in those cultures versus that which was systematized in Western Europe. I don't have time to make that argument. I don't think it enhances anything here, but there's a a a long category of now prevalently accepted histories that make that same statement. These men, there's a great video on it. I uh I posted it Yeah. Footnote 15 on page 3. It's a short video. I would highly recommend it. It's 10 or 15 minutes. It gives a history of John Draper and Andrew White. and how their books were used to create this false idea of a conflict between the church. And again, it's very short, very accessible. I really enjoyed it. So if you just want a quick summary, take a look at that Again, I'm not the rest of the website there I haven't reviewed. I don't know much about it, so I'm not comm uh commending them in any way. That video is good. John Draper's paper, A History of the Intellectual Development of Europe, was picked up by Thomas Huxley And uh really apparently did a lot to change his thinking. Um Thomas Huxley is uh I I don't know how I I don't want to demonize the guy, although I don't know that I could tell a true story and not demonize him. He did more to pervert the minds of Western culture about science and religion than I think any other man. He made it his life's business to do so. And in him we find the beginnings, the seeds of several Several super important modern philosophies. And I won't have time to do it justice. I just want to draw your attention to this man for right now. I want to give you some recommendation to spend some time reading about him. Don't go too far, it's pretty ugly what he says. Um but to understand how he set in motion Things that today we are we are really struggling with as a society Called Darwin's Bulldog because he basically took what Darwin said who was not a terribly good speaker and wasn't good with people and wasn't a great writer and everything else. Thomas Huxley had none of that problem He was a sharp mind. He was a great public speaker. He was a phenomenally engaging writer. Um he was one of the first people of the time to take the kind of writing that he did that synthesized philosophy and science and and culture and economics and all these other things and he would bring it together and he would make it accessible to anybody. You didn't have to be uh you know a member of an academic association to be able to get a copy of something that Huxley wrote His stuff was everywhere. He wrote for newspapers. They weren't really newspapers per se at the time, but um what we would call, you know, um Uh what we would call newspapers. Um he had an unquestionable role in this idea that there is antagonism between religious thought and scientific thought. Originally objecting to Darwin's work, Thomas Huxley became a driving force for the promulgation of Darwin's evolutionary theories often refining and adorning them with his own not insignificant intellect and training in biology. Orienting, if not aligning himself with Draper's history, Huxley engaged, you have William as the next word. Cross it out. It was not William. He died in 1833, I think eighteen thirty and eighteen thirty-three. But because he's such a uh prevalent character in my mind, uh when I was typing my notes for whatever reason, I just typed in William Wilberforce. And then as I was studying the notes this week, I was like, that's not possible. He was dead. Um it's Samuel Wilberforce, his son Huxley engaged Samuel Wilberforce in the eighteen sixty Oxford Evolution Debates. Now these things are made so much of. If you type in 1860, the Oxford evolution debates against Punitz. And it's like this grand event wherein religion and evolution, as expressed by Darwinism, were put on trial and religion was found woefully wanting. It was a series it wasn't even a series. It was an evening of debates largely focused on Draper's book um the history of intellectual development of Europe that included discussion of Darwinism Nothing was written about it at all. It wasn't even recorded in the Oxford journals for two weeks. And then finally a a local periodical was like, oh, these great names got together, and they had this discussion, and clearly Huxley won. And and then nothing was written about it for years. And then you find Another little snippet about it. And nothing again for decades, and then you find little snippet about it. So it seems to have been a nothing event. But it's counted as the trial of science against religion, wherein religion was found one thing And the representative for religion, Sandu Wilberforce, was found oafish, flat footed, and uh I'll just say clums clumsy in his intellectual ability to argue something. Um you see that that's only seven months. Uh uh excuse me, Draper's book came out only seven months after the origin of the species. And um Just to quote, Huxley earned his reputation as the leading Victorian, meaning rational, just so you know that's what's being implied there. leading Victorian symbol of religion and science in opposition versus romanticism or sentimentality, right? That that idea Victorian is that hyper rational idea. We're no longer worried about ro romanticism or um teleological arguments for things. Per arguments based on purpose, right? We just want rationality. So uh leading rational symbol of religion and science and opposition. Um You'll see that's that's uh out of a book on Thomas Huxley there at the bottom that I've provided you from the Journal of Religion The debate between Wilberforce and Huxley was over a paper by Draper on the intellectual development of Europe as it relates to Darwin's theory. Thomas Huxley is the one that coined the term agnostic, cannot know, though his own views, clearly written in his own writing, were against the knowledge of God. Rather than simply meaning that he couldn't know. So I don't know where, I didn't study it. I don't know where in the history of that word since then we started talking about it being like reasonable skepticisms. I just can't know, right? It's uh uh we often talk about agnosticism as though it's just a humility, right? Well I I can't know, so I haven't taken a position. There was nothing about Huxley's writing and city No. He was like, I absolutely know. You don't know. There is no knowledge of God because he's not there. And he propounded extensively, he wrote and spoke extensively about materialism, pragmatic materialism. Since the world is materialistic, matter in motion being changed over time, since that's it, then we need to be pragmatic about how we fit into this. And I feel like I had another quote I wanted to share with you, but I might be saving it till the next section, so I'm going to keep going. I got hand here first. Go ahead. Um thing that can really give everyone um a comfort of knowing that God is true. I was at UCLA at a molecular biology class and I got the giant test and it's It was for some weird reason I went to the forward of it and it said something like this. There are many gaps. We know that there are many gaps. We know that there are things that we don't understand. We recognize that there are things that we will probably But we're still going to present this in an episode. And that's on Roman 128. So know the truth makes this thing. That's fantastic. Thank you. Thank you for that. I'm thinking about the time when people believed that there was God the creator and the science came and changed all thinking. Um Albus is that my friends put together all the things you're saying and I like what uh the other let us put in that even though there is like a gap, uh we still have to think about science in a way that is true. Well I'm just for my eighteen year old that comes to me and talks about all the philosophy scientists put some things. Um what message should I be telling him? What should I be putting together in a practical sense to him? Um I'm not trying to cool it down. I'm trying to understand what I tell you what, I I would like to give you a significant response rather than a a trite one. But if I try to squeeze it into my remaining minutes, I'm gonna give you a trite one. So can I just follow up with you after class and and and see if we can talk through what a a good response to somebody that's like that is. Zeth, is that okay? Tyranny of the expert, um, I wanted to bring this in. He uh uh Thomas Huxley did more to uh turn off the mind of the average person than any person I can think of in history previously. When he went to debate debate Samuel Wilberforce, Samuel Wilberforce was heavily invested as an academic at Oxford. He was a recognized intellectual And uh he was actually a hobbyist beekeeper and real more of a point naturalist and biologist. Um you can read a lot of what he wrote. He's heavily invested in what we would later call the scientific method and in pursuing the application of systematic observation and recordation of data He was heavily involved in that. But he was not trained as a biologist. And Huxley capitalized on that to basically say, because you are not trained as a biologist, there is no way for you to interact significantly with significantly with me on the subject matter of science because you lack the training to do so. You are not a specialist in the field. I am a specialist in the field, and because there is no recognized specialty in the field of theology or philosophy or any of those other things, Huxley was able to interact with those topics because they lacked the recognition of a special field But Wilberforce was not able to engage him, or according to Hudsley, was not able to engage him significantly on the other topic And he so drove that home in the writing that he did after this debate that it became recognized that an amateur, and that was the word that was actually used, an amateur Should not, could not, was unable to interact with observable science without specialization Now, there is no actual argument for that. Right? Every person's thoughts and arguments can be evaluated based on the substance of the argument itself. And if I'm wrong, I'm wrong. If I'm immature, I'm immature. Right? But what I am and my educational background in and of itself doesn't qualify me to make or disqualify me for making a statement about something that's true. But this has been believed. This has been believed. And without wanting to do any disrespect for the people in the room that have pursued a course of study through a a PhD or even beyond that. You are no more qualified to evaluate truth than any God created man or woman. You have rutted yourself and See the argument, don't feel the sting. You have you have rutted yourself into a specialization, a field of study, which has necessarily meant that you have been fairly monovision in what you have pursued. And as a matter of fact, that is talked about extensively by a later author, which I'm never going to get to, by a later author, this idea that we have become so specialized in certain areas, but If God exists, He exists across all domains. And we now only see this particular feature of it. And we're so stuck in it, and we're so trained in it, and we're so preoccupied in it because of the The abundance of information even in those fields, particularly over the last 250 years, as as we have become more scientific, as we have become more technological, there's no ability to study medicine and botany. There's no ability to study engineering and art, right? We we just don't have enough time in the day to do those things. And Huxley basically said, if you're not deeply rudded in science, then you have no ability to perceive it, evaluate it, or assess it as true or false, or align it to the observational world around you. And many of us don't believe that. And you say, Oh, we don't believe it, we don't believe it. Yes you do. And I say why? Because I've had tens of you come up to me and be like, We're so glad you're doing the study, we're really enjoying the class. But but we We we couldn't see that. We we couldn't read those books. I I just wish you knew how dumb I really am. And then two if you're like, we can read those books. Matter of fact, get out of the way. We're going to teach you class better. And we'll get done on time. Uh it seems like a prerequisite to fall a victim to the tyranny of the expert of removing the image of godness from a human. I would say first, it's removing the idea that God is speaking to each of us through what He's saying. doing, right? He's speaking, but it's in this remote voice. You need a special degree or a special dispensation. You need a certain garb or a certain hat or a certain religious rite or a certain qualification before you can experience that from God. That's the first lie. The second lie is that he has created each of us to be able to see that communication just like you said, to to be a witness in it and a beneficiary to his actions and his words So amen to that. And you slowed me down. Oh you're slowing me down more. But to take that further, doesn't that just isn't that one of those things? To just kind of scare maybe the wrong word, but prompts us into silence. In in other words, if we're not an expert in that type of thing, and we have no Opinion on it and we have no right to argue that. And so in the public spirit thing, even if scripture has an opinion on it, since we're not in expert in childcare or an expert in science or an expert in math, we cannot have a public discourse or discussion about all that because we therefore have no authority. Hold on. I'm going to interact with his comment for just a second. Um yeah, on that note, let's use a church example One of the most impressive experiences I ever had related directly to what you talk about, being qualified or being able to speak to God's word in a significant factor. passion um and how that was really set aside for people that was theologians or send their hands in whatever the case was. In college it was you know right after the war just started working on my heart significantly but um Change my distressing life. Um I I don't remember where I was, but it's some sort of a a you know, management tree. And the speaker that was supposed to speak, I was really looking forward to very educated meeting, uh, wasn't able to come and instead they asked uh another gentleman And I knew the guy and I really liked him, but he's not the sharpest knife in the door, the general rule. Um just a hard working man, very honest man Very friendly man, but just wasn't a guy that did you want to listen to what he thought about things. And uh he stood up and in A few moments. It was a surprise. He didn't even know he was going to do it. It just happened. In a few moments, shared with us where he was studying in the scriptures that And what the Lord had communicated to him to the scriptures. And I was so set back on my head. I saw the glory of the Lord in what was said I felt the conviction of the Lord on my own life through what was said. Um and there was something about that man that for the first time I realized I wasn't listening to him, I wasn't seeing him. I I truly just felt like God was communicating to me me through his words. And I was just so impressed by how God could use just a humble man. Just a faithful, humble man. And I thought, Lord, I don't want to be an indicated to deal with me speaker seminary and all the rest of this. I just want to be that guy. I I don't want people to see me. I I want them to see you. And uh so I was just so impressed with how a man without credentials, so any sword, could stand out and so deeply communicate. The things of God and the things of Christ. And so again, amen to that conversation. individuals. Okay. And I think I I think that's important and that that changes kind of what what Sean was saying and what I was thinking too is that our our goal to disciple is not a I want to alter that because of the nature of the class just slightly. It's a goal to seek God first individually. And then to see individuals. I I I'm really working against this prevalent idea that apologetics is just us winning arguments first. people out there, right? It's gotta be the pursuit of God in our own hearts first. Good. I was actually kind of thinking in terms of the way that a lot of stuff At least my generation tends to think about um experience and science and all of that. I know that there's obviously the the very scientific end in society generally. But a lot of times we run into this kind of intersectionality intersectionality argument. Which is a run into the other one nowadays. And therefore you can't speak to my experience because it's so individually don't know what I'm feeling or you know because I'm part of a protected group of people or minority, therefore my authority as a part of that group speaks to my experience more specifically whatever argument you have doesn't doesn't touch that. And I think it's it's kind of the same thinking, just expressed very differently. Yeah, that's fantastic. That's exactly what I'm trying to get at in a lot of this, right? Is do you s do you see the seeds of a lie told by men against God. And then how do the seeds of that lie play out in in our everyday culture, right? And in our everyday life. So that's that's great. That's exactly what I was trying to do here. I thought I saw somebody. It was me, but I'm I'm okay. I feel like I dodged a bullet there. Tyranny the expert. The intellectual whose opinions on everything and nothing may be informed by some special skill. That's a definition of an expert by um the the people that wrote that Thomas Henry Huxley paper in the bottom there, right? Um an expert is one who's um is the intellectual whose opinions on everything and nothing may be informed by some special skill. Why was Thomas Huxley uniquely qualified to speak about creation? He had a a degree in biology like Thousands or hundreds of thousands of every everybody else. Why why was his authority on the subject significant? I'm tempted to use some very modern potentially COVID era examples here, but it would probably provoke people, and I don't I'm not interested in provoking you in that way, so I'm just going to keep moving. Uh but you might think about Fauci for just a minute. Anyway, um aided by w peace, peace, we're moving on. Um Aided by William We Wells, eight I don't know how to say his name, so maybe it's We Wells, maybe it's something else. But anyway, uh eighteen thirty-three classification of a particular field of scholar Or scholarliness as scientists, Huxley ensured that by 1890 the amateur within science was in disgrace and had to keep silence. I don't know why this is true, but I have an inordinate number of close friends which are PhDs. And I'm uh By the way. So clearly that you just need to be quiet all the time. Although any of my friends can tell you that never happens According to them, I shouldn't speak. I should just go to Daniel every day. I should call him each morning. I should swing by his house. He's only three minutes away and on the way to work. I could stop by every morning and say, Daniel, how do I live my life today? No, no. And I know there are many of you in the room that have your PhD. Maybe I should just listen to you guys all the time. And and maybe that's actually true, but y I think you understand the point. This word scientist didn't even show up until 1833, and once we had a name for it, man, we could really drive a clean in it. Well I'm a scientist. I actually listen to a lot of very good Christian friends, but when they come on this topic, they really do. They love that little beanie button. Well I'm a scientist. You mean you went to school for six years to get a degree in technical field? Okay. You show me in the engineering field, you show me a PhD and I'll show you a guy that doesn't do much work. He thinks about a lot of things. That's a gross abusive generalization, obviously. But again, you get the point. And it makes you laugh. Something I think is really sad, I'm gonna have to end here. I don't know why I even try to teach according to a clock, but um something I think is really sad here, Thomas Huxley's really occupies an influential role in the way that we think about modern technological society. And I can't emphasize that enough and I don't have enough time to try. It would bore you if I did But his legacy is what strikes me like this most profoundly. I do not believe I would contend that I will not see Thomas Huxley in heaven, and that is bad in and of itself. He will be sequestered In a place where he has total independence from God. And that is the worst thing I can possibly think of. But he took his family with him. And that's worse. His son, Leonard Huxley was also an academic. All of them are uh well-accomplished, well-credentialed academics in some field or the other. And and his son really picked up his work and largely just continued to push his father's publications and works and philosophies into what we would call social media at the time. Didn't exist. But you understand the idea, right? He didn't just shove it up into scholarly circles. He made sure people on the streets understood what his dad thought and and felt and what the implications were for them in their lives. Stop being religious. That's from the dark ages Be materialistic and let your materialism drive you to pragmatism. If all there is is matter, you will not be here too long. So while you're here, get what's good, make it as best you can And then be done. Tick off. You get a short time on stage to do this, and then you're done And so if if Thomas Huxley formulated those concepts and set them in motion, if he inceded the soil of modern thinking with it Then Leonard tended those seeds and made sure that they germinated. And he had two sons, Julian and Aldous Huxley. And Julian became an evolutionary biologist and the president of the British Eugenics Society. Do you do you understand how that played out? This is not a small leap. Materialism. We get a shot at doing this the best we can. So delete what we call errors. Make sure that that material doesn't end up in our material. Later. Right? So delete it. And by the way, do you do you know when the last time we had a s well I'll be interested to see what I get for a response to this. Do you know what date it was the last time we had a recognized, advertised, government-funded in this country eugenics program was? I I heard it. Wasn't it in the 1940s? It was. It was. In the 1940s, people were selected in high school for vivisection. Because you're dumb. And we don't want that in our pool. And if you were sick, or if you were mentally handicapped in some way, Tens of thousands of people. Tens of thousands of people under government funding and government selection and government boards and government review in this country, 1940s. And by the way, it's still happening, but someplace along the way somebody got upset about it because it was targeting certain subclass subclasses of people. I don't mean that they are uh sub-anything. I just me of the class of total people, this is a subclass. Right? As a male, I'm a subclass of all people. So don't go too far with that. Julian Huxley. He got it, man. He he was on board. He he he understood what his grandfather was talking about, and he was like, Yeah. Let's talk about Darwinism. Let's talk about science. Let's let's talk about materialism and pragmatism. Delete? What's abortion? That's where I thought some of you might go. I thought some of you might be like, well, we're doing it today. We are. That doesn't fit in with the plans I have for my life. I get one shot at this and then done. And that doesn't work. A kid isn't gonna work. And we act like those people are so horrible, but and they are to murder Anybody is bad to murder innocence. Can we say that as Christians? But you get the idea. Totally bad. But do you understand that they're just in the flow of philosophy that started 200 years ago and it's been ramped down their throats in every school and institution they've ever gone to since then? Are your minds more awake? Julian Huxley received a special award from the Laster Foundation in the category of, hear this, Planned Parenthood, World Population. What's strange to me is that he was a founding member of the World Wildlife Fund. Those little owls and those little creatures, their worth savings. But you don't fit in the the material makeup that I want in my society, so delete you. Bertrand Russell, oh excuse me, his grandson, uh another grandson, Aldous Huxley, the brother of Julian, ended up writing a book called The Brave New World. Um I'm out of time. Um ended up writing a book, The Brave New World, and I just want to tell you one of the major it's a I don't know if I'm recommending the book to you or not. Uh um it's a good book. It it helps you see things about society. It helps you understand the harm of this division between science and religion. Science is meant to observe God, just so you know That's what science is. It's the observation of God, his nature, and all of his will. And when we pull that apart and just make it an observation of abstract material in motion as it changes over time You there there are necessary consequences for those two things. And And and Aldous Huxley wrote this book for Every World and he just explored it. He's like, what would it really look like if we got to that place where science was king? And so you should read the book. But one of the things in there that and it's just super hard for me is that they raise this elite group of intellectuals, there's a huge cash system of people, A's, B, C's, and D's, you want to be an A person. But they raise them in these schools where they forced them to engage in what they call sexual play. And the whole point of it is that your sexuality is really your service to the community. You don't own it individually. There's nothing about you that's unique, that's invested, that's purposeful. You're just a member of a broader materialistic community. You know, in colleges today you come in and during the orientation session sessions in most I'll say secular colleges, although I don't I'm quoting based on statistics I read, not my own experience. They in the orientation session encourage you to explore sexuality as widely as possible during your stay at university. including uh you know homosexual, transgender, non-binary type uh exploitations. What have we done? We give our fourteen-year-olds shots so they don't get sexually transmitted diseases. What have we done? Well that's what we've done. We've put them in schools and told them to give their sexuality to the material fool that is their society, because that's all there is anyway. We've dehumanized people. We've taken away all that is dignified about men and women, and we've replaced it with raw material for the perpetuation of a society. So Bertrand Russell just was the prophet of all that was said during that time. I don't have any more time. I'm out and over. So Bertrand Russell was the prophet of that. I will not go back to those people. I will pick up next week with the consequentive ideas. I cannot ask you enough, strongly enough, to consider how That those philosophies, that way of thinking in the past is influencing you now Right? And there's all sorts of facets you could do, but read reread the notes. Watch the video that I put in there on Draper and James or White. Look at some of those things And consider waking up in your own thinking, in your own mind. Wake up to the idea that God is communicating Himself to you in particular ways each day and is drawing your attention to it. and is with you and is around you and desires you to enter into fuller relationship. There is none of you in the room who are not called to have an Isaiah 6 experience with the Lord each day. To see him high and lifted up, exalted. Holy, holy, holy is the Lord. Lord, cleanse me. Lord, send me. You are all called to that. But these philosophies have clouded that vision of God and even made you believe that you cannot have them because you're not wise enough or smart enough or professional enough. And none of it is true. He took fishermen for heaven's sake. Uneducated fishermen, and he changed the entire world with 12 of those dirty buggers. There's a whole classroom full of you that are richly enabled with wealth and education and opportunity and privilege. Please serve the Lord. Serve him better this week than you did last. The word for your honor and glory, please be merciful, have us as yours. In your name I cry. Amen.