I think with what's going on in the world, we become timid in our faith. We don't know how people will respond to us and therefore we recoil and don't speak about our faith But how will they learn? How will they know? Unless you, who is both salt and light share the gospel with them. Let's share a personal story what happened this week. My family and I were on vacation and we uh we love going to Florida. We get to this new spot and surprising to me. I guess now some people can own part of the beach, which is very new to me. I didn't know that. So we go on the boardwalk and this uh family approach us and they see us walk with four kids and they approach us and they're like, Wait Sit right here. Like, I want to go over there. Close to the water. Like, no, you don't want to go that far. You see that guy over there? He's mean. He's gonna come at you, he's gonna make you move, he's gonna embarrass you in front of everybody. I turn and this guy is just sitting on the pier with his glasses on and just looking over. I have two choices. I can just completely ignore him and just listen to what everybody has told me about him, that he's this rude, mean guy, or I can go and confront this guy, not in a combative way, but just to speak with him and even have an opportunity to share the gospel. When facing hard situations With other people, that is one of the best times to share the gospel of you so that they see the light of Christ in you We love to show the share the Lord of Christ with those that are already Christian, but again, we're timid to share it with people who we feel that we be combative with. And so And I don't know if I uh come off as this mean guy, but my wife was like, no, don't go over there. Like, why not? No, no, no, let's just sit right here. I actually want to go talk to him So here I go, I go I go wave my arm, slide this guy down, and I can tell that he doesn't want to talk to me. He drops his head, pulls out his binder, and he's walking towards me And as we approach one another, I stick out my amphibioidor. And he done saying Vincent, he just opens up his binder. You're here. These are the private properties. I'm like, oh wow, that's weird. I've been here multiple times and I've never um seen this. Is this new? No, this is how it is, that's how the county is. But this is where it's at and you can't go across I said, can you show me? And he's like not Maybe speaking a little loud but the entire time I said it's not about me. This is a great opportunity to share Christ. And so I said, Oh man, this is pretty cool in Florida that they have sand police. Where do I go to get one of those jobs? And it he could have either been offended or he could have laughed. He laughed at all. And I say, How are you doing? Are you having a hard day? Said, Yeah, a lot of people are giving me trouble today on the beach. So I could imagine. There's this liver space that people are trying to uh go on But then you have all this space out here and none of these people are even on vacation here. They're just renting the spot but they don't want anybody on their property. So what's your name? Brett. I said, Brett, I'm a Christian. I just approach you so that you can tell me exactly where I need to sit. people over there told me not to approach you and you know they even told me that you're mean but I wanted to see for myself. Bright said I'm not trying to be mean. This guy over here was using some foul language towards me. I said who that guy the one that told me not to come near you? He said yes. I said that's unfortunate. I said I'm that's not my intention here. My intention here is to Obey the authorities and you are the authority here on the beach. And so I just want to know where I could sit my family so we could enjoy the day so we make sure we don't disrespect you because I know this is a tough job that you're doing out here and I know you get in a lot of trouble from all these other individuals. Sort of diffused him a little bit. He began to talk. I said, Brett I'm a Christian. What are you? Do you believe? I'm a Christian too. Said wow. I said, Brett, what a great opportunity that God has presented you. How many people do you run into every day, Brett I don't know, like hundreds. Says, have you ever thought about sharing the gospel with a couple people out here, Brett? What a great opportunity that God has given you to share the gospel And guess what? All these people that were saying that you're mean, that you're not um welcoming and you're kicking them off the beach, have you ever thought about responding in a Christlike manner so that they could see Jesus in you. Pause. Well, I ne uh I never thought about it like that. Say, Well you're a Christian You're supposed to go therefore and make disciples of all nations, of all ethnos, of all people that you meet. And God is giving you this platform and you're being combative with people. Be a light. I'm challenging you to be a light. Breton turn around. You see sixteen houses down there, nobody's hanging to the house if you want to go stay down there. And I then went to the other guy that was um that said that Brett is uh this me guy and I said, you know what, how you guys doing? I just want to make sure that you all were okay. He didn't seem that bad and again, I'm a Christian. Brett said he's a Christian. I don't know if you all are believers. I was on a road today. I'm nervous, but he know what. But I just wanted to show everybody that I was a Christian And he said he was a Christian as well. And I said, huh, correct just said that you use some unpleasant words towards him. And at the end of the day, to make long story short I brought them together. We were like one of the last ones on the beach. Brett didn't want to come over. The guy didn't want to come over. And I said, hey, if we're all fellow believers, we're supposed to act like it's Especially towards one another. Because you never know who's watching. And it's the same for you all today. If you are a believer in Christ Jesus, never forget, which is the title of our message today. Never forget A debt was paid that you did not have to pay. So the least that you could do is represent him when you step out into that world to the best of your ability And the reason I wanted to talk about salvation is because I feel as though one a lot of us don't really understand what is involved in it Do you really think about it when you ask somebody which we all do? Are you safe? Yeah, I'm safe. But then you watch their life and they're doing things that ought not to be done by somebody that's safe. Even we ourselves We go out into the world and we tell people that we're saved, but let's be honest. If you think back on this week, what are some things that you have confessed to God And if not, why aren't you confessing to God? So you feel like you got it? You say so you don't need him anymore? You got this? You can walk it out now? I really want us to focus and grasp what Jesus did for us And we're gonna walk through it. Um I don't know if we're gonna get through the entire process today, but uh Scott has allowed me to cover for him today while he's on a short mission trip and also next week. And when I saw that I had two weeks back to back. I see that I'm able to get us going today and then come back next week to actually go through the entire process. B starting from election all the way to glorification. What do those terms mean What are the subsets of those steps? How do they apply to us? What is our role in those steps? And what is God's role? And secret for you all? You don't have a lot of role in him. You just gotta be grateful. When you see what God does for you through the entire process of salvation, if you don't know already, it will truly humble you. My goal is that you walk out of here And not only cling to God for what He is doing for you, but that you will be emboldened and joyful to go out into the world and to tell people about Jesus and what he's done for you. So the objectives as I just mentioned. We're gonna define salvation biblically. So I'm gonna provide scriptures and definitional terms and explain what each of them means when the writers wrote the words salvation, that you have been saved. What did they mean? Review the process of salvation, which I don't know if we'll get to today, but we'll try. Yes, ma'am, I'm on it. Appreciate you. And then discuss what should our conduct be if we're safe. Do you think about that? I am now one with Christ. How do I reflect that? I'm an ambassador of Christ. How do I reflect that? In my thoughts, in my deeds, in the way that I interact with others In my marriage, in my friendships, with my children, having a proper view of salvation changes every single thing about you. A false view of salvation, there is no change at all. You say that you're saved, or in most churches, you go up to the altar, they make you say the sinner's prayer, you walk out of there, but there's been no change in your life. But you're confidently telling people, yes, I'm saved. And one of the things that breaks me the most when I heard Jesus say this Depart from me, I never knew you. I thought about family members. I thought about friends that I interact with. If you love them, if you truly love them You will put aside your uncomfortability and share the gospel of Jesus Christ with them. Not beat it down their throat, but you will look for opportunities. You will be like a hunter. I want to tell you about the good news, and it's good news because it saves you from the wrath that you are deserving of. You see, some believe that they're not deserving of God's wrath. We live in a world today where you hear people say, Well, I'm I'm good. I think I'll get into heaven. I love watching those Ray Comfort videos. You think you're a good person? Yeah And then you go to the Ten Commandments and it's real quick. Oh, I'm a lying, thieving, blah blah blah. And you're like, oh, I'm not that good But what we do is we compare ourselves to one another. Well I saw him steal something I don't steal, so I'm better than him. He or she lies and I don't lie. He or she mistreats His or her spouse and I don't do that. So I'm good. That's why we're not supposed to compare ourselves to one another, because we all have sinned. None is righteous No, not one. No one seeks after God. The fact that you know him and who he is, that alone should humble you. The fact that you have the opportunity to say Jesus and call on his name, that itself should humble you because that is a holy name. I heard Paul Washer in a um a recent video that I watched There was a young man that stood up and said, How can one man die for the entire world? And while Wartha said, I think he told the young man, sit down He said, um, because that one man, you can take every single mountain, every single ocean, every single planet, every single person, everything in the entire galaxy and universe And put it on a scale. And he is so much more than all these humans put together. That's how big of a God he is. He is the same God that spoke everything into existence Let there be light. Think about that. And put his hands, then say I'm gonna put a plan together, then say I'm gonna do this, this says, let there be light. Think about that So let's begin, as I mentioned, with the biblical definition of salvation. The word salvation comes from the Greek word Soteria or soter from where we get soteriology, the study of salvation. It means deliverance, preservation, salvation, or savior. And there are two different instances or context in which that word is used. It could be soteria, which is in the form of a noun, or it could be sozo, which is in the form of a verb. And jod is both. He is our deliverer, he does preserve us, he is our salvation, he is our refuge, but he's also he also comes to rescue us, to save us. He's both. What are some examples? One example that I thought was interesting was from Exodus 3. 8 when God was speaking to Moses on Mount Horab or Mount Sinai, whichever. God said, I have come down to rescue them from the hands of the Egyptians. Wait a minute, I thought you were sending Moses and Aaron. Isn't it them that rescued them? Isn't it them that set them free? Isn't it Moses that split the sea? I thought it was all Moses that did that. And most of us would boastfully say Yeah, that w I did that. I did I tied my name to that. I did it. Right, Seth? But God corrects him at the end of Joshua. When Joshua gathers all the elders and all the people, the end of Joshua 24, 5, he says, and he's reminding them of everything he did. God said, Then I sent Moses and Aaron and I afflicted the Egyptians. Moses didn't do that I used Moses as my instrument. The same way that he said that he was going to use Paul as his instrument. I afflicted the Egyptians by what I did there, and afterward I brought you out Moses was nothing but a vessel for God. Moses would have been nothing without God. And likewise, I don't know about you this morning, but I know myself. I am nothing. without God. How do you feel when you're away from your word, when you're not in prayer? I don't know about you again, but I don't feel as productive. I don't feel as though I'm effective. I don't feel as though I have a purpose when I'm not in my word connected to God on a daily basis. And some some of us were great in the church, we're great at building, great at going to small groups, great at hosting dinners, great at all these things that we do with others. But then outside of that in our quiet time. We feel unaccomplished because we're not connected with God. See, sometimes we do things so people could see us and give us value. And all the while we're so far from God, we're disconnected from Him. Don't forget your first love. Don't forget who has allowed you to be here. Don't forget that there was a price that was paid. You could see what happens to a nation by going by seeing what was happening in the book of Judges. I went through that with my kids multiple times. I'm just like, again, again. And the people again. You're just like, are you gonna learn? And no. When you pull away from God, you're doing what you're inclined to do, which is sin, which is to be your own God, which is to please your own flesh and go after your own desires. And a nation like that will not thrive. I put on the board a stat that I read yesterday. And I don't know about you, but it concerns me. By the year 2050 Islam will have a growth rate of 73% compared to 35% for Christians. Why do you think that's happening? Any insights? So there's not always society. Those more towards secularism, at least the Younger. True. But let me let me ask you this then. Then why then in the early church, those first centuries, um and I know Islam didn't start maybe until like six fifty or so, um, why was Christianity growing at such a rapid race because they weren't born Muslim, they weren't born Christian. But I think we were did somebody have a hand up? Girl, I'm sorry. I mean it's also just that Like people are born Muslim, they're born into Muslim things. But Orthodox religions and Islamists won't be Orthodox tend to just have more children and Christian If we're not counting Catholics in the Christians, Christians just are not having that many children. So that with the reluctance to actually share the gospel lies. That has to show um there are so many churches, more churches almost they're not they're not also repeated, they're not disciple, no one walking alongside them to show them what it looks like to be able to I like the fact you brought that up. Who also um to become a Christian is being made a new preacher, but to be Muslim it follows rules in cut it. But they are very passionate or extreme in their view in most they are passionate to force people I mean they're it's not the right way. It's not the Christian way, but they are they are so passionate they are infiltrating, they're pursuing, they're they're giving their life up for it. It's a lie, but that's how they're promoting what they believe in. We don't often have any passion or not to grip Peter Goth. What that's just simply like how are they gonna see the light when it's hidden by a casket, put it under a lance to the code of God's plan. He's the one that says there will be spring to him and a wide road going the other direction. But but we're not doing that and uh and we're and uh the numbers are dropping. Yeah, I think the easy thing to say is well that dog's fine because some would then say, Well, you know, I don't need to teach the c I'm just saying you you ask yeah these this is how they will respond right here, your numbers. I agree to I agree to that to some extent, but I also agree here where we're not decycling properly. I I I think I think we're we're we're engaged in a lot of things and and we give a track to somebody and which is which are all great, but the people that are around us that we're supposed to be deciding, we're just not doing that. Yeah, and that's our our fault, right? But um God is the one who does the saving. He is the one who decides on those numbers. He He is. He is, you're absolutely right. And we'll get to that. But I still think there is a human responsibility to that as well, that we go out and and we preach Yeah, th and we have to do that, but the uh you know the idea is it's not up to we can work low, we can work hard. I call this the workouts hard. Exactly. And we're still gonna have the same number he wants We can't just take it upon the view of uh the West as far as you like. Uh throughout the world there is believers We s uh there's a lot of Nigerians at the moment that are being persecuted and I think some other nationalities, but the ones that I've seen recently were Nigerians. Yes, I hear the the Christian church is growing in China. I don't have the stat for that, but I did hear that the Christian church is growing in China. But back to Bill's point. I think if we are Uh the stat that I saw not too not too long ago, there's twelve thousand new churches I think that get started a year and fifteen thousand close every year So that's a contributing factor as well. You know, I I do get your point that it is God that's doing the saving, but if to the people that are going out preaching, how will the people hear? How will they be saved? Faith comes by hearing and hearing the word of God. So if we're a little bit more timid, which is I feel like that's what's happening, then I God will save who he wants to. You're absolutely right. But if we're not preaching, then less people get are hearing the gospel and less people are responding to that effectual call. Yes, Chris. Um with Islam to use salterplace, there can be one better aspect of it than another, but it's really easy for any kind of Christianity to be false. So a lot of those churches started, they're probably probably either not correct. Maybe they're not completely heretical, but they're not they might not they might still not be actually Jesus gospel, or they might just be fully heretical. And that's another reason why some People don't people who are craving truth, people who are craving the gospel, go to these churches and again they're starving before they leave And just the last point going exactly what you said. I think that when Jesus says the harvest truly is plentiful, but the laborers are still evil pay for the harvest is going to be the labors. And then he he tells them, looks at them at Like without shepherds and in distress. And it's uh lack of compassion from Christians, not seeing the broken world we're in. And so therefore, like what you're saying, we're not going out to preach, we're being tam And thank you for that point. I do see that. A lack of compassion. I I started the I started off by asking how many people we witnessed to, and you don't need to raise your hand again. But how many people are we praying for when we see them going through persecution? When a news feed comes up? Are we praying for them? Alright, um we talked about soteria, we talked about soter, we talked about sozo, the noun and the uh the verb. And let me just continue with the verb. Uh this is an action of salvation. what God does in time or history to redeem an individual or a nation. So what he's doing, the action to save sinners. Luke 1910, for the Son of Man came to seek and save the lost. Alright, now the concept of salvation has, I have here, three aspects. The first aspect, salvation implies a person or a nation is in great distress. Perhaps related to danger from an enemy or suffering caused by some disaster. In some situations, the sufferer cannot help themselves. What does that sound like? Total depravity. Thanks for reading. Total inability. Man's inability to save themselves. Man's inability to seek after God. Total depravity, I have it in the box here, must always be measured against God's holiness, not against one another. There is goodness that exists in people. They can do good things. The rain falls on the just and the unjust, you know? But your good works. The good things that you do in this world is not what saves you. Ephesians 2. 8. 9, by faith you have been saved through grace and not of yourself. It is a gift of God, so that no man may what? Boast Romans ten eleven to uh ten to eleven. There is none righteous, not even one. There is no one who understands. There is no one who sees. All have turned away. They have together become worthless. There is no one who does good. No not one. Do you look at yourself and recognize that you are part of that? Do you realize that you are part of that? Outside of God, there is no righteousness in any of us. In Ecclesiastes 7. 20, surely there is no righteous man on earth who does good and never sins. First Corinthians two fourteen. Um does not accept the things that come from the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness to him. And he cannot understand them because they are spirit they are spiritually discerned. Again, I have apart from God's effectual call, we are that natural man. We cannot accept things that come from the Spirit of God. This is why we have Colleagues, friends who continue to sin over and over and over again and never feel that conviction. They're in it daily. They want to stop, but they're not able to. And they can't understand why you're not connected to God. You're deceiving yourself When you think that I'm gonna stop tomorrow. I'm gonna stop next week. You're not. You need to be in God's word. You need to be on your knees praying. You need to be calling out to him, Lord, I need you This um we won't be talking about this until next week, but how many know how adoption works in the Roman world? When you hear the term adoption, it's not a Greek concept, it is a Roman concept. But when we read in the New Testament we are adopted So in the Roman world, when you were adopted, your status was higher than the born person. When you hear Caesars, Caesars passing on um They're thrown to another Caesar. If they didn't have a child, they would adopt that individual and everything would go to that person. So when we're told that we are adopted in Christ, you don't choose who adopts you. You can't stand out the window be like, oh, Mel and Moray looks like great paradise. I want to go home with them. Shaw looked like a good man. He's like easy. I want to learn that He's gonna adopt me. No. They're the ones that pass by and said, this is who I want. Well fellow in uh Roman world also it was uh Opposite off. Yes. Perfect timing. Right? You didn't have anybody to leave yourself to or you have somebody that you really loved and who's better off than your natural born son, I guess You would say, this is why I want to leave it also. So when we when when the Bible tells us that we are adopted in Christ, that means you're cherished. That means you're elevated. That means you're in union with him. That means you can go to the Father. But more importantly He will not leave you. You are part of the family. You have been accepted in. And he will not cast you out because he chose you. He adopted you It wasn't your choice. It's not like, oh, I chose them and I don't want to be here anymore. That's not the case with God. He chose you because he wanted you, and if he wants you, he has a great purpose and plan for you So again, the first aspect of salvation implies that someone is in great distress and is in um and is suffering. And that and that entails tells us that we ourselves cannot save ourselves we are in total depravity. And we read Romans three ten to eleven and Ecclesiastes seven twenty, uh first Corinthians And I have here the great distress humans face apart from God is what? Slavery to sin. What does that mean? Say it louder. Give into what? They literally cannot stop sending. What does that mean? Complete slaves. Yeah. Just they can't stop sending even when they want to. They're in complete bondage to a master that hates to be a good thing. They can't stop they can't what? They can't stop doing things that go against God's word or God's law or God's precepts. When you go out into this world as a Christian You represent God. And if you're living a life where you're giving in to the temptations that come at you every day, you're not representing Christ. You're giving in to sin. You're missing the mark. And I have here, I think, somewhere here a five What is that mark? Or better yet, what is that standard? Jesus. You want to know how to respond in situations? Look. At Jesus. You want to know how to stand up for yourself when you're being ridiculed? When you're being disrespected? When somebody says something to you that you dislike? Look at Jesus. We so quickly give into our feelings. We so quickly want to right a wrong that was done to us. I demand justice. That's what you hear now in the news. If you got justice, be careful what you ask for Be careful that God is a patient God. Be careful and be thankful that He is slow to anger. Because if you got justice, we would not be here. But someone paid that price on your behalf. There was a debt that needed to be paid. And this false notion out there that uh that debt needed to be paid to Satan is not true It needed to be paid to God. We sinned against God. We didn't sin against Satan. Satan is tempting us. Satan is pulling us away from God. But the debt that needed to be paid was not to Satan. It was to God and the only person that could satisfy it, based on the Levitical law, was a a um a perfect male sacrifice with no blemish. And who was that perfect sacrifice? I know within me. It could be nobody else but Jesus Christ. But we should also read the word of God because it's a power in the word of God to really spread away the power of evil. So we must friend to the Bible. Before we go out we must read the Bible. We should not just take our value and go away. No. Yes, thank you for having us. Look at Jesus by reading his word Right. Second Peter two nineteen. This is a response to the the the stress of the humans. They promise them freedom, but they themselves are slaves to corruption for whatever out of the overcomes a person that he is enslaved. So whatever overcomes you, whatever you can't stop doing, even if it's talking about people, again, we look at others and we say, well, they're doing this, I'm not doing that, so I'm not that bad Ah, can you believe they're watching this? I don't watch stuff like that. But you sit around the table gossiping all day. And then when your friend leaves that you're gossiping with, you pick up the phone and call somebody And then when you're done with that, you go to Facebook and write about somebody. Like constantly just looking at others faults instead of looking at the plank in your own eye and saying, Jesus, help me. Help me to be more like you. in deeds, in actions, in the way that I interact with people, in the way that I hold the door for somebody if I see them walking by. That gets me so so frustrated sometime when I walk into a store and somebody just walks out right in front of me and walking right down and they just let the door go. And just bang me and I was like, Okay, I gotta be like Christ. Alright, Romans 66. We know that our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing. And I have an excerpt here. I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who lives, but Christ who lives in me. That we're no longer enslaved by slaves to Christ. Slaves to Christ. It doesn't mean you're perfect. You're gonna fall, but you have assurance that if you go to Him, He is faithful to forgive you of all your sins. Paul announced himself you all Always say that uh Paul servant of Christ. Servant. Dulah. Which is that means Dulas which is a um which is a a not not a slave in the way that we think of it, but in a slave that indebts himself. That sort of says, I am gonna work for you. But with Paul, unlike others that were indebted for seven years and then you're told you can't have that wife and then another seven years to get that wife. Um when he says that he's indebted, he wants to stay there permanently. And the way that again it worked in the Roman world, when you w went back to the time after you paid your debt and if you said that I want to be a slave to you, they would then brand you Just said that you belong to me. It's it's different than adoption, but you're enslaved to this person and and you you've shown that you are trustworthy, you've shown that you uh you could take care of the whatever they needed to and they will bring you into the floor to be part of their family. You don't get to inherit the stuff that they have, but you are part of the family. Romans John 8 34. Jesus answered, truly, truly I say to everyone, I say to you, everyone who practicing sin is slave to sin Again, you may fall as we go through that sanctification process. You're gonna you're gonna have your ebbs and lows, you're gonna flow. But if you find yourself perpetually in that sin and you can't give it up give into it, you can't give it up, it's a daily thing I would really check my salvation. I would say, okay, I'm doing this and I don't feel any conviction. I don't feel any remorse. Because if you were his and you devolved him, that spirit is in you. That spirit is correcting you That spirit is directing you. That spirit is saying, stop. Your actions right now are displeasing to a holy God. A God that is set apart and a God that wants you To be a right standing with him. If you find yourself doing the same thing over and over and over again, and you don't feel any remorse whatsoever, I would truly check myself. Say okay, do I truly believe what I confess that I believe? If I say that I'm saved, I'm a new creature in Christ. I have a new mind. And if I have a new mind, which is part of repentance, which means to change your mind to have different different thinking Why am I still doing the same things that I'm saved from? Unless you're not saved. First John 1 9. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and cleanse us from all, not some He is faithful to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Oh man, I jumped into the second aspect. I apologize. I'm gonna go back a little bit. Uh salvation involves a deliverer, a savior. So the first aspect was it implies somebody that's in distress. Second aspect is it involves a savior. Matthew 121. She will give birth to a son and you are to give him the name Jesus because he will save his people from what? Their sins. So he came with a purpose. He saw that we were in distress. He saw that we needed him. And God said, I'm gonna give you my son. Can't save yourself. You're in distress. And the good thing is we realize it. We cling to Jesus. He saves us. Isaiah 53, for the sake, surely he took us our infirmities Which is our sickness, our illness, our disease, our afflictions, our anxieties, everything that you're dealing with, He took those away and carried our sorrows, yet we consider him stricken and struck and down by God And afflicted, but he was pierced for our transgressions, he was crushed for our iniquities. The punishment that brought us peace was upon him, and by his stripes we are healed. All life sheep have gone astray. Each one has turned to his own way. And the Lord laid upon him the iniquity of us all. Do you meditate on that? Do you think about that daily? That the price that you should have been paying, that he took it upon him, not just yesterday, but today and tomorrow? Since I already read 1 John 1. 9, we're going to jump to the third aspect. The action of the deliverer affects a release from circumstance that caused the sufferings. Thus salvation portrays a movement from distress So safety. You're in distress. God sent his only begotten son, and the effect of that is now you've gone from that distress to a place of safety. And who effectuated that? Not you Colossians 1, 13 and 14, He has delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of His beloved Son. In whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. As mentioned, you are adopted, you are transferred into his kingdom. Romans 5. 10. When we were enemies of God, we were reconciled to him through the death of his son. Things were made right. You receive reconciliation Things were broken. Jesus Christ came, and things are reconciled. Things are fixed now. God cannot be amongst people of sin. It is through Jesus Christ that he looked at you Me and everybody else now that put their faith and trust in him. They said, Welcome in. So that's the reconciliation. Ephesians two nineteen. So then you are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens with the saints members of the household of God. Ephesians 2, 3 to 4. We all once lived in the passion of our flesh. I'm sorry, I didn't get your name. Um young lady over there with the secret Angel, this is what you were saying. We can't stop. We keep doing the same thing. We all once lived in the passion of our flesh. We enjoyed it. We didn't want to give it up. See what Scott was talking about. Carrying out the desires of the body and the mind and were natured by nature the children of Rab, like the rest of mankind But God being rich in mercy, because of his great love with which he loved us, when we were dead in our trespass, made us alive with Christ by Grace. Now the question is, can you earn grace? You don't deserve it. Free. It's free, but yet a price is paid Discredited to your account. Okay. Now, why should we study salvation? As believers commissioned by God to go and make disciples, we must be able to clearly articulate what salvation entails to those Who do not yet believe. So as I asked earlier, when you ask somebody do they know what salvation is? When you ask them, Are you saved? Do you think people really know what you're asking them? They think they're saved. It depends what the process was that brought them salvation. They could have gone to the Bank of Mary. They could have said, Hail Mary, a priest could have said, You're saved. So you have a lot of people that say, Yes, I'm saved, but they don't really know if they're saved. Until they really understand the process of what it entails. It's not complicated, but yet a lot went into it. We must be equipped to challenge false views of salvation. One such view which I feel is still prevalent today is anti Nomianism. Who's heard of that before? Just doing your own will. Oh sorry. Hmm? Just doing your own will. Not not doing it by whatever God says. Okay. I saw another hand up. Anti-law. You're ready to what obey I mean people would listen, but they just don't go to speeding under the law. I I dated a guy in college who literally said, I don't sin anything Because I decided that I don't sin. And like God put a stamp on that. Did you show 'em did you show him first? Oh yeah, I showed him a lot of things. And what I was referencing to first John said if we say that we do not sin, we lie and deceive ourselves. I'm sorry. I think it's mostly that bunch well the old test lies anymore because we have the new law, but they don't realize that he fulfilled the law, he can abolish the There's like the whole fact of the same Well the Old Testament doesn't matter. So the people that don't know the word? Because he said, I didn't come to abolish in the law. But I came to fulfill it. And without the shedding of blood, there's no remission of sin. So to to uh Romans one. Um Pretty much as um Abiga Abigail? No. Did I say that say correct? Uh Alison. Whoa. Whoa. Allison. As Alison said it's anti law. That means we don't have to live under the moral law. It's Almost when you think about it like relative relativism, that it's my truth, what I say. I could view one thing one way, Seth may view it another way. I always drive with my son. Um And I don't know what prompted the conversation. I said to him, he was sitting in the front seat and it's he thin he thinks it's the coolest thing when I let him sit in the front seat. And I'm out outside the car seat Um, and he was sitting there looking out the window and I said, um, what do you think of the rules that we have at our home? You think they're too strict? Uh some. Uh, would you like it if I just let you do whatever you wanted to? Uh yeah, I think that'd be cool. Yeah. I said and I and I said, do you think that would make me a good parent if I just had no rules and just let you do whatever you wanted to Yeah, I think it'd be cool if I did whatever I want to do. But then I said to him, okay, so if you get to do whatever you want to do, I'm gonna let Joshua do whatever he wants to do And Joshua. I love my son. Oh Joshua. Josh let's just say that. Josh is busy. So so him knowing that, I said, so what if I let Joshua do whatever he wants to do? He knows that Josh would immediately go into his room Grab his stash of candy, grab his bat, grab everything that belongs to him because you know, little brother likes to bother big brother. I said, Well, if it's your truth and you want to do whatever you want to do Why can't he do whatever he wants to do? Why? Rules for you and not for him. Well no rules for you and rules for him. And I think that's the dilemma. that we get when we enter antinomialism or relativism. If it's your truth and it's my truth, what if my truth contradicts your tr whose truth is right? That's why we can't base it on my truth or your truth. It must be Jesus' truth which says I am the way, the truth. And the life, and no one comes to the Father except through me. And he's it's not a suggestion. It's not Jesus is a way, which is what a lot of people want to say nowadays. Jesus is the way And Jehovah's Witness, even they have it in their Bible was what was it? In the beginning was the word and the Word was with God and the Word was a God and not the God. You see how just slight changes contradicting? And I feel like these are one of the reasons. Why we need to preach salvation accurately to people. I'm sorry, you had your hand your hand up? Um the the thing is they don't know the righteousness of and even our good words it's like a We cannot contribute anything to earn anything with God. So even if we do good work we still see, right? Only Christ. Only Christ comes it it it's I think it's um the knowledge of our holy the knowledge of our sin. You know, it's easy to know that, you know, like sin, we have that subtle sin. We're doing good. Five. And I think there is some of those are the knowledge that that's you can see that it's a work of the holy then that we come to know the righteousness of so you know I I think a lot uh uh I've been a lot among people call them Christians and yet do not think oh their friends they're out outwards they look good too, right? You're sweetened a knowledge of double same thing, you know So we do the same thing. Hey, why are you always doing this this way, why do you always have a smile on your face when you have um this task that you need to do and then those are opportunities. If you're just doing it to gain salvation, yes there's an issue with that because it's it is still famous Because even in that context you're still trying to gain something. We don't do anything for nothing. And that was one of the things I learned early in my marriage counseling. Do stuff with no expectation. I had hair before. But it took it took a while to learn. Just do stuff for fine. No expectations Some of that that was enough, no one left, no one left. Um all right. Get through this last part here. And three, and we've been talking about this throughout this whole um lesson. To remind ourselves of our new identity in Christ. We focus on salvation to remind ourselves of our identity in Christ. Because sometimes we feel far from God. We pull away from God as though we're not adopted, as though we're not His. We wallow in our sins. We make a mistake and we hold our head down as though the sky is falling. And that happens to us sometimes because we feel as though we're doing it in our own strength, not realizing that it is God who empowers us. It is God who guides us. It is God who orders our steps. And so when you fall The thing that you should do is immediately run to God. But the enemy makes you feel as though you can't go to him. You're unworthy. But as I mentioned earlier, when you look at the process of adoption through the lens of a Roman, you have value And he wants you. He chose you. He cherishes you. And he will fix whatever you're going through. He will handle whatever you're dealing with. Stop trying to do it on your own. Turn to God. And if you've been away If you've been dealing with stuff, if things are consuming your mind, if you find yourself anxious, if you find yourself irritable, not wanting to be around other people Why is that? If there's a lack of joy in your life, if there's a lack of assurance in your life, why is that? And I'm speaking to myself as well. I'm not standing up here as well. You want to do the best thing for your family, you want to do the best thing for your friends, you want to do the best thing for your church. And some days it's tiring, but I have to remind myself, and as should you, that we do everything to the glory of God. We seek Him. We desire them Him. We say, what is it that you want me to do today? How is it that you want me to approach This individual. As I close out, um I'll come back to this in just a minute. A second thing that happened uh in Florida. So my son My eldest has no concept of color. We made that decision at home. We don't talk about his skin color. He his identity is in Christ. That is it, obviously. Of course he knows African American butt. That's not his identity. And so we're we're at the at the pool and um new kids come And this is Florida, uh cool style, Alabama side and stuff like that. Um and these new kids come in the uh the pool and my son he's always playing with everybody. He He's I mean he he loves to play. When we go out there we're we're looking for him. He's never with us. He's always with he always has a new family. Um, but he always has a new a new family. Oh, can I go home with them? They are they asked me to come home for dinner. We don't know him. Not to mention you have feeding the selfish allergy. But anyway, he sent in the corner of the pool by himself and I'm working on this. This is why I need a practice salvation to be a little bit more empathetic You know, 'cause I'm dad, so I'm like, get up, let's go But he just looks sad and so that's why you need mom and dad. So my wife goes over and is just like finally talking to him and then my wife comes over and says, um, oh I think uh those new kids just said something to him about his color for the first time. And they made a uh a remark that, oh, you look like a And I will repeat it something that I sent in my son first experienced it at nine years old. So I'm like, Oh, shoes on, belt on, pants on? And I go up the stairs and where you going? Like, oh my here we go again. Gonna be nice. So I go knock on the door and um dad comes out. I say, Hey, how you doing? I'm Rafi. We're from Maryland. I think we were at the pool a few moments ago. His son comes out immediately. I'm like, talking to your dad, give me a second. And I said, um, I think there's uh been a misunderstanding. I think your son uh and I never blame the parents, never blame the kids It's always they must have picked it up somewhere and you know, I just want you to know that I think your son is using some language or saying something that you may not be aware of And I just wanna bring this to your attention. And you're a dad, I'm a dad, and our job is to find that plug. Train up our children the way that they should go so that when they grow up they will not depart. You know, I'm a Christian, uh how are you? Um and I'm a Christian too, what's going on? I said I Your son said XYZ to my son and you know, I don't are you aware of that? Oh and he looked shocked. Um and he brought his son out, took his son downstairs, made him apologize and we started talking and And I said, you know, it's hard it's hard being a parent, raising kids in the way that they should go. But as men, as you said you're a Christian, I said I'm a Christian. We have to train them properly and correct them when they make these mistakes even though they're uncomfortable. And he said, um, wow, many people whenever you ask it like that. I said, Well, you said you're a Christian, right? I'm a Christian. So brother, we're not many people. This is how we ought to react. Because we need to be examples to others. We don't need to make this a big deal and let others be aware of what's going on. But we need to be able to reconcile with one another and put our pride aside. And whether you are a Christian or not, if I profess to be a Christian And my challenge to you is if you, Professor B, put aside your uncomfortability. Get in there and represent who you say you are. What you believe dictates how you behave. What you believe controls not only your mind, your speech, your actions. If you say that you're a Christian and you say that you have been saved by grace through faith and you know what Christ went through on your behalf, go out there and tell somebody. Time is going short. As I mentioned at the beginning, I wanted to lay down the framework and the foundation and uh for what we're going to be doing next week at the back of your seat We have um what we're going to be going through next week which is called the uh order salutus or which is Latin for the order of salvation. It begins with election, goes down to glorification, but under each of those sections, with the exception of regeneration, there are subsets. And I want to walk through you all. I want us all to walk through one by one of what those subsets are, what they mean how they impact us and how they should uh dictate how we go out into the world to um to to share the gospel with others. Uh if you want you can read the um the two passages that I have there which Romans 8, 28 to 30 is known as the golden chain. And then Ephesians 1 sort of talks talks um to the this uh this process of salvation as well. Let's pray Lord God, I thank you for this time together this morning that we had to talk about all the work that you have done on our behalf. We rarely take moments and time to just meditate on your word and and and And it was just a one-time thing, oh Lord, it's a continual thing. You are constantly working through us. You are constantly molding us into your likeness, and for that we are grateful Lord God, I pray right now in the name of Jesus that you will embolden each and e individual that is here this morning, that they will go out into the world and boldly proclaim who you are, and that when they are faced with trials and tribulations and trouble That you will, Father God, empower them to respond in a way and in a manner that is worthy of the calling. Let them not just put on the the title Christian. without walking it out and being an ambassador for you and all that they do. I pray for all the men, all the women that are in here this morning and all their their their children I pray for those that are in college as they're preparing to go back in a uh few weeks, that they will return with a um with joy in their heart and in some sort of teaching, whether it be from this class, some other class that are being taught throughout the summer That they will go out and truly make disciples. Thank you, Lord, for all that you do for us. It is in Jesus' name I pray, Amen