Well since the fall uh way back in Genesis three, the fall of mankind, not season of the year Mankind has searched for someone to give us rest. The search began when The serpent deceived Eve into disobeying God, and the Lord promised this to the serpent. I will put enmity between you and the woman, between your offspring and her offspring. He shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel. Some translations say crush instead of bruise. The hope was that this offspring of the woman, whoever he was, would not only crush the head of the serpent, but would also overturn the curse of sin that resulted in turning work into painful toil. In fact, about a thousand years after the fall, Lamech had a son whom he named Noah And he said, Out of the ground the Lord has cursed, this one shall bring us relief from our work and from the painful toil of our hands. The word Noah sounds like the word for rest in Hebrew. And so he was expressing a hope that the Lord would use Noah to be the one who would remove the po painful toil from mankind. Instead, of course, the Lord rescued Noah and actually gave rest to the earth from the wickedness of mankind. Well once Noah and his family walked off the ark after the flood, the painful toil restarted, and so did the search for the one who would one day give rest. And even down to today, people are looking for somebody or something to give them rest from the painful toil of life. In fact, even this week I was listening to a podcast series called The Last Invention, which was both fascinating and terrifying. about AI. And one of the explicitly stated hopes by those who are advancing AI is that AI will remove the painful toil that people don't want to do. The challenge is the the AI that can take over our painful toil is the same AI that can take over everything. Well, until that day comes, if the Lord tarries, we will continue to search for relief from our leaders. Of course, most people throughout the world and in history have not had any choice as to who their leaders would be. And so even in that situation, there would always be this tinge of hope that with every new leader maybe this one will improve life for us. Or perhaps a bit of fear, knowing that this one won't in fact improve life. In societies like ours, where the people get to elect and choose their leaders, those who are vying for positions of power really have one goal. And that is to convince people that they are more capable than the other candidates of making life better for everyone. That's really the strategy of every candidate, no matter what their party affiliation is. In fact, the new mayors of Seattle and New York are are not the first, but perhaps the most stark examples that qualifications and experience and viable solutions are totally unnecessary to get elected. Just promise a better life for everyone, and you can win. Why? Because people are looking for rest from their painful toil. Now, one of the problems with humanity's search is not that our sights are set too high that somehow we're hoping for too much. Our problem actually is that the our sites are set too low. We're hoping for too little. The hope people have is for a superficial and temporary relief. People want life to cost less so they don't have to work so hard. People want to work less so they can enjoy leisure more. After all, it is said, you only live once, so why should we spend so much of our life working? Just trying to get by. The fr focus of our desires as a human race is on how Can we spend our time during the short years of life on this earth? And what that ignores is that so much of our pain is not from the work As much as it is from the curse of sin in our own hearts. For so many life is hard not because they go to a job that they don't enjoy, but because they go and work with people that they don't enjoy. And then they go home to a home filled with strife. Their hearts are filled with discontentment and envy. They lust for what they don't have, they lie, they cheat, they steal to get what they want. And no matter how much they do have, it just never satisfies. The relationships are broken. And the substances that they use and the diversions that they engage in to escape keep wearing out. For many, there is no thought of existence after this life, and so their best hope is to eke out some measure of happiness before they go out of existence. And even for those who have some kind of hope for a life after death, their hope is so vague that this thought of a better world or a better place doesn't actually benefit them today. What humanity needs is a leader who will go beyond the superficial and the temporary, somebody who speaks the truth about life's problems and addresses real issues. And whose perspective and promises transcend this life and give hope for an eternal life that makes a difference today. Well, you know that there is such a man as that, and his name is Jesus. Jesus is the most unconventional leader. He is the Lord of all, and yet he came in the humblest of circumstances. He is the king of the universe, and yet he came as a servant The one who spoke the world into existence hungered and thirsted and grew tired. His life was unconventional. Not only was his life unconventional, but his message was unconventional. He didn't speak about taxation or Roman oppression. He spoke about our attitude toward money and our enemies. He didn't speak about changing the law, he spoke about the heart of the law. He didn't talk about how to prosper in this life. He talked about how to invest in eternity. He didn't talk about all of those people who are troubling us He talked about what it is in our own hearts that causes trouble. Ultimately, he spoke not about a better kingdom here and now, but he spoke about an eternal kingdom with God. Not only were his life and his message unconventional, but his methods were unconventional. Jesus did not try to accumulate as many followers as possible. He didn't try to get as much attention and publicity as possible. He limited his time with crowds, in fact. He actually exposed those who were following him with ulterior motives And he taught in ways that limited people's understanding. He actually spent more time with the poor and sick than with the rich and powerful. And though Jesus was unconventional compared to the expectations of people and the practices of those who are vying for power and influence? The truth is his life and his message and his methods were right in line with what God had promised would be true of the Messiah who would come and crush the head of the serpent. and give rest to his people. Rather than recognizing him and welcoming him into the land, the leaders of the Jews threat were threatened by him and opposed him. And yet it is in response to their opposition that we find the clearest explanation by Jesus of his identity as the Christ, the Messiah, the Son of God. And here in John 10, Jesus both declares himself to be the Good Shepherd, promised by God through the prophets And he condemns the Pharisees as false shepherds who care only for themselves at the expense of the people. So if you haven't turned there yet, turn in your Bible to John 10 as we continue our study of the seven comparisons Jesus makes between himself and the Pharisees. Let's read this passage before we dive into these comparisons. For the sake of context, I'll start in chapter 9, verse 39, and read down to chapter 10, verse 18. The scripture writes, Jesus said, For judgment I came into this world. That those who do not see may see, and those who see may become blind. Some of the Pharisees sneer him, heard these things, and said to him, Are we also blind? Jesus said to them, if you were blind, you would have no guilt. But now that you say we see, your guilt remains. Truly, truly I say to you, he who Does not enter the sheepfold by the door, but climbs in by another way, that man is a thief and a robber. But he who enters by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. To him the gatekeeper opens The sheep hear his voice, and he calls his own sheep by name and leads them out. When he has brought out all his own, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him, for they know his voice. A stranger they will not follow, but they flee, they will flee from him, for they do not know the voice of strangers. This figure of speech Jesus used with them, but they did not understand what he was saying to them. So Jesus again said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, I am the door of the sheep. All who came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not listen to them. I am the door. If anyone enters by me, he will be saved, and will go in and out and find pasture. The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. I came, that they may have life and have it abundantly. I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays his life down for the sheep. He who is a hired hand and not a shepherd, who does not own the sheep, sees the wolf coming and leaves the sheep and flees. And the wolf snatches them and scatters them. He flees because he is a hired hand and cares nothing for the sheep. I am the good shepherd. I know my own, and my own know me. Just as the Father knows me, and I know the Father, and I lay my life down for the sheep. And I have other sheep that are not of this fold, I must bring them also, and they will listen to my voice. So there will be one flock, one shepherd. For this reason the Father loves me because I lay my life down that I may take it up again. No one takes it from me, and I lay it down of my own accord. But I have authority to lay it down, and I have authority to take up take it up again. This charge I have received from my Father There was a division again among the Jews because of his words. Many of them said, He has a demon and is insane. Why listen to him? Others said they are these are not the words of one who is oppressed by a demon. Can a demon open the eyes of the blind? This is the word of God. Well the first comparison that we saw last week in verses one and two is that Jesus qualifies as the true shepherd while they, the the Pharisees, are frauds. I noted last time that the pharisaic system was developed between the time the last prophet Malachi and the birth of Christ over those uh four hundred years or so. In their efforts to avoid the errors of their ancestors, the leaders of Israel tried to uh build layers around the law of Moses to make sure that they kept the law of God and didn't rebel against the Lord as their ancestors had done. But but as always happens When you put any layer over the law of God as an attempt to keep the law of God, it actually ends up corrupting the very law that you intended to keep. And that was particularly seen in how they turned God's design for worship and leadership into a commercial enterprise with unqualified leaders who were motivated by selfish gain. And because of that, Jesus compares the Pharisees with thieves and robbers. They entered the sheephold through an illegitimate way, and they had ill motives. On the other hand, Jesus is the true shepherd. He walked right through the front door. He met all of the qualifications and did everything the scripture said the Messiah would do. And so he met the qualifications that God determined as to who had ownership and rights over the sheep. So that is the first comparison. Jesus qualifies as the true shepherd, whereas the Pharisees are frauds. The second comparison we saw last week is that Jesus knows his own sheep. While the Pharisees are strangers. And we saw that in verses 3 to 6. Jesus explained why it is that there are some who follow him and some who do not. And the simple answer is that those who follow him are part of his flock, and those who don't follow him and reject him are not. The nation of Israel is the chosen people of God, but as uh but not every individual within that nation is part of God's redeemed people. As Paul said elsewhere, not all who are descended from Israel are or belong to Israel. This has always been the case. There's always been those who were faithful to the Lord, who received the Word of God, who walked in obedience to it. And there have always been those within the nation who went after idols. And tragically, it was often the leaders who were the leaders of going after idols. And so it was no surprise to Jesus that when he came on the scene, the Pharisees and other leaders of the nation, instead of welcoming him, rejected him and refused to follow him. And in refusing to follow him, like the kinds of shepherds who are strangers and drive the sheep based on fear, the Pharisees drove the people away from Jesus. Elsewhere in Matthew 23, Jesus said to the Pharisees, You shut the kingdom of heaven in people's faces. For you neither enter yourselves nor allow those who would enter to go in. Now, unlike them, the the true shepherd, Jesus, leads his flock with love. He knows them and they know him and their ears are tuned to his voice. There's a real dynamic and love relationship created by God between Jesus and His people. And so Those who follow him, follow him because they are part of his flock. That brings us then to the third comparison for our consideration today. And that is that Jesus came to give life, whereas they came to take life. Jesus came to give life, they take life. Look again at verses 7 to 10. Jesus said again to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, I am the door of the sheep. All who come before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not listen to them I am the door. If anyone enters by me, he will be saved and will go in and out and find pasture. The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. I came that they may have life and habit abundantly. Between the first few verses 1-5 and this next section is verse 6, which tells us that the Pharisees did not understand at all what Jesus was saying to them. As he spoke to these Jews, he received back either blank or confused looks on their faces. He knew that they did not understand. And he knew that he was following the pattern of the prophet Isaiah and the other prophets who brought words of condemnation to the people that, in effect, they really did not understand. Remember that when the Lord commissioned Isaiah the prophet, he instructed him, saying, Go and say to this people, go on hearing, but do not understand. Keep on seeing, but do not perceive. Why was Isaiah to say that? Why were they to hear and not understand? The Lord goes on to say, lest they see with their eyes and hear with their ears, and understand with their hearts and turn In other words, God had a purpose to use their rebellion, their disobedience, their lack of understanding to accomplish his purposes and move the plan of redemption forward. And as we've seen many times in our study of this gospel, it was the plan of God that the Pharisees and the rest of the Jews would ultimately reject Jesus so that in being put to death he could make eternal life possible as he hung on the cross. Jesus endured the wrath of God on behalf of sinners and made forgiveness of sin and reconciliation with God available to all who would believe. But to get there, he had to be rejected first. And that's why, as Jesus stood there looking at blank or confused faces, instead of explaining what he meant, which probably wouldn't have made them feel any better anyway, he pressed on in his condemnation and self-revelation. And he begins this Next section starting in verse seven with a third of seven I am statements. If you are familiar with the Gospel of John, you know that Jesus, throughout the Gospel, makes seven different I am statements where he Reveals something about himself. In John chapter 6, we saw that Jesus said, I am the bread of life. In John chapter 8, Jesus said, I am the light of the world. And here he says, I am the door of the sheep. Again, through these I am statements, Jesus reveals himself. as the one sent by God to deliver his people from their sin. And here to to reveal himself, he goes into this world of shepherding And draws from different elements to reveal something of himself, as we'll see over the next the rest of the passage. Now, what Jesus says here, it's not a parable We're familiar with parables. They are basically a story meant to communicate one main idea. This is not a proverb that is meant to give you a wisdom principle for life This is a figure of speech, as it says in verse 6. This is an illustration. More technically, it's a metaphor. Now Jesus could have used a simile. He could have said, I am like a door. But he didn't. He used a metaphor because metaphors are more powerful and punchy. He says, I am the door. Well, what is a door relative to sheep? We've all seen uh a pen, an animal pen, a corral, or a sheepfold, whatever term you want to use, where sheep or other animals are are kept to be contained. Sometimes shepherds would travel far even days away from home with their sheep to distant fields where they would be well fed and Over time, fields that would be used year after year, the shepherds would build up these rock walled pens for the sake of keeping their sheep at night so that they wouldn't scatter and so that the Sheep would be protected from hungry animals. And of course there would be some doorway on somewhere along that pen where the sheep would pass in and out. Now when they were at home, when they were near their homes or their barns, whatever buildings they had, what at least one of the w walls would usually be the wall of the home. And sometimes multiple homes would be used to create a kind of courtyard where the sheep would be kept. In fact, verse 1, where it says sheepfold, the word for sheepfold is most often translated as courtyard. in other contexts. And so again, homes would be brought together, built around each other in a way that would create a central place for the animals to be kept. However, the sheepfold was made, whether with homes or walls or with rock walls out in the wild, there would always be, out of necessity, a doorway, a way to get in and out And that door would either be a solid door of some kind or a gate. Jesus says in verse 3 that there's a gatekeeper that opens the door. uh sometimes multiple families would hire a gatekeeper to make sure that only the true shepherds could come in and out and get their sheep. But in the wild, those rock wall sheepfolds wouldn't usually have a door. They would be m the the whole um construction would be made out of materials that were available, and so if there wasn't trees and there wasn't a a way to craft doors, they would have no actual door. And so in those cases, which were common The shepherd would himself lay across the opening of the sheepfold to keep the sheep from escaping during the night. He would be the door. And so when Jesus says, I am the door of the sheep, you could say he's comparing himself to a wooden door that swings on hinges, but he's most likely drawing from that Well known practice of a shepherd laying in front of a doorway to protect his sheep and give them access to the field and protect them from straying during the night. Either way, his ultimate meaning is the same here. To be the door is to give access to enter and sheep and leave the sheep full. And through this metaphor, Jesus means That it is he who gives access to be in God's kingdom. That's the message Jesus has been preaching over the two or so previous years of his ministry. He would consistently teach that it was in listening to him and in following him that opened the way to heaven. Rituals and law-keeping are not the door. He is the door. Look again at verse 8. It says, All who came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not listen to them In contrast to Jesus, who is the door, and to whom we must listen to enter the kingdom of heaven, there are those to whom the sheep refused to listen. Now, who are these who came before Jesus, whom the sheep refused to listen? Well, obviously it's not referring necessarily to the uh uh prophets of old who were true speakers for God. They would not be considered thieves. Nor would it be the current leaders as Jesus is speaking about those who are in the past. So it's most likely that he's referring to those who have come before Jesus and either themselves were claiming to be the Messiah or other people attributed to them the possibility that they may be the Messiah because of their deeds. There was a man named Judas Maccabeas, about a hundred and fifty years before Christ, who revolted against the Romans, against Roman uh Antiochus Much closer to the ministry of Jesus were men like Judas, the son of Hezekiah, Simon of Pharaoh, were a man in Anthrongus, the shepherd. Each of those three men vied for the throne when King Herod the Great died soon after the the birth of Jesus. Each of those men gained some measure of influence among the people, but they all failed in their effort to become king of the Jews, and some of them explicitly claimed to be the Messiah, others received that claim from those who followed them. Those particular men were not religious leaders. They were the kind of leaders Israel hoped the Messiah would be. A political and military leader who would throw off the Romans. Obviously none of Israel's potential or actual leaders were successful in actu in giving the people rest, if you will, from Roman oppression. And as well as you consider those men and what they accomplished, whatever zeal they had for the good of the nation, the reality is their zeal was Outweighed by their personal ambition. Meaning they were more than willing to sacrifice the lives of the people in the nation as long as it benefited them. Those who came before Jesus didn't draw crowds that Jesus drew. They didn't teach what Jesus taught. They didn't perform the miracles that Jesus performed. They didn't make the claims that Jesus made. They didn't fulfill the prophecy that Jesus fulfilled Even with the hope of getting rid of the Romans, those men did not get the nation behind them. And what made them thieves and robbers in this metaphor is not necessarily what the people thought of them, but what God thinks of them. Because as a general rule If anyone is not committed to serving God's purposes, by definition they are self-willed and self-promoting. And so, whatever door those men were trying to open, it wasn't the door to the kingdom of God. Now, in comparison to them, Jesus is the door. He is the one sent by the Father to care for his sheep, leading them into the kingdom of God where they can enjoy freedom and peace. Look at verse 9. Jesus says again, I am the door. If anyone enters by me, he will be saved and will go in and out and find pasture. Jesus gets to the point really of what he means by saying he is the door. Notice the word saved there. It's the same word used in many other contexts that we're familiar with. At its core, it means to be kept from harm, to to be preserved, to be rescued. And for a sheep to be saved is that it is protected from harm and threats, specifically saved from the threats of the malicious malicious intents of thieves and robbers and predators. As I mentioned last time, sheep have a powerful fear instinct. For them to thrive, they need to be completely safe and free from potential threats. In fact, it is said that for a sheep to lie down, it has to be completely free from danger, annoyances, even from pests like flies, and have more than sufficient food. As the door, Jesus is saying that only through Him can one find that protection and that care and that safety. And only through him, as he says, can one go in and out and find pasture. Is there freedom to live and to thrive? And as far as the sheep is concerned, that's the best life one can possibly enjoy. But Jesus gets even more specific here by comparing himself and his purpose to the purpose. of others. Look at verse ten. Jesus says the thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. I came that they may have life and have it abundantly. This description of thieves calls to mind Jeremiah 23, verse 1, which says, Woe to the shepherds! who destroy and scatter the sheep of my pasture, declares the Lord. And Ezekiel thirty four, verse three, which says, You eat the fat ones, uh you eat the fat, the you clothe yourselves with the wool, you slaughter the fat ones, but you do not feed the sheep. That's what the leaders of Israel's past did. They had no interest in the welfare of their people. They only did what brought gain to them at the cost of many lives. In fact, the word kill here means to slaughter. And in the realm of shepherding, the thief wants nothing more than to take an animal that doesn't belong to him and slaughter it for his own enjoyment. And he kills the investment and destroys the investment of the the shepherd that he has put into that sheep and to the whole flock. It is the nature of a thief, of course, to take and consume what does not belong to him. They take life, they take property, they bring ruin into the lives of those from whom they steal. They create in those from whom they steal the worst feelings of not just loss, but vulnerability and fear. If you've ever had your home or car broken into, you have a sense of that heightened exposure that you feel, the the helpless helplessness that it creates in you. It's one thing, for example, to have a safety consciousness. We we all really do, right? Anytime you lock a door, uh you're you're conscious of safety. Most of us know that it's good to practice basic precautions of locking our doors. And we largely assume that if we do those basic precautions, we will be kept safe. So when those precautions fail, you realize just how vulnerable you are and how impossible it is to completely protect yourself. And that leads to a hypervigilance in seeking to protect yourself and your loved ones and your possessions, which requires exponentially more energy and time than before. In this way, the thief steals far more than an object of value. They steal life, vitality, confidence, time, energy. And even when what has been stolen can be replaced, the lost sense of security can be devastating. And if that's true when it comes to stolen possessions, how much more is it true when it comes to stolen personal dignity through abuse or oppression, manipulation? Because of the deceptive nature of sin, thieves don't realize the full consequences and the destructive power of their actions. But that's what they do. They steal, they slaughter, and they destroy. Now, Jesus is not specifically referring to the devil here, but the devil is the prince of thieves. Peter calls him the lion who is seeking God's people to devour. Jesus said back in John 8. 44 that the devil is the murderer from the beginning. And Satan has one goal, to destroy as much of God's works as possible. He lies, he cheats, he steals, he kills, he destroys, he deceives, he subverts, he causes conflicts and fights, he and wars and divisions. He does everything he can to prevent goodness and righteousness and peace and justice from flourishing. And when I say that he is the prince of thieves, I mean that the that all thieves are under his rule. They do what they do because He does what He does. They are subject to Him. In Ephesians 2, it tells us that all those who are not given life by Christ Follow the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience Revelation 9. 11 gives to the devil the name Apollyon, which means the destroyer. This devil, the adversary who is the prince of the power of the air, who is a murderer from the beginning, who is the destroyer, Jesus calls in John chapter 12 the ruler of this world. And so it's no compar conspiracy to say that everything evil that happens in this world is the result of the ruling power of the devil. And that's why Paul says in Ephesians 6. 12, we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present darkness, according to the against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly So thievery is not just evil because of its consequences, it is evil because of its source. It imitates the character and follows the will of their prince, the devil himself The thief really stands side by side with the devil in opposition against God. And that's why God uses such harsh language with the leaders of Israel, whom Jesus here refers to as thieves. In fact, Matthew 23 stands as the New Testament parallel to Jeremiah 23 and Ezekiel 34. It's where Jesus Or rather, Isaiah 34, it's where Jesus directly confronts and forcefully reigns down condemnation. On the Pharisees. Seven times he says, Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, woe to you, blind guides, woe to you, hypocrites! God does not take their thievery lightly. So thieves don't just steal things, they steal life. And they do it as servants of the Prince of Thieves, putting themselves under condemnation. And what was true of Israel's leaders back in the day is true of all those today, especially those who would Use the name of Christ to suck people dry of their resources and their finances for their own gain. In strong contrast to thieves, Jesus is not a taker of life. Jesus is it a giver of life. He says here, I came that they may have life and have it abundantly. And that repeats what he said in chapter 5, verse 21, for as the Father raises the dead and gives life And gives them life, so also the Father, or rather the Son, gives life to whom He will. And life here is not mere physical life, it is the full experience of life. Where the soul thrives in an environment free from fear. And when Jesus speaks of the abundant life He doesn't mean abundance in terms of material prosperity. Beloved, don't be deceived by those who say that Jesus came to make us wealthy and successful, especially as the world defines it. In fact, Jesus says in chapter 12, verse 15, take care and be on your guard against all covetousness, for one's life does not consist in the abundance of possessions. Of course, the problem with possessions, as we know, is that they get worn out, they get used up, they break, and ultimately material goods cannot satisfy the soul that was meant to be satisfied By God. And so for that reason, the abundant life doesn't mean a life full of relationships or a life full of activity or a life full of family or a life full of children or a life full of work or hobbies. The abundant life is not having a full calendar or full responsibilities or fullness of anything pertaining to this world The alternative to being rich in treasure or rich in relationships or rich in activities, as Jesus puts it in Luke 12, is being rich toward God. To those who are lost in darkness, to those who are dead in their sin, to those who are bound under the power of the devil, Jesus does not come to inject a dose of life. He comes to free people from the kingdom of death and darkness and to bring them into the kingdom of life and light. In the words of Hebrews 2. 15, he came to deliver those who through fear of death were subject to lifelong slavery Or in his own words, in chapter 8, verse 12, Jesus says, I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. Everyone who believes in him, Jesus says in John 3, will not perish, but have eternal life, which is a life with him today. And an everlasting glorious future. This life is a restored connection with the author of life such that his life permeates ours. The abundant life that Jesus gives touches every aspect of our life, though it doesn't happen all at once, of course. When we listen and we follow the shepherd, no aspect of our life can be left untouched. He uses all of our joys and our sorrows and our success and our suffering, all of our delay delights and our pains to reveal his goodness and his mercy. When filtered through him, trials and grief cannot threaten us. That which looks on its own to be harmful. When understood from as coming from his hand, can actually be a source of life As Joseph said, you meant it for evil, but God meant it for good. And just as the Lord said to Paul, my power is made perfect in weakness. And so my friend, it is for us to consider, do you have that life? Are you connected to the source of life? Or could it be that you have not listened and followed Christ, and so you don't have life? You sense the hopelessness, the darkness, the meaninglessness of your life. Or maybe you have strayed so far from the shepherd that you can't hear his voice and you've lost sight of the life that he came to give. The reality is Jesus came to give life and to give it abundantly. There's much more we could say about that, but that brings us to the fourth comparison. Jesus makes between himself and the leaders of Israel. And that is that Jesus lays down his life while they are self-seeking. Jesus lays his life down and they are self-seeking. Look at verse 11. Jesus says, I am the Good Shepherd. The Good Shepherd lays his life down for the sheep. Jesus here takes a new angle on the shepherding metaphor and he compares himself as the good shepherd to those who are hired hands. And the focus here is on the protection that a shepherd provides. The good shepherd protects his sheep out of love, and the hired hand runs from danger in total indifference. Notice that Jesus does not say here, I am a good shepherd He says, I am the Good Shepherd. And that makes us the fourth I am statement in this gospel And though Good Shepherd is not itself technically a title for the Messiah, there can be no doubt that Jesus uses this title to identify himself as the one shepherd promised by God. Remember, I think we read this last week that after condemning the false shepherds of Israel, the Lord promises in Jeremiah 23, verse 5, Behold! The days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will raise up for David a righteous branch, and he shall reign as king and deal wisely, and shall execute justice and righteousness in the land And then in Ezekiel 34, the Lord calls this king a shepherd. The Lord says, I will rescue my flock, and they shall no longer be a prey. And I will set up over them one shepherd, my servant David. And he shall feed them, he shall feed them and be their shepherd, and I, the Lord, will be their God, and my servant David shall be prince among them I am Yahweh, I have spoken. So friends, Jesus is the descendant of David. He was declared by angels to be Emmanuel, the son of or God with us, the Son of the Most High, who would sit on David's throne and reign over the house of Jacob forever. This Jesus says, I am the good shepherd. And I lay my life down for the sheep, that they may not be prey. Now any true shepherd would naturally be ready to take great risks for the care of his flock. Whatever relationship a shepherd had personally with his sheep, the reality is sheep are livestock, and livestock are a shepherd's livelihood. And so his motivation for protecting them would not only be his personal care for them, but perhaps more than that would be the protection of his financial investment that they represent. And because wolves and thieves can unsettle and scatter the whole flock, the shepherd will take great risk to protect the flock. But historically and in reality, it would be unusual for a shepherd to actually give up his life for the sake of the sheep. After all, if the shepherd died protecting the sheep, The sheep would now have no shepherd and would be in the same position as if he didn't protect them But in verses 14 to 18, as we'll see in more detail next week, Jesus uses this language of laying his life down to clearly mean that he dies for the sheep. And so while a real shepherd with real sheep might count his life as more valuable than the sheep, Jesus presses the metaphor to its extreme to reveal the vast difference. of his love compared to the hired hands who care nothing for the sheep. Look at verses twelve and thirteen. He says, He who is a hired hand and not a shepherd, who does not own the sheep, sees the wolf coming and leaves the sheep and flees, and the wolf snatches them and scatters them. He flees because he is a hired hand and cares nothing for the sheep. Now, we have to understand that unlike thieves, a hired hand is not an inherently negative term. It simply refers to someone who is hired to do a task. There's nothing wrong with a person being hired to care for sheep with the primary goal of making money. If a shepherd needed to be away from his sheep for a period of time, he would hire someone to temporarily care for his sheep That's a common scenario. The problem with hired hands, though, is that because they're only there for their hourly or daily wage, they are totally unwilling to risk their lives. By definition, a hired hand has no relationship with the sheep. He doesn't know them, they don't know him, his job is temporary. He stands watch when he's being paid, and he doesn't stand watch when he's not being paid. Financially and relationally, he has no incentive to fend off the kinds of dangers that would put his own life at risk. That's not necessarily a blight on his character. It's just the reality, the natural difference, if you will, between a business owner and an employee. In fact, uh twenty years ago I when I worked at a software company, there was a time when profit sharing was becoming popular among companies, especially tech companies. It's a great incentive for employees. Basically, the harder you work, the more money the company makes, the more money you make. And our company was relatively small and people kept asking the owner, hey, why don't we practice profit sharing? And the owner's answer was straightforward. When you're willing to accept the risk, you can receive the reward. Of course, no employee wants to risk their paycheck if the company doesn't do well. That's why they're an employee and not an entrepreneur. And that's really just the difference here between a shepherd and a hired hand. A hired hand doesn't care for the sheep because their welfare doesn't affect his life. And so Jesus here is comparing the leaves of Israel not only like thieves, but they are like hired hands. They were entrusted by God with the care of their flock, but in their own hearts and minds, they were short-sighted. They looked to the temp temporary benefits that they received. And they didn't consider the long-term welfare of the people and the nation. In fact, one example of this is King Hezekiah. King Hezekiah was in many respects a good king. He cleansed the temple, he restored proper worship, he re-established the Passover, he organized priests throughout the land, he trusted in the Lord's protection, and the Lord blessed him by sending Assyria away. He was a faithful king in those respects, but near the end of his life he foolishly revealed all of the wealth of Israel to an envoy from Babylon And the Lord said, Because you have done this, one day this nation, Babylon, will come and they will take everything away, including your sons. And Hezekiah responded, basically, oh well, as long as it doesn't happen in my day. Well, decades later the Babylonians came and surrounded Jerusalem, and the prophet Jeremiah pleaded with King Zedekiah. To let the people go out to the Babylonians so that they wouldn't starve in the city. Just surrender. You already know that God is going to give the city over But in pride, Zedekiah refused to let the people go, and many of them died of starvation in the city. And eventually Zedekiah himself tried to escape through a backdoor. With his sons and his soldiers, and he was eventually caught. His sons were slaughtered in front of them. His eyes were were put out, and eventually he died in a Babylonian prison. Now, though Hezekiah and Zedekiah were completely different kings, they shared the same common disregard for the long-term welfare of the people. And this was true of all the leaders of Israel in varying measure. The Lord would send prophet after prophet calling them to repentance, but they refused. They acted like hired hands. And this was true of the Pharisees in Jesus' day, except in their case, instead of running from a wolf. The Pharisees attacked the shepherd. The Pharisees were so consumed by their own desire for power and influence that they lost sight of what was good and true for the nation. Their ancestors, or like their ancestors who rejected and persecuted the prophets, the Pharisees rejected Jesus Instead of considering the good that the Messiah would be for the nation, they could only think of the disruption that Jesus would bring to their lifestyle. So they put him to death. They were the worst kind of hired hands. They killed the shepherd who had entrusted them with caring for the sheep. Now, unlike them, Jesus was not motivated by temporal personal gain. He was motivated by the long-term benefit of the flock. And he didn't just risk his life He gave his life, knowing that he would not leave the sheep defenseless because he would rise again. And it was his death and his resurrection that would secure life for them. And that's what we'll consider much more next week. There's three more comparisons that Jesus makes in the rest of this passage, but just in considering these first four, the fact that Jesus qualifies. as the shepherd of the sheep, he knows his own sheep, he came to give life to his sheep, and he lays his life down. It's already obvious that Jesus is unlike every leader in history. He's unlike any king, any governor, any president. He's the opposite of tyrants and k and dictators. He came to give ri the rest and the life that our souls long for. As he said in Matthew 11, 28, come to me, all you who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Jesus is the Lord of all, and Jesus is the King of creation, and every person is under his reign. But to those who believe, Jesus is the good shepherd. And we hear his voice, and we believe, and he gives us life and rest. And for that we can be thankful. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for these words by our Lord so much that we need to continue to meditate on. So think about what it is to have life in comparison to being dead in our trespasses and sins. You've given us ears to hear and eyes to see, a heart to understand, a will to obey. You've granted us a life that we otherwise would not have. And a life that lasts not only as long as our heart is beating, but a life that lasts into eternity in your glorious presence. Lord, would you cause more of your sheep to hear your voice today, to follow you, and to experience the life that you came to give. And for us who have that life, may you cause us each day to reflect on the glorious truth that you are our good shepherd. That you lead us, you protect us, you care for us, you provide for us, and may we give thanks and live in light of these truths. For Christ's sake we pray. Amen.