Okay, so this is um part two of the introduction. Um as you can see I I put a handout on everybody's uh desk. Uh for any of you who've gone on to the uh hope book, uh does everybody use that do you use the files from Hope Book? Yes, no? Uh one of the things you're gonna have to do with this class and this is uh well we'll I'll get into that when I when I do the intro intro to it. Uh so let's go ahead and open in prayer and then uh we'll start with the uh with the with the class. Heavenly Father, Lord, uh we ask you to uh open our hearts and our minds, Lord, to a uh Your word and this particular book is uh one that's uh quite complex. Uh i it's full of information, Lord. But uh there's a blessing in this, Lord. You you've you've given us Genesis, you t you told us what the beginning Was and here we are at the end. You tell us what the end is. Lord, uh let us not take this for granted. The world does not know this, they have no idea where this is going, but we do. is telling us a tremendous amount in in here. All we see is judgment oftentimes, but there is there are a lot of nuggets in here. Your gospel runs throughout this book. Uh Lord, you you want people to to come to Christ Christ. Lord, we know that uh you have a plan, your plan is here, it's it's being revealed. So Lord, we ask for uh wisdom, we ask for your spirit be to open our eyes and our hearts to this because uh again, without it w we we would not understand this. Uh we looked at uh church members, uh anyone that um there are many I know with uh illnesses or trials. Uh we we lift them up to the Lord God. We lift up the body of Christ at hope here. Um um birth that w that uh happened over the weekend. Um uh but Lord um we just lift this all up to you. Uh you know who they are. Um many of us know, have people on our hearts, missionaries, etcetera. So, Lord, again, uh we just ask you for your grace, your mercy, uh, and your insight in this uh lesson this morning. Lord, I ask you to fill me with your spirit to bring to mind the things that I've studied and uh Lord just to give them a h uh so we can get a handle on where this book is going. So in your name we pray. Amen. And that really is uh Uh that is my goal this morning. Uh Rob uh the reason I asked, Rob had a series of uh let's see. He had a series of messages um we'll use some of the slides. I am primarily gonna use uh this handout. Greg Dossett gave it uh uh passed it on to me. Rob had looked at it. He thought this was also an excellent uh outline. And the reason I like this is because this book is confusing. You get lost, you get into the weeds, you don't know where you're going. And this is what you need. You you need kind of this map. Okay, and as we work through this you can look back, you go, okay, where am I? Uh and you can look back real quick and you say, This is where we were and this is where we're going. It'll make more sense to you, especially as you familiarize yourself with the book Uh but this will give you an outline with it. This book does not run nice and consecutive. It's it's not in in an order. The the timing ra you we Rob can work through some of this uh is debatable about what the timing of the events are, um and and that's part of the the controversy of the interpretation of this book. But I I believe um the our interpretation of it and we do uh take this literally, dramatically, historically, we read it plain what it says is what it means. There are certainly a lot of figures in here, but the figures are pointing to s to something. God uh is revealing to us, right? It's revelation. Apocalypse apocalypsis, right? Uh it means to r to reveal. Uh uh it's revelation. That's right there in the beginning of the book. He wants us to understand this. But having said all that, so what is the difficulties? Well, we all know there's a lot of figures in here, a lot of symbols. But the other thing that must Most people don't mention and even the commentaries. As you redo this, there's a tremendous amount of facts in a short section. Let me give you just a quick example. Look at uh and look, open your Bibles. I know some of you use electronic. Um I would suggest a Bible. You can mark it, it should have uh divisions in here for you. A lot of Bibles do. They have references. I memorize better from a Bible. I may forget the the uh chapter or verse or whatever, but uh you know, sometimes my mind is it's just another I could say, Yeah, I know it's in the top left hand corner of a page. So I can go through okay, one in that left hand corner, one that you know, I'm serious. Uh the more devices you use to memorize something, right? You you hear it? You write it, you read it, you see it, get as many senses involved. This book is full of data. And that's the complexity that's really the complexity. Everybody talks about the symbol. Look at um Uh I get you Revelation chapter 5, right? Just uh I just want to read this real quick as an example. Uh verse 5. One of the elders said to me, Stop weeping, behold The lion that is from the tribe of Judah. Okay? You could you could search that out. What's the lion? The tribe of Judah. The root of David. You could explore that. Uh has overcome to open the book. and it's seven seals. Okay? I saw between the throne the four living creatures and the elders. Again, a lamb standing. Okay? Why is he standing? As if slain. Having seven horns and seven eyes and seven spirits sent out into the whole earth. If if you're thinking and you're asking yourself questions, you've got a lot to re you could go on a lot of trails right in these couple of phrases. That is one of the difficulties of the book. You're not gonna with any book it's an illusion, right? We're not probably going to comprehend it fully. There's always some layer we could go to, but particularly with this. My exhortation to you is the probably the biggest thing I learned from seminary, if anybody's had any classes from me, you've heard me say this over and over over again. I was in a it was another level class. We were in a a Greek exegesis and we were all sitting there and we were reading this and uh I was one of the students trying to grab and hold on and there were some of these guys that were really sharp and there but they would ask this question, the professor, and they go, What does that mean? What does that mean? And he would ask this question. He said, What did it say? And everybody's going, Mm Oh w you know, sorry. This is why this is my exhortation to you. Read what it says. Now, when you go through this, I don't know about you, but the first thing I when I'm reading I'm going, what does that mean? mean what's that mean? But I d I hadn't focused on what it said. Don't worry about what it means. Focus on what it says. That's your first layer, observation. And especially with a book like this, your mind wants to go to the answer, okay? But you're not taking in the data. I don't know where you are, where we all come from different levels or where we are with our, you know, understanding of this book. Learn well well I don't care. Learn whatever level you're at. You need to own the only way you're gonna own this is if you read the words Okay? Keep this syllabus with you. Again, it's on Hope Book. If you don't have it from last week, this is good. You know where you're going If you look, a lot of times the chapter is broken down. These are not very long chapters. Okay? Prepare for it, not so much what does it mean. Read the words. Be familiar with the words. words. Rob's gonna unpack it for ya. Y yeah, I don't care who does it, there's no way you're gonna unpack all of it. There's always another layer we could go to. I mean we could make this course last forever, right? So Think of it from that point of view, and I really, really stress it. Do not be passive in this. I know you're busy. We oftentimes we have several Bible studies going on, small group, we look at what the pastor said for the week, you know, it's like another one. Do this one thing. Read the word. If anything else, you've got thirty seven weeks after this to read this, read this text. And you can see you're I mean a lot of times I mean some chapters are eight verses, right? Uh so again, be familiar with that. A couple of quick things before we get started in this outline. And the outline is just really to give you I'm I'm trying to give you hooks. Well I I when I read through this and studied through this, um, I get lost in the weeds and and I I don't know you know, it's like when you're driving down the road, you listen to a book on tape, you're like, Where are we? I'm I think we're still in West Virginia. I'm not sure. I'm watching what's right in front of me, but uh you know, I have no idea where we are Um so a couple of things. Um one uh I looked at uh a man named Robert Grimacki. Um I like him uh he he had some statistics on here. The Old Testament. It's the uh most quoted Old Testament uh book is Revelation. Uh it varies. Some people have as many as two hundred seventy eight according to him, to four hundred illusions. When we say illusions, we mean it's not a direct quote, it's the idea of the Old Testament passage. That's a lot, okay? Uh Matthew, give you an example, has ninety-two. Hebrews, which has a lot, is a hundred and two. This is a very short book. Two hundred and so my word picture of this is this is like a a hub, right? You're flying into O'Hare or down to Atlanta, right? Nobody wants to go there unless you have to. You get lost in a place and it's er you know, connecting place. That's what's happening in these books of Revelation and these prophecy books. books. All this data's coming in from really from the whole text. This is the conclusion. Just to say that, you you you're we're not gonna uh comprehend it all, but as you can especially if you have a book with references in it or a a a computer program you may use that has uh r references, it it's kinda good to go back. You're probably gonna need to look at Daniel seven. Um Really should kind of be familiar with the whole book of Daniel, but I would say focus on Daniel chapter seven. Uh it's very related to this. Uh the other thing, I just want to say this and we'll move on. Apocalypse. literature. Anybody heard that phrase and they go, What in the world is that? Um this can get um I I think it gets people lost but th there are some characteristics that that are um primary. Uh I like what Zuck puts out in the book that he has, Basic Bible Interpretation. It's a book I we use for hermeneutics here. It's a book that uh one of the books that the uh leadership class will g will use. It's excellent on um uh they use it in a seminary level and it it's it's really good to help for basic Bible interpretation. He unpacks a lot of things. But he his the characteristics he says of this apocalyptic literature. Okay Number one, it consists of prophecies given and elaborate visions. Okay, think of Daniel. Y any of you familiar with that, you number know the same thing is is uh applicable. It includes symbols, right? Well, we know that. An angel was often seen in the visions and f and frequently gave interpretations. And it includes messages regarding the distant future. And you can g look at some of the literature You know theologians are, some of 'em can have a small book on this, what is apocalyptic literature. But that's basically it. The other thing that's the uh observation is these these uh uh Visions came when Israel was either out of the land or when they came back. Zechariah, he was back in the land, but they're under there were no more kings. They were under Gentile um rule, right? They they they weren't autonomous at this point. So that's that. Let's start. We use the slides. I will refer to the slides when we get to the seven churches. You can look at the slides. I I would recommend that. Uh I know there's there's probably twenty seven of 'em. Uh I wasn't gonna go through that today. All w all I'd be doing is reading them to you basically. And you can do that yourself. Not to mention, you're not gonna retain it if we just read right through it. You need to sti look at it. There is some good information there. If we have time I'll refer to some of the Remember how uh Rob pointed out futurist, idealist, preterist last week? They have some charts in there for the different views in there. Please, it's on Hope Book, right? And if not, mm hmm. Anybody not on notebook? If you aren't, let me go down. Here is Rob's right here. Balam's Donkey at Outlook dot com. And this is the one I would use because when I email Rob on my on his account with uh Hope Books, it takes him a while to answer. So I think you know He probably has two or three accounts. Use this one. He'll send you these slides. Okay? So again, no excuse not to have them. Uh and I would look at them. Okay. I like it for the churches. Thank you to that. So in this outline, look at this real quick. You see how contours. Alright? Alright, you see this top line here? The blue line um right seven year tribulation you go down this is what uh we were talking about last week. Ann brought this up. Uh what you have seen, uh you know uh the things Which are, the things which are hereafter. He has that column there. You see how he has um uh what thou hast seen, he has the first vision, right? Things which are, seven churches, and then from that on things which uh shall be hereafter. Uh this he this is the outline of the book. Okay. Uh y as you read through chapter one you'll see that I think it's what is it, one nineteen I think is the verse. Alright? Um I looked through this chart. I really didn't see too many errors. I saw a couple w well well uh I don't know errors. One particular error, the other one is uh uh but it's really good. Uh R like I said, Rob looked at it. Okay, so uh go down r uh um over to your right, seven churches, right? You see chapters two to three. Um, later, don't do this now, but later if you look at this chart, if I were you I would take and write in um the chapter and the verse for each of these little categories. Again, you okay, where are you at? You got this chart, you look at it, and you go, whoa, it was back here. Uh this was here. This is moving here. But believe me, when you read this, uh if you I don't want to be like me, but uh you get lost in the woods, you and you know, you don't even know what forest you're in. Let's look at this real quick. So, uh Revelation 1. You got your Bibles open. So you pretty much know this. Uh it's you get the introduction, you you kind of have the Trinity here Uh in verses uh one through eight um right he tells you uh uh uh and all this will be unpacked, so we're just gonna do a uh a uh a tour so so we know what the big picture is. Okay. Uh verse nine you can see uh that he gets the vision He sees the glorified Christ. The other thing about prophecy, you remember uh if you've you read this, right? He had uh Uh he tells you in verse twenty, as for the mystery of the seven stars which you saw in my right hand and the seven golden lampstands, okay, that he was walking around, the seven golden lampstands Uh the seven stars of the angels of the seven churches and the seven lampstands are the seven churches. With any book, read through the context. What came before, what came after, oftentimes. times it's gonna explain something to you, at least on uh uh uh one level. It's not gonna be a complete thing, but read through the context. Where are you? What came before? What came after? He uh keep reading on and that's what that professor would say to us. What did it say? Yeah, really. He did he also said, and this is another thing I want to throw in there real quick, read the words. He said, read the text, read the text. Don't go to the commentaries first. You go to the commentaries, man, you get off on you their perspective. Okay? We have the Holy Spirit inside of us. Let's start there. Because uh we wouldn't have so many different commentaries if they were all right, right? I mean they all had different opinions. PhDs are not, so right? And remember that Fair people like us. Alright. Two, I'm I'm not gonna let's ri uh let's use this. He does a good job with the churches. Right? So the and you could again please go to this one Hopebook. So Ephesus, right? And then nice it's got a nice little map here for you See it down there? Brad? You know where it is. You can also be well watch the journey, right? It's going to go Ephesus, Smyrna, Pergamum, right? So he tells you characteristics who works it out for you. Uh right, the praise, hard work, perseverance, criticism, you forgot your first love. Certainly that that needs to be really considered. That's huge. Um 'cause we were doing technically things right. Uh exhortate it, repent, turn around, go back to your first world, uh a reward. And can he go to this to all the churches? I I like this. Uh Smyrna, right? You're moving up the Coast there? You're rich? Criticism? None. Uh they were poor, right? But he said they're rich, they're spiritually rich, right? Be faithful, not hurt by the second death. That's the reward. Again, you're gonna spend if you look in your syllabus, you're gonna spend a we uh I'm pretty sure you're gonna spend a week on each church. You got plenty of time to unpack the details of of this. Okay Uh, praise, remain faithful. But yeah, it's nice that when you put this out, it gives us hooks to remember all this stuff. You're gonna learn a a tremendous amount. Uh retaining it's the uh difficult. Criticism, idolatry, and sexual immorality. Again, repent, turn around. White stone with a new name. That's the reward. Diatara. Okay, we're all the way up here. No, we're coming down. Okay? Deeds, love, faith, perseverance, idolatry, sexual immorality. How could a how could they do all this stuff and these people do this in a church? You know, people think in the church. everybody's just okay, you know. We all live good on the outside, but when you s you know, what's behind the veil there? Uh there's always something there. We we're in the process of sanctification. We're not glorified yet. Exitation Hold on to what you have until I come. They're under severe persecution there. Uh they're going to see the morning star. Sardis, the They have no uh no praise. You're dead. This is a unsaved church. You're probably a church in name. Maybe there's a saint or two there, I don't know. Uh uh I grew up in a church like this. Uh they were dead. Dead pastor. I don't know why anybody would go there. Why when I got saved, I'm going, What in the world are you guys doing here? I'm not kidding you. I think no wonder. for the church for so long. I didn't miss anything. Reward. Be dressed in white, uh, never bought it out of the book of life. So, you know, it's funny, that that kinda comes up. Um again You're going to spend a week on each of these. So there's plenty of time to digest uh digest and uh pick this apart. Praise, ease of faithfulness, there's Philadelphia. Criticism, none. Hold on to what you have. There's an interesting verse in here that's a technical verse, um, and become a pillar of the temple. Uh my Greek professor actually wrote a paper on this uh verse. I it'll come up if not in Anna myself will bring it up. Leodicea, praise none. They're lukewarm. You know what he says here, right? Spit you out of my mouth. Mm. Be earnest and r uh repent. Uh uh you'll be seated with Christ. So that's I'll let you look at the rest of those slides if we have time. I'm gonna do that. So that's the churches, right? Um so that brings us over to chapter four. Okay. Uh you see in your box there, um see how he has his enterbal here? Alright, so l L let me say another thing up front just to just to kind of all right, so the majority of what we see in this revelation, we see these judgments is this all this coming down. So you see the third line from the top down, uh seven churches, right? Move to the right. Uh you uh w we're gonna be in this uh heavenly vision, chapters four and five. But see these seven seals, seven trumpets. There's a there's a big section here and this is where we we I I I would tend to get lost but and then it it took me a while to to uh get what's going on. Uh y if you s you notice there between seven trumpets and seven vials or bowls depends on uh your the translation. Y you've got a a big section there w that's really uh explaining things. Well we'll look at that. So the action is not moving and is nice, linear sequential uh uh pace and I think that's where a lot of people myself uh were were confused. Uh the other thing I wanna do, I want to make sure, um I'm gonna get to it regardless I may not finish this whole chart. I hope I do. But if we don't, there I'm going to do something before time is up uh to uh give you an idea of the sequence or or what the interpretation of that is. So look, four, seen in heaven, right? Not gonna spend a lot of time with this. Uh you know, worthy is the Lamb. How many praise songs came out of chapters four and five? Holy holy, holy, right? It's just a number of 'em. It's praise, it's worship in heaven. He we're setting the scene. John's being moved up here. You know, to uh and the only thing I'm reasonably trying to do this is remember where you are. Okay? I'm uh my mind works, I'm a big picture guy. I like the detail, I can get down into it. I love sometimes like working with the detail, but my brain likes to know what the big picture is before I get get lost. Speaking of songs, there's a lot of handles message. What do we got here? Worship Okay? Think of the contrast. What is what is our again, let's pull way back before we kinda know what the these themes are already. What's the big contrast? We're we're worshiping the right the the true God, right? Who wants the worship? What's his the what's his final battle ultimately with? Who wants the f the worship? Satan. Satan. It's the too complex. And if you look you're gonna see that's where he's going with his is what we call the Antichrist and all that. We get lost in the details, but what's he want? He wants worship. Worship me. He wants the glory. So here we are with the with the correct worship, right? And again. Uh you're gonna we're gonna spend plenty of time in these two chapters. Uh uh let's see. Okay, we'll spend a week in chapter four and a week in chapter five. So uh plenty of time for detail because you know we're looking at 11 verses in chapter four chapter five we have what fourteen that's a big one so So again, read some of the details too. Some of there's some nuggets in here that are just profound. Uh and let God's word speak to you. You may see something I don't see, uh, or or vice versa. Um, you know, uh there were some things I was thinking through that I'd I'd wanted that struck me, I wanted to pull out, but um it's s slipping my mind right now, so Again, I I I showed you some of the detail, how much detail was in those first two verses in chapter five, uh, nine. Worthy are you to take the book and to break its seal, for you were slain, purchase of God. uh blood of man, every tribe, tongue and nation, people and nation. He made them to be a kingdom of priests who are God, and they will reign upon the earth. We are a kingdom of priests. That's a responsibility. We we're uh priest is the what? The intermediate uh mediator between man and God. Um we have the light of the world. We have the light for the world. The world is law. Dark. Right? The Old Testament priests they had to go to the priest. We the believers we have who's our mediator? Christ. We go right to the source. Just remember I have to wake myself up sometimes. I take my salvation for granted. How much light we have compared Okay, so let's uh s uh so that's um on your chart you can see that there, four and five. He's got it uh uh by the way do you see uh one thing I didn't uh uh point out do you see how he has these little uh uh devices himself on his chart um for each of the churches down there in the uh blue I'm colorblind is that blue? I hope it is. Uh you forced love, persecuted, uh compromising, corrupt, dead, faithful, lukewarm. Again, these are to help you get those hopes to remember where we're uh we're uh what was said to each church where you are. Um so, uh we open up the uh the seven seals. Right? Ver chapter six. I heard the four living creatures sing, uh as with one voice of thunder, come. I looked and behold a white horse, right? Yeah, so yeah, the four horse of the apocalypse, as they like to say. The white horse, right? Um let's see what uh let's go with the chart. He and that's nice. He's got him for you there. White horse, he has listed down at the bottom, Antichrist Red horse, war, um, famine with the black, pestilence, uh with the uh pale horse or the ashen horse, depends on how you translate it. And do you see where those are in your Bible? Uh again. My Bible has headings for me. Uh I I assume most of yours do too. You know, so it's nice. But some places you you you're you're not gonna have that uh advantage. All right, so you've got the uh Uh verse three, second seal, five, third seal, fourth seal, uh verse seven, nine, lamb broke the fifth seal. Okay, terror broke the Look at look at w is m this is the kind of nuggets that that you need to remember, right? In verse sixteen on um chapter six, uh uh and he said to the mounds and the rocks, Fall on us, hide us from the presence of him. who sits on the throne from the wrath of the Lamb. Uh, for the great day of of their wrath has come, and who is able to stand? They're hiding. They I mean it's you it's y you see through this all there's There's different forms of of the gospel. This is really the kind of the gospel. They know this is from God Okay, but you don't see any repentance, and you that's what you're gonna see throughout here. Verse 7, uh chapter 7 I mean, you see the interlude there? Okay? You see how he has there in um on the chart. Um you see the imp the interval there After the uh sixth st uh of the seven seals. Okay. And again he tells you um uh the the little uh notes down at the bottom to help you remember what's going on there. Okay, so now we have the hundred and forty four thousand s uh sealed. Um Let's see what he has here. Now he has at the very bottom here the wrath of God begins. We could wrestle with that as as we move on. D does does the wrath of God begin uh with uh what he actually did by throwing down the uh mountains and uh uh the cataclysmic uh or does it actually begin with with uh chapter six verse one when we open up the seal. We we can wrestle with this as we move on. Um you know, as we go through each of the chapter in detail. And this is part of the problem because we have all kinds of uh interpretation to this. Well we have no mention of the church and I'm sure um after chapter uh three as we go into chapter four there's no more mention of the church anywhere in here. Uh that's one of the indicators. Uh again, I I know people wrestle with this and then these arguments can go on for hmm a long time. So you have this interval, the hundred and forty-four thousand are sealed Um there's a multitude in uh let's see what he has down here. Yes he has he's got the multitude in heaven, right? These are the martyrs. You know, and the angel asked him, Who are these? and he goes, Uh you know who they are. Uh he goes, Uh, these are the ones that come out of the great tribulation. They have washed their robes. This is uh Verse fourteen and chapter seven. Uh they washed their robes and made them white with the blood of the lamb. Okay? Then we have silence in heaven. Mm. I had a professor who uh got his PhD and his he was he did the studies and uh uh revelation, he wrote some papers and all on it and um he was in a class and he said, Y mm, the uh silence in heaven was when the theologians throughout the ages got their outlines and their theologies in order. And there was many So then there's silence in in heaven for this time and so we know what that is now. All right, so chapter eight, uh let's see, where does it pick up? A and this is again where you can write down down um uh you know where uh what I do in in my Bible is I was numbering uh like uh th there your Bible may have uh paragraph breaks where the uh uh trumpets come in. Okay? So that's what we're opening up, right? When the lamb bro uh eight one when the lamb broke the seventh seal there was silence in heaven for about half an hour. I saw the seven angels who stand before God and seven trumpets were given to them. Okay? So the sixth seal, or the you have the the the sixth seal, you have uh all all the cataclysmic things that happen to the The earth seventh seal opens up the trumpets. And we'll look at that in a minute, or well at the end. Um so it opens up. So really uh There's no actual uh uh cataclysmic thing that happens in seven. Seven opens up a whole new area of of uh c cataclysmic uh events that are about to happen. seven um I number th there's the first the sound, right? The first sounded and uh one of the angels and he came and hail and fire came. I think he has that listed here. Uh hail and fire, right? Blood. fire. Um the second one he has uh right the burning mountain again symbolism uh it's something like a mountain okay so it's not a mountain but what is it What does it tell us? It's big. It's a mountain. Oh, you see a mountain come down. This thing's huge. Try and get your imagination. I mean God has given us word picture, so go ahead Use your imagination. Wha what um don't go too far but uh but he but he is. He's he's given his figures. He goes, You never see nothing like this, you ain't never gonna see anything like this to live happen. Uh uh this is this is And you know, to try to try and imagine, this is God's judgment. Well, he's not an angry God, right? W he hates sin. This is how much he hates sin. I need to be reminded of that too. Okay, I'm saved, but you know he hates sin. It it's it's other than his nature. He he's holy. So verse eight, there's a second angel sounded. Right? And I'm just pointing this out so you can find these. I actually numbered them in my Bible so I can pick 'em up quicker. Um so I we don't need to go through those. You you have them there in your list, all right? Um he even has um a third of the vegetation down at the bottom. He he gives a l uh uh the little note, third of the sea, third of the rivers, third darkness. Okay, and then we move uh to the first woe. And r uh really what this um was that five angels sounded and a star from heaven, which is fallen to earth, the key of the bottomless pit was given to him, opened the bottomless pit, and smoke went out in the of the pit like a smoke of a great furnace, and the sun and the air were darkened by smoke of the pit. Out of the smoke came locusts, the upon the earth. I I mean can you imagine these these little creatures, faces on these creatures? They have breastplates, sounds like you can't kill 'em. Uh and they attack you. People and and look at what he says in verse uh 6. In those days men will seek death and will not find it. They will long to die and death flees from them. But he's trying to get their attention. This is real. God is going to judge. Okay, where are we at? So we got the locust, we have the horses. Okay, that's the second row. Uh Um then you have this interval. Okay, again, and uh in chapter ten you have the uh the angel with the little book. Um I saw another angel coming down out of heaven clothed with a cloud, a rainbow in his head, and his face was like the sun, and his feet were like pillars of fire. Uh we can see some of the symbolism. And it's interesting, look at what he says. Um uh and he cried out with a loud Loud voice verse three, and when the lions roared, and when he had cried out, the seven peals of thunder uttered their voices. When the seven peals of thunder had spoken, I was about to write. I heard a voice from heaven saying, Seal up the thing. things which the seven peals of thunder have spoken and do not write them. It's just a uh it's just a a a reminder here that we're God's telling us a revelation that we need to know we're not getting all the revelation. Uh even with the things that he tells us, there are probably things we're not really wouldn't understand until we were there, if someone was there and experienced it. And and and that's something that we just have to you you can have to let that go. We like to hold on to things, you know, um, uh and and figure out the answer to some of these questions. And and I think when we do that we miss the the big point. We m we miss the truths that he's trying to tell us. So he eats the book. Sounds like Jeremiah, doesn't it? Okay? He eats the book. It was uh went down sweet, but it was sour. It was sweet as honey, and the little book, uh the angel, he ate it and his mouth It was sweet as honey, and when he had eaten it, his stomach was made bitter. And he said to him, Prophesy, right, concerning the many peoples and nations and tongues and kings. He said we're in verse eleven or chapter eleven. And we have the uh two witnesses. And again, um people spend a tremendous amount of time on who the two witnesses are. Um a you know, and and th there's some good conclusions or logic to it, but w you know, ultimately we're we're not really sure. The point is, is that think of what they did. They were witnessing. And this is a time thing. Uh again, uh Rob can can wrestle with this when were when were they witnessing? Were they witnessing well he says how long they witnessed, let's see. Then there was given And I will grant authority to my two witnesses, and they will prophesy for twelve hundred sixty days. And sackcloth and ashes. So we never want to prophesy. So when did they do it? Is this in the beginning? Uh w when the uh the first three and a half years, second three and a half years. Regardless, they're wind. Witnessing to the people. Okay, well we rather work that out. Look at the people's response. This is what got me. Verse 10. And those who dwell on the earth, uh they kill the witnesses, right? Right, um uh I guess I better back up. And when they had finished their testimony, the beast that comes up out of the abyss will make war with them. Whoops Went to Sweden. So now the beast of war uh let's see where we are. Um the beast of that comes up out of the abyss will make war with them and overcome them and kill them. And their dead bodies will lie on the streets of the great city, which is mythically called Sodom and Egypt. What do you think the great city is? Yeah. Remember. You know it's um right. And also this is a big picture thing, a big picture theme. Uh I can look at it at the time no I'm gonna go through a lot of this but again this chart will help you. Um in Daniel you had the four kingdoms, those who know that. Uh uh and even if you went back to Egypt, Assyria, what did they all have in common? Rome's all the way here in the west. You got Babylon, but they all occupy, it was all with the center is Jerusalem, Israel. They all occupied Israel. God's said, right, he g he's gonna give these people the land. It's the it's not the e Israelites land, they're the Stuarts, right? It's God's land. They are supposed to represent God in this land. This is the battle. It's the scene that's been running throughout all of this. And who is not gonna want this to happen? The enemy, right? And and you can see, uh through again the the focus is even in Revelation uh uh when Christ comes back, where are they gonna come back? Mount of Wallace, right? He's gonna come back in in Israel. Uh this is this is the focal point. It's not that there's these ideas going to spread out over the whole world, but But this is uh geographically this is this is a territory that that they're claiming. This is a demarcation zone. These are the battle lines. Uh so the dead bodies will lie on the street of the great city mythically called so I'm Egypt. They're also uh their Lord was crucified. Uh those from the people of the tribes and the tongues in the nation, they looked at their dead bodies for three and a half days, they w and they will not permit their dead bodies to be laid in the tomb and those who dwell on the earth will rejoice over them and celebrate and they will send gifts to one another because these two prophets tormented tormented them tormented excuse me those who dwell on the earth. Now how does he torment 'em? They told the truth. People hate the truth. Jeremiah kept through that guy he always prophesied bad about him, throws him in a pit. People hate the truth. Boy, are we witnessing that today or what? It it but it's again it's it's it's a theme. It's uh Solomon said it's nothing new under the sun. The themes were in the Garden Eden. Did God really say you're gonna die? Right? It it's the truth. Yeah, when you deal with people you I can't believe people can't see this. They don't they don't you know. God opened our heart to the truth. Yeah, it's a gift. Thank you, Lord. It's a gift. All right, done preaching. So you got the seven trumpets they uh you see how you kind of go back to the action here in verse eleven uh chapter eleven verse fifteen you go to the seventh trumpets you've got these intervals that that happen in in this in the story Okay, uh so he he opens up the si uh seven trumpet and um right it's it's a it's a scene in heaven and you really don't uh w you y again we we go on another explanation here. Uh look at uh chapter twelve. Uh y you've got an explanation of uh of kind of Satan in there, right? Um yeah, you got the who's Israel, right? He tells tells us a story. And again, uh well let me work through this. Um s so we got the woman, we got the red dragon there and ver and uh starting Verse three, uh see, right? Uh verse four, he swept away uh mm a third of the stars of heaven and threw them to earth. Uh we believe uh third of the angels went with him, uh uh I do. I I think Rob agrees with that, I'm sure. Uh the male child? Uh we s so he's telling the story, right? W we have all this story in the gospel. W what's he telling us here? He's telling us a story from right from the spiritual side, the heavenly side. This is the power behind, yeah, yeah, uh Herod did this, but whose man uh was Herod? It was Satan's man, right? Do you gotta pull back some time. God has revealed to us what's going on behind the scenes. I love Daniel chapter ten. I mean Daniel whole through thing, but the when the angel comes to Daniel, read that if you're not familiar with it. Um he talks about the prince, uh he couldn't get to Daniel because there was war in heaven and these two angels were fighting. He couldn't get there. And he says at the end of that chapter, read it, uh, the prince of uh uh of Greece. Right, when Daniel wrote this, Greece wasn't even on the radar yet. When when did Greece come in? About three three twenty BC, is that when they recognized them? Anyway, Alexander, Greece, here's the prince of Greece. already. Here's the power behind this. Okay, so we know who's po who's who's in control of all this. And that's what he's telling us here in this book. So the angel Michael, right? There's war in heaven. Um the good guys win. Um uh there's no place found for Satan and his his angels. They're cast down. Um in verse ten I heard a loud voice in heaven saying, Now the salvation and power of the kingdom of our God and authority of Christ have come. Um for the accuser of the brethren has been thrown down. He who accuses them before God day and night, and that's what he's doing. His minions are down here. Uh Satan remember Satan is not uh omnipresent. He he's he he can move around fast but he's not everywhere. He he's in heaven accusing us. He's got stuff on us too, doesn't he? So, with the time, we could do a little bit more. Okay, verse uh chapter thirteen. You've got the uh the beast. This is the Antichrist, right? The beast from the city. Look at uh verse eleven, you got the beast for uh from the earth. He's got um a nice little diagram. Uh he's got uh the dragon Dragon and you do you see the little note in the bottom, Satanic Trinity? I like that. Good right the dragons, uh uh anti God, right? The beast is anti Christ. Here's a false price prophet is the uh anti spirit. That that's actually a pretty good analogy. Hmm. 'Cause what is the full the the the the false prophet really is promoting the antichrist. He's telling yeah, worship this guy. Okay, and that's where the again, what's the big theme? We get lost in all this detail. Worship don't worship God. Worship the creature. Worship worship Satan. That's what you're ultimately worshiping. Worship wors wors Worship the uh okay the dragon. So what I want to do before I run out of time. So let's look at the chart. I'm not gonna have time to just work through this. Um you see the you see so we got the seven persons up in that on your chart. You got chapters twelve to thirteen. And again, when you get a chance go probably go down there in each of these little like like the woman and and see under seven persons, woman, child, dragon. Maybe write your chapter and verses in there. Again, you can go to it and it's like boom know exactly where it is. This is why I like this. You can look at this all at one time. Um so you got this other interval, right? Um you got the hundred and forty four thousand thousand, they're standing uh Issa is before the throne, but they're standing on the uh again we can look through that. Where are they? Are they in heaven? Are they on earth? There's a debate about that. So the everlasting gospel, we have the angel going through the air. Again, see you notice that God's giving them the gospel? Fear God. Worship him. um fall in Babylon. Uh he just introduces it here in um chapters seventeen and eighteen you have uh again another explanation which is great because he again it's Babylon Who is the Babylon's systems? It's the uh uh he has a note down there, you see where I have Babylon seventeen and eighteen, or where he does. Uh he has religious system. I would put in there also political, right? And then the commercial system. And the materialism. Right? He he's making this junk with the power of his it's the things that entice us. So not necessarily bad. Everything basically comes from God. But he takes that and he corrupts us. We end up uh a and you look at the list, especially in eighteen, nothing in there's necessary. It's precious pearls, precious gold, wood, uh you know, it's not food water, it's uh it's uh it's luxury. And of course the people cry when the when uh it's all taken away. The people in heaven rejoice. Uh so Do we we have these excellents? We move back into the seven bowls. He has seven bowels down here, some of the old not sure what translation has that, but um fifteen I'm going to read this, and I think I'm going to go to the chart below because I think this is important. Look at 15 verse 1. Then I saw another sign in heaven, great and marvelous, seven angels who had seven plagues which are the last, because in them the wrath of God is finished. So we know these are the last, the wrath of God is finished. So it's somewhat uh a a consecutive linear kind of uh uh uh events, the the way they occur. And I I say that because some people interpret this there's there's basically three ways. They interpret um all of these and when I say these I'm talking about the seven seals, seven trumpets, seven bowls or vials. These some of 'em will say these are all happening happening in parallel, kind of simultaneously. The other view is that they're happening consecutively. It's like, you know, point A, point B, C, nice and linear. If you look at the bottom, this chart that he has here. is basically excuse me one that's uh an interpretation that kind of has come later and a a l a lot of us who believe uh this is uh literal this is gonna happen we believe in the millennial kingdom, etc. etc. Uh we're we're not uh uh allegorizing or just making this figurative language totally even um this is what we call telescopic. And I I'll um I'll go through it real quick. See that little see the chart down the bottom, six seal judgment? You have the line going straight across and you have the uh Uh right down here, right? This is what I'm talking about. Okay? Now I give you a word picture I thought was was good, um But first, look you see that first line there, six seals, right over to the left? You could even put down there one, two, three, four, five, six in order. Then if you look up at the top line as is the uh chart goes up, you see that seven seal at the very top? Right? Yes, no? Uh did I put you to sleep? Sorry. Okay, that so that seven seal opens up the six trumpets. Okay? And and see do you see what I'm saying? They're they're saying it's telescopic. Uh okay, so now you got you got the six trumpets. You again you can put one, two, three, four, five, six on your chart. Uh they are linear, okay? Consecutive, whatever. And then you see you do the same thing. You see how it opens up again? It goes to that uh second line down there, the seventh trumpet, because the seven trumpet opens up the seven bowls or the seven vials. Here's the the big the the idea is that I get from this, when I read it in words, I I I I was confused when when they explained it to me in text, is that you you start the tribulation or you start the this this whole uh judgment uh period with these seven sealed judgments. But i you see how the lines kind of continue on? You're in the seven sealed judgment. But but but within that then you go to these six trumpets. And you know, and so what you're getting the and and what's happening, you're having more of the judgment and thing to m the way I read and the way MacArthur it and I uh it things are starting to speed up. You know when something spins and s you know, you see a fight and you see it you we say, Wow it's gonna spin out of control, right? There's gonna be a fight there. You know, we start with an argument And y so you've got this this um the the seals, then then it starts to pick up during the the trumpets and then the bowls. Things are things are just like it's getting ready. to finish. It's what he says, right? In in fifteen. The last b okay? And it just well things are starting to happen faster. My word picture was it it it came to me. Um I think it's good, well maybe it'll work for you. Uh fireworks, Fourth of July, right? You send that big old firework, that rocket up, right? And it bursts up and you got right, you got six maybe you know, little colors and whatever they send and then you know kind of start to you know fade some, you get used to it or whatever and it you know, you finally shoot out of another one. Right? And, you know, uh it'll come up and and different colors or maybe they'll have uh something out of that. And then sometimes if i you have another one that shoots out of a l you know after the the uh second uh explosion, another one shoots out of that, like a firework. And in most of the flowers, the the one I always loved was that last one that came down and it was using an explosion, right? You heard this boo right? That's the final judgment. And I think that's what's happening here. W it's telescoping. Okay? And the problem with this book is is that you take time out from these judgments and then you go through these explanations and and and um y you can get lost in in where you're flown. through this book. I think this this is a I think this is correct, this last one here. If you're all millennialist or you don't believe in a thousand year rain or you know Your preterist. The other thing before you leave this is why I want you to go through periodically throughout these um these seven messages. Do you see how he has the chart there? A and these are uh uh they give you an idea of the different perspectives, right? You see the historist, what he thinks of these seven churches, the preterists, the teacherists, the idealists. And there's several of these charts throughout these slides, which is why I want you to take your time, look at them, and you'll see what Rob was trying to talk about from the different perspectives on R. revelations. And it has to do, again, with your hermeneutics, how you interpret this. This is why you spend uh time in the detail because we may believe something, but can we We prove it, you know, with evidence from this scripture here. Not from our opinions, ideas, our logic. Logic is good, but it can be wrong, right? And uh typically that's that's where we go with those any questions, any thoughts? This is sh I like the reason I didn't go through the slides is because if I read through those slides But I don't know about you, I would forget w where it was, what happened before. I would need to go back and read 'em again anyway. You can do that on your own. Do keep this chart. This will really help. throughout this course. Um Greg, what was uh we ought to get a pastor's name, we we wrote this. It was uh Pastor Robert Street who he did the chart and yeah he made a lot of things Right. We got one time for a a Jeopardy question. If you look at the chart on a thousand years Peace, prosperity. Okay, you see that description there? No death. I don't know if I agree with that. Anyone know here the right and Bible. Here's a burn the category of Bible, two thousand dollars. The chapter that we believe says there's death in the millennial kingdom. Anyone know? Is it Samuel T or something? It's a uh yeah it's all about what The chapter in the Bible that would lead us to believe that there is death in the millennial kingdom. Yeah. Isaiah 65. Oh. Oh. That's an if is that a first class conditional F meaning it's going to be true or is that just because it's kind of sexual? I mean I don't know either. Well seven of those kinds of conditions are in Greek. And I think Hebrew Hebrew. But they they follow the the similar thing. Yeah. No, I I think uh there's going there is going w there uh in the millennial kingdom for us who believe in it. There's gonna be sinners there, right? There has to be sinners because at the end of it Satan has no trouble with Okay. Yeah, I think I think there's an R as numerous as a standard people. I I think I think there's gonna be depth there. Anyway, that's another that's another thing we can argue. Henry Father, thank you so much for this time. Lord, I pray that um uh this overview, this chart is is uh helpful. I hope that this um Uh this will give us a guide to to your book. It'll help us to uh look backwards and forwards. Uh Lord again, uh a difficult uh study, uh uh it's uh and the prayer is is that we will be intentional about this, we will read the words, um we will avoid the uh i uh opinions of other people and until we have uh looked over the the the the Information, the uh words themselves, we we've thought about them. Lord, I just thank you so much for how much you've enlightened us. Uh regardless of where we come out on this, we know that uh our hope is in heaven. We know we do we all agree on chapters twenty-one and twenty-two. Lord, and we thank you so much. The trials of this life, as Paul says, is nothing to be compared to the to the hope that is stored up for us in heaven. So Lord, may we worship you. May we go into this time of public worship and may we worship you throughout the week. It's in your name we pray. Amen.