Well last week we introduced this concept of a gospel cyclorama, a 360 cylindrical painting where we're just imagining in our minds the various scenes of the sufferings of Christ. Uh starting with the garden primarily. We'll mention one of the instances at least with uh his time in the uh upper room with the disciples uh all the way through his uh resurrection. And so as you kind of turn uh in this cycle of Rama you see those different scenes depicted And in the course of this class, what we're really interested to know is how does the sufferings of Christ, those last twenty-four hours or so of his life How does that help me know how to live my life? We've seen that if we are to glorify God, we're to be like Christ. And so what does that look like? Now what can we learn from the attitudes of Christ, from the actions of Christ, uh even in his suffering, that would help us to know uh how to live like Christ. And so today we're gonna kinda uh spend a little bit more time on what we talked about last week. Uh you know, we started with this first gospel thought that the cross is the fullest display of God's glory. We looked at the what is the glory of God, that is the name of God. And then what is the name of God? God reveals that to Moses in Exodus 34. And then Christ, as he's hanging on that cross, he puts that name on display. We see the justice, the grace, the forgiveness, the mercy of God. uh as Christ is hanging there on the cross. And that then presents to us the reality that if we're going to glorify God, if we want to put God's name on display for all to see That means that we have to die, which is a very painful reality. And we we can say that in as far as we we can say, yes, I know I'm supposed to die for Christ, I'm supposed to er die to myself, live for Christ Uh but it it helps I think to get more specific in what are the different ways that that can look. What are the kinds of situations that I have to die to myself Because by and large, you know, you and I are all the same. Uh we live for ourselves. We we kinda live for our own preservation. Whether it's the preservation of our jobs or the preservation of our families or the preservation of our finances or the preservation of our reputation preservation of our lifestyle. We do what we do by and large for the preservation of our own lives. And for the most part, we don't do that in a simple way, perhaps But whenever there's there's danger, whenever there's a threat uh to us, our inclination, our natural response is to preserve ourselves. And it's incredibly difficult to die to ourselves for the sake of Christ So today we're going to walk through seven different ways in which we can imitate Christ in how to die uh to ourselves. We're gonna uh kind of flip the script uh in the sense of first we're gonna identify each of these ways Um in terms of how does Scripture call us to die to ourselves and live for Christ? And then as we go through each one we'll also see how Christ modeled that for us as he died to himself. uh and lived uh for his father. So again the the first gospel thought was the g the cross is the fullest display of God's glory. The second gospel thought I think I rephrased it to say it this way. Jesus' suffering and death paves the path for my life. Jesus' suffering and death paves the path for my life. for my life. Or we can say it in a little more extended way. When I look at the cross and I see how Jesus put God's name on display, I see that in order for God to get glory in my life I, like Jesus, must suffer and die. In the beginning of John's Gospel, we read first and foremost about John the Baptist. Uh John the Apostle is not John the Baptist, so get that confusion out of the way. But John the Apostle starts with the the miraculous events that surrounded the birth of John the Baptist. And and then of course he moves to the Messiah. Uh sorry, I'm thinking about Luke. Mess that up. Scripture reading for today is John one, so I should I should have not had that in my mind. But anyway, uh in the beginning of John's gospel, uh Not in the first chapter, but in the first couple chapters, we read about John the Baptist uh and we will read about the the pretty significant ministry that John the Baptist had, right? All the people of Israel were go were going out to see John the Baptist. This guy was the man in town. He was popular. People were thronging to him. And of course because he was so popular, the religious leaders were very interested in what is going on. So they would go out to observe what what is this man doing who is a seems to be a prophet of God. Remember John would say to them, you know, you brood of vipers, who warned you to flee from the wrath of God or however it was that he said it. But h his ministry was incredibly popular until Jesus came on the scene in his beginning of his ministry. And remember there was that scene uh Pastor Paul Shirley preached about it not too long ago. where Jesus was baptizing in one area, John the Baptist was baptizing in another area, and John's disciples took notice of the fact that John's throngs, the crowds around John were shrinking and shrinking, and the crowds around Jesus were growing and growing. And again, they're just like all of us and and they don't like this shift. uh in popularity and so they uh want to learn from their from their rabbi, from their master, from their prophet, and they say, John, what do you think about this? Jesus uh is getting all of the disciples that that used to follow you. And John's response in John three thirty was what He must increase, but I must decrease. So John the Baptist, even you know, before the formal ministry of Christ uh represents to us what life must look like in our life. If we want to live for Christ, what we should be most concerned about is that Christ is exalted in my life and that I am decreased in my life. It shouldn't bother us that people are not talking about us what should be our desires that because of how we live people are talking about Christ. And Pastor Paul surely just did a a very uh helpful job uh preaching that section in emphasizing that point. So what does it look like practically to die like Christ? To increase Christ in our life and decrease ourselves. There are at least seven ways that we can draw from the scripture. And so the first one that we can say is, I must die to myself and live for Christ. I must die to myself and live for Christ. Again, as I said a bit a minute ago Uh before Christ and even often after Christ, after we become a believer, uh we lived for ourselves Right? As as we went through school as a young person, uh our uh attitudes towards school entirely depended on what we wanted out of life There there were some of you that loved school. That you you couldn't wait to advance more and more in your education And you had aspirations and you had desires, and so everything you did was aimed at pursuing those things, and for some of you that was academics. For others of you, maybe that was sports. You loved sports, you wanted to be a professional athlete, so you devoted all of your time and devotion to that. Uh for for some of us it wasn't either of those things and so school was something of a of a byword for us. Uh I've been a very bad example to my children in that regard from yeah, I I I can't tell them all the wonderful things I did in school. Uh but we live for ourselves and then as we grow The decisions that we make in terms of what kind of work we do or the relationships that we have, the hobbies that we pursue the entertainment that we enjoy, uh the moral standards that we live by, uh our our goals and plans for our life, everything apart from life in Christ is really aimed at just our own desires, just living for ourselves. For some there there were significant life dominating uh sins, uh drunkenness, drug addiction, immorality, that we're all driven by our own sense of of living for ourselves We would make whatever sacrifices we wanted to make in life in order to accomplish our goals, or we wouldn't make sacrifices that we didn't want to make. There's just all kind uh everything in our life was oriented around living for ourselves. But when Christ saves us, that Is that must change. That needs to change. That should have changed. I hope that changed for you. When Christ saves us, he's he becomes, right, the Lord of our life. He becomes a master of our life. And so now he sets the standards for morality. He sets the goals for our life. uh he sets the the sacrifices that we are to make or not make. Uh it's all about giving control of our life to Christ. Uh there's no, you know, uh sinner's prayer in the scripture of this is this is the prayer that you must pray. Uh but uh I know in my own life just the way that God was working in my heart when He saved me My prayer was basically, Lord, I just give you my life. Whatever you want to do with my life, that's what I give you. That's what I want to do Um whether or not you said those words, hopefully that was your desire. That recognizing your sinfulness, recognizing your selfishness that you're giving yourself to Christ. And if and if that wasn't conscious then, hopefully that grew in you as you've grown as a believer. But that's what Jesus means when he says in Luke 923 that we are to pick up our cross daily and follow him. That means we're to die to our own desires, we're to die to to to everything in life that we hold dear, and we're to hold it with an open hand, right? There's many things of course that We don't have to change. We don't actually have to give up our family most of the time. We don't actually have to give up our jobs. We don't have to give up our possessions But we have to hold everything in an open hand and saying, Lord, if you want to take that from me, if you want something else for me, then I will Give that up and I will follow you. If you want to take away my career, uh if you want to take away all my possessions, if you want to send me to unreached people groups and take away all the comforts in my life I'm willing to give up everything because you are the one who is in control and I am living for you. In Second Corinthians chapter 5, verse 9 Uh Paul is talking about uh our life now and in eternity. And he talks about how um when this life is over uh what he calls this tenth of this earthly body, we will receive uh a heavenly building, a permanent, a glorified body. But That change in location, if you will, from earth to heaven, uh that change in uh uh in condition from uh uh progressive sanctification to glorified person perfected does not change our purpose and who we live for. In verse nine of Second Corinthians five, he says, Therefore we also have as our ambition, whether at home or absent, to be pleasing So whether we're at home here in the body, he actually uh goes back and forth between home refers to earth or heaven. So either way, whether we're on earth Or whether we're in heaven, we're going to have the same goal, and that is to please Christ, to live for Christ. And he reaffirms that in verse 14 and 15, where he says, For the love of Christ controls us. For the love of Christ controls us. Again, that we are controlled not by ourselves, but by Christ. We're not controlled by His impending judgment. We are controlled by his love. And what what controls us is that he died for all so that they who live might no longer live for themselves, but for him who died and rose again on their behalf. So now that we have been recipients of the love of Christ, my life is no longer my own. As Paul says in 1 Corinthians 6, verse 20, I am bought with a price. So I need to glorify God with my body. Uh Jesus didn't die for us so that we would live for ourselves to live however we wanted. No, he died so that we would live for him. It's been said there's only two choices on the shelf, pleasing God or pleasing self And so you need to choose who am I going to live for today? Who am I going to serve today? When I work, am I working for myself? Or am I working for Christ? Uh when I engage in relationships, am I doing that for my own personal benefit and what I can get out of those relationships or am I doing that to minister to others to glorify Christ. When I have gifts and when I have time, when I have resources, am I using these things to benefit myself or am I using these things to glorify Christ? Even when it comes to preferences, in Romans chapter 14, where Paul is writing to these believers who were uh wrestling with one another. regarding uh their different views on things like uh whether or not you should worship on the Sabbath or the first day of the week, whether or not you should eat meat sacrificed to idols or not whether you should drink certain things or not drink certain things. Paul says this in uh Romans fourteen verse seven. For not one of us lives for himself And not one dies for himself, for if we live, we live for the Lord, and if we die, we die for the Lord. Therefore, whether we live or we die, we are the Lord's. For to this end Christ died and lived again that he might be Lord both of the dead and of the living. So we don't make decisions, conscience-based conscience-based decisions on how we feel necessarily. We make conscience-based decisions based on what is most serving to Christ How can I live for Christ? How can I glorify Christ? Sometimes that means that I need to sacrifice my preferences For the sake and the benefit of another person, because that's what serves Christ more than fulfilling my own personal desires. So in everything in life we are to cede control of our life over to Christ. That's what it means to die to self and to live for Christ. That's what we mean. That's what we should mean when we say He is Lord. The way we speak, the way we think, the way we act, all of that should rise out of our desire to submit and live for Christ. Now, how did Christ do this? He is himself, so how did he cede control of his life? Well, uh he lived for the Father. He lived in obedience and submission to the Father. In Luke chapter 22, verse 42, we read about Christ in the garden. And this is a scene that we're going to come back to uh again and again throughout this class. Um but Jesus, after spending time with the disciples, they go to the Garden of Gethsem Gethsemane, a a familiar place for them. And in verse twenty-two we read part of the prayer Excuse me, verse 42, part of the prayer that Jesus prayed. And he said this, Father, if you are willing, remove this cup from me. Yet not my will, but yours be done. Not my will, but yours be done. The other gospels, of course, refer to this. And this one in particular, the way Luke recounts this and Jesus clearly prayed this multiple times as he went back and forth with the disciples, so each of the gospel writers seemed to focus on different instances. But Luke focuses here on Christ submitting to the will of the Father. If you're willing If it is your will, Father, let this cup pass from me, and then ultimately if it not my will, but yours be done. Jesus lived his whole life this way, so this isn't anything new for him, right? Earlier in in John, John 638 Uh he he said things like, uh I only do what I see the Father doing. I only say what the Father tells me to say. Uh my life is entirely lived in submission to the Father. So Jesus didn't walk on this earth independent of the Father, independent of the Spirit, just freelancing, doing whatever he thought was best. Even though he is God and he could have done that. Now he submitted himself to the Father. He lived empowered by the Holy Spirit. And so his entire life was devoted to fulfilling the will of the Father. So Jesus modeled for us what it means to die to ourselves and live for Christ. And Let me come back to that. Okay? No, because I'm gonna I'm gonna identify where the where there might be a difference uh in in one of the other points. That's that's a good question. I don't know if I'll fully answer it, but maybe we'll get a hint at it. So that's that's one way that we die. We we die to ourselves and we live for Christ. We seek control of our lives uh to Christ. A second way that we uh can uh imitate Christ in dying to glorify the Father is that I must be willing to die to my own fleshly desires. This actually this we'll get there I must be willing to die to my own fleshly desires. And fleshly desires can be can me uh be both our sinful desires As well as our bodily desires. So we'll we'll walk through this here. In Titus chapter 3, verse 3, which Lord willing we'll study someday. uh in the we work through Titus. It says, For we also once were foolish ourselves, disobedient, deceived, enslaved to various lusts and pleasures, spending our life in malice and envy, hateful and hating one another. So Paul is identifying there that apart from Christ, before Christ, before we are saved, the the character of our life was one of living for ourselves, living for our own desires, living for our lusts and pleasures. That refers to our our fleshly desires. He says the same thing in Ephesians chapter two, verse three, when he says among them we uh two all formerly lived in the less of our flesh, indulging in the desires of the flesh and of the mind. and we're by nature children of wrath even as the rest. So we are very well used to living for the flesh, living for our sinful desires as well as living for our bodily desires, right? When uh had a coworker at Gracie in fact Cameron who preached here a number of months ago He and I had an office across from each other and he would joke that you always knew when Gabe was hungry because I would always be just talking about it. Hey, hey, where are you going out to eat? You know Oh, you're hungry, aren't you? Uh again, it doesn't have to be it doesn't have to be in a sinful way, but we naturally live for our desires. That's just what we're used to. That's what comes naturally to us. But when we're saved, we're saved to uh to renounce desires, especially sinful ones, and to be able to decline even the non-sinful natural desires. In Titus chapter two, verse eleven and twelve, which verse eleven is what we're going to focus on in the service today. But verse eleven and twelve say, For the grace of God has appeared bringing salvation to all men, instructing us to deny ungodliness and worldly desires And to live sensibly, righteously, and godly in the present age, looking for the blessed hope and the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior Christ Jesus. So he says that Christ came and one thing that we learned from the coming of Christ is how to renounce worldly desires. And instead how to live sensibly and righteously and godly. In Romans chapter 6, Paul talks about uh how to overcome sin as a believer. And he describes the reality that again before Christ we were slaves to sin. But that is no longer the case Now we are in Christ. We're set free from the power of sin, which means that we now have the ability to say no to sin. And now, as a believer, we can follow these instructions in verse eleven of Romans 6. Even so, consider yourselves to be dead to sin. but alive to God in Christ Jesus. Therefore do not let sin reign in your mortal body so that you obey its lusts, and do not go on presenting your members of the members of your body to sin as instruments of righteousness, but present yourselves to God. as those alive from the dead and your members as instruments of righteousness to God. For sin shall not be master over you For you are not under law but under grace. Before we were saved, sinful temptations would come to us, and we would go to them, we would run to them And if there was something that hindered us, if we had a moral conscience, we weren't doing it because we were wanting to please God, we had uh other motives and so it was still we were still living in sin, but we would naturally say yes to sin. We we didn't have the option to not sin in some way. But now sin is no longer a master over us, so we can we can say to those temptations of sin that that come before our eyes or th or that cross our minds or that we feel those sensations in our body, and we can say I see you, I see that temptation, I hear it, I I feel you, but I'm not going to do that. No. I'm going to resist temptation. Instead, I'm going to choose to please Christ. We have the ability now as believers to die to our own fleshly desires. Now obviously this is difficult Right? We we have experienced strong temptations to sin. If you're a parent, you have experienced strong temptations to sin when your kids disobey over and over and over again. Uh if you're a human being and you've interacted with other human beings, you've been hurt, you've been lied to, you've been betrayed You've been mistreated in some way. And there's something that rises within you that wants to retaliate, that wants to lash out, that wants that person to receive uh pain because of what they've caused you. We understand those temptations. We are are made as sexual beings, and sin has twisted those distortions and caused strong temptations uh in all of us at one point or another. Suffering tempts us to respond sinfully, whether it's something that that we have no control over, like natural disasters that we've seen in the Midwest right now where people are just uh where they've lost everything and maybe some are tempted to hate God because of that. They're tempted to reject God. How could a good God let these things happen? Or again, someone's sinning against you, and there's there's a desire to repay evil for evil. We understand how difficult it is sometimes to resist those natural urges to lash out. That those temptations can sometimes be so strong even that that we feel like the only way to resist this is to physically die So sometimes we can say, I can't resist. And whether that's because we've not resisted so long that we've just made it so difficult for us to resist. Or what whatever it whatever it is, it can be so strong that we feel like we almost have to die for this to be able uh to go away But again, as believers, that never is actually true. We have the ability by the grace of Christ, by the empowerment of the Spirit to say no to sin, to resist sin. The problem is we just don't often resist it long enough to experience that power. We often give into it so quickly that we don't realize how the Spirit is able to empower us to resist sin. In Hebrews chapter twelve, as the author is talking about living a life in of faithfulness, uh overcoming sin and enduring suffering Uh the the author says this in Hebrews 12 verse 4, you have not yet resisted to the point of shedding blood. in your striving against sin. You have not yet resisted to the point of shedding blood in your striving against sin. He's telling these believers who uh were being pressured, who were being persecuted, uh who were being threatened because of their faith in Christ. You need to keep striving against sin even to the point of shedding of blood. If you are in a position of persecution and the threat is reject Christ or die There there may be something in you that says, I I don't want to die. And he says you need to resist that temptation even to the point of shedding of blood I don't know what this might look like in other you know, for you and me who aren't likely to find ourselves in that position, at least not anytime soon But if we are serious about dying to our fleshly desires, we will go as far and as long as it takes to resist temptation, even if it means in some way shedding of blood. It's possible that he's kind of reflecting on what Jesus said. That if your right eye causes you to sin, cut it out, throw it away. If your right hand causes you to sin, cut it out, throw it away Uh and then he's just reflecting that. Do everything it takes. Don't stop short of of all measures that you can take to resist sin. Now, how did Christ do this? He didn't have sinful yeah, sir. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, you y you are getting ahead of me there But yeah, so when we think about how Christ did this, he didn't have fleshly desires in a sinful way, but he did have uh desires of the flesh. And when we think about Christ in the garden, um we know he had a divine nature, human nature that were uh unmixed, they were unified yet unmixed, a hypostatic union that's mysterious, and we can't comprehend it We know that in his divinity he knew exactly what was about to happen. He knew uh all the the torture he was about to experience. He knew the mocking, the ridiculing, the crown of thorns. He he he knew perfectly what would take place uh his humanity he ha he had a real body. And if you've ever experienced kind of the shakes when you're about to anticipate something happening, whether it's a surgery or something difficult that you have to do, maybe maybe something as simple as just a difficult conversation. I don't know, maybe I'm the only one that kind of shakes when that happens. I mean that's just that's not even a taste of what Christ was feeling in his body as he knew what was about to take place. Right? His body was expressing the extreme amount of stress that he was uh anticipating in his suffering and death. And you can you can believe he says that his desire, his will, is that this cut pass. Can I please take a pass? I don't want to be crucified. I don't want to be scourged. I don't want that crown of thorns on my head. He wanted that. Why? Because he was human. And as humans, we have this natural sense of self-preservation, which is good because we're made in the image of God We have inherent value and dignity, and so we don't just we care about our lives. We don't just you know treat each other like ants or think of ourselves as just worthless and okay, I could die, you know, be ambivalent or apathetic about it Christ had that same natural and good desire for self-preservation the physical body did, and and so in anticipation of the cross he sweat those drops. Now the scripture actually says that they were like drops of blood, so it's not a hundred percent certain that it was actually blood, but scientists have explained how it could be, as his blood vessels burst in under the stress of of his anticipation. But again, he resisted that desire to flee Uh do you remember when the soldiers came and they you know he's like who who who are you looking for? as if he didn't know. And uh they say we're looking for Jesus of Nazareth and he says I am. John records, I don't know why the other gospels don't say this, but John records that the whole horde fell backward when he said, I am. The amazing thing is they got back up and and proceeded to arrest him. It's like if he can do that just with a word, what do they think they're going to do? It just shows the mercy of gentleness of Christ. uh in giving himself, right? No one took his life, he gave it up. Yeah. Mm-hmm. Well, so um I uh maybe I would put it this way. Uh our natural sense of self-preservation is only sinful if we're willing to sin or unwilling to obey Christ uh in order to preserve ourselves. Uh but if like Christ we say, I don't I don't really want to go through this. I know that if for example, if I stand up for what I believe I'm gonna get fired or my family's gonna reject me and they're not gonna want to come over for or you know whatever else. If we can anticipate that and we say, God, I don't want that to happen, but I'm gonna obey you anyway, then that's that's the the self preservation that's not sinful. Yeah. Mm-hmm. Okay. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So I mean the the the potential applications are myriad. I mean there are those who uh because of their uh drug addiction and their dependency on drugs and yet knowing that it's a sin, they keep going to it because they're afraid of the physiological consequences of stopping. I know that I'm gonna go through withdrawal That's painful, that's a horrific experience. I don't want to do that. It's just easier to make to take another whatever and delay that. Uh it could be um Yeah. Yeah yeah. Well it's the irrationality of of sin at that point, right. I mean uh Jesus said if you preserve your life you're gonna lose it. That's that's the reality, but we don't actually think that way when we're sinning. We're always thinking we're gonna preserve our life, we're gonna find what we're looking for, we're gonna have our needs met, we're gonna be satisfied and fulfilled. That's why we pursue sin, because we think it'll be good for us. Yeah. I mean I don't know it's Paul, but just for the sake of clarity. Yeah. Um yeah Uh uh if you look back at verse well uh chapter ten, uh where he says, verse thirty-two, but remember the former days when after being enlightened you endured a great conflict of sufferings, partly by being made a public spectacle through reproaches and tri tribulations and partly by becoming sharers with those who were so treated. And then he goes on to talk about how they, you know, uh cared for prisoners and whatnot, that they weren't afraid of losing their property uh by associating with other believers. And my understanding of the context of Hebrews is it's written to Jewish Christians who were being strongly tempted to return to uh their Judaism because of the pressure to reject Christ. And it's not clear w if there was actual um uh bodily persecution in the sense of death uh but at at the very least uh there were Christians who were in prison, so it's very likely that there was uh physical persecution. Because he's writing to people who are being tempted to uh reject Christ and return to their old religion uh because of the pressure. So that they haven't yet experienced the the consequences of embracing Christ even in the face uh th the full consequences of embracing Christ even in the face of persecution Uh and so 'cause he talks about prior to chapter twelve, verse four, all of chapter eleven is the hall of faith, and the end of that chapter is pretty horrific. uh when he c says, you know, verse thirty-three that there were those who by faith conquered kingdom. Uh actually let me go to um verse thirty six others experienced mockings and scourgings, chains and imprisonment They were stoned, they were shot in two, uh they were put to death by the sword, they went away went about in sheepskins and goatskins. Uh so there were he he's uh recounting that many believers have pursued faithfulness to Christ and experienced death as a result and death in some pretty horrific ways. And so he says, You're not there yet. Yes. Right. You still confused. Yeah. Yeah, keep pressing forward in Christ. Keep pressing forward in Christ. I mean that would be the general admonition of the book of Hebrews. Keep Keep faithful to Christ, because he is supreme above all things. Uh verse twelve of chapter twelve. Therefore strengthen the hands that are weak and the knees that are feeble, make straight paths for your feet. So he he's trying to encourage them, he's trying to strengthen them uh against their temptation. So that they would be faithful to Christ. The goal is to, yeah, die to yourself and and live for Christ, whatever that means. If that means I have to die physically in order to live for Christ. To stand up for Christ and so be it. Tell me? Sure. Yeah. Shadrag Mishab and Abednego. Who trusted God to say He will deliver us But even if he doesn't, we will still worship him. Yeah, a right thinking person will say, I'm gonna die no matter what. Some day, somehow I'm gonna die. A Christian says, I'm gonna die for Christ I'm gonna live for Christ, even if it means I die sooner than I want to And so whether it's resisting temptation to sin, uh whether it's just remaining faithful to Christ, uh resisting temptation to reject Christ, Uh I'm going to to live uh for him. Again, Christ Himself not having sinful desires, but that natural desire of self-preservation and relief from pain, he refused to listen to his body and instead took the full brunt of suffering as it came. So that's how he models for us that we must be willing to die to our own fleshly desires. Again, you can think about various sins. Um the uh the sexual drives that God has given us can sometimes be so strong that a person's like, I just can't imagine how to overcome this uh w apart from indulging in this sin. And the reality is no one I I'm not aware of any documented case in human history, anybody that has not died excuse me, anybody that has died, you know, from from not having sex. Right? So if if you're single for whatever reason, never been married You've been widowed, divorced, you will not die by not having that uh natural fleshly, uh bodily desire fulfilled It's a hard yes, but you can resist temptation uh if you're tempted to sin because of that. Food. Um we can resist, uh you know, in certain you can probably think of some situations and You know, I'm thinking of those who might have an eating disorder who just feel this compelling urge to eat as much as they possibly can. Uh be because of stress or for whatever reason. No, you can resist. You can you can stop at a moderate amount. There is the ability to say no to your natural desires and certainly Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Sure. Sure. Yeah. So so m yeah, I need to Or I have to fill in the blank. The only thing we have to do is glorify Christ. A third way that we must die in imitating Christ is dying to our rights and desire for justice. Dying to our rights and desire for justice. Now this is certainly against our American culture. Uh we are a culture of rights. We especially among uh conservatives, we are very uh big on uh human rights and the rights that that come to us through the Constitution and Bill of Rights and all all the rest. We don't want the government to step on us. We don't uh want other people to step on us. We are a lawsuit happy culture and uh and so this uh this is significant for us because we need to be Christians first, not Americans. And the Corinthians were experiencing this same mindset. They were taking each other to court when there was wrongs against each other. And Paul in 1 Corinthians 6 basically says, Don't you know who you are? You're Christians Don't you know what you're gonna going to do? There will come a day when you will judge angels. Why are you then submitting yourself to uh to human secular courts uh who aren't uh privileged the way that you're privileged. And so he basically says don't take each other to court. Instead Uh resolve your problems, resolve your conflicts, resolve the wrongs within the context of the body of Christ. Now then the question comes, okay, instead of going to court uh we're going to go to some kind of uh church court. We're going to go to you know uh fellow believers we're gonna find a mediator within the church we're gonna talk to the elders to try and resolve our wrongs but What if that person who has wronged me uh doesn't um uh submit to whatever is placed upon them as a requirement? What if they don't apologize What if they don't pay me back? What if they don't replace what they've broken? Right. We've probably all heard stories of people who promise, hey, if you invest with me, I can guarantee you know a certain amount of increase in your investment So people in the church give this person money and they you know, it all goes uh sideways and people lose lots and lots of money. Uh or let's say you you lend something, your car or a lawnmower or whatever to somebody and they bring it back to you and it's all broken. And you're thinking, oh that's okay. And they're just like, sorry. Okay, there's a wrong. There's a material uh wrong that's been done. And what if they just say, no, you know, we're Christians, I I don't have to Replace that. I don't have to pay you back. What do you do when you're kind of stuck? When the when the church says this is the right thing to do Uh to the person who who did the wrong, but they just don't do it. Were you gonna say something, Alan? Yeah. So Paul anticipates this question and this objection to don't go to court And he says in verse seven, one of the hardest things that we have to consider. Actually that it's already a defeat for you, that you have lawsuits with one another. You know, if you're already in court, you've already lost the battle. But then he says this Why not rather be wronged? Why not rather be defrauded? Why not rather be wronged? Why not rather be defrauded, I would imagine. Perhaps. Perhaps. You know, you you buy you lend your car to someone and they get they get an Iraq, you know, even if it's no fault of their own or whatever and I mean I know setting aside insurance, let's just the scenario where where uh someone needs to pay for it and insurance is not an option. Um Paul says, why not rather be down ten, twenty thousand dollars. Then then take them to court. Why not why not take the loss? Uh Whoever's editing this audio, just strike that from the record. Uh Greg. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So here's how. When injustice is done to me I'm willing to let it happen. When injustice is done to someone else, I'm gonna work in a godly way to serve them, to correct that, to help them. But when it's done to me, if if all the biblical processes are followed and it's not being corrected, then I must be willing to die to my desire for it. You know, a person takes money from me, promises uh increase and yet they lose it all. I must be willing to let go of that. You lend money to someone, they promise to pay you back at their next paycheck, and they don't, they can't They keep making excuses, you need to be ready to let that go. You need to be willing, Paul says, the Holy Spirit who inspired Paul says you need to be willing to be wronged And defrauded Bassie. Mm-hmm. You're exactly right about that. I'd like to repay you fold. I know and I was say, I wanted to make things right. This is how I worked. I w I did things. I wanted to call people and apologize. So the Lord worked wondrous ways and sometimes things are on different timelines. That's why Paul says That's good. That's great. Patrice. You can sue them all you want. No. No. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Mm-hmm. Yeah. So let me give you one specific example. And yeah, I think the general rule is um This very specifically relates to believers with believer. And there are times when we can legitimately use civil authorities Seek uh restitution or correction of wrongs. Um I know a woman in in California whose husband died clearly and obviously and everybody knew it because of uh negligence by the doctor. It was totally their fault. They they made mistakes, egregious mistakes. You know, you could not get a more clear medical malpractice situation. And people were counseling her, I don't know who I'll I just know some people were counseling her, you can get millions for this. I mean your your husband is dead now. Uh her daughters were in their twenties, um and so you know, probably in her fifties or whatever. Uh, you know, you can get millions. You can s and that's a legitimate option, it's totally legal It's not unethical. You know, that's why medical malpractice exists, to compensate those who have been wronged in that way. But her pastors uh counseled her, you could do that, but consider Christ. Consider how you can be uh uh an a a light for Christ to those doctors who know what they did, who basically admitted what they did. Consider how you can show the love of Christ and compassion of Christ. So I think it is permissible for a believer to sue an unbeliever in certain situations, but we also have to consider that there's more to to factor and this is what Bassi was getting on. There's more to consider than just our own situation So uh any individual situation needs to be considered careful. Now sometimes we do sue not solely for ourselves but for the benefit of others to prevent a person or a company from wronging others in the same way that they have wronged us. So there's there's a variety of possible situations that uh could be at play. And so wisdom is needed in any one of the determine what's the best thing. And even w with suing there's different approaches to it. You know, you can sue for a hundred million dollars for emotional damage or you know something different than that. So uh we just need to consider what is our opportunity in this moment As I engage with the unbelieving world, how can I represent Christ well? And think through through that. I also want to be clear that I don't think Paul is thinking of criminal situations where someone has committed a crime, whether it's murder or abuse or you know some some criminal activity. Um so just to be clear on that. But this is really personal, interpersonal wrongs that have been committed even if they include material assets and things like that. So what Paul says is follow the process. You know, it's not that you you've been wrong and you just let it go. You follow a process to seek restitution. But ultimately if it can't be restored or if it can be corrected, then be willing to be wronged. So Yeah, that's right. Mm-hmm. That's right. Yeah, so we're not God uh and we have to think about the eternal consequences. This is why Paul says in Romans twelve nineteen uh never repay or uh uh never take revenge beloved, but leave room for the wrath of it. And and even here in in First Corinthians six, Paul goes on to give that eternal perspective Right, that uh those who are unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God, uh, but we will, because we've been saved. And so there is an eternal perspective to consider. Uh you could you could look at Matthew five thirty-nine to forty-two where Jesus says, you know, turn the other cheek to if someone slaps you on the right cheek, turn the left. Someone asks for your uh shirt, give them your cloak. If someone asks for you to go one mile, go two. He's basically saying, allow yourself to be taken advantage of. Again, wisdom is needed to think through the application of that in our lives, but there's a principle there that again is not consistent with what we would typically think in our American culture There is a principle of I am willing to die to my rights and my desire for justice for the sake of Christ. Now, how did Jesus view this? Well, clearly he died to his desire and his commitment and passion for justice by allowing himself to go through illegal trials. I mean there's so many things you could identify, but l you could just start there Uh the trials that he went through after his arrest were all against the law. They were illegal. But he didn't speak up. He didn't say, hey, point of order. Uh this isn't the right way to do it. If you're gonna condemn me, at least do it in a legal trial. No, he didn't do that Um he kept silent because he was seeking to accomplish a higher purpose. Alright, we gotta keep moving here. Uh a fourth way that we can die in in imitating Christ is that we must be willing to die to serve others. We must be willing to die to serve others. Now last last week we mentioned Uh Matthew 20, where two of the disciples, James and John, come to Jesus really through their mother, and ask him, Hey Lord, we want to when you come in your kingdom, we want to be on your right and on your left. And so we talked about how he he said, and you are you willing to uh drink the cup? Well, in light of their request, which if you think about it was Jesus, we want the ones that have we want to be the ones that have power. We want to be the ones that have authority. We want to be the ones that are over other people. That's really what they're asking for Uh they want the no no notoriety, uh they want the control, they want the power, the ruling authority over others. And so in response to that, after Jesus talks about the cup, he says this in verse twenty-five. But Jesus called them to himself, meaning all of his disciples, and said, You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them and their great men exercise authority over them. It is not this way among you But whoever wishes to become great among you shall be your servant, and whoever wishes to be first among you shall be your slave, just as the Son of Man did not come to be served But to serve and to give his life as a ransom for many. then we need to di uh die to ourselves for the purpose of serving others. Uh i if we want to be in positions of of leadership and authority, especially in the church, but even out in the world. Uh we should cultivate not a a dictatorial authoritarian mindset, but we should cultivate a mindset that is dying to ourselves to serve and minister to others. We see this also in Philippians chapter two, the classic passage on the humility of Christ, verse three, which says, Do nothing From selfishness or empty conceit, but with humility of mind, regard one another as more important than yourselves. Do not merely look out for your own personal interests, but also for the interests of others have this attitude in yourselves, which was also in Christ Jesus, who, though he existed in the form of God, did not regard equality with God a thing to be grasped But emptied himself, taking the form of a slave, and being made in the likeness of man, being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. So Jesus humbled himself. Uh he didn't come as a a king riding on a white horse. He came really uh to a a poor, lowly family He lived his life in poverty. Uh the only reason he was able to to live and move uh and and minister the way he did, at least for those three years that we know of is because there were other people, especially women, who were supporting Jesus and the disciples out of their own means. They were paying for lodging, they were paying for food. Uh and so Jesus humbled himself. He he did not um uh seek wealth, he did not seek fame, he eschewed it uh whenever it came, he pushed people away, if you will, by Teaching hard things whenever the crowds were getting too big, and when he knew that they were after uh him as a ruling messiah rather than a suffering messiah. He humbled himself to the point of death, and he served. He gave his life as a ransom for many. Uh we can get even more specific for those of you who are husbands. We know it in Ephesians 5. 25, Paul Exhorts husbands to love your wife as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her. So as a husband, we are to die to ourselves for the sake of serving our wife We're to uh die to our desires, our preferences, our hopes, uh our comfort, uh so that we can bless our wife and encourage her and strengthen her in her own relationship with the Lord and her own life. On the other side of the relationship, wives are told in verse 22, to submit to your husbands as Christ as the church submits to Christ. Which means that you need to die to yourself as well and serve your husband just as the church uh as we are called to die and serve Christ So all of us are to die for the sake of serving others. First Corinthians 10 31, you know, the well-known passage, so then whether you eat or you drink, or whatever you do, do also the glory of God. The whole context of that again is with regard to personal preferences. The way that I choose to uh fulfill my preferences should be based on whether or not I'm serving others. If I am harming the conscience of my brother or sister in Christ, then then I'm just living for myself. Instead, I need to die to my preferences for the benefit of others. How did Jesus do this? Well, if you if we go even before the garden, uh the disciples are in the upper room. And this uh is a time when any of us, if we knew that our death was coming on the following day, we would, as many people do in that situation, call people to themselves, their family, their loved ones Maybe they give their final expressions of love and affection, maybe they give instructions, uh but by and large they really want they they want attention in not in a simple way, but just to say, hey, I I'm about to go. You know, let's let's focus in here on on what's about to happen. Um and often the the loved ones are serving them. You know, maybe if they're believers, they're singing hymns, they're praying together, they're encouraging, they're they're reading scripture together, they're they're ministering to the person who is about to die. But Jesus, knowing he's about to die, and knowing that all the disciples are too prideful to serve anyone else other than themselves, uh, and knowing that no one has done the job of washing feet after they've been traveling, Jesus gets up. takes off his outer garment, puts on a towel, and washes the disciples. So he ministers, he serves in that very practical way, knowing Then just a few hours he's about to be arrested. And then after he does that, he spends the rest of the evening teaching, encouraging, comforting, ministering to the disciple, rather than having them focus and minister to him So Jesus himself died to himself for the purpose of serving others. And of course you could say that in a more general sense of his entire act of suffering was for the sake of uh accomplishing salvation. A fifth way that we are to die to ourselves is that we must die in order to forgive. We must die in order to forgive Now, we're gonna talk about this a lot more uh in a lot more depth later on in the class, so I don't ha I don't want to spend too much time on it here, but just for the sake of of saying it as one of the ways in which we die Again, Romans 12 19, don't take your own revenge, but leave room for the wrath of God. If we are wronged, Paul says, consider your enemy Consider what they've done, and then consider how you can do good to them. If your enemy is hungry, feed him. If he's thirsty, give him a drink. So doing you'll heap burning coals on his head. Don't be overcome by evil but overcome evil with good. The only way that you can act positively in that way is if you die to your desire for for justice and you die to uh the wrong that has been done and you're willing to forgive, to let go, uh to release that person from the relational debt that has been created between these. Forgiveness really is in a sense absorbing the desire for justice, waiting for God to deal with it in his time. The way that we overlook a transgression, as it says in Proverbs 19. 11, or that we cover a multitude of sins, James 5. 20. Uh same thing in First Peter four eight. Love covers a multitude of sins. The only way that we can do those things is if we die to ourselves and we forgive. Yeah. Yeah, I do think um the the way that I would phrase it is that overlooking and covering sin is a way of having an attitude of forgiveness. uh assuming that the person does not i is not asking us for forgiveness, they're not repenting. And so we need to cultivate a heart of forgiveness so that if they ever do ask, we're ready on the spot to grant Uh transactional free. Uh so in a sense we're we're dealing with it in our heart even before they're asking us for it uh relational. So it it's uh it's forgiveness it it's a heart of forgiveness even if it's not you know, you don't go up to them and say I forgive you when they haven't asked for forgiveness. I don't think that's good. But you can do what Jesus did and pray even while they're being while they're in their sin, Father forgive them Where they know not what Again we'll we'll talk about this a lot more uh in later some weeks down the road. Uh Jesus does this of course, he died to forgive others. Uh he took the punishment we deserve and per purchase our redemption and the right of God to justify us. Jesus earned um the opportunity of full and final forgiveness by his death. A sixth way, yes, sixth way we can Suffer and die like Christ is for the sake of the gospel. If we is if we suffer and if we're willing to suffer and die for the sake of the gospel. Uh just a couple thoughts here. Uh the idea here is that we are willing to let go of whatever we're otherwise wanting to hold uh hold on to because we're more interested in how we can glorify God uh in this life how we can have opportunities for the gospel. Uh second Timothy three verse that's not the right word. Somewhere in Timothy I don't have time to search for it Paul says, um, those who desire to live godly in Christ. Beverly? Mm-hmm. Okay. Amen. That's right. Yep, very good. Thank you. Um Paul says those who desire to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. Sometimes um you know, in my life I'm surrounded by Christians all the time. I'm just tired of Christians. No, I just kidding. Uh you know. For me to to to to live godly, you know, in front of all these believers, I'm not feeling persecution. Right? Uh but some of you are around non-believers all the time. And it's possible that if you truly stand up for Christ, especially in our culture uh you will be persecuted, you will be shunned, you'll be mocked, you'll be ridiculed, you might even be fired. I was talking to somebody just a couple of weeks ago who experienced that. You know, he refused to when he went into work to wear the the pr gay pride t-shirt that they were having all the employees wear and a couple of weeks later somehow an excuse was found for him to be fired So that's happening now. Maybe some of you are experiencing that in in various ways. Yeah. Yeah. I mean there there's all kinds of ways in which if we stand up for Christ, even in the most kind gracious way we will be persecuted more and more. We're experiencing uh experiencing that in our culture. You know, we don't have to kind of put ourselves out there and And be obnoxious about things, but uh standing up for Christ, we have to be willing to do that for the sake of the gospel A a seventh yes, Alan. Okay. Okay. I had Second Timothy three sixteen. I'm like, no, that's the scripture inspiration passage. Second Timothy three twelve was that was that passage Alright, the seventh way that we must be willing to suffer and die like Christ is we must be willing to endure and even die in the face of injustice. Now this is similar to the other point that we made earlier Uh and this speaks to what Greg was asking about, you know, if we're supposed to care about justice and we are, how do we well wha w what are we saying here? Well in First Peter chapter two verses twenty and twenty one uh Paul says this or excuse me. Peter says this to slaves. For what credit is there if when you sin and are harshly treated you endure with patience. But if when you do what is right and suffer for it, and you patiently endure it, this finds favor with God, or this is a gracious thing with God. And again, verse 21, for you have been called for this purpose since Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example to follow in his Steps. Back in verse eighteen he says, Slaves, be submissive to your masters in all respects, not only to those who are good and gentle, but also to those who are unreasonable. Again, we know that slaves were at various times, depending on their master, treated unjustly. They were uh they were not treated with the dignity that they deserved as human beings made in the image of God. And so Paul or Paul in his letters, Peter here in second in 1 Peter 2 uh admonishes slaves, even if you are mistreated, you must uh die to yourself in honor Christ. Or in chapter three, verse thirteen, he says, Who is there to harm you If you prove zealous for what is good, this is general not just the slaves. Who is it to harm you if you prove zealous for what is good? If we're generally living lives of of goodness and kindness uh in our relationships, in our work, in our family No one's gonna want to attack us. No one you know, sometimes you hear the question, you know, um, uh did the person have any enemies? You know, somebody who was murdered. You see that on crime shows or whatever. Uh and usually lying through their teeth, but like, No, everybody loved them. You know. Everybody might love you Because, you know, you're a kind person. Uh and so who would who would want to harm you? Well, no one, you would hope. But then he says, but even if you should suffer, because there are times when people hate you just for being who you are, especially a follower of Christ. Even if you should suffer for the sake of righteousness, you are blessed. Do not fear their intimidation, do not be troubled, but sanctify Christ as Lord in your hearts, always being ready To make a defence for everyone to everyone who asks you to give an account for the hope that is in you, yet with gentleness and reverence, and keep a good conscience so that in the very thing in which you are slandered those who revile your good behavior in Christ will be put to shame. For it is better, verse 17, if God should will it so, that you suffer for doing what is right rather for doing what is wrong. For Christ also died for sins once for all, the just for the unjust, so that he might bring us to God, having been put to death in the flesh but made alive in the spirit. It may be that your righteous living, your kindness toward others, your integrity causes others to hate you because they're jealous of you. They they don't like the fact that everybody likes you. They You know, whate whatever it might be, they don't like your success. And so they find ways to attack you and to harm you and to mistreat you. Uh you might be treated unjustly in that way. And so When you are, you need to die to that injustice. And imitate Christ, as it said in chapter two, verse twenty-one. He suffered and died extreme injustice, right? The holy, harmless, undefiled one, as it calls him in uh Hebrews. He died the death of the worst criminal even though he was the most righteous man on earth. That's what he did, and he did it n not just to accomplish our salvation, but also to uh model for us how to respond in such circumstances when we are personally treated in that way. Alright, we're past time Um I know this is kind of a downer. Die, die, die. Next week, Lord willing, uh Doug is gonna be uh teaching as will our family will be in Washington and The the point that he'll be making is that death is not the end. Life comes to those who died for Christ. The way we experience the power of the resurrection is by dying for Christ.