Well good morning ladies. Thank you all for being here I've learned a little bit from the last time that I taught from this book. One thing that I've learned is these chapters are incredibly long and packed. Very, very packed. And that last lesson that I taught in September was so much information that I'm um I decided this time to make notes for you all so you could follow along so you don't get kind of get lost in a bunch of words. Um but Wow, why did we choose? I wanted to talk about the book. You know, Karen held it up, you know, for you all. This is the book we're going through, Becoming a Woman That Pleases God. We chose this book because I l how we were just singing with Lauren. Change my heart, oh God, and make me be like you. I want to be like you And I know, I mean, you're not on Zoom at 10 a. m. or out here at 10 a. m. because, you know, you just want to fellowship because we all have masks on these days. But you're here because you want to be like God. And and I we really like how this book takes all aspects of life and helps us to think How do we bring every part of our life under the authority of Scripture so that our heart, it it comes, we put truth in our heart and it flows out into every area, into, as Sue taught last month, into contentment as she taught in November into our marriages and and now into our home management and and going on forward. That's kind of the idea of from theology to practice. And we find that Paul uses this form a lot in his letters in the New Testament. He gives us the theology in the first half of the book, and then the last half of his book is, all right, now here's how you apply what you just heard So he teaches us the truth of God, the truth of the word, to change our hearts, to renew our hearts. And then this is how you put it into practice. He gives commands from the Lord. And that's what we're going to do here. And I just pray, ladies, as you're listening and you're attending our studies, that these lessons really would change how you live your day-to-day life. Because we want to be different. You know, whatever you see out there in the world, we don't want to be like the world. We don't want to be like influencers. We don't want to be influenced by them. We want to be influenced by God's word. And we want to influence them. We are the salt in the world. And I do believe a lot of the grace that we see on earth is because of the church. We are in the world. and we restrain as much wickedness as could possibly be. And so we in our homes as women, I'm so excited to share this with you. Um I admit I am not the best home manager. I'm probably not even mediocre. Um but this topic as I studied it, it really challenged my heart. It encouraged my heart and brought me from a place of feeling resentment or guilt. towards my home to a passion and a desire and a purpose for why. Why do we manage our homes? So to our study here. You heard me say on Sunday A ridiculous definition of home management. When you Google like home management definition, this is the first Google hit. I was like, surely yeah. So An example of home management is when you hire someone to oversee the maid, the gardener, and other staff to pay bills and clean your home for you. An example of home management is taking care of children, providing meals, making sure the house is clean and bills are paid and otherwise attending to the needs of the house So you can either have your maid or your gardener. Oh, Elsie, it's saying set up professional audio in Zoom. Or so I'm just gonna ignore it. Ladies, you can't see it, but on my screen it's giving me like an error message. Anyway, so that's we should not look to the world to define how we view management of our home. And it's not that linear. So we're going to study and see that a wise woman, because this whole book, Becoming a Woman That Pleases God, a Woman That Pleases God is a wise woman. So we're going to look at three ways that a wise woman can pursue to manage her home effectively. And these are in your notes. But number one, I'm going to give you the outline. Number one She embraces a biblical motivation for managing her home. She understands the biblical mandate to be a manager of her home. And she implements effective methods for household management. All right, so points number two in the outline. That was the end of my introduction. Embracing a biblical motivation for home management. A popular phrase these days that we hear is what's your why? Or find your why. I don't know if you've heard that, but it's like getting a little sickening to me. But the idea is we have to understand why are we doing something And then we'll be more successful in the doing of it. And and that's what scripture is saying here. What are our motivations? What is our heart motivation for home management? Why do we do it? Are there right motivations? Are there wrong motivations? Well actually there can be a wrong motivation for managing your home One of them would be pretty well particularly in the beginning of this new year. We all think about how we're going to declutter, we're going to organize our homes, we've got our schedule planned out you know, uh we're all just gonna get very organized this year. Well, why is that? Likely it could be because of selfishness, right? We want to be better organized to have Um, you know, it's for self-control and or for self-gratification. We want to have a better home so that we look better, or we can just, you know, not have things all over the place. It's for me. I want it for me. I need this And the other one is control. There's so much out of my control. I can control what goes on in my home. So I'm going to control my home. So there's selfishness, I just want my home to look pretty, or I want it to look better, or you know, whatever HGTV says. And then there's control where there's chaos reigning in the world, but within these four walls I'm in charge. Well, we are tempted to believe that home management is the process of using what we have to get what we want. I want less stress in my life, so I will use what I have in my home to get to a more peaceful place. But the woman that desires to please God should have a different motivation to manage her home. Matthew 25, 21 teaches us that we should desire to manage our home in order to be a faithful steward. of our God-given resources. The wise woman wants to be found a faithful steward of our time, energy, and money that God has entrusted to her That passage in Matthew 25 is where it's the parable of the talents and well done, my good and faithful servant, and we want to be good stewards of what God has given us. In James 1. 22, we learn that the wise woman is motivated to manage effectively out of obedience. Obedience to the commands and principles of God's Word. The wise woman seeks to become a successful home manager in obedience to the priorities God has called her to accomplish So we do it as a faithful stewardship and out of obedience. And so out of obedience, that means God commands us to manage our home. And so now we're going to talk about understanding this biblical mandate, this biblical command. In Proverbs 31, 27, it says, She looks well to the ways of her household. And it does not eat the bread of idleness. Oh boy, here we go again with the Proverbs 31 woman, right? Yes, we're going to continue to look at her. I hope that throughout this study she's becoming more dear to you Um society has falsely maligned her as the perfect woman. A goody two shoes meant to be a constant reminder of how inadequate you are and you'll never measure up But that's so untrue. I pray you embrace her, and I pray your heart is softened as you desire to be molded and shaped into her image And Scripture teaches all throughout the Bible that the primary domain of a woman is her home. And she bears much, not only, but much of the responsibility in the management and organization of her home and family. That applies to women, whatever their situation. Single, married, married with children, married with no children, widowed, empty nesters, if you are a woman, home management applies to you. In this verse, we see that the Proverbs 31 woman is a competent manager of a variety of areas. And then here are a few of the areas found in Proverbs 31. The first one is managing food. You have a blank there in your notes, managing food. Proverbs 31, 14. She knew where to travel and secure quality food. She travels from afar. Uh uh hunting and gathering. I kind of joke with my husband. Um managing clothing, number two. Let me just open Proverbs 31 so that we can all I can read these out for you guys I didn't write 'em down, sorry about that. All right. So Proverbs thirty-one fourteen says, She is like merchant ships. She brings her food from afar. So she knew where to travel to secure quality food. Managing clothing, verse 13 and 19, and 13 it says, she looks for wool and flax and works with her hands in delight. And verse 19 says, she stretches out her hands to the distaff and her hands grasp the spindle. That would be the uh weaving machine that they had at the time. Number three, managing time. So your word there is time. Verse 15 says, She rises also while it is still night and gives food to her household. So she rose early and stayed up late to ensure her family's needs were met. Managing business is point number four. Verse 16, she considers a field and buys it. From her earnings, she plants a vineyard. And verse 24, she makes linen garnet garments and sells them, and supplies belts to tradesmen. So she knew how to conduct business outside of the home that was for profit for her home. And number five, managing physical energy. Verse 17, she girds herself with strength and makes her arms strong. So she was strong because she knew how to work hard and then used that strength for her home. Number six, managing production of goods. Verse 18 says she senses that her gain is good. Her lamp does not go out at night. She was an entrepreneur who knew how to produce quality goods. And number seven, managing people, right? Because home management is also going to be about managing people. Verse 15, she rises while it's still night, all of that all the way through, stretching out her arms, takes care of her maidens, giving portions to the household. And then 20 through 24, it says, not afraid of the snow for all her household her clothes with scarlet, makes clothing for herself, her husband is known in the gates, and then supplying linen and and belts to tradesmen So she knows how to plan for the needs of other people as well. Think of yourselves in these areas areas of food, clothing, time, business, physical energy, production of goods, and people. Are you excellent in some, weak in others? If this were your job description for work, you are responsible for managing all of the above. And you are weak in some of these areas, what would you do? Well, you might seek out specific training and education in the areas which you lack proficiency in order to perform well and to keep your job, quite frankly Home management is no different. If you lack proficiency in any of these areas, don't throw your hands up in defeat and or throw shade on the Proverbs 31 woman. Seek to improve your skills in these areas. Maybe take a class, read a book like what we're going through, or learn from older women or of the same age that are more talented than you in this area. Bottom line, pursue growth. Martha Pease writes that a woman should make it her business to find out how to keep an orderly and clean home and stay organized with her grocery shopping and meals. It's her business. Ladies, the encouragement here is just to be an effective manager and organizer of your home, for it is our spiritual duty. It's also our blessing and our privilege. If you have your Bibles, turn to Titus 2 now, one of the other famous passages speaking for women. And of course we're going to Titus 2, verses 3 through 5. Not my Bible, ladies. I confess I left my Bible at home. But I brought my notes. Okay. Um found it. Got it. Titus two, three through five. Let me read it here. Older women likewise are to be reverent in their behavior, not malicious gossips, nor enslaved to much wine, teaching what is good, so that they may encourage the young women to love their husbands, to love their children, to be sensible, pure, workers at home, kind, being subject to their own husbands, so that the Word of God will not be dishonored. So the phrase here is worker at home. I think one of the reasons as women that we can be so frazzled and have so much negative emotion and energy about our home management and harbor guilt. at the conditions of our home is because it is written on our heart that it is our God-designed feminine responsibility. It is not our only responsibility, and it doesn't mean other members of the household shouldn't help out But it is part of what God had in mind for women when He created us. And when we don't give attention to it or when we continually fail. I believe there's much discouragement and resentment in our hearts because we know, I think in our hearts, that we are not being obedient to the Lord's commands for us. Here in Titus, the word worker at home or managing your home is a compound Greek word, oikuros. which comes from two Greek words oikos which means a dwelling, a home or a house, and ergon, which means to work or to be employed. So a worker employed at the home. A worker at home. Ergon is also the word that Jesus used when he said in John 4. 34, My food is to do is to do the will of him who sent me and to accomplish his work. Ergon. So we can further understand what Paul is trying to say to us here in Titus by observing the behavior of our Lord in the Gospel of John. John MacArthur writes, Our beautiful Lord focused his entire life on fulfilling God's work, Ergon. In a similar fashion, a wife is to focus her life on the home God has designed the family to be her sphere of responsibility. That does not mean she should spend 24 hours a day there. However, the woman in Proverbs Oh yeah, however, because the woman in Proverbs left her home when she needed to buy a field or needed supplies. But even those trips benefited her family. She woke up early and went to bed late for the sake of those in it. So this does not mean when it says a worker at home, a stuck at home worker. Instead, in the same way, everything Jesus did was for the glory of the Lord, so the everything we do should be for the benefit of our home. Another motivation for pursuing better home management is revealed in this passage at the bottom of verse 5, so that the word of God will not be dishonored. If you want to be a woman that pleases God, we need to love our families and manage our household because this is how God receives honor. This is godly living in your home. Many of us would share in the desire to increase in godliness, but maybe perhaps would not think that it starts with better management in our home. But that's what we see here in Titus if we are to be obedient to God's word. And then if you turn to 1 Timothy 5. 14, the verse says, I wrote it out this time for me. I desire that younger widows marry bear children, manage the house, that's there in your notes, and give the enemy no opportunity for reproach. So manage the house. The Greek word here for manage the house is oikodes poteo, which has a similar root word to what Paul used in Titus 2. So Paul wrote in Titus 2, Oikoros, and then in 1 Timothy, Oikoros Poteo. It simply means to rule or manage a household. So this implies all aspects of household administration. So what does manage the house look like? Well, we saw from Proverbs 31, she is a skilled worker. She doesn't simply understand the idea of home management. She's skilled at managing her domain. She's industrious. She's a hard worker. She's not lazy, but self-disciplined and able to fulfill her obligations. And she applies the biblical principle of considering others more important than herself and her home. She's orderly and well managed. 1 Corinthians 14, 40. says that all things must be done it properly and in an orderly way. The context here is that Paul is writing about the church, and the application is the same for our home though A wise woman will take time to get organized, and she'll make sure the home is managed properly and in an orderly way. She anticipates her family's needs, she manages her time well, she works unto the Lord, and she sets a godly tone for her home. A wise woman reflects that the law of kindness is on her tongue. Her words, tone of voice, and deeds all work together to maintain a godly atmosphere in her home. This can sound overwhelming. Do you feel inadequate? Well, I certainly can, and you know, reading this chapter. But if being an excellent home manager manager is part of the very design of what it means to be a woman, why are we so bad at it or ill-prepared to do it? Let's be sure we don't give so little time to our own training and improvement in the faithful application of this area. Proverbs 14. 1 says, The wise woman builds her house, but the foolish pulls it down with her hands When I've heard this verse, I've always pictured a raging, screaming, obviously sinful woman tearing down brick by brick But the key ingredient to determining whether a woman builds her house or tears it down is how she chooses to maintain and build and manage that house. It doesn't have to be a raging lunatic that's tearing down the house. It can be through just simple lack of attention. The wise woman will not understand that well, the wise woman will not only understand what home management is, but will seek to develop in this area. Alright, so the concept of home making. How do you make a home? The concept of being a homemaker is very unpopular in contemporary society. Even for myself growing up when I heard the word homemaker, I thought of a very dowdy woman with no life. But that view and contemporary society's view is not God's view. Homemaking is a divine assignment from God and should be embraced with enthusiasm and skill. If you view home management properly, we see it's one of the most important skills because it's part of our design. So if it's that important, I would also, going back to encouraging, do we teach the younger generation? that homemaking and learning how to be an excellent home manager is a valuable pursuit worthy of their time, effort, and affection. Are we perhaps out of balance in emphasizing school and career to our daughters without also emphasizing the skills they will need for life in their home? We teach our daughters potentially the highest achievement that they can make is to grow up and reach their potential, but then subtly imply that that means get good grades, go to college, and get a good job But that's not our God-designed potential. We need to be careful that we're not undermining God's design for our girls by encouraging them to focus on the wrong things. Okay, don't hear what I'm not saying. I went to college a lot, but it didn't prepare me to be a manager of my home, which is what I spend the majority of my life doing. Um, in even though I am employed outside of the home. So no matter what my career or marriage status or if children are or are not involved, I will always need to be an excellent godly manager of my household Any career choice that is made and achieved simply is a job that provides an income and maybe even enjoyment. But that is not our calling as women and should not be our desire. So I encourage each of us to carefully consider the way we interact with the younger generation. Are we helping them to prioritize what God prioritizes in the way that we interact with them? Are we saying truth with our words, but through our actions and teaching or through our actions teaching them to view homemaking the way our society views it? Let's be the generation that changes the way women view home management. See it as a beautiful, joyful, and desirous endeavor. So point D is the principle of prudence. To be a wise manager, she must be a prudent manager. Proverbs 8. 12 says, I wisdom dwell with prudence, and I find knowledge and discretion. Prudence may sound stuck-up and old-fashioned, but it's a very applicable concept to the area of home management. Webster defines it as the ability to govern and discipline oneself by the use of reason, skill, and good judgment and the use of resources. So prudence means practical wisdom or the application of knowledge to daily living. It judges the right thing to be done and the right way to do it So how does prudence relate to home management? Well, prudence practices wise thought before acting, which results in good judgment. Prudence displays good management and economy, budgeting. Prudence emphasizes cautious good sense and giving thought to one's actions and their consequences. Prudence manifests foresight, meaning careful thought in planning and acting. Prudence dictates care in the use of natural resources, and prudence emphasizes the ability to see what is likely to happen and prepare for it accordingly. The wise woman is a prudent home manager when she applies the attributes of prudence to her character as well as her home management skills And the character traits identified in the Book of Proverbs suggest that a prudent woman is a wise woman, has understanding of her own ways, acquires knowledge, identifies sin and keeps away from it. She's teachable, not ostentatious, splashy and showy, is preserved by her own discretion. So the wise woman who reflects the practice of prudence in her home management is careful to plan, able to anticipate family needs, sensible, teachable, and able to discern the consequences of her decisions. So now we've discussed the proper motivation, which is to honor the Lord, glorify him, and fulfill his design for us. And we've under now seen the biblical mandate and commands for women to be managers of their home and the principle of applying prudence to our home management. We're going to shift gears a little bit, now that was the theology, and turn towards the effective methods for implementing household management. But before I go to these methods, I want to give a little caveat that I hope helps to frame the next few minutes Hopefully by now you can see the idea that women manage the home is not coming from men that desire to oppress women and want to keep them locked up in their homes. I also hope you see that managing the home is important to the Lord and is a form of godliness as you live out your faithful service to Him. But home management is going to look different for every woman. Some women thrive on having every I got and T crossed and every meal planned from now till Christmas while others have a more laid-back approach and to their management style. We're going to discuss here what the women described in the chapter And it's these are helpful and effective methods. But these are not the only way to manage and organize your home. However, they are tried and tested, useful, and they are effective. So they can be helpful to you, even if it's not your management style. No home can thrive on chaos or lack of structure. And no home is thriving on the other extreme when it's a slave to the schedule. A balance is always needed I just give this clarification so that when you hear some of these suggestions, your heart doesn't sink in discouragement or flush with resentment because this is not your personality. But anyway you look at it, dinner is going to have to get on the table, and if you have children or a husband at home, you're going to have hungry mouths staring at you, and either anxiety will ensue and fill over around you as you feverishly search your supplies for something to feed these children. Or dietary needs will suffer as it's just mac and cheese and hot dogs for the 18th night in a row. So a biblical understanding and execution of home management is to bring peace into those times and to other times. The Lord is more concerned with your heart motivation than your method. Okay? That's my caveat. Here are some methods that our authors gave us for how to implement effective home management. All right, first method is planning and organization. So they call it the principle of planning and organization. Colossians 3. 23 says, whatever you do, do your work heartily, as for the Lord rather than for men. So planning, on your point there, planning is simply deciding in advance. What? Why? And how things will be done. It implies that there was thought before undertaking the task or the project or the action. You just plan in advance Organization suggests the parts of that plan were arranged in an orderly manner. Therefore, planning plus organization assists the home manager in making wise decisions and meeting demands and the needs of the home. So, how would we help implement planning and organization? Well number one, take time to plan. Many women fail at effective management because they do not take time to plan. My husband says A failure to plan is a plan to fail. Planning should become a habitual part of just household management. Secondly, organize yourself before organizing your family. Generally speaking, if we are organized, then those in our home will also be less unorganized. We kind of set the tone. And make sure you have the proper tools that you need to be organized, whether that's a day planner or an app, that's your personality. Anticipate your family's needs. Obviously we have no View into the future. But do the best you can, right? There are some things that we can pretty much depend upon. Church is going to be on Sunday, school's going to start on Monday. Breakfast is coming, dinner is coming. There are some things that happen. So anticipate the needs. So then number four, plan realistically. The quickest way to discouragement is to have unrealistic expectations Don't have a plan that's too complex to implement and make sure you have all the factors before you plan. Either one of these is a quick way to torpedo even the best-late plans. And then develop a personal planning style. The wise woman develops a method of planning that complements her own personality. Maybe you're not Martha Stewart. That's fine. The point is that you are planning to meet needs. The method is up to you. Organized into broad categories. For example, individual family calendars, financial records, meals and menus, and household cleaning These four individual parts that together make a household. Each one needs to be managed individually, but then also will be need to manage holistically together. Sorry, I should have turned my breach more quickly there. Point number five. Organize the household cleaning. Proverbs 1423 says, In all labor there is profit. But mere talk only leads to poverty. Because household cleaning is a major part of home management, I'm just going to spend a quick moment to Dig a little bit deeper. We all love the smell of a clean home and the feel of fresh laundry, but we don't always love the process of it. However, there's no way around it. Keeping a neat and orderly house is part of the practical outworking that we see in Titus II. So cleaning, therefore, becomes a divine assignment. That's how we should look at it. It won't always be that happy. But that's the thought we need to rem the truth we need to remind ourselves. It is an act of service to God. Truly, the best way to handle cleaning It's to organize it. It's most difficult when the cleaning is not completed on a regular basis, right? When the laundry gets out of hand. It's always harder. We've been there. But when regular attention is given to cleaning, it's relatively easy to maintain an orderly home. I mean, some of you might live with little Tasmanian devils, but hang in there, it'll work eventually. There's a role for them too. So here are some practical strategies to help with cleaning. Number one, know how to clean. And when I first read this, I thought that was ridiculous. But then as I read further, I realized, oh, I see what she means. When you're trying desperately to get a stain out of a garment and it's not working, and your mother says, here, use dish soap. Uh-huh. And then it comes out. Oh, I didn't know how to clean. It was so simple. Just know how to clean. Sometimes there are secret tricks and tools of the trade that make a hard job easier. And if you're struggling with cleaning your home and knowing how to clean it, there are many women in our church. Julie Dossett is one of them, who can help you learn how to get mildew out of that grout or m sharpie off a wood table. So, number one, know how to clean. Second, develop a cleaning schedule. Some of us may feel like all the things need all the cleaning all the time. But once you can get a handle on it and uh you can develop a schedule that helps you manage these tasks It might be helpful to say this needs daily cleaning, this needs weekly cleaning, I can do this every once a month, I don't have to do this twice a year, whatever it is, just find some order to your to your cleaning, and that will help And then get the necessary supplies and equipment. Don't try to clean grout with a toothbrush. So just make sure you've got what you need. Decide the order for your cleaning jobs, meaning Don't vacuum and then dust. You know, figure that and think about that. And set a time limit. This one I really like Tell yourself, I'm going to only clean for 30 minutes. It's not overwhelming and it becomes easy to do and you don't resent it. Shorter bursts of cleaning have a higher likelihood of succeeding. And then read the labels and use the cleaning products according to directions, like don't mix bleach and ammonia, you'll die. Avoid false starts and always finish what you start. Now, always finish what you start. Sometimes, you know, you've got to interrupt. But don't start something if you know you're gonna get halfway in and you're not gonna be able to finish it. Um, you know, just make sure to start and finish what you can. Be disciplined and diligent, and you will avoid the pile-ups. And then make good use of people power. That's where those little kids come in. Or husbands or roommate. That's where divide the responsibilities. And yes. Husbands, they can help too. I mean don't go home and give them a list of chores, but set down if you are married and you are overwhelmed with the house cleaning Sat down with your husband. He doesn't want you to he doesn't want to see you overwhelmed. I I know that because they married you, they loved you. So just tell him it would help me if you could take this portion. And that that's just divide the responsibility. And then dovetail, while you're cleaning, listen to a sermon or a podcast. Or if you can't, because you won't have to homeschool at the time, fine, that too. Dogtail, twice. Make sure you can do two things at once if you can. So then we're on point number C, the principle of goal setting. So the first practical aspect of successful home management is learning proper planning and organization skills. The second practical aspect is the ability to set goals that reflect individual priorities. The first phase of goal setting is to define your goals and determine a timeline. So a goal is anything that you're striving to attain. They can be short range, intermediate, and long-range goals. Um and then the type could be spiritual, physical, financial, scholastic. So when you categorize them up this way with the type, spiritual, physical, financial, and then the time, short, mid, long, it can be more easily broken down to be more manageable. For instance You may have a spiritual goal, that's your type, a spiritual goal that looks like this. Short range Memorize verses on prayer. Intermediate range. Study the book of James. Long range, improve prayer life. Right? If you just wrote down as a goal, I want to improve my prayer life. You know, that's that's we need to define it and determine a timeline that helps you improve your prayer life. It's a good goal, but it needs more definition And many of us, that brings me to the next point, have good intentions when making our goals, but we struggle to accomplish them. And here's an acronym that the authors gave that can help put us um eliminate some of those hindrances to accomplishing our goals. And that s smack is the you know acrostic. She's missing a K, but I'll I'll give it to him Smack. S. Specific. Make sure the goal is clearly defined and not too broad. M. Make sure it's measurable. Have a way to measure in order to know if you've accomplished it. A achievable. Make sure you're able to see that you've achieved your goals or that you even possibly can achieve your goals. C and compatible. Make sure your goals are compatible with your current phase of life, obligations, and responsibilities. If you work within that construct, your goals will not be frustrating and discouraging. And then secondly, we, or I guess third point here, is we establish our priorities. Once we have our goals, we need to see all of our goals and then establish what the priorities are. All of our goals will hold different levels of importance. So by prioritizing them, we force ourselves to choose how we will use our limited resources of our time, energy, and other resources. How we prioritize our goals will also reveal our value system, since it will reveal where we want to invest our resources. So what are the priorities for the wise woman? From a spiritual perspective, the Bible says there's really only two priorities. Matthew 22, the passage 37 through 39. says you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind. This is the first and great commandment. First priority. And second, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. Pretty simple priorities. Love God and love others. From a management perspective, meaning home management, priorities are developed from individual responsibility. So I can't tell you what your home management responsibilities are. You will figure those out as you look at your time, energy, and resources and your life circumstances for your seasons of life. One thing you can do to help you know your priorities is establish a mission statement. I know a lot of families that do this. And it just helps you identify the priorities and individual responsibilities of your home. It's the idea that you can that um that even if you can almost all organizations have a mission statement. What's their purpose? What are their goals? Where are they headed, right? So it would define what your primary purpose is, and then it becomes a general direction from which you establish goals. If you need help or a desire to learn more about mission statements, we can talk more about that afterwards. It's fun to have a family sit down. I know in the new year a lot of families will pick a word for the year that they focus on, or people do that, you know, as a but having a mission statement as a family is really effective. So if you want to learn more, we can talk after. And then point number three, ordering your priorities. So once you've established your priorities, you need to order them. Everything can't be DEF CON level one. While many people try to order their priorities in a linear way, God, family, church, job, friends, school, right? That's like a line. Um, this is not actually attainable. You may spend thirty minutes a day in your devotions with God, eight hours at work an hour with your family and then another hour and a half at church in the choir. So what are you prioritizing? Oh your job. It's out of order. You've got job before God. So that's that's not how we should look at how we prioritize our life. We should look at it as a comprehensive, unified whole. Okay? So this concept suggests that God has called women to fulfill multiple responsibilities in their life And we need to not categorize it as this is spiritual and this is secular. Because all of our responsibilities, as we saw in 1 Corinthians, can be done as out of worship and an act of service to our Lord. So if you spend eight hours a day on your job and you And you're effective bur worker at your work. You're honoring the Lord with diligence and self-discipline and being a salt and light So when you order your priorities, don't make sure not to set them out and say, well, this is for God and this is for home and this is for that. Don't think of it in that way. And then D, point number D. The next principle, we've looked at the aspects of home management, planning and organization. We've learned a goal setting. Now we're going to turn our just to another principle of decision making, right? Decision-making can be defined as the ability to make wise, prudent, and discrete decisions based on the wisdom of God's Word. As we seek to mature in our walk with the Lord and to grow in godliness, we need to develop our ability to make wise decisions. Decision making requires wisdom. And wisdom is not merely knowledge from going to school and just getting a lot of knowledge. I'm sure we can all attest we've met very learned, foolish people. Wisdom is the understanding of God's holy word and the ability to apply that word practically to your life and daily circumstances. Decision making requires wisdom and prudence and discretion. It says in Proverbs 18. 15, the heart of the prudent acquires knowledge. And this is that careful, wise thought before acting or planning. You can also read Proverbs 8. 12 or 1621. Discretion complements this prudence and implies good judgment and carefulness in our actions. So put together, this means we need to be skilled at making wise, appropriate decisions in order to be successful managers We make decisions routinely, all the time. Some of them we don't even think about. Others have substantial lifelong consequences. The woman who is building her home with wisdom will be able to discern the best or most appropriate alternative by applying biblical principles to every ordinary or extraordinary situation. Biblical decision making though first assumes, and I put this assumption here from the chapter because I thought it was really good In order to be a wise decision maker, the assumption is that you have a right relationship with God, as in 2 Corinthians 5 says that. that you're pursuing a lifestyle that honors God. You are willing on a daily basis to humbly submit your life circumstances to God's will. and that you will pray for wisdom and understanding to apply God's revealed word in every circumstance requiring you to make a choice, select an alternative, or exercise your judgment So in order to make a wise biblical decision, that's where your heart needs to be. It's a lot of assumptions. But if your heart is here, even if you make a decision that you turn out and we're like, ugh, that was wrong, the Lord uses all things for good to those that love him and are called. And I think of Joseph and the Old Testament where he says to them, You intended it for harm, but God intended it for good. So if we keep our hearts focused on those principles of a right relationship with God and pursuing a lifestyle that honors Him and humbly submitting to Him, we will get the wisdom from the Lord to make good decisions. But how do we make decisions? Some people are, you know, I I don't know how to decide. Um there's the joke of like, you know, oh my wife doesn't have an opinion. Oh yeah. Well then You know, what do we have for dinner? I don't care. All right, how about this? All of a sudden the wife has an opinion, right? So how do we make the decision? One, it says ten step model from the book. Pray for wisdom and the ability to apply knowledge in the decision-making process. Number two, list all possible alternatives or solutions. Number three, gather the information needed to make the choice among the alternatives. or search the scriptures to see if there's direct or indirect principles that apply to this current opportunity. Pray about each alternative and seek godly counsel It says in Proverbs that, through a multitude of counselors, man's plans succeed. Never underestimate going to godly, mature women or men and asking for their advice. Evaluate and limit the alternatives, right? At this point evaluate and say that's not really something I can choose. Choose the best alternative or delay the decision. Say I need to wait and see what the Lord does. Pray about your decision and act upon your choice. Evaluate and take responsibility for your decision. Don't say, well, you know, circumstances were out of my control. I did the best that I could And then monitor the results and make adjustments as needed. I've made a decision. I will be immovable. It's the quickest way to fall flat on your face, right? I made a decision. It's not working out. We're changing course. This model is quite linear and straightforward. But remember, decision making is not always this linear and can oftentimes be complex. So if you're struggling with how to make wise thoughtful biblical decisions or how to practically implement the Bible knowledge that you have You can seek out Karen myself, one of the teachers, and we can direct you to wonderful scriptures and resources that can help you think that through Lastly, any discussion of decision-making process would be incomplete without acknowledging that God is sovereign over all. God does what he pleases It says in Psalm 115, he is not confined to the alternatives that we have to find for our decision. God's ways are not our ways. We must be willing throughout the decision-making process to yield our will, our alternatives, our decisions to the sovereign Lord who rules the world. James 4, 13 through 16 reminds us that every decision we make should be made with the attitude of, if the Lord wills, we will do this or that. We must pursue the decision-making process with humility, acknowledging that a man's heart plans his way, but the Lord directs his steps. So, the woman who applies wisdom with understanding, prudence, and discretion to the decision-making process will truly be a happy woman It says in Proverbs 3. 13, Happy is the man who finds wisdom and the man who gains understanding. So in conclusion, I hope this lesson was comprehensive and helpful. It felt a little bit to me like going around the world in 80 days. So I just want to sum up what we discussed. As women, we are designed with the special privilege of being managers of our home, however big, small, busy, or quiet. We first saw that our hearts should embrace a godly motivation for managing our homes with excellence and joy. We then learned that we should understand that managing our homes is a biblical mandate. From the Lord, it's not something that belittles women and it or does not require a amount of our time and attention We also discussed some effective methods of home management, such as planning, organization, goal setting, and biblical decision making. So what is my desire that you take away from this lesson? I just would love for you to know that home management is a significant area of responsibility for women, and we shouldn't shy away from it. It's frequently fraught with so much emotions of frustration and stress and discouragement, but that is not the way the Lord intended it to be Proverbs 31, 27 says, She looks well to the ways of her household and does not eat the bread of idleness. To manage a household requires diligence, hard work and training. It takes effort, but the effort honors the Lord. And so remember, God is not a God of chaos, but of order. And we reflect his image when we try to order our lives and not live chaotic moment to moment. We want to continually be growing in favor with God as women. And it brings him pleasure to see us embracing his design for us. We please the Lord when we reflect it back to him. And the wise woman is the one who prioritizes managing her home for his glory and for the benefit of the home. So I pray that We are committed to being godly women in every area of our life and in our management of our homes so that we look different from the world. And God then will get the glory when the world looks at us So now we're going to go to a time of discussion, which I strongly encourage you to stick around because this felt so shop-oriented. that it would be really great to sit down and say, well here's working what's working for me, here's not what's working for me, and just explore some of those heart feelings that we have towards home management and how we can apply them to our families and with our own unique personalities. So I'm going to close with some prayer and then turn it over to Karen. Gracious Father, thank you so much that you designed male and female, and you gave gifts to the men and gifts to the women, and together, Father, we reflect your image. I pray that we embrace, that we are designed differently, and that means we have special talents and strengths, and we use them for your glory. God, I pray that your wisdom, your word would come into our hearts, change our hearts, and then make us more like you in the areas that seem mundane, like house cleaning or scheduling. But that Lord we would honor you in those little moments because it brings you glory. Our children are watching, the world is watching, and Father, we just want them to see you when they look at us. We don't want to be the frazzled chaos-led home that's disorganized. We want homes that are areas of peace, that are where children can grow, our friends can rest and refresh. and where your word reigns and the grace and the sweetness of your spirit is on our lips and in the tone of the home God, may we be a manager of a home in that way. May we seek that, Lord, not be discouraged by our shortcomings and our weaknesses, but pray, pray that you would strengthen us. where we are weak, Lord, and we would do it for your glory, not for a beautiful home or a controlled home, but we would do it for you And we and we know, Lord, when we honor you, no matter how sad or how falling short our offering is, if our heart is giving all to you, Father, you accept it You accept it with love. And will you accept us, Father? We give you praise in Jesus' name. Amen.