Okay. Thank you very much. Um so w uh so let's go through what we're gonna learn today. So um my typical way of teaching is I'll I'll tell you what I'm gonna tell you and then I'll tell you and then I'll tell you what I told you. Uh so this is telling you what I'm gonna tell you. Uh so what we'll learn today. So we're gonna we're gonna first talk about in general what kind of testimony is the Bible. What kind of evidence or testimony does the Bible provide? Then we'll do a little introduction to The book of Revelation, we'll talk about points of unity in the the various different uh interpretations. We'll talk about the purpose of the book, we'll talk about the author and the date. We'll talk about the audience, the initial audience. Of course, the Holy Spirit inspired the world. the entire scripture for all of us, for all believers of all time, but there was also an original audience and we'll talk about that. We'll talk about the themes of the book. Uh then we'll go through a little bit of the four views of Revelation. And so There are actually four major ways of looking at Revelation and as we go through I'll I'll talk a little bit about the those four views and uh today we'll do an introduction to it and I'll mention them as we go from time to time. But we don't have time to go verse by verse with four different interpretations. So uh that's actually what this commentary does. I I have a commentary of Revelation called a uh four views parallel commentary. And so on every page there's four columns. And it tells you what the interpretation is from those four different views of every single verse all the way through Revelation. Um we don't have time to do that. That would turn a three uh nine month, three-quarter course into uh twelve quarters if we did that. But I will from time to time refer to what the other views, other than the one from our church, the other than the true view, I'll I'll refer back to to some of that. There's a couple of other reasons references I'd like to mention. So uh I have a lot of commentaries on the book of Revelation. I have the one by MacArthur, the one by Thomas, the one by Mount. Uh I have a lot of commentaries on Revelation that are thousands of pages long. Um But most likely you don't have time to read that. Uh read those long thousand page commentaries. So um there's a great book. Uh this is by John MacArthur. It's called Because the Time Is Near. And basically what this this is, is somewhere along the line, um they convinced MacArthur to write a um kind of a summary of his commentary and revelation uh for a popular audience. So he His commentary on Revelation is two volumes and like twelve hundred pages. But he r he he condensed it down uh for a popular audience, not for you know a PhD level seminary, but for a popular audience. condensed his twelve hundred pages worth of commentary down to a a readable book called uh because the time is near. And so if you want to read something uh that's readable and you can understand it and uh and you can get through it a reasonable amount of time I would recommend this one. And then one other is uh it's by Charles Ryrie. It's called The Basis of the Premillennial Faith. It's actually Ryrie's PhD dissertation turned into a book. And so I'll I'll I'll leave these up here so you can look at them. So you can take a look at uh at books that you might take a look at uh to help you through understanding the book of Revelation, especially if you're going to be with me here for uh the next three quarters. So four views of the book of Revelation, we'll talk about that. And then we'll wrap up today with uh a a kind of a little bit of a a review of the what we teach document, the part of it that's on eschatology. So all of you have been through the membership class, some of some of you more recently than others. Um and so you you had to have gone through the what we teach document, the the doctrinal statement of the church. Well there's a section on that, section 10, which is about eschatology. So that's what we teach here at Hope Bible Church. on the end times. And so I want to go through that a little bit to make sure we have an anchor before we start into Revelation. And my goal is by the end of the three quarters we will have have gone through in some detail everything in that document. So y you'll have some some real good spirituals foundations, scriptural foundation for everything Everything that we teach about the end times. Okay, so that's what we are going to learn today. So what kind of testimony is the Bible. Uh so turn with me if you would. I hope everybody brought a Bible or device that has a Bible to First Corinthians chapter fifteen. So we we're going to start with some other scriptures, not uh with Revelation, but we'll get there. Um so Fifth 1 Corinthians chapter 15. Uh the beginning of uh this chapter, uh Paul is giving a very clear uh statement of the gospel. It's the the most straightforward statement of the gospel in the scriptures. And in fact it says this is the gospel. Uh so that's a really good clue that he's about to tell you that this is the gospel. Uh so uh Uh just some excerpts from that scripture if you read along in your Bible. Uh now I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel. Alright, so here it comes. This is going to be the gospel. I preached to you what you received in which you stand. For I delivered to you as of first importance what I also received, that Christ died for our sins, in accordance with the scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day, in accordance with the scriptures, and that he appeared to Cephas, then to the twelve, then he appeared to more than five hundred brothers at one time, most of whom are still alive, though some have fallen asleep. Then he appeared to James, then to all the apostles, Last of all is to one untimely born, he appeared to me. That's the Apostle Paul speaking. So so what's the gospel? Christ died for our sins. He was buried. He was raised on the third day. That's the gospel. Now that's a very simple. It's easy to say. say that. Uh but then what if the unbeliever says, Well what's sin? Well then there's you have to really dig in and explain what the meaning of the terms of the gospel are. But that's the gospel. Christ died for our sins, he was buried, he was raised on the third day. That's the gospel And according to Paul, the Apostle Paul, it's in accordance with Scripture. However, I want you to notice one more thing about this passage uh about what kind of testimony Paul's talking about. Is he talking about forensic testimony? What kind of testimony? Is he talking about? Eyewitness testimony. He appeared. So the the risen Christ appeared to Cephas or Peter. Then he appeared to more than f five hundred people, some of whom are still alive when Paul is writing this. He appeared to James. He appeared all to the Apostle Paul. So what the Apostle Paul is saying is the testimony that we're giving here is eyewitness testimony. And so the eyewitnesses, those who saw the risen Christ, then wrote down. Paul wrote down these eyewitness facts in his letters. And so he's what he's saying is eyewitness testimony. That's what the Bible says. Bible is in in in re in in this regard to the testimony of the risen Christ. That that's an eyewitness testimony and it was the eyewitnesses like Paul who then wrote it down and that's what you have in in your Bible in your hands right now is directly written down eyewitness testimony. Uh couldn't possibly be any better testimony. Um eyewitness testimony. So uh we have great confidence in our Bible because of that. Uh I mean that's not the only reason of course. Uh ultimately it's because it's inspired by the almighty, all powerful, omniscient God of the universe. But from a human standpoint If we talk about testimony and evidence in a trial, for example, eyewitness testimony. That's what we have here. So I want to talk about a couple of other passages. So turn over to 1 John chapter 1. So if you look at 1 John chapter 1, I think you'll start to notice a pattern about what the apostles say about their testimony, what kind of testimony that they're giving. So turn over excuse me, turn over to first John chapter 1. 1 John chapter 1, the first four verses says, What was from the beginning, what we have heard, what we have seen with our eyes, what we have looked at and touched with our hands, concerning the Word of Life. And the life was manifested, and we have seen and testify and proclaimed to you the eternal. Eternal life, which was with the Father, and was manifested to us. Jesus Christ, these things we write, so that our joy may be made complete. So what do you see? We have heard, we have seen with our eyes, we have looked at and touched, we have seen. We have seen and heard. These things we write. And so John is saying the same thing as Paul. Hey, I I saw these things where I touched them I heard them with my ears, I touched them with my hands, I saw these things with my eyes, and that's what I'm writing down. So once again, the Bible is going out of its way to say eyewitness testimony, directly written down by that eyewitness. And that's what you have in the Bible in your hands. From the eyewitness to the pen on page to your fingers today, you have the eyewitness testimony of these events of Christ. One more. Just to belabor the point one more time, let's go to 2 Peter chapter 1. Uh, second Peter chapter one. I promise this will relate to Revelation. Uh s we're taking a little detour to get to Revelation, but 2 Peter chapter 1. Look down at verses 16 to 18. So Peter, so we've seen the Apostle Paul, we've seen the Apostle John, this is the Apostle Peter, for we did not follow cleric. But we were eyewitnesses of His Majesty. For when He received honor and glory from God the Father, such An utterance as this was made to him by the majestic glory. This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased. And we ourselves heard this utterance made from heaven when we were. with him on the holy mountain. So what do you see? We were eyewitnesses. We ourselves heard this utterance. We were with him. So what's your Referring to what's Peter referring to here? Transfiguration. The Mount of Transfiguration. So he's referring to, and it's recorded in Matthew, Mark, and Luke. Matthew chapter 17, Mark chapter 9, Luke chapter 9. The Mount of Transfiguration, Peter, James, and John were with Jesus on the Mount of Transfiguration, they saw the glory, they they heard the utterance from God the Father to God the Son. This is my beloved Son, whom I am well pleased. And so what's Peter saying here? He's saying, I am an eyewitness to the glorified Christ on the Mount of Transfiguration. I saw it, I heard it. Um, and it's eyewitness testimony written down by the eyewitness and in your hands in Scripture. And so this is the kind of confidence that we have in the Scripture. It's the eyewitness testimony about Jesus Christ written down by the eyewitness, and there it is in your hands, this all this eyewitness testimony. Now, what does that have to do with Revelation? So let's take a look at Revelation chapter 1 And what the book of Revelation says about what it is, what kind of testimony it is. So we've seen the Apostle Peter uh Paul, we've seen the Apostle John, Apostle Peter, Now, what about Revelation? What does it say about itself in terms of what kind of testimony it is? Revelation chapter 1, the first two verses, the Revelation of Jesus Christ. That's the title of the book, which comes God gave him Jesus to show to his bondservants the things which must soon take place. And he sent and communicated it by his angel to his bondservant John Who testified to the word of God and to the testimony even to all that he saw. And then let's get down to verse 9. And John comes in first person. John, your brother and fellow partaker in the tribulation and kingdom and perseverance which are in Jesus, was on the island called Patmos because of the word of God and the testimony of Jesus. I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day and And I heard behind me a loud voice, like the sound of a trumpet, saying, Write in a book what you see. And so what kind of testimony is revelation? It's stuff that John saw It's stuff that John heard. And he was told to write in a book what you see. And so John sees this vision and he writes down what he saw in the vision Um, except for the seven thunders, and he's told not to write that. We'll get we'll get to that. So he writes down what he sees. So this is once again This is eyewitness testimony written down by the guy that witnessed it and in your hands. That's what you have in the scriptures with the book of Revelation Uh I eyewitness testimony. John saw this vision and he wrote down what he saw. That's what he was commanded to do, and that's what he did. And so uh this gives us great confidence in the whole Bible, all of it. Including this book of Revelation that we're about to study. Eyewitness testimony of the guy that saw these things. That's what we have in our hands, and that's what we're going to study over these next three months. Okay. Questions about any of that so far? Questions, comments? I I really like to have interaction questions, so yeah, yes, Margaret. Yep, that's exactly right. And and so what what is the Bible provided for us. It's provided for us all this evidence, this eyewitness testimony evidence, uh, that gives us confidence and also gives us confidence to engage the culture, engage unbelievers, hey we've got eyewitness testimony of these things about Jesus Christ. So you can hear sometimes you'll hear an unbeliever say, well there's no evidence that Jesus ever lived. Well wait a minute. There's this whole set of eyewitness testimony in the Bible about Jesus. Now they will say, well you can't use the Bible. Well why not? I mean it's a book. Why why can we say that every other book is okay to read and look and and and it it counts as something some kind of evidence one way or another. another but not the Bible. No, no, you can't use that. Yeah, so that's a good point. So um I can remember teaching a um comparative religion class one time and I I talked about Mormonism and and so uh Joseph Smith wouldn't let anybody else see these little plates he was translating. And it was in language that nobody else could read. Um and then and then after he was done the angel took the plates away. So uh yeah so yes that's uh that's a good point of something that's a lot different from what for example Paul's saying that Jesus the the risen Christ appeared to more than five hundred people and when Paul was writing first Corinthians he said, and some of those people are still alive, you can go ask 'em. Uh any other questions or comments? Okay, so our thinking in every area of life uh is grounded on God's word and we ha can have great confidence as we stand on God's word. uh because of where it came from uh and what kind of testimony it provides. Okay. So, um now an introduction to the book. So we we'll get started into looking at this book of Revelation. Um So the book, uh it's exciting but it's often misunderstood and people are afraid of it, uh, quite frankly, sometimes. You know sometimes you can go to church for years and you never hear a sermon preached from the book of Revelation. Um and And that's a f that's a shame because the book itself says there's great benefit from reading or hearing it. So it's uh it's exciting that we're gonna be walking through this uh together over the next nine months. So uh it was probably written we'll talk about the dating a l in a little bit more detail in a minute, probably written around AD 9596, a little over 60 years after Jesus' resurrection. So we're talking about uh John as the last living apostle of Jesus when he writes it, and some number of decades have gone by since Jesus' resurrection. Uh and it became a source of hope and encouragement for Christians facing persecution. The fact that in the end Christ wins. This is that's a that's good news that that Christ is coming again. And he's going to win. Um Our side wins. Uh that's you know, that's the the basic um the basic story of the book of Revelation is we win. Um and we go to heaven with Christ. Christ. Um and so that's a great source of hope. And so we'll talk about who it was originally written to, so Christians under great persecution, and then also to Christians throughout all of history up to now, uh, that have experienced uh persecution. Uh it's a great encouragement to see, to get a glimpse of the end, what happens at the end. To see the end of the story. Um so as I mentioned there's four views of Revelation and so people have disagreements. Um and it's it's people that are actually followers of Christ, not heretics or whatever, I mean real, genuine followers of Christ have disagreements about how to uh to to view the The book of Revelation. But there are some points of unity even among the four different views. And so I want to go through those first. So although believers interpret Revelation in several different ways, all Christians seem to agree on a few things and so we'll we'll go through those first. Uh the message of the book is relevant for Christians today as it was for Christians in the time of the Apostles. So it's it's relevant for the audience it was originally written to, and this is the the same for all scripture. It was written at a certain time in history and originally read by uh an original audience and it was important and uh relevant for them and it's also relevant for all Christians in all times. Uh number two, another point of unity, the main purpose of the book is to provide hope and encouragement for believers of all times, especially in times of persecution or suffering. Everybody agrees about that, no matter how they interpret The details of the prophecies. And third, the message of the book is clear to all on three particular points. Christ is coming back and will judge humanity. Every view of Revelation believes that. He's coming again. There's a second coming. Number two, the powers of evil are doomed before Christ. That uh the the powers of evil cannot stand before the risen. And glorified Christ. And number three, God promises a wonderful future for all who believe in Christ. Those things are common to all the views of Revelation. Any questions? Comments. Okay. The purpose. So what's the purpose of this book? The revelation describes the vision that the Apostle John had while on the island of Patmos in your G and Sea. And there's a picture of the island of Patmos today. Its message was to give hope to Christians. who were going through trials. So there was a particular set of trials, a particular persecution from uh the Emperor Domitian that was going on uh severe persecution of Christians at the time the book was written. These Christians faced these severe persecutions, but they also were dealing with all kinds of other things. And we can see these in other writings in scripture as well. They were dealing with dangerous false teachers. Uh the book of first John is all about uh the dangerous false teaching of the Gnostics. For example. So we know that they were going through, they were facing false, there were false teachers popping up in the church. They were also faced with temptations, just like all Christians of all times are. uh temptations of immorality, idolatry of the surrounding culture, uh and also as we'll see when we look at the letters to the specific churches, spiritual complacency. There was already um as the the the last of the apostles were John was the last one left, as they were dying out and there was a new generation of leadership in the church, they were dealing with spiritual complacency in the churches, and we'll see details of that in Revelation chapter. two and three and oh by the way we can look out and see that in our world today as well. We can see spiritual complacency among the visible church. So churches that claim the name of Christ but are not uh spiritually aggressive in spreading the gospel of Christ, for example. So they were dealing with all those things at the time that the book was written. And so the risen Christ He commands John to write Revelation, to instruct, to guide, to comfort, and reassure Christians in their journey, both the Christians at the time that it was written, and for all believers of all times all the way up to us. And so the risen Christ makes this command to his bondservant John, um actually do los in the Greek, which really means slave. um this his slave, John, he gives him the command. He says, This is what you'll do. You're gonna watch this vision and you're gonna write these things down. And the purpose is instruction, guidance, comfort, and reassurance of believers in that day and believers all the way up to our day. So uh the other purpose of course in Revelation is to speak to the deepest longing of all believers of all time, which is the return of our Lord and King. So we have been waiting for the return of the King. And Revelation tells us He's coming, and this is how he's coming, and this is what's going to happen when he's coming. So we get some details, a glimpse. Now it's a vision and it can be difficult to understand But it's really clear that the king is coming. Um so we that's the per that's a purpose for the book to give us that kind of assurance that Jesus is coming. And also that God will renew creation. So creation is groaning. We learn that from uh Ronan Romans chapter one. Uh all the way from the fall all the way till the events that we see at the end of the book of Revelation that that uh God renews and restores creation from all of the effects of the fall. And of course we will live with him forever. Until that day That all Christians join with the final plea of the book. So at the very end of the book of Revelation, we see this, Come, Lord Jesus. And so that's what we echo that refrain that at the very end, this is the last things that John wrote, the last thing that's reported. And so we say with the saints of those days, the saints of all days, all the way up to today, come Lord Jesus Lord Jesus. And so that's the purpose of the book. So how about the author? So the author is actually identified in this book. It's not always the case in all of Scripture, but in this book, it actually tells us So John received the revelation from Jesus. And he wrote it down just like he was told to write it down And so there's not really very much controversy about who wrote the book of Revelation, because it says right in there it's John. Uh verse one and two, the revelation of Jesus Christ. We just looked at this, which God gave to him to show his sponsor for silver. In the book of Revelation, of course, we get the title of the book right there in the first four words, first five words, The Revelation of Jesus Christ. That's the title of the book. God gave it to him, and then he sent and communicated. it to his bond servant uh John. And he and so John then testified to these things that he saw Um and so the book identifies its author. It gives its title, and it also gives the author. The guy that wrote it down was John. Of course we had a lot of early church tradition that agrees with this or or reinforces this. Early church tradition identified John with the beloved apostle and so uh as the author of the Gospel of John And the three letters of John, first, second, and third John. And so there's very little controversy about that. The other books that John wrote, the Gospel and the Three Letters. And then we also have a really well-documented tradition among the writings of the early church fathers, the the initial decades and centuries after uh the passing of the apostles that identify John, the disciple of Jesus as the author of Revelation. So very very little controversy It's the Apostle John. The same guy that wrote the gospel, same guy that wrote first, second, and third John, that's the guy that was on the island of Patmos and who saw these visions and who wrote them down. Now the date. It there are some uh there is a little bit of controversy about the date uh when it was written. Um it the content of the book uh I think makes pretty clear that it's an at a time when there was persecution at the time it was Written. And so uh I think we can be pretty sure about that. Uh there are two possible periods, particular periods, when Christians suffered persecution under the Roman Empire. Uh two periods of particular persecution. One was the persecution under the Emperor Nero, who reigned from 54 to 68, and the other was persecution under the Emperor Domitian, who reigned from 80 81 to 96. So those were the particular severe persecution periods, those two emperors. Particularly the latter part of Nero's reign and the latter part of Domitian's reign. And so there are some that argue for an early date, sometime during the reign of Nero Um they point to a few things. There there is a some ancient versions of Revelation that mention Nero's name. Um they're ancient versions, but they're from more like 300 A D, uhund years after. Um and I couldn't find I've heard this reference before and I've seen this reference, uh, but I could not find the actual document that they're referring to. I I've seen it referred to a number of times and in do in commentaries, but I can't personally verify that. Uh which worries me a little bit. And Nero did Of course, blame Christians for a massive fire in Rome. There's a famous story, there was a fire in Rome, uh Nero brain blamed Christians. Many uh modern scholars believe he said it himself uh so that he could clear out Rome and rebuild. Uh but he needed a scapegoat and so he blamed Christians for it. And he started to severely persecute Christians after that. Uh so there was a big persecution under Nero. And the but But the most important um um fact that these the people that argue for an early date, the thing that they point to most often is that Revelation doesn't mention specifically the destruction of the temple. And so the destruction of the temple happened in 70 AD, uh, after the reign of Nero. So after Nero was dead. And so they say the those who argue for this point, they argue that if Revelation was written after seventy AD, that something so central, something so important as the destruction of the temple, well certainly that would have been mentioned. That's their the argument. Yes. y you might not have it in there. Um i it it's not it's not part of the story that the book is actually telling. Um and so why w wh where would you stick that in if if you're if you're talking about the story of things happening in the future. Here's this thing that happened so essentially it would have been twenty-five years in the past. Um, w why would you mention that thing in the past when this is a book about the future? Um so that I mean that's the counter argument that it it doesn't belong in there, it doesn't fit in the kind of things that the book is revealing. Yes. Yes. Yeah, yeah, and and that's part of Henry's point probably. Yes, it's it is far from Jerusalem and I'll show you the map. It is far from Jerusalem. Um yes. But th th these are the arguments that people go back and forth and um and I'll talk more about this later, but um for one One particular view of Revelation, this is really critical. The preterist view is that almost all the events of Revelation occurred in seventy A D at the destruction of the temple and so therefore it the book better be written before the destruction of the temple, otherwise it's not prophecy uh anymore. It's just talking about things that just happened. Um so yeah, th for Their view it's absolutely crucial what the date that the date be before 70 AD. For um the particular view we have, i if it was written before 70 AD, that that's actually okay. th everything we're talking about in the book is still in the future, if it's whether it was written before seventy eighty or after. But for the preterist view, it g ha has to be. Their their whole view of revelation collapses if it's not before. And so they have a really strong uh they have a really strong interest in the date being before 70 AD because their entire structure of their interpretation of Revelation is dependent on it being written before 70 AD. Okay. Arguments for the later date. There's lots and lots and lots of testimony from early church fathers reporting that John wrote the book during the reign of Domitian. Straight out saying that. I'll show you a quote in a second. Uh the Emperor Domitian required that he be addressed as Lord and God. Um he he he decreed that, that that from then up from a certain point on that the owner that he must be referred to as Lord and God. And of course Christians refused to do that. Um and they became the targets of intense persecution, particularly because they refused to refer to the Emperor as Lord and God. Um and then there's this quote for you, there's more quotes, but this is Just one, I'll give you. Um, there was a man named Irenaeus, an early church father. Uh he lived from one thirty AD to two oh two AD, so uh just a generation after um these events. Um And he wrote a book called Against Heresies. It's actually a multi volume book. Uh this is from volume five, uh Discourse number thirty, page three. Uh and so Ireneus wrote this. We will not, however, incur the risk of pronouncing positively as to the name of Antichrist. For if it were necessary that his name should be distinctly revealed in this present time, it would have been announced by him who beheld the apocalyptic vision, the book of Revelation, John. For that was seen not very long time ago. since but almost in our day, towards the end of Domitian's reign. And so this is the guy writing in one thirty AD that that positively identifies the the vision that John saw as being during towards the end of Domitian's reign. And there are many quotes like that. this from the early church fathers. And so I think we can have pretty strong confidence that it was written in Domitian's reign. Um but as I mentioned, w one of the particular views of Revelation requires that it be written uh before seventy eighty. Um okay. So the audience, the original audience. Um eventually of course uh ultimately the Holy Spirit has it for the audience of uh all the believers for all time, but there was original audience. And the original audience is very clearly identified in chapter two and chapter three as the seven churches that were in the province of Asia. And I will show those uh to you here in a minute. Uh Churches were located by widely traveled roads that connected them, and so Revelation was meant to be a circular letter. A messenger would read the letter to Christians in one place and then take it to another place to read it to the believers there and so on. And most likely, uh they copied. They made a copy. Uh so there was a copy of it that the messenger had that brought it from John on the island of Padmos and he went from church to church to church to church and he read it out loud, but they most likely had a scribe that also wrote it down so they could continue to read it and just not hear it once. Okay, so a map. So here is what we're talking about, in the area that we're talking about. And so this is modern day Turkey what was called Asia Minor or the province of Asia in the Roman Empire. And notice that the churches are over here on the western coast. Here's the island of Patmos. in the Aegean Sea a w off the coast of western uh Turkey at w at worship and here's all the the the uh churches. Perdulum, Thyvatirus, Myrna, Ephesus, Sardis, Philadelphia and Laodicea. That's the seven churches. They're all on the western part of what is today Turkey. And that is kind of far away in those days from where Jerusalem is over here. Kind of far away. Um, yes. And so and John, um John had before he was exiled to Patmos, he had uh ministered at the church in Ephesus. And so, you know, here he's ministering in Ephesus. then the authorities banish him to Patmos. Makes sense, right? They didn't banish him to the other side of the empire. They banished him to the place where they could banish him that was right next to where he was already ministering. Um and so he's on Patmos. And evidently he was able to have visitors because he was able to get this book of Revelation out. So somebody visited him He wrote he wrote the thing down, the vision he saw down, and that messenger and here's all the roads that connect these churches. So there's roads there, ancient roads. And so a messenger took it around to those churches, read it out loud to the churches, um They made a copy and then he went on to the next church and and read it. So uh that's the geography that we're talking about, uh those churches. Not not a huge area. Um yes. So no we don't know who the visitor was, we don't uh no All all we know is that he was on Patmos and he was exiled there so he couldn't leave, and somehow the book of Revelation got to those churches. Um and so it's a good question, and so we infer messenger. We don't have direct evidence of a messenger. We affur we re we infer somebody had to take this scroll uh from where John wrote it because we know John couldn't leave, uh but somehow the scroll got around to those churches. Didn't have FedEx. Didn't have FedEx, they he couldn't send it by email as an attachment. Uh yeah. Yeah. So so yeah, so the whole thing uh was eventually circulated to all the church, and of course we have it in our Bible today. So yeah, the whole thing was circulated around to various churches and so yeah, so you think about that. The other churches would have heard what Jesus said about the other guy too. Yeah, a little bit it could be a little bit embarrassing. Um but, you know, that it's also valuable to valuable for us today to hear what Jesus said to those churches and so uh I I suspect it was valuable in that day for the churches to hear what Jesus had said about each and every one of the churches. Yeah. So yeah we're gonna do uh we're gonna to do a lesson on every single one of the churches. So what Jesus said to the churches, and we will talk about the fact that, yeah, there's nothing new under the sun. There there are problems in churches today that Jesus identified in churches is two thousand years ago. Yeah. Good good question, good comment. Yeah. So, uh there's nothing in the Bible about whether John ever left Patmos. Um so um has anybody h heard anything in any other kind of research about whether John died on Patmos or ever came off? Died in Ephesus, right? Yeah yeah that's right. Yeah. I I have he was Yeah, I I have heard that as a tradition that John died in Ephesus, so that would have necessitated him eventually leaving Petlas, but yeah. But I I don't know if that's confirmed, if that's true. or if it's just a legend. Anything else? So then this is the geography that we're talking about. And we'll we'll we'll get back to this map of course when we do chapter two and chapter three, when we look at each of the individual churches and what Jesus said to them. Okay, the themes. So the Trinity is definitely a theme of the book of Revelation. So we see God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit definitely present uh throughout the book of Revelation. Revelation. God is sovereign. His power and authority rule over all areas of the universe, visible and invisible. He's a good and compassionate God. He's also just uh and a and a just judge. He's deeply engaged with the world in general and with his people in particular. He's not an absentee landlord. Uh he's definitely involved. Uh so that God the Father is is evident in the book. And of course Jesus Christ is evident. He's in the very first chapter, he's there. He's throughout the book as the Lamb. Uh the Lamb who is worthy of judging the nation, he's worthy of opening the sc the seals. Um he's really the star, the center of the entire Bible, um and all of history. From beginning to end. Uh before his death on the cross, Jesus promised his disciples that he would return um and ordered them to be ready uh for his return. Uh the book of Revelation shows what it will be like when he does return. Um and so Christ is definitely a focus of the book. But we also have the Holy Spirit. Uh a crucial ministry of the Holy Spirit is to bring God's revelation to his servants. That's the case all the way through through the scriptures, that it's through the Holy Spirit. Um uh no th th the fact that um every author of each book of the Bible was inspired by the Holy Spirit and the case that's course the case in Revelation as well. Another theme of the book is evil. There is the the clear presence of evil. And so we're talking about that as we go through as well. Um and there is a uh a steadfast refusal to um identify evil in our world and our culture today. To identify evil as evil. Th there's a great avoidance uh of saying that something that is evil is evil. But in Revelation there are things that are clearly identified as evil. It makes it clear that evil and the agents of evil are under God's control and will ultimately d I d uh be defeated. That there's nothing that's not under God's sovereign control, including these evil actors. They're not omnipotent. They're not, they don't get to call their own shots. Even these evil actors in the book of the world. Revelation. But there are many agents of evil that are specifically identified in the book of Revelation. There's the dragon. We'll see this. The dragon is mentioned numerous times in Revelation. There is a place where we'll talk about the beast from the land. and the beast from the sea. We have the harlot, the the imagery of the harlot, uh, and we have the Antichrist. So we have these agents, specific agents of evil, identified in the book of Revelation. And of course, Christ defeats them all. Another main theme of the book of Revelation is worship We see worship over and over again in the book of Revelation. Worship is central to the vision of God, who God is. He's the one sitting on the throne, and there are always angels around him. There are the elders around him. Um that are falling down and worshiping him twenty four hours a day, seven days a week, three hundred and sixty five days a year, there's always worship because God is worthy of worship. And that's a a constant theme through the book of Revelation. Worship is the proper way for humans to approach a holy God. Um when we we have this God who's described in the Bible, uh the right reaction is to worship him. And we see that played out. We see that uh uh definitely identified and um and pictured in the book of Revelation. Worship shows that the ultimate defeat of evil and the total transformation of the world is something that God does, not something that we do. He's the center of center of focus. We worship him because of who he is. And who he is is sovereign over all events. from his creation all the way to the new heavens and the new earth, including everything that we see laid out in in the book of Revelation, God is in control of all of that And bec because of that and because of all his other attributes, we worship him. And he's worthy of worship. So, um the last thing we're we'll do two more things. One more, one thing is to talk about these four views, and then we'll talk a little bit about well what is it that we believe here at uh Hooke Bible Church. So the four views. Uh historicist, preterist, futurist and idealist. Um sometimes you'll see a little bit different names used for uh for some of these uh on some occasions. So first, the four views. Historicist. Historicists see Revelation as prophecy about church history from the time of John to the end of the world. Revelation is like a history textbook for the past, present, and future. So they see is symbolic of things that happened to the church. So the things of Revelation are uh playing out a kind of uh a fantastical display of church history. That's the historicist view. They understand the events of Revelation as symbolic descriptions of historical events throughout church history. So uh uh we'll I'll mention a few of these as we go through, but um this view um is there was a time when this was much more popular, not so much uh in today's world. Second one is the preterist view. Um this is the view that um almost all the pr all or almost all the prophecy was fulfilled in the first century, primarily at seventy AD. And so Revelation is like an newspaper. It's about a description of these events that already happened. There's there's two main strains of preterism, partial preterism, full preterism. Partial preterism understands most of revelation as prophecy fulfilled in the first century, but they believe that the final chapters, uh chapters uh nine uh twenty and tw twenty twenty and on, from chapter twenty on, twenty verse fifteen on, uh, they believe that that's talking about future events. But everything else up to there is all things that happened at seventy AD. Um that's the preterist view. Full preterists say that everything happened. E everything and including those last few chapters happened at seventy AD that uh that Christ uh figuratively returned uh in 7080. Uh they're typically our millennials or post-millennialists. Use almost all of the ones that I know of that are writing now are millennialists. They don't believe that there's any uh an actual millennialist. millennium. That's all figurative language. The futurist view sees revelation as prophecy primarily about the future. end of the world, the the end times. Uh Revelation is like a roadmap for the future. It tells us how things are going to be at the end times. And the future is view all or nearly all of Revelation. is yet to occur. And Revelation is a prophecy that describes the end times and the years leading immediately up to the end times. And so this features view is what we have here. McLean Bible Church. Uh there's a particular part uh uh part of the futures view called dispensational premillennialists and I'll talk about what those terms mean. Uh but that's what we teach here at uh uh at Hope Isle Church. So um dispensational premillennialism. Um and some futurists understand the seven churches similarly to the historicist view that the churches represent errors in church history. That's rare. Uh there are some that that see it that way. That that those seven churches are symbolic of seven ages of church history. Uh there's there are various people in uh historical in in the ch church history who have believed and taught that. that's rare in my um uh in my experience that's rare today to see that as as uh to ha to have a futurist view but to to view those uh first few chapters of Revelation as as um Symbolic of church history. So the final view is the idealist view. And the idealist view sees the entire book as symbolic of the eternal struggle between good and evil. Um they th they see it as completely non-historical and non-prophetic, uh but but demonstrating spiritual truths. Uh and I'll allegory for all times and and places. The allegory of the uh this battle between good and evil. They see the images, visions, dreams uh symbolic of the struggle between good and evil uh that occurs throughout time. Um and represent the struggle between the kingdom of God and the powers of of evil. This view originally originated uh it it it's been around forever. Um it originated with the Alexandrian school, the a the the desert uh some of the desert fathers in Alexandria, uh who frequently spiritualized and allegorized biblical text, not just Revelation, but other parts of the Bible. Um they th this was their their c standard way of viewing the Bible um was to see it much more as uh spiritual allegory. um than as uh literal uh event. Not just revelation but other places. And so that's where this view of revelation came from from those folks. Uh yes. Yeah, and that's um I think most of the um premillennialist um commentaries they do exactly that. And in fact if you um if you want to read a book that goes through that, this book by MacArthur, um um because the time is near, that's exact how MacArthur starts the book. He divides it up into those three sections, the things that have been, the things that are, things that w will soon take place and will take place after this. Um that's exactly how he divides up the book. Um and so do most of the commentary that are are uh interpreting revelation from this perspective of um uh premillennialism, they they do exactly that same thing. Uh Thomas does that in his commentary, MacArthur in his extended commentary. Uh that's how Mounts does it in his commentary. as well. Okay, Arthur and Precepts, yeah. So yes, that's a good way to think about uh how um how it's r the the book is divided up. Yeah. Yeah. Very good. And any other? Yes. So good question. So the historicists they take things that happened in church history, actual events, and they they try to key those to passages in Revelation. So a passage in Revelation uh i is something that happened in the Middle Ages. They'll find something that happened in church history in the Middle Ages and they'll say, ha, that's what they're talking about. So that they're they're actually keying parts of revelation to real historical events that happen in church history. The idealist on the other hand sees it as not tied to any particular historical event, but just a spiritual allegory of good versus evil. Yeah. Good question. Any anybody else? Alright. For in the f in a couple minutes we got left. Ooh, we've only got five minutes left. So I gotta go fast. So um the What We Teach document I I have put on um our hopebook page. So you can download the just just the um uh the end times, just the eschatology from what we teach. Um I maybe there's copies of it available. Oh, so it's in your notes. Good. So uh I'll just touch on it very briefly the uh what we teach. Uh you probably got this in your membership class, but it could have been a while. Uh so we talk about uh death, what happens at physical death, uh that the soul of course uh doesn't die. Right. Um uh the soul of the redeemed is separated from the body, it goes to the presence of Christ. Uh all mankind will be bodily resurrected, uh the saved to eternal life, the unsaved to judgment. Um so we've got descriptions in the What We Teach document about what we believe about death with scriptural references uh all along. Uh then we talk about dispensationalism. So we believe in dispensationalism. Uh the the fact that the scripture teaches uh that there's Some um there are these dispensations in the way that God has dealt with people. Uh the administration of God over uh the people of this earth has there's been different ways that He has dealt with people over history from uh Adam, who was the dispensation of conscience, uh uh dispensation of innocence before the fall, and then conscience, and then uh we had a certain way that uh God dealt with people in the age of the Patriarchs when he was uh uh talking to appearing to Abraham, for example. And then we have the church age, the way that uh God deals with people in the church age, and eventually we're gonna have the millennium kingdom where Christ comes to reign. And so those are different dispensations that the Bible describes. Then the Bible also describes a rapture of the church. First Thessalonians chapter four describes that rapture. This uh Jesus comes. and um uh the church is raptured out of uh of the world. And so we've seen it it actually happened in in the Old Testament. Um uh Enoch was uh uh walked with the Lord and he was no more. Um Elijah was taken up in the chariot fire. Um and so th the that sort of rapture has happened before and it's going to happen again with the entire church. Um the tribulation period, the seven year tribulation period, the Daniel's seventieth week in Daniel chapter nine, um and then in described in Revelation the the details of what happens during that tribulation period after the rapture of the church. Um is uh described in Revelation. So we'll talk about that. And then second coming in the millennial uh reign, so uh there's the seven year uh tribulation and then at the end of seven year tribulation is the millennial reign. Uh and so we have that uh described in um in in Revelation as well. And so we'll talk in detail about that and why we believe this uh uh about the the pre female rapture, the um the semi-year tribulation, the second coming and the millennial reign. We'll we'll be talking about those. We'll be filling in detail about those as we go through the book of Revelation. But the reason why I want to go back and look at this what we teach document is uh by the end of our nine months together, uh one of my goals is that you'll be able to read through this what we teach document and say, aha, I understand where this comes from and why we believe this. Why why this why this is our belief and I can explain it to somebody. I can I can defend the the beliefs that we have uh in in the church. Uh and a judgment of the wasp, Satan and his angels thrown into the lake of fire um were uh tormented forever. Uh Christ who is the judge of all men, uh resurrect and judge the great and the small at the great white throne judgment. Um so the resurrection of the unsaved dead, physical resurrection, where they were judged and flow thrown into the to the lake of fire. And then eternity. So after the closing of the millennium, we have uh the temporary release of Satan, the judgment of unbelievers Then we have the heavenly city, the New Jerusalem coming down out of heaven, a dwelling place for the saints and perfect fellowship with God forever. And so that's what we teach about end times. And I want to make sure though some of these things may be difficult to understand and you don't quite get it you know, have a full grasp of what these things mean right now, by the end, one of my goals is that you will. Uh you will have a good firm understanding about why we believe these things. Okay. Uh so I told you what I was going to tell you, and then I told you and then I'm now I'm going to tell you what I told you. So this is what we learned today. Uh Any questions? Questions? Questions? We have uh oh we have thirty seconds. Uh so if you have questions, email me. Um let me close with prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you so much. so much for our time together around your word today. We thank you for the great privilege of worshiping you and corporate worship that we're about to have and songs and hymns and spiritual songs and uh and the hearing of the preaching of the word. We pray Lord, that uh the things that we say and do in this worship service would be pleasing to you and would bring uh would bring glory to your name. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.