Well, I would invite you to take your Bible as we turn now to the Word of God and turn with me to Hebrews chapter 10. Hebrews chapter ten. I'm delaying our re-entry into the Gospel of John for two reasons. First reason is I'm trying to align our study of John's Gospel so that we can look at what the so-called triumphal entry of cr Christ on Palm Sunday, which is two Sundays from now, and so I just need to delay uh getting there a little bit. But secondly, if you saw the congregational meeting that took place, or at least that we recorded back in January Uh you know that our ministry emphasis this year is fellowship. And it's our intention from time to time to uh bring studies from God's Word to help us think about what it means to fellowship. with one another. And th those messages are not going to be seven habits of highly effective people to win friends and influence people and things like that. It's going to be what does fellowship mean and that begins really with our study this morning. And I'm grateful that in God's providence, Pastor Mike is in John chapter rather than 1 John chapter 4. And look forward to his next installment, following up from last week, on how we love each other based on and because of the love we have received from God. But for today we want to consider Hebrews 10, verses 19 to 25. The heartbeat of Hope Bible Church is proclaiming the hope of the gospel of Jesus Christ. applying all of the Bible to all of life and being the church for the glory of God. Fellowship falls into that final category of being the church for the glory of God And as many of us know, I rejoice with you at the many ways in which I think we do well by God's grace at it at fellowshipping with one another. But we always have room to excel still more. And we always need to remind ourselves of why we do what we do. And we always have need to invite those who have not been as engaged in the life of the body to join us in the fellowship of what Christ is doing here at Hope Bible Church. Every faithful church in every place at all times in history has struggled in various ways We could talk about the various challenges that are brought to each church based on the fact that there is persecution. or a lack of persecution, that some face poverty and others face prosperity, that some experience oppression and others freedom, that some have an antagonistic culture around them, and others have an accepting culture. Each One of those circumstances brings with it various challenges and temptations that every church of Jesus Christ has to wrestle with Until Christ returns, there is no environment where the church doesn't have to fight for faithfulness. And the reason we need to fight for faithfulness in every environment is because no matter where we live or when we live, we are under attack from three fronts. First, there is the front of the spiritual forces of darkness. Ephesians 6. 12 says, For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities Against the cosmic powers over this present darkness, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places. Spiritual warfare is one of the universal fronts we all face. Allied with the spiritual forces of evil is the world, the second front. Jesus said in John 15, 18-19: If the world hates you, know that it has hated me first. If you were of the world, the world would love you as its own. But because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you. Now, if those two fronts weren't enough, the most difficult and relentless front is the battle that takes place in our souls. Galatians 5. 17 says, For the desires of the flesh are against the spirit, and the desires of the spirit are against the flesh. For these are opposed to each other to keep you from doing the things that you want to do Every Christian in every place and at every time faces battle on these three fronts. Some of these enemies seek to destroy us. Take us out, kill us. But most of the time, our enemies seek to entice us by or entice us into defecting and joining their camp. This can be as overt as threats of violence if you don't turn away from Christ. Or it can be subtle through various forms of what you could call psychological warfare Where deceiving messages lie to us about how good it is on the other side. Whatever schemes are employed, the world, the flesh, and the devil work overtime To move us away from faithfulness to Christ. And beloved, left to ourselves, we are easy prey and sure to fall. The letter to the Hebrews was written to believing Jews who faced extraordinary trials, trials which would go away if they just turned away from Christ. If they returned to their Jewish faith and their Jewish customs, the pressure would be off and they would be restored to their family and their communities and their possessions. And so the author of Hebrews aims to strengthen their resolve by reminding them of the supremacy of Christ. over all things, over the temple, over the priesthood, over the sacrifices, over the Mosaic Law. He reminds them that the work of Christ on the cross accomplished for them what none of those things can accomplish. And because of what Christ has done, he reminds them that all those who believe in Christ are joined together into a new life and a new community and a new family. In other words, you are not alone. If you have believed in Jesus, you are part of the fellowship of the forgiven And because of that, in our text, we see that those who stand on the common ground of the forgiven Must strive together in knowing God, in persevering in the faith, and in walking together until the end. Follow along as I read Hebrews 10, verses 19 to 25. And as I read, I want you to take note of the first person plural pronouns. We, us, and our. Therefore, brothers, since we have confidence to enter the holy places by the blood of Jesus By the new and living way that He opened for us through the curtain, that is through His flesh, and since we have a greater priest over the house of God, let us draw near with a true heart, in full assurance of faith, with our hearts sprinkled clean from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with pure water Let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering for he who promised is faithful And let us consider how to stir up one another to love and good works, not neglecting to meet together, as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another, and all the more as you see the day drawing near. By almost exclusively using we, us, and our in this section, the author shines the spotlight on the fellowship that we have as those who are forgiven. Now, clearly, as we read, you will not find the word fellowship in this passage. And even if you were to look under the hood you will not find its Greek counterpart, Cornya, in this passage. But fellowship is really the one word summary for the kind of life that the Holy Spirit describes here. Fellowship means partnership, participation, sharing. It is standing together on common ground and striving together for a common cause. 2 Corinthians 6. 14 says, Do not be unequally yoked with unbelievers. For what partnership has righteousness with lawlessness? Or what fellowship has light with darkness? To be yoked is to be bound together for a common cause, like two oxen might be yoked together to plow a field Righteousness and lawlessness do not stand on common ground, so they cannot work together for a common cause. Positively Paul writes in Galatians chapter two verse nine, and when James and Cephas, that is Peter and John perceived the grace that was given to me, this is of course Paul speaking. They gave the right hand of fellowship to Barnabas and me, that we should go out to the Gentiles, and they to the circumcised In other words, they stood on the common ground of God's gospel grace, and therefore they strove together for the common cause of spreading the gospel That is fellowship. Fellowship is one of those words we misunderstood mainly because we use it too narrowly We tend to use fellowship as a synonym for socializing. When we say that we're going to have a time of fellowship, what we really mean is that's just a Christian way of saying we're going to have a time of socialization. We're going to hang out But to limit fellowship, that's not a wrong view necessarily, but to limit fellowship to socializing It's like saying we fulfill the Great Commission when we hand out a tract or share the gospel with somebody But as I trust you understand, the great commission, according to Jesus in Matthew 28, 18 to 20, is to make disciples by going. And proclaiming the gospel and baptizing those who believe, and then teaching them to obey all that He has commanded us. In a similar way, fellowship includes engaging in relationships on a basic level, but that's just the beginning. If we're going to survive against the schemes of the world, the flesh, and the devil, we need far more than social activities. If we're going to resist temptation and live for Christ boldly, we need the fellowship that is described here in this passage. And so, what is this fellowship? Well, this passage is not exhaustive, but it provides one of the more thorough answers of how to practice fellowship in the New Testament. It gives us both the common ground on which we stand together. And the common cause toward which we strive together. Again, as those who stand forgiven, we must strive in knowing God, persevering in the faith. And walking together until the end. Let's begin by considering the common ground on which we stand together. Look at verses 19 to 21. He writes, therefore, brothers, since we have confidence to enter the holy places by the blood of Jesus, by the new and living way that he opened for us through the curtain, that is, through his flesh. And since we have a great priest over the house of God, all those who believe stand on the common ground of the forgiveness that we have in Christ. And the reconciliation with God. Notice the words in verse 19: Since we have confidence to enter the holy places by the blood of Jesus. This speaks to our common ground of the forgiveness of sin. And then notice verse 21, and since we have a great priest over the house of God. This speaks to the common ground of our reconciliation with God. These two grounds on which we stand have been really the author's focus for the last few chapters, and he is simply bringing them forward as a summary so that he can move on to talk about the practical implications of this ground on which we stand. But since we're just parachuting into this text, we need to unpack these a little bit. If you look at again in verses 19 and 20, you see that he speaks of entering the holy places. which are open for us through the curtain. To say that our access to the holy place is through the blood of Christ, blood of Jesus and his flesh, is to speak of our access In fact, if you flip back to chapter 9, the author reminds us of the physical tabernacle that gave access to God. In verse 2, he describes the holy place, which is the first section of the tabernacle. And then in verses 3 and 4, he describes the holy of holies, the inner room. And then he says this in verses six and seven. These preparations having thus been made, the priests go regularly into the first section performing their ritual duties, but into the second only the high priest goes, but and he but once a year, and not without taking blood which he offers for himself and for the unintentional sins of the people. Access to God's presence was extremely limited No Gentile could ever access the presence of God. No Jewish woman could ever access the presence of God. And the vast majority of Jewish men could not access the presence of God. Only those of the tribe of Levi who were consecrated For that purpose at appointed times could enter into that first room, that outer room. And then access to the inner room, the Holy of Holies, was even more limited. Only the high priest who had to be of the line of Aaron could enter that room. And since the high priesthood, by God's instruction in the Mosaic Law, was a lifetime tenure, most of the line of Aaron never had the opportunity to even become the high priest. let alone enter into the holy of holies, the presence of God. Why was access to God's presence so limited It's because God is holy and we are sinful. If we enter His presence covered in our sin, His holiness would obliterate us. Remember, this almost happened to Isaiah. In Isaiah chapter 6, the Lord brought Isaiah into his presence through a vision. And Isaiah said, once he saw the Lord, Woe is me, for I am lost, for I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips, for my eyes have seen the king the Lord of hosts. The phrase, I am lost there, really means to be torn apart at the seams. And because of Isaiah's sinful condition, the blazing glory of God was burning him up. Well, to keep that from happening, he goes on to say, Then one of the seraphim flew to me, having in his hand a burning coal that he had taken with tongs from the altar, and he touched my mouth, and he said, Behold, this has touched your lips. Your guilt Is taken away, and your sin is atoned for. Isaiah's sin would not allow him to be in the presence of God without dying But forgiveness of his sin gave him access. Adam and Eve enjoyed a close relationship where they fellowshiped, they they enjoyed the presence of God in the garden. But then their sin caused them to hide from God and later to be kicked out of the garden. Since then, mankind has been alienated from God by choice and by consequence And yet in his mercy God granted access to his presence through the tabernacle and the sacrificial system. Blood could be offered as a temporary covering so that the high priest could but for a moment step into the Holy of Holies. That was grace, but it was limited to only a few. The death of Jesus radically changed that. Matthew, Mark, and Luke, as they describe what took place at and after the cross, each tell us that when Jesus breathed his last, the curtain of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom. And this was a message from God that access to him was now available to all who would come. The reason that we have access to God now is because of what it says in chapter 10, verse 14. For by a single offering it says, He, Jesus, has perfected for all time those who are being sanctified. And then speaking of our sin in verse 18, he says, where there is forgiveness of these, there is no longer any offering for sin. Therefore, we have permanent and direct access to God This is why verse 19 says that we have confidence to enter the holy places. We have confidence because Jesus offered the perfect And complete and final sacrifice such that all of our sin was taken away. We are not like Esther, who took her life in her own hands when she entered into her own husband's throne room. No, we have free and full access to God. And notice that in verse 20, he describes this as a new and living way. We don't access, we don't have access to God by means of the temple. And praise the Lord, because there is no temple for us to access him through. We do not access God by means of death, carrying with us blood of sacrifice No, we access Him through a new and living way. The new way is by the Spirit. Ephesians 2. 18 says, For through Christ we both have access in one Spirit to the Father. This is what Jesus meant when he said to the Samaritan woman in John 4, verse 23: The hour is coming, and is now here, when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit. And in truth. We enter God's presence through the Spirit who's uh as those who've been made alive by Christ. And since the Spirit of God dwells in us We don't even have to cry up into the heavens hoping that somehow our voices will ascend to the throne room of God and maybe He'll hear us. No, He is in us and He is with us And so we can just direct our thoughts to him and commune with him at any time and at all times. This confident access to God is made possible because of the forgiveness wrought by Christ when He shed his blood on the cross. Consider the second aspect of our common ground on which we stand, which is that we have been reconciled to God. Verse twenty one again says, Since we have a great priest over the house of God. This speaks to our reconciliation with God. The priests of the Mosaic Law stood in the gap between God and man. And they offered the sacrifices, they would send up prayers through their incense, and then they would communicate from God the Word of God to man. The problem was these priests themselves were imperfect. Speaking of the priests, Hebrews 5, 2, and 3 says, He can deal gently, the priest can deal gently with the ignorant and the wayward sense. He himself is beset with weakness. Because of this, he is obligated to offer sacrifice for his own sins as he does for those of the people The other problem with priests is that they just kept dying. Hebrews 7. 23 says the former priests were many in number because they were prevented by death. from continuing in office. So our separation from God because of our sin required that a stand that a priest stand between us, but those priests could only do so much Now, because of the work of Christ, we have Jesus, who is the great priest, because with him we get all of the benefits of the priests and none of the faults. Hebrews 4:15 says, For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who in every respect has been tempted as we are yet without sin. And Hebrews 7, 24 and 25 says, but he holds his priesthood permanently, because he continues forever. Consequently, he is able to save to the uttermost those who draw near to God through him. And since he always lives to make intercession for them Friends, Jesus can minister to us because though he was without sin, he experienced every kind of trial. He glorified God through his suffering, and he glorified God in the face of temptation, and so we can look to him for help in our time of need. Furthermore, though he died, he rose again, and then he ascended into the holy temple, or rather the heavenly temple, where God reigns, so he can minister to our needs on our behalf. He is the great high priest because he is truly man and truly God. So he is the perfect mediator between man and God To have Jesus as our great high priest is to have direct access to God. There is, in fact, no separation. between us and God. He has brought us near. This is the common ground on which we stand together if we have put our faith in Jesus Christ All those who believe have had their sins forgiven and have direct access to God through Jesus Christ, who is the Son of God. There is no believer. Whose sin the Lord counts against him. And there's no believer in Jesus Christ whom. For whom Christ is not their great high priest. And since that's true of all believers, since we all share in these things, we are the fellowship of the forgiven And from this common ground, we can strive together for a common cause There really are three common causes here for which we must strive. Consider the first: know God together. Look at verse 22. Let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith, with our hearts sprinkled clean from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with pure water Just as the common ground was a summary of what the author has been saying in previous chapters, so is this common cause. In chapter four, verse sixteen, after declaring that Jesus is our great high priest, he says, Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need. To draw near to God means to come to Him. It is to take advantage of the access that we have and approach Him. It is to be with him, and in being with him to know him and grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ, 2 Peter 3. 18. And this is to be done with a true heart, he says here, in full assurance of faith. That is to say, with sincerity and conviction The Lord knows our hearts. He's not interested in lip service. He's not interested in outward action that has no reflection of what is going on. in our hearts. He doesn't want ritualism. He wants us to come to him out of a genuine love and desire for him. And he wants us to do that without doubting. Hebrews 11, verse 6 says, And without faith it is impossible to please God, for whoever would draw near to God must believe that he exists and that he is a rewarder of those who Seek Him. Understand that doubt does not come in into our lives because there is some lack in God that we ourselves have to overcome. As the creator and sustainer and savior of the world, God has left no room for confusion or doubt over his goodness and love and power and glory. The problem of our doubt, the reason that we doubt, is because we are so easily influenced by the deceptive ideas that we are easily led to question those things which God has made clear Many mock Eve for being so easily deceived, but before we do that, we should consider those things that we question God over. When yet he has made himself so clear in his word and his works. Notice here that the core conviction that should lead us to drawing near In the second half of the verse, with our hearts sprinkled clean from evil conscience, and our bodies washed with pure water. This is a reference to the new covenant promise of forgiveness. The Lord promises in Ezekiel 36, 25: I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you shall be clean from all your uncleannesses And from all your idols I will cleanse you. You remember that after listing a variety of sins that characterized The lives of believers before they came to Christ, before they were saved, in 1 Corinthians 6, 9 to 11, Paul says, but you were washed. You were sanctified, you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of our God. We come to God as a reminder, with a reminder that we have been forgiven. As was true for the Corinthian church, it's common for us to forget the gospel realities on which we stand. Sometimes we pull away from God thinking that our sin has caused him to pull away from us. When the reality is He has drawn near to us by the blood of his son, and he desires that we draw near to him For this reason, we need not only to draw near to God, but we need to do that together. Notice, he says, let us draw near. We'll consider how to do that in a moment. Look at the second cause for which we strive together. Look at verse 23. Let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering, for he who promised is faithful This is a call to persevere in the faith together. And here again, we have a repetition of an application that the author has already given earlier in this epistle. In Hebrews chapter four, verse fourteen, he wrote, Since then we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast to our confession. And then here, of course, he defines that confession as the confession of our hope The scripture teaches us that God alone is our hope. Psalm 146, verse 5 says, Blessed is he whose health is from the God of Jacob, whose hope is in the Lord his God. In God alone do we find ultimate satisfaction and security and comfort? What makes earth endurable is that God is with us. And will never forsake us. And what makes heaven desirable is that God will be there as our God Our present hope is having God now, our future hope is having God forever Because through Christ we belong to God and God belongs to us, we can endure trials and tribulations and persecutions and hardships And we can do it knowing that God is with us, and the worst that can happen to us in this life is that we will be ushered into his presence. And so we live our lives according to Titus 2. 13, waiting for the blessed hope, the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ. That is the confession of our hope. To hold fast to the confession of our hope, then, means to stick to what we believe no matter the cost or the circumstance. Speaking of our hope, Hebrews 6, verse 19 says, We have this, our hope, as a sure and steadfast anchor of the soul. As long as we hold on to it, he will keep us steady. Why can we hold fast to such hope? Well it says here, for he who promised is what? Faithful Not one of God's promises has ever fallen to the ground. Not one of God's promises has ever failed to come to pass. And that is because, this is critical to understand, that is because when God makes a promise, he is not saying what he will do if everything works out. No, he promises his promises rather reveal his decreed will When God commands us to do something, that is his revealed will, which may or may not take place depending on our obedience to him. But when God promises what he will do, that is his decreed will, which always comes to pass because it's rooted in his being as God. Faithfulness is a divine attribute, which means it is his nature. For God to be faithful, it means that he is true. He is, if you will, ultimate reality. And because he is true, he is reliable. In fact, he is more reliable than the laws of nature, because he made the laws of nature and he can change the laws of nature But for any single promise of God to fail, he would have to stop being God, which means the entire created order would collapse. This is why the scripture says that God cannot lie. We can hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering because God is faithful But here again, this is not something that we can do on our own. We need to do this together. Notice, let us hold fast the confession of our hope. Well, that brings us to the third common cause for which we must strive. And it is here that we see that how we can draw near to God together, and how we can hold fast the confession of our hope. together. The third common cause for which we strive is to walk together to the end. Look down at verses twenty-four and twenty-five. And let us consider how to stir up one another to love and good works, not neglecting to meet together as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another, and all the more as you see the day Drawing near. This instruction right here, these two verses are the hinge point in this epistle Verses 19 to 23, as I noted, are repeating previous points. With this instruction, he moves past the theological foundation and his previous application And he focuses on how we are to stay faithful to Christ as a new community. He really does what the Apostle Paul does at the hinge points of Romans of the book of Romans and Hebrews, chapter twelve and chapter four, respectively. Sorry, not Hebrews, Ephesians. He draws attention As he moves from theology to practice, he draws attention to the necessity of living in community with other believers. Beloved, standing together on the forgiveness of Christ and his active work in our lives, we must walk together to the end. The language of walking here is not arbitrary, but it'll take us a bit to see where we get that from in the text. Before we look at that in detail, take note that the primary verb in verses 24 and 25, the command, if you will, is let us consider Consider. Before we must strive to do, we must strive to think Whatever our actions, whatever actions we do should not be rash, but they should be thoughtful. There's hardly a parent among us who has not said the words Think before you act. And typically that was with a young boy. The author of Hebrews here isn't talking to young boys, he's talking to those who are part of the fellowship of the forgiven. And what does he want us to think about before we act? He says, think about, consider, ponder how to stir one another to love and good works. The language here is stronger than it appears. The word translated stir up means to provoke. In fact, in the New Testament, it's only used elsewhere in Acts chapter 15, verse 39, about the sharp disagreement. Between Paul and Barnabas. In the Greek translation of the Old Testament, it's only used to refer the to the indignation that God has against his rebellious people. But as we Study of the scripture, we always need to remember that the meaning of a word is entirely dependent on the context. And here there clearly is no context of harshness or anger. And since what we are to provoke in one another is love and good works, there's no sharp edge to this instruction but this this stirring this pro this provoking is is more than just giving suggestions We are to think about one another and live in such a way with each other that we stimulate each other to increasing expressions of love and good works. We should be thoughtful about how our words and our actions can prompt people to move toward greater love and goodness. People today are called influencers because of the videos that they make and the change that produces in those who watch those videos, but we should be considering how to influence each other based on our interactions. With each other. In the same way that Jesus not only taught but also modeled love and good works, so we are to be living examples to each other. of how to love each other and do good to one another. The word love here wouldn't surprise you is agape, it's God's divine love. It's his selfless love that considers what is good and beneficial for his people. And then sacrificially gives of itself to see that goodness worked out in their lives To love someone is to see that all that God has entrusted you with in terms of time and resources and skill is a stewardship for the benefit and blessing of others. As we heard last week from 1 John 4, 7 to 10, this is how God has loved us. The Lord saw that we were destined for everlasting wrath, and in his love he gave himself So that all who would believe would have eternal life. There is no greater demonstration of love than that. And even though we didn't deserve it, even though he wasn't obligated to love us, he did it Because love also, along with faithfulness, is an essential attribute of his nature, and he loves putting his glory on display. And so having been loved by God infinitely, we are called then to love one another according to our time, ability, resources, capacities. In fact, 1 John 4. 11 says, beloved, if God so loved us, we ought to love one another. We ought to love one another. That is an obligation. Ephesians 5, 1 and 2 says, Therefore be imitators of God as beloved children And walk in love as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us, a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. All those who are beloved children, which is every believer, must imitate God's love. This is again a sacrificial love, a love that considers the needs that others have and gives of itself as it is able to meet those needs, even at great personal cost. This is why the author says, consider, consider. Think about others. Look Observe notice. What needs are there? And how can you give to meet those needs? When this kind of love characterizes a community of God's people, it will provoke More demonstrations of that love. Because when you experience it yourself, or when you observe others loving each other in that way, Its beauty and joy stirs in you the desire to imitate that kind of love So we are to stir one another to love, but also to good works. Now there's not a hard line between love and good works. Good works really flow out of love Good works are the outward expressions of love that benefits others, and love must be the heart motivation behind the good works that we do. And that's critical to say because it's very easy to be wrongly motivated to do good works. You can be selfishly motivated. You could be thinking, man, the more I do, the more God will be happy with me, and maybe I'll get into heaven. You might be doing good works, hoping that other people see you and praise you You might be doing good works, hoping that it will lead to greater opportunities. If I do this, they'll they'll let me do that, and eventually I'll be on the platform and I'll receive praise from people. Aside from these, there's other kinds of motivations, fear perhaps, coercion, perhaps even manipulation. It's very easy to be wrongly motivated to do good works. But clearly here we're we're to consider how to stir one another up to love and good works. So, how do we maintain that right motivation? Well, I think Paul gives us the key in Titus 2, verse 14. He says about Jesus that he gave himself for us. to redeem us from all unlawlessness and to purify for himself a people for his own possession who are zealous for good works. In other words, remembering that good works are rooted in the redeeming work of Christ is essential to maintaining the right motivation. We do good works not under the false notion that they earn us favor with God or man, not under fear or coercion or manipulation. No, we do good works because the greatest work has been done to us. We have been redeemed by Christ, who met our greatest need, and having that need met, we are then freed to meet the needs of others. Well, how are we to stir one another in these things? The author gives us the answer in verse 25 He says, not neglecting to meet together, as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another, and all the more as you see the day drawing near. In short, to stir one another up to love and good works, we need to be together. When the church was born in Acts chapter 2, the people would gather every day in the temple By believing in Jesus, they were giving up their former life, and they had a desperate need to establish themselves in this new community and the fellowship of the redeemed. And then when persecution scattered them to their homes and to other places, and especially as the gospel went outside of Israel, persecution was immediate, and whether the Jewish It was from the Jewish leaders who were in a town or the pagan community who did not appreciate the impact of the exclusive gospel on their society. That societal pressure, that persecution led some to develop the habit Of limiting their participation in the meetings of believers. They didn't reject Christ. They didn't renounce their faith They just kept their distance from the fellowship of the forgiven because to associate with them was risky. In fact, look down at uh here in chapter ten and verse thirty-two. He said, But recall the former days when after you were enlightened you endured a hard struggle with sufferings, sometimes being publicly exposed to reproach and affliction, sometimes being partners with those so treated For you had compassion on those in prison, and you joyfully accepted the plundering of your property, since you knew that you yourselves had a better possession and an abiding one They had a prison ministry? And they had to say, hey, just so you know, if you sign up to volunteer for our prison ministry, you might lose all your possessions. Who wants to sign up? And they signed up. And they lost everything. And they rejoiced. For these people at this time, if they got caught being part of the fellowship of the forgiven They could lose and they did lose everything and so some said, mm, not for me. And so they kept their distance. There are some, maybe in this country, but certainly in other places around the world where the same thing is true. To associate with other believers is to risk great material, if not physical, loss. But today there are other reasons that people choose to stay away. And to be clear, I'm saying choose to stay away when you have no other choice. We're not talking about being homebound or sickness or in physical troubles that prevent you from participating in the body of uh in the body life. But some choose to stay away for the purpose of comfort. It's just easier to stay home and watch what's offered online. For some, it's busyness. The commitments that one has made take priority such that there's no time left for the fellowship. of the saints. For some, it's more past hurts that they have been sinned against by ungodly leaders and that makes it difficult to enter into a new community and trust that it won't happen again. Of course there's other reasons as well Each person has to examine their own heart and their own schedule and their own priorities and consider this question. Are the things that keep me from being an active and vital member of the body of Christ, the kinds of things that when I stand before Jesus, he will say, Yeah. That was right. In my providence, I understand. Or would the Lord lovingly admonish us And urge us to take whatever steps are necessary to move toward greater faithfulness To this call to not neglect the meeting together. Because the reality is, we cannot be obedient to Christ when we have the habit of neglecting to meet together. It is impossible. The spirit of our age says that we can do anything online. There is a lot we can do online, but you know the most important things in life cannot be done online. And Jesus, if you understand what I mean here, he couldn't love us from heaven. He had to come and take on human flesh and walk among us. It was necessary that he live on the earth and show us the Father through his words and his actions, and then his greatest act of love could only be done if he were here in the flesh. Yes, it's true that words and images coming through a device have great power, but they can't substitute for a hug. For an arm around the shoulder, for a helping hand. We instinctively know that to meet someone online is to not have truly met them. Whatever benefits there are with being in online communities and relationships, the limitations are profound, and they're often felt at the times of greatest need. As is true for any community, we need to gather in large groups, in smaller groups. Singing in the car to the radio is no substitute for singing in this room. And being together in this room is no substitute for the kinds of gatherings of classrooms and homes and coffee shops and restaurants. In whatever context we gather, the purpose, as it says here, is to encourage one another. And this is where we get the language of walking together. That word encouraged there in verse 24, or rather 25, is in the Greek perakoleo. Perakaleo. It literally means to call alongside. To parakalet of someone is is to come alongside them and speak the truth to them according to their need for the purpose of urging them on onward with you. Paracolet was used over a hundred times in the New Testament and it's translated in various contexts: encourage, comfort, urge, exhort, appeal, implore, entreat, plead, invite, and even beg. But critically, while we might be face to face, this is really a side-by-side activity. It is to come alongside someone and put your arm around them and participate with them in that very thing that you are encouraging them to do. You paracolle someone grieving when you sit next to them and weep with them. You paracolet oh someone when you walk with a brother or sister as they are seeking and fighting to overcome sin. You paracolet with someone when you ask them to join you at the foot of the cross and remember the gospel realities That covers their sin. You paracolo someone not when you tell them to stop being anxious, but when you go with them to the throne of grace. You parakle someone who experiences doubt by reminding them of the truth, not as one with superior intellect, but as one who is a fellow seeker of truth and dependent on the Holy Spirit. I could go on and on. There is not a person with a pulse who does not need to be paracoleed in life at some point, if not at all points. And there isn't a Christian with a pulse who isn't able to perakoleo with all kinds of comfort and encouragement and exhortation and appeal in the face of the challenges that we have. in life. In fact, if you remember 2 Corinthians 1, 3, and 4, it says, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. The Father of all mercies and God of all paraclesis, it's a noun form, who has paracolet'us in our all our afflictions so that we can paracolet o others who are in any affliction with the paracolet o That we have received from God. We are to encourage, admonish, exhort, appeal, and walk together in this life And you know, with the passage of time, our need doesn't decrease. Notice that it says here at the end of verse 25, and all the more as you see the day drawing near. In his last letter, not long before he was beheaded, Paul wrote to Timothy, Indeed, all who desire to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. While evil people and impostors will go on from bad to worse, deceiving and being deceived Deception is the dominant feature of the end times. And I don't think it's newspaper exegesis to say that the internet and the AI are the primary mechanisms by which Deception is spread in our world. It is nothing but pride to think that we can stand alone in this world and not fall into deception. In fact, to think that way is to have already become self-deceived. The closer we get to Christ's return, the more we need each other. And so, beloved, if you have believed in Jesus Christ, know that you are not alone. You are part of the fellowship of the forgiven. And because we stand together side by side at the foot of the cross, God has designed us to need each other. And by his grace, we can strive together to know him and persevere in the faith and to walk together until the end. Now, if you want some really practical application, let me give you six quick points of application. First, there's still time to join the membership class. In fact, I'll say today is the last day to sign up for the current class, which technically began this morning, but that's okay. You can jump in next week. So you can send an email to membership at hope bible. org to sign up. Second, if you're able, come at nine AM on Sunday mornings to join with us to pray in the fellowship hall. Third, take an equipping class at 930. And then fourth, if you're providentially prevented from getting here earlier for those activities Then come early before the service is supposed to start. We have a time of fellowship from ten thirty to eleven. And we can we did that so that we can have more time together recognizing that the service ends when people are eager to get home for lunch. So come even as early as 1030 and enjoy one another and fellowship together. Fifth, join a small group. There are groups all throughout the week, all around the county and beyond. Join a small group where you can gather during the week with brothers and sisters in Christ. And then sixth, sign up for the mystery dinner coming up at the end of April. The mystery is who you will eat with. You just sign up and you'll be told where to go, and it's a great way to get to know people that you might not have thought to have dinner with. Six points of application. Consider those things and how you can be involved and increasingly practice love and good works. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for uh these truths that There's so much more we could say And yet, just a reminder of what you have done to stand us up on the ground of forgiveness and reconciliation with you is glorious and delightful. Lord, increase our faith, increase our obedience by the power of your Spirit. Help us to examine our lives, to consider. If we are being as faithful as your providence enables us to be, and help us to grow as a church family. To stir one another up to love and good works. Thank you for the so many among us who are being faithful and who are models to each one of us of obedience and faithfulness to these principles. Expand that number, Lord, and help us be a people that glorify Christ. And reach out with the light of Christ in this world by obedience to your word. We pray in Christ's name. Amen