From that, I'm not sure we fully absorb what that means. I am just like many of you, I use a planner I like the plant. Truthfully I used to like the plant a lot more than I like to plant now because a lot of the plants that I plant really didn't happen So I'm not as enthusiastic about planning as I used to. I used to have every fifteen minutes of my life covered, but uh no more. But I have uh meetings, deadlines, things like that. like you. I use an electronic planner now. It syncs with my laptop. I like that. I use the reminders app. That's nice. I ignore the reminders when they come up, but it's nice that it's sometimes we spend a lot of time thinking about the future. Have you ever thought about that? How much time kind of thinking about the future. Right now some of you are thinking about this afternoon, what you need to do tomorrow, next week Next month, the summer's coming up, you probably have plans for that. And maybe some of you are diehards, you have a five or ten year plan going. Pretty sure it won't work out for you. Things change. The Bible has a lot to say about planning. Proverbs 16 Commit your works to the Lord, and your plans will be established. Proverbs 15:22. Without consultation, plans are frustrated. But with many counselors, they succeed. Get a lot of wisdom before you make the plans. God plans Jeremiah 29, 11, God said this to Israel, I know the plans that I have for you, declares the Lord, plans for welfare and not for calamity, to give you future. And I hope. Many scriptures encourage us to look at the future and think through how our actions now will either be rewarded or lead to trouble. Galatians six, seven Whatever a man sows, this he will what? We'll also read Isaiah thirty-two eight, the noble man devises noble plans, and by noble plans he stands. There's also scriptures, though, that speak of the futility of planning. Psalm 33:10: the Lord nullifies the council of the nations, he frustrates the plans of the people. God likes frustrating some people's plans. That's what I get from that verse. In some cases, planning is proud. More particularly, it's presumptuous. That's what James chapter 4 is bringing to light if you'll open there. As needed as planning is, there is a latent danger in it. A danger that can cause us frustration and maybe even some heartache at times. Planning is not always an exercise in prudence. Sometimes it's the product of pride and presumption. Goliath, I'm sure, had very confident plans That he was going to take the little boy with a sling in his hands out. The Lord prostrated his plans. He was an evil man, but you would expect the Lord to do that. But David had plans He wanted to build a house for the Lord, remember? But God said, what? No. His son Solomon would do it. So our plans, no matter how thoughtful, no matter how grand, Are subject to change. That can be very, very frustrating. But it doesn't have to be frustrating if we're Looking at it correctly. God's interruptions into the plans of men actually work out for our better. They're indeed meant to be, as Pastor Tony often says, providential. God interrupted whatever plans that Abram had for his life when he was living at Ur and said, Get up, leave your father's house, your relatives, and go to the land which I will promise to you. And aren't we all glad that God interrupted Abram's plans? The Spirit of God prevented the Apostle Paul from going into the Asian province. Instead, on his second missionary journey, he went to a place called Philippi. And you know what happened there. And then Thessalica, Berea, Athens, Corinth, and on. Now James chapter 4 has some very helpful instruction, I think, for us, instruction that helps us put our planning in the proper perspective. Reduce our frustration. Because a lot of the anger we have in life comes from frustration. And frustration comes from unfulfilled desires and plans. And so, again, a very practical passage. If you get behind your anger, sometimes some of you have anger, you're trying to control your anger, you need to look back to frustration. Then you look back behind frustration, you'll find expectations and plans that aren't working out. So this will help you in that area as well. In some ways, what we're about to read is complementary truth Kind of looking at it from a different angle from the very famous Proverbs 3, 5, and 6, trust in the Lord with all your heart, though lean on your own understanding, right? And all your ways acknowledge him, and he will what? He'll direct your paths I'm sure you've seen a a two-year-old uh daddy's arms snatched up off of the playground, kicking his screaming uh the legs wanting to play a little longer but daddy has other plans for the child. We're gonna go in, we're gonna get some lunch, we're gonna get cleaned up, we're gonna take a nap, and then we can come back out and play We're a lot like uh that two-year-old in daddy's arms sometimes, kicking and screaming about life, getting all angry and frustrated. If we just would give God a little bit of room and time to work through what he's doing in our life, we'd see he's molding us into his holiness and his uh the likeness of his son. And so he needs to do some of these things in our lives. And if we would be more compliant or waiting on what he's doing, we'd really have a lot a lot better time The child will get the play, just needs to calm down a little bit. The father's not ruining his fun, he's setting up more joy for his life. So too in James 4, we see that James, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, in this entire chapter is correcting some wrong attitudes. We've already been looking at that. One of the wrong attitudes is worldliness, right? You adulteresses, do you not know that friendship with the world is hostility toward God? That's the very strong uh rebuke he gave in verse On to verse six, he talks about God as opposed to the proud, but gives that enabling grace to those who are humble. If we want to see progress in our Christian lives, if we want to see progress in areas we haven't before, we've been given the key already. The key is humility. We just don't want to use the key because we don't like being humbled. But if we would, we'd see so much progress. What a great and practical chapter. Dealing with our pride. And I throw myself in there, our pride When we look at verses eleven and twelve, it was really the same thing. We should not speak against our brothers, we should not evaluate them or judge them without gathering enough evidence. partial evidence about someone and come to a conclusion about that, that's really wrong judging. We need to really take time and understand people and never speak against them, certainly never slander them And we do that often because we're trying to elevate ourselves. Well, the subject of pride has not really left the text here when we come to verses 13 through 17. So let's read it together, and we're going to look at pride in planning. It's kind of a humorous section, I think, but uh again a very instructive one. Come now, you who say, Today or tomorrow we will go to such and such a city. Spend a year there and engage in business and make a profit. Yet Verse fourteen, you do not know what your life will be like tomorrow. You are just a vapor that appears for a little while and then vanishes away. Instead, you ought to say if the Lord wills We will live and also do this or that. But as it is, you boast in your arrogance. All such boasting is evil Therefore, to one who knows the right thing to do and does not do it, to him it is sin. So we're looking at The sin of presumption and its counterpart, human arrogance. Presumption is a product of pride. James wants to humble our pride. So that's what he's doing here. I'm going to Kind of outline it this way. He's attempting to humble our pride in five stages. So we have to go through these stages with him. Verse 13 is the first stage He pictures presumptuous planning. And then in verse 14, he reveals the presumption. In verse 15, he provides proper thinking, proper words in our mouth. the proper perspective. In verse sixteen, the pride is rebuked. In verse seventeen, there's the principle of humility that is provided for us to live by. We'll just take that first stage first. Presumptuous planning is pictured. Verse 13. Let's read that again. Come now, you who say, today or tomorrow. Well, go to such and such a city and spend a year there, engage in business, and make a profit. What do you see here? What do you picture when you uh read these words? I think what James is picturing is some small group of eager, confident Jewish businessmen, first-century businessmen. We might picture them inside. They're all gathered at a wooden table, let's say. They have a Greco-Roman map laid out before them and they're discussing their plans. They're thinking about things Maybe it's mid-morning. Maybe the sun is streaming in through the window. Enthusiastically they talk with one another. They lean over the map. They point to different locations. They stroke their nice Jewish beards. They debate the best course of action for their joint venture, their cooperative business. They're familiar with it. These are experienced businessmen, various ports and Cities around the Mediterranean are discussed. All of them seem like they have some prospect, some may be better than others All of the latest rumors and the news of the region are reported to one another, word about how things are going with the various contacts they had from the previous summer. That all is discussed and exchanged As they debate, finally they pinpoint a certain city on the map and they come to an agreement. That's the city they're going to travel to this year. That's where they're going to do business. That's where they're going to make a profit. They're gonna sell, they're gonna trade, they have quality goods. Everyone likes the idea. All around the table heads began to bob and nod with one another as they look at one another, voices of approval reverberate throughout the room. They're satisfied, maybe they lean back in their chairs. The discussion has kind of ended. They're looking in each other's eyes with that optimism that businessmen have Smiles gently settle across their faces. Prospects look really good. I mean really good. Travel in those days was made very easy by the Roman roads. There shouldn't be any problem if they needed to use that But travel by ship was always less expensive and was faster and easier. Roman traders went all the way to uh Gaul, even to Britain, uh to the north, all the way to India. To the east, Rome was a vast empire with many, many options for selling and trading. It was a great, great uh time in the Roman Empire to be involved in business And really it was the right season for traveling too. Winter had passed, all the storms that were generated across the Mediterranean were gone. Spring had finally arrived, just like we are now, enjoying great weather. They were too Sailing was much less dangerous in this kind of a climate. And the city that they selected was well known for its demand for the goods that they were selling. They had plenty to supply them with. They had done their work. They had their inventory. The Pax Romana was also prevailing in the time, all the way since Caesar Augustus. It provided a peaceful climate for all trade. It's called the Peace of Rome. And it was a great climate for economic boom. And so um they liked that and they wanted to benefit from it. They enjoyed it. And of course, let us not forget the Jews were well known for their business, prowess, we might say Wherever they clustered together in the diaspora where they settled throughout the world, they seem to always do pretty well economically, just like they're still doing today. They tended to do well. And uh it was the same back then. These are bright prospects for these men. Things look good They decided, you know, we ought to get at it. Maybe we'll leave later today. Maybe we'll wait until the morning to get an early start. No sense wasting time. Prophet was awaiting. Now, as they continue talking, maybe one of their wives walked into the room to serve them some drinks, and she hears of the news, and so she's bringing in something, uh, a drink to celebrate with She shares in their joy. She takes the news of their grandiose plans back into the next room where the win women were gathered and uh they're excited about the plans too. They know how hard their husbands have worked, or maybe there's a brother or a father in the room as well. They work hard, they prepare their goods for sale, they were thoughtful men, they developed the business. It's what they'd really worked their whole lives for, and their families really depended on these sales By the way, from archaeological digs and uh ships that were shipwrecked and have been uh surveyed and looked at, even some of the writings, we know that Rome's commercial business was varied and was abundant and was actually quite sophisticated. The more the empire grew, the more sophisticated the economy became. Perhaps these men made and sold tents for a living Maybe there were garments, tithes or leather, maybe metalwork, tin or copper, wine, oil or cereals, all these things were traded The state always got its little share of the profits as well. Every time you went into a new province, yes, there was a tax to pay. You wanted to set up in a marketplace, there'd be someone else there that would carve out their little chunk. But they had already factored all of those costs into their whole profit making uh venture. Sure, once in a while they whispered a little note, you know, to one another about how much government overreach there was and that they took too much of the profits, but they were good businessmen and they factored all of this in. Whatever the challenges were, whatever their produce was, the prospect of making a profit from the work of their own hands, well that was satisfying. Very exciting to say the least. God is said to work with his hands and accomplish things. They knew the scriptures. They work with their hands and accomplish things as well, just like many of you do. The more they dreamed about this business venture, the more confident they became, the more eager they were to get started. Verse 13 reveals the confidence As you read it, understand there's a lot of confidence in this. We shall go to such and such a city and spend a year there and engage in business and make a profit That's a lot of plans. Why wouldn't they think this? Their travel plans were sound, the accommodations along the route were well known. They'd used them before, they knew that their provisions would last. Be able to get there and spend a year there and do business and make a profit. The laws of supply and demand were at work. It was simple business one oh one Experience told them things ought to go pretty smoothly. There were no hiccups. Now we can hardly fault them for hard work We can hardly fault them for making careful calculations and wanting to make a profit, can we? Nothing in the text condemns business. There's nothing in this Bible text that says, you know, businessmen are bad or capitalism is wrong. Don't read your Bible incorrectly. In fact, if we were to broaden out to the collective wisdom of Scripture, we would easily see the scriptures repeatedly tell that hard working men and women They deserve receiving the fruit of their hands. The laborer is worthy of his or her wages. That's what the scripture says. Jacob was a successful herder and businessman, and he got to benefit from the riches of his hands, a little bit of divine help in his case. Joseph's careful plans saved Egypt from starvation. That's why God sent them to Egypt in the first place. The Proverbs 31 woman is very enterprising and developed a lot of wealth for her family. Capitalism is not only not condemned in Scripture, it's always presented as the way to make wealth, if one is honest. and worked hard. It's the way to make money. It's the way to provide for the home. It's a way to generate jobs and give jobs for other people. God's arrangement in Israel through the laws that He gave was really a capitalistic system that also cared for the poor. It didn't have three handouts Some of our national leaders are saying that that's the solution for poverty is to give handouts. That's never a good solution. Handouts for doing nothing or nearly doing nothing don't do anybody any good To sustain people for the long haul, they need to be able to provide for themselves. They need an education, they need a skill to work for themselves, they need to bring home their own paycheck, and then when they have that paycheck, make a contribution also back to society. That's the system that God has ordained even in this fallen world. Alert businessmen know about this. They are able to put their finger up and figure out which way the wind is blowing, economically speaking. They have a knows for business and then they find their little niche and they go after it and they make some money. They often maximize profits. Money is not evil and making money is not evil The only thing related to money we're told that is evil is the love of money, right? The love of money. So James is not correcting businessmen. He's not frowning on hard work However, James is not so pleased with these businessmen and their self-assurance. Their self-assurance. Rather than joining them in all the backslapping they must have been doing, or their mug-clanging, their outbursts of laughter, this annoying pastor, talking about James, not me. Suddenly puts an end to all of their premature celebrations. He interrupts their gleeful planning session with that rousing address in verse 13, come now! That's a discordant note. Come now, you who save, these days. Now, when you read The Bible, especially when you're reading it out loud, you need to recognize when there's a little bit of emotion that's inside the text. And here's where you'll have it. And you should read it that way when it has emotion. These are words of sharp disapproval. These are a direct challenge to a blind spot that they collectively had. This address is meant to shake these merchants from their self-confidence and prepare them for some rethinking. That's what pastors are supposed to do. After all, they are there often to disagree with you and your plan. They're there to get you to look at your life. and your home and your situation and your work a little bit differently. Give you a different perspective. Inject something maybe that you haven't been thinking about. And by now, I'm confident that you all know that James was not shy at all about making corrections. He's been doing it through the whole letter True, we are not supposed to judge our brothers wrongly. We're not supposed to tear them down, even with the use of truth, but that doesn't mean we don't correct them when all the facts are known. Then the correction is given with kindness and it's beneficial. I wonder really a as they were reading this, I wonder what kind of reaction these these merchants would have had when this was first read, maybe as they were listening in the synagogue and they they listened. they listen to these words as the reader read them. Would they have received this correction right away? I doubt it. Receiving correction is hard sometimes. We always search for what we did that's right, not what we did that was wrong, to try to reassure ourselves. Would they have said, You know what, we deserve this rebuke. Proverbs 17:10 says, a rebuke goes deeper into one who has understanding than a hundred blows into a fool. You can keep hitting a fool and hitting a fool and you don't learn anything. But a man of understanding gets corrected even a little bit and he under he receives that and he benefits from it. I think they might have struggled with this correction at first. I guess. Maybe they were thinking, what is this fellow so bent out of shape for? What are we doing that's so bad and wrong? What is wrong with hard work, making a profit, supporting our families? Why doesn't he pick on some other profession? Putting ours in the text and correcting us as businessmen. Well, rest assured, James was about to tell them what was wrong, and he spared no words at all. And that leads us to the second stage of their humbling, and that is the presumption is revealed. Look again at verse 14. Yet you do not know what your life will be like tomorrow. There it is. You do not know what your life will be like tomorrow You're just a vapor that appears for a little while and then vanishes away. See the sharp contrast? He's drawing a sharp contrast. The merchants said, we're going to travel, we're going to do business, we're going to spend a year, we're going to make profits Those are the same ones who don't even know what their life will be like tomorrow. Picture that, because that's where all the presumption is. That's where the problem is in this text. That's really the bullseye that he wants us to learn. Not just as visible. Businessmen, but just as Christians. The ones who are confidently talking about the future are the same ones who don't know anything at all about the future. That's a problem. That's presumption. To talk the way they were talking was a boast. Now we mentioned in the last section that the one of the things that people are most proud about are their opinions, particularly their opinions of other people. Well, another one high on the list is our ability to make plans come true. I'm going to do this, I'm going to do that. I can't wait for this to happen because then I'm going to get to do. Dot dot dot People talk all the time about things they're going to do in the future. Next year I'm going to do such and such. You're going to see. I can't wait till next month. I'm going to start such and such. All the time. People talk about all kinds of things. But what control do they really have? Big talk, little to back up the talk. Would you agree? Proverbs 27:1. Do not boast about tomorrow. Why not? Why not? For you do not know what a day may bring forth James can't stomach this subtle arrogance. He abruptly tells them that they're presuming about things in the future, a future they know precious little about. Do they know what their health will be like this year? No. Can they be sure that robbers will not take advantage of them on the road? Not exactly. Do they know for a fact that the governing officials won't change the laws midstream and the whole thing will be shot to pieces? Do they know what their competition is up to? Maybe not. Can they even tell what the weather will be like next month? You know, percentages about how things usually go in the future doesn't really mean anything because there's all kinds of things that are going to happen in our future that you and I sitting here right now would say, that's very unlikely. That's just very unlikely. It's not just businessmen, even many, many Christians are still touting constantly what they will do. I will do this, I will do that. Hmm. Get asked once in a while, Pastor, what's your five and ten year plan? I don't know what my five-day plan is. The only one who gets to say, I will do this and I will do that is that's always the right answer in church and Sunday school. It is. We're Christ. Want a sample? The Lord said, I will blot out man whom I have created from the face of the land. Time of the flood. Did he do what he said he would do? Yes, he did. Compare that to men. Delilah said, The Philistines are upon you, Samson. And he woke from his sleep and said, I will go out as at other times and shake myself free. But he did not know that the Lord had departed from him Or Saul hurled the spear for he thought, I will pin David to the wall. But David escaped from his presence twice, 1 Samuel 18. So man's I wills aren't quite as impressive as God's, you know Not only do these businessmen not know the future, they also should have taken into consideration just the brevity of life itself. Look at the last part of verse 14. You are just a vapor. Now there are a lot of verses that speak to the self-image of the believer. This is one of those. This is one of those. Who are you? What's your view of yourself? I am just a vapor. Hmm That gets you humbled, doesn't it? You are just a vapor that appears for a little while and then vanishes away. Ever been at a funeral of a loved one? I'm sure most of you have. You look at the body, you look at the casket, you look at the gravestone, and it should just hit you between the eyes. Life is short, and it's really short Billy Graham was asked that about ten years ago, so I remember he was in an interview. He said, Has anything about life surprised you? And he said, How short it was. How short it was. Goes by fast. The water vapor of course is like an early morning mist, a fog that's quickly burned away by the morning sun. Kind of interesting I was preaching on this and I'm driving in 6 30 this morning and there was a little mist over a little low area, you know, where a pond was. And I was like, that's going to be gone in an hour or two. I know that because I'm preaching on that this morning That's human life. It's here, it's gone, it's a fleeting vapor. Loved ones are here, and then loved ones are gone. By the way, we call them loved ones. Love them before they're gone. Love them before they're gone. Okay Last couple years I looked up famous people come and go. You all remember listening to the Yogi Berra? It's gone now, right? You heard the news, right? Uh Leonard Nimoy, spot, he's gone. Now he knows that there's you know he knows the truth now. Frank Gifford, you know, foot the football announcer. Merle Haggard, Country Music, Nancy Reagan, and many others. They're here, they're on the news, then they're gone Dr. Hebert, in his superb commentary on James, captures James's outrage here. How foolish, therefore, to ignore the unchanging God And then proudly plan for their life that is as fleeting as a wisp of vapor. This is what we forget. This is what I forget. This is something we go on like, you know, I'm just gonna get in my car and I'm gonna go, and then someone has an accident and they're gone. Well, I'm just gonna wake up the next morning and you wake up the next morning and you're you have cancer or whatever it is We just think everything's just gonna fit the way we perceive the future to be. That presumption is pride. I dug up an older poem, a guy named Francis Quarles, a Protestant poet. 1592 is when he was born. It's called The Shortness of Life. It goes like this. And what's a life? A weary pilgrimage whose glory in one day doth fill the stage with childhood, manhood, and decrepit age? And what a life, the flourishing array of the proud summer meadow which today wears her green plush and is tomorrow hay Behold these lilies which thy hands have made, fair copies of my life and open laid, to view how soon they droop, how soon they fade. That's life. So presuming on tomorrow is pride. Such human presumption is characteristic of humanistic secular life. That glories in man's abilities. Man's education magnifies the education of man. We have reached the moon and landed on the moon. We have now reached Mars. We're going to go beyond. Young people are told all the time in their educational institutions, you can do anything you want if you set your mind to it and get a good education. With education and a positive self-image, you can accomplish anything. I wonder what they have to say to the millions and millions of people in poverty who never had a chance to do any of the things that they boasted they would have a chance to do. To do. What kind of advice would they have for them? Because millions never get to do the things they boast of. What a cruel joke to say you can do anything. How you set up a person for tremendous failure No, you can't do anything you want to do. That's reality. That's not make-believe, that's the way it is. That's not a storybook, that's reality God can do great things with you in your life as you yield to Him, but it'll be Him accomplishing it, not you. Haughty thinking about one's own abilities and education and Charm and all the rest of that has no place at all in the Christian's life. Where is the humility that's supposed to characterize us before God? Before a God of whom we sung? We of all people on the earth should know that sovereignty alone belongs to the Lord. He alone knows the future. He alone determines the future. He alone will mold your life to fit in his future. Not you, not me. Every once in a while, God allows someone who's a lot younger, maybe even a child, to die among us, just to remind us of that very fact. Nothing about tomorrow is sure, not even for young people. Nothing. The only thing that is sure is what God has pronounced prophetically. That's it. So having kind of exposed this presumption rained on their parade of cock of confidence, James kind of invites these guys maybe back to the table to sit down with him around that table, push the map aside a little bit, and to receive some instruction about how they should have been thinking all along. That brings us to the third stage. Stage. Proper thinking is supplied. Look at verse 15. Proper thinking is supplied. Instead, James writes, you ought to say If the Lord will, we will live and also do this or that. So much taught in so few words, right here in this verse I mean we could make a whole series just on that statement. If the Lord wills we will live and do this or do that. James is now showing them. He's kind of taking words and putting them in their mouth and hoping it'll back up into their brain and into their mind. So they'll think this way and speak this way, because the way they're speaking doesn't reflect proper thinking. These businessmen were saying, we will do this or do that, and he says, No, that's not the way wisdom talks. Wisdom talks this way. If the Lord wills, we will live and do this. Or do that. And there's a world of difference between those two phrases, people. If the Lord wills, is not a little religious cliche we're supposed to say to one another to make sure everybody knows that our doctrine is correct. That our maturity is real. It's not some quaint phrase Orthodox people mutter to one another. If the Lord wills should be the way we think first. It should be the way our heart is. If we cannot say that about our lives, if the Lord wills, we have no understanding about our lives at all And I don't care how much Bible people have read, if they don't get that basic truth from the Bible that God is sovereign and we are not, they need to start all over in Genesis chapter 1, verse 1 and start rereading it. Because they didn't get it. James is saying if your thinking about life is right and is humble, it's going to guide your vocabulary. If your theology is clear in your heads, then the words that come out of your mouth will be wise. What we say when we're speaking genuinely is an expression of what we believe in our hearts. So we need to express our words more carefully. Now, have to say, let's not be too quick to judge these Jewish merchants. Do we not always, or at various times, express things that come out of our mouths that are kind of inconsistent with the Christian faith, inconsistent with the Bible? I feel lucky today. Maybe I'll win the lottery. Or if you're not that grandiose in your plans, maybe I'll win at McDonald's Monopoly. I sure hope my family stays healthy this year. Knock on wood I wonder what Mother Nature has in store for us this spring. That's the way the fools talk. Sometimes we need corrections to the way we speak. The words that we say should reflect our belief in the sovereignty of God. And I believe in the sovereignty of God so much that I know that if I brag about beating my wife in a game And I blow on the dice, I am sure to lose that game. I just set myself up for losing. I don't care what game it is James says there are two things we must leave up to the sovereign will of God. Write these two things down. The two things we must leave up to the sovereign will of God Two important things we cannot make certain plans about. Okay? We have no control over these two things. Number one, our lives. Number two, what we will do in the future. By the way, that covers everything. If you didn't notice. If the Lord wills, we will live. If you don't live, you're not going to be told anything, not in this world. And do this or do that. That's everything, folks. Both the length of our lives and what we'll be able to do in the future, this or that, are all not in the hands of all states. The hands of God. Not in the hands of our brokers. Not in the hands of our doctors. Not in the hands of the surgeons as much as we appreciate them. Not in the hands of government. They are in the hands of Almighty God. Well, what can we plan if we can't plan our lives or the future? Isn't that the purpose of planning? Yes, it is. And James is not saying that we cannot plant. He's just saying that we must plant with an attitude of awareness of the sovereignty of God, a prayer life and words that reflect that, and a flexibility that is ready to turn in any direction he takes us We have to understand that our plans are not etched in stone. If the Lord doesn't want them, they ain't gonna happen. Even when you have good plans, that's right. Even when you prayed about your plans, hmm. Even when you have a good feeling about your plants. Even when you say, but I was led by the Spirit. You never know for sure. And you must never speak like you know for sure. His point is that we should have the proper attitude of the sovereignty of God in our hearts. What is the sovereignty of God? Christians agree that God is sovereign. They don't always define it the same way, and they don't seem to always know what it means. You could say it simply like this. It means God is in control of everything, and we are not. That would be simple. The word definition is only so effective, so I'm going to draw a mind picture for you about the sovereignty of God instead. Think of those Jewish businessmen again, hovering over their map. There they are with their plans. They've got their plans. They've got some nice plans. They've got some thoughtful plans. They're planning. Oh yeah, they're doing some plans. Now picture God way up in the heavens above them, and He's got a planning table too. And He's got stuff stretched out on His table, and He's making His plan. Notice that the plans of the businessmen down on earth and the plans of God up in heaven do not agree The men have plans for a year of business, a year of profit. God has plans for a terrific, untimely storm to overtake their boat God has them washed ashore in an unfamiliar location where they have the opportunity to breathe since supposedly these are believers in Jesus Christ, to bring the gospel to some out-of-the-way Jewish community that Paul and the other apostles haven't hit yet And bring them the gospel of Jesus Christ, washed ashore right there. And the people there are going to be so grateful they've heard the gospel of the Messiah of Israel that they're going to take up a collection and send these men back home safely. They'll have to go over the land. The boat was wrecked. And through that different route back home overland, taking longer, one night where they spent, let's say, in an inn, they find And meet another man who's got a different business venture for them, a new business adventure Not quite as lucrative as the one that they had before in the short run, but it sure has promised that it could build for the long run and be good for their children Being in such a desperate situation, they accept the business venture. And who knows, years from now, maybe God used it The new contact, use the new business to guide even one of their children or their grandchildren in the way that they should go, because God would have his hand on one of them and lead them into a great Christian Christian mission. God has so many different ways that He could work. Very different plans, wouldn't you say, between those two, God and the men down below? Now, the simple question about the sovereignty of God is this. God's plans say that. The men's plans say what they wanted to say. Whose plans are going to win? God's plans. That's the sovereignty of God. Whatever God writes down in his plans above is sure to happen. Whatever we write down in our plan book, eh, it's kind of iffy. Proverbs 19:21: Many plans are in a man's heart, but the counsel of the Lord will stand. The old saying: Where there is a will, there is a way. It's only true with God and His will. When men say these words, it's an unrealistic, inflated boast. Our belief in the sovereignty of God should humble us and prepare us for whatever He has for us in the future. We're going to pick up with that theme. Right in the middle talking about the sovereignty of God. Next time, we'll develop that a little bit more from Scripture and help you to see how the will of God must be left to uh understanding ha as he unveils it and not as we try to divine it here in the present. We're gonna pray and then we're gonna go to our baptism service. Father, thank you for being not just a sovereign God, but one who cares about each of us individually. We all, Lord, have been in the place where we believe that we've been dropped by you and you've forgotten us. And whatever sovereign plans you have for the rest of the universe and the rest of mankind, somehow we got forgotten off on the side. Help us to know, Lord, you're not just big and sovereign, but you're also caring and wise down to the smallest of details. And that in all in due time, if we keep believing, we will see with our eyes how your plan works all things together for good to those who love you and to those who are called according to your purpose. Amen