And that's why you shouldn't go ahead. Appreciate it. So subject is too deep and too broad for a one hour study. Uh most of you know that I can uh speak for about an hour, hour and a half off a single page of notes in my journal. Uh this is seven pages So I have no prayer of getting through this, but I will do my best to try to share with you the good gold that I've found over the last couple weeks as I've studied this. I do think that we can find the overall shape and dimensions of the idea. We talked about ideas last week and words. how words are a vehicle for ideas, the only vehicle we have for ideas. The idea of biblical love, God's love. This is the strongest, most absolute, most necessary command in all of Scripture. I'm just going to anticipate some of the feedback I get on this class. You're going to say, really, really, really, you know, I'm sticking to my guns in this class. I tried to let you know that on the first week I intend to make you uncomfortable. I intend to put you off balance. I intend to frustrate and aggravate you in some sense in a way that stimulates your thinking about God. I am preparing for this class in extraordinary ways in time and effort and investment in reading And the conclusions that I present here I hold deeply. Strongest, most absolute, most necessary command in all of Scripture. First John 3, 18 through 19, little children, let us not love in word or talk, but in deed. And in truth. Many versions of the scripture will translate that word truth as faithfulness. I don't like that. In truth, rock solid, undeniable By this we shall know that we are of the truth and reassure our hearts before Him. Do you understand that that is in light of the judgment? That is in light of that final judgment that comes. By this, we shall reassure our hearts against that final judgment, if you will, or before that final judgment. By this we shall know that we are of the truth and reassure our heart before Him. When we do not love in word or talk, but in deed and in truth. Deuteronomy 6. 5. You shall love Yahweh, your God, with all your heart and with all your soul, and with all your might. What's left of you? Outside of that. These passages are not new or novel to you. I do not expect you to be like, ooh, look at that passage. I just want you to stop for a minute and think about them. I want you to listen to them and bow the knee to them. They're not yet another in a stack of little pieces of porcelain, you know, mosaic. They are the theme. of the picture of God. They're not negotiable, equivocal. They're exhaustive, complete, massive beyond our ability to comprehend, nearly impossible. for us to suborn our own arrogance, our own pride, our own intentions, our own values, our own priorities Do you understand the word suborn? Put underneath subordinate. Nearly impossible for us to subordinate those things that we value in life. Many of them good things, by the way. By the way, don't let that be a deceit you get. As long as it's a good thing, it's okay if it overwhelms this priority. It's not actually And there's a lot in scripture pertaining to love that talk about it being the most excellent way, the perfect way, the necessary way. Everything else is here, and it is good, and even from God, in some senses. Or in every sense, as I think through that statement, but not love. And so pursue love. In every sense of the imperative pursuit as a as a absolute demand and requirement on your life, as an appeal to you as sons and daughters. As a loving father appeals to their son. In every sense of the word imperative You must pursue love We are bound by covenant. And that word is so important with love. I I won't have the time to spend on it. I actually have another two sheets of notes on the association between love and covenant. As it follows through linguistically, as it follows through thematically in Scripture, uh Uh Isaac Bagley. I don't know why I'm pointing over there. It's the last time I saw him in this room, he was sitting over there. Um last time I was talking to him, he was saying that in the SLP class. Um Pastor Na, I guess, said something about uh scarlet thread. He was talking about being careful with systematics, I think, and pull that scarlet thread, right? The the big themes that just lace them through all of Scripture, it's so exciting to find them because you know that God just put them there so that you can see him from beginning to end in in whatever that attribute is or in whatever that character or whatever that working was, right? And that covenant of love is is uh well it is the principal car scarlet thread Leviticus 19, 18, you shall not these are the two big love commands in the Old Testament, right? One, love God with all your heart and all your soul and all your might, and the next uh which you know picks up in Matthew obviously. The next one is you shall love your neighbor as yourself, right? You shall not take vengeance or bear a grudge against the sons of your own people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself. I am Yahweh. I always translate that drop caps Lord with the actual name of God. The Hebrew word underlying that is Yahweh, and I would use it because it is the personal name of God given only to his people. It is a covenant name. The rest of the world doesn't get to cop call God that. He didn't give them his name, but he did give it to us And so everywhere in here that I'm able to do that, I translate it that way. And if the word is actually Lord, in the way that we understand that sentence, Master, King, something like that It's generally in these passages adnae. Okay? And I translated that directly just to help you understand the distinction there. You shall not take vengeance or bear a grudge against the sons of your own people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself. I am Yahweh. And I want you to notice that even here in the beginning of God's revelation of himself and his covenant, there is no doubt that there will be provocation for vengeance and grudge. So I want you to understand the necessity, primacy, criticality of love to everything that you are and hope to be. I'll actually give you a verse that says exactly that in the New Testament. You're familiar with the verse, but you may not have thought through it well enough to go, wow. And I hope to get you to do that today. But as we read through that, I want you to understand that another key attribute of love is that it is what you enter into as an obligation to a covenant, firstly between you and God, and next, derivatively, because you have that principle, covenant with God, then the covenant with his people. And I want you to notice this, covenant with his people. I'm going to touch on that heavier in a minute, but when we talk about love, we often confuse it with, well, just love everybody. That is not what's here. Not principally, anyway. We love God and his people. And we do it so radically that we develop a character, a personal, internal character. Of being loving in the way that the Bible describes, and that of course affects or gives testimony to the rest of the world. Well, I don't know what the percentage is. I'd be willing to say something like 95 or 98% of the scriptures that talk about love, though. are exclusive to God's people. And so before you get your mind carried away out there with all those ugly people out in the world, you got a room full of ugly people right here. I'm not kidding. Look around on them, every last one of 'em, especially me. I'm a good target for this one. Right? Sinners. Sinners that cause offense And I'm not going for hugging or anything like that here this morning. But it's this kind of jerk center That you have an obligation to love. And it doesn't mean feel good about me. I'm probably never gonna deserve that. I'm never gonna warrant that It means you act in covenant loyalty toward me in extreme ways that are costly to you. It's a third attribute of love. It's costly. It's exhaustively costly This has been helpful to me as I've considered it over the last couple years as I've been noodling on this series of lessons. Why can't I enter into my marriage and be able to look at my wife and say, I know that you are a sinner. And I will lavish upon you all of the privileges of marriage that God has called me to. Without the expectation of you responding righteously to me. Because that is a ridiculous, self-idolatrous expectation. Even as I rebelled and shook my face, face Maybe that should tell you something about the way I live my life wrongly. Shook my fist. That really threw me off. Sorry about that. Shook my fist in the face of the Lord while he was expressing his extreme love for me and sending his son for me. Those that we love will do the same with us and with him. Doesn't rock the boat at all. It changes nothing about the obligation we have to love them Now, I want to stop for just a second. Some of you have been in difficult relationships Really difficult, not so difficult, but difficult for you, right? Like all over the spectrum I am teaching you the bigness of God in this word love today. But any specific example requires the care and the diligence of specific attention. And it may change how I would respond in one case, it should change how I respond in one case or the other. But I want to make one more comment related to that. If your brothers and sisters in Christ were loving you the way we are called to in the Scriptures, Even your difficult relationships would have worked out differently than they do. And man, my appeal to you is, where are we in being good fathers and brothers to the women that are in our church that have difficult relationships? And where will you be when you stand before the Lord? And he says, What about? And he puts a name and you say, I knew her and I prayed for her. And he goes, But where was the love? By this shall we know that we are of the truth and we are sure our hearts when we love not in word or talk, but indeed. You say that feels like a universal indictment. No, it's not. I have been blessed to be working with Mr. Ratliff lovingly at a brother's house and it's been great. There are amazing examples of you loving people I'm not undoing any of that. And as I look around the room, I'm encouraged by a number of your faces, right? Because I know that you have loved me and the church and others at great cost to yourself. So don't don't jump off the cliff. But I suspect you same people that I'm referring to in such a positive way are also those kinds of people that are honest enough before the Lord to go, we could do better. And we need to do better. We need to do more. We've been playing around with our with our faith and our hope. We've been playing around with the good gifts that God has given us instead of employing them. at great cost for his glory. So how can we say that we are his No disciple says, Yes, Lord, I am yours, but this is mine. That's not a thing. There is no category for that in the scriptures. You say, well, people sin all the time. Look at David. And he repented. If your life is marked by sin and daily repentance that leads to obedience, Amen. Amen. Every single day. Amen. That's discipleship. And in that repentance and in that obedience, you will take on and take up daily costly love. Clearly I am not gonna make it. I'm having fun. I hope you are too. The people you love will be sinners. Write it down in a book before you even start loving them. They're broken, they're sinful, they're gonna say hateful things to you, they're gonna misinterpret what you say and do, they're gonna criticize you They're going to find ways to reach in, accidentally, I think most of the time, at least in the context of the church, but they're going to find ways to reach in and hit that one thing that they shouldn't have said that hurts you the worst. That defeats you the most, that at the end of the day is the one straw you couldn't bear, especially from a spouse or a brother or a sister. Or a member of the church body That's the first cost you need to pay. It's mentally going. This person is gonna continue to be a sinner, and I am going to spend and be spent for their benefit. Matthew 22, 36 through 40. Teacher, which is the great community. You know this, right? I'm just stitching it all together. I'm trying to help you see the picture. Right, the big picture, not the little picture, when you look at the verses one at a time. Little picture of God, little picture of God, little picture of God. I'm trying to put them all together so you see the big picture. Teacher, which is the great commandment in the law? And he said to him You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind. Deuteronomy 6, 5. This is the great and the first commandment. And the second is like it, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. Leviticus nineteen eighteen. On these two commandments depend all the law and the prophets. I've always been frustrated by the way the uh Reformed Conservative Church handles the law. I've never been quite, and I still am not prepared to talk about why I'm frustrated by it But we're too dismissive of something that's too precious. You say, what does that mean? I'm not sure. That's a different class. That I probably won't teach because it would get me in trouble. But I don't even care to some degree. Like, I I don't care if you're dismissive of the Old Testament law. Because what Christ tells us are his principal concerns to which we will be held accountable for our obedience, it's these two. And they literally are so big, so broad, have such primacy that the rest are encapsulated in these two. Not rejected, they're encapsulated in these two. And so what are we doing talking about not under the law? I I guess I hate that song. Free from the law? No, you're not. Now I understand the point of the song. So I sing it with you, although it sometimes gets a little repetitive and I'm like, Lord, I don't want to be free from you all. But I say that quietly, I don't you know, like shake my fist at Doug And other than the fact that you can't tell him I said this story in class and he shouldn't listen to the recording, I have never said that to Doug. I don't know what law you're free from, but it's not this one. And it's so exhaustive Christ made sure we couldn't dismiss the principal command to love as just another anachronistic law, right? Out of time. That's then, we're here, we're now, new covenant. What do you think the new covenant even is? Did you ever bother to stop and think about those new words? The old covenant had all these prescriptions. If you're really interested in digging in that further, I'll bring in my two sheets on suzerainty treaty. aka covenant in the Old Testament. And it has a pretty simple form. And it relates to God being king. Christ being king. It relates to Christ being king. I am the king. I have conquered you. You are now my vassals. Or my vassal kings and queens, by the way. And this is how you're going to operate. And when you operate that way, I will pour out the storehouse of my blessings on you. Because that's the kind of king I am. I'm a pots. I'm talking about him. Because that's the kind of king I am. And if you break my rules and my laws, I will come and correct them, but you're still gonna be my vassal. And in that construct you begin to see what God's love looks like. For those of you that like to do your homework, some of you guys back here, look up Barit. Covenant in the Old Testament and cross-reference it with Hesed, loyal love. Too often translated poorly, by the way. Thank you to the Scots for Lil Love, the way it was uh written down in a number of Psalters by the Scots in the 1500s It's one of the better translations of Hesed in the Hebrew Old Testament. Well, in the Old Testament, which is in Hebrew. Um I have a chart later that will show you other more modern translations and I can talk to you about where some of those came from Christ made sure we couldn't dismiss the principal command to love just as another anachronistic law that no longer applies in the New Testament. This one is, for us, the first and the second commandment. The final judgment will depend on what we do with love. Not some obscure reference right here in Matthew 25, 31 through forty six when the Son of Man comes in his glory and all the angels with him, then he will sit on his glorious throne Before him will be gathered all the nations, and he will separate people one from another as a shepherd separates the sheep from the sheep. From the goats. Again, you're terribly familiar with this, but in this class, for just a moment, will you exercise your imagination a little bit to picture the scene? God enthroned in the unbearable blaze of his glory, and the host of angels. Every time we see uh an angel in scripture, there's a lot of falling to the ground and weeping and gnashing of teeth. This is all of his hosts of angels. And we, all the nations, are before him, and he begins to separate us. Then the righteous will and I'm skipping verses obviously because I'm Trying to figure something out here. Then the righteous will answer him saying, Lord. When did we see you hungry and feed you, or thirsty and give you drink? And the king We'll answer them. Truly I say to you, as you did it to one of the least of these, my brothers, you did it to me. Do you see how that fits with the first and second command? When you obey the first command to love God, then you must obey the second command to love others. And when we do it that way, God says, I see that in you loving others I account it. I credit it. When you love others, you are loving me. And so fulfill the two commandments that we are given. Didn't use the word love in there, did it? Whatever else this passage might mean, it must mean that our service for God's glory to others in both small and great need is the determining judgment. But we also know from 1 Corinthians 13, 3. By the way, I have more on this in the notes as we go, but I was trying to, you know, like encapsulate it here at this introduction. We also know from 1 Corinthians 13, 3, if I render the ultimate service, if I give up my body to be burned and sacrifice my life, But I have not love. And I didn't make these words up. They're in the Bible. I have nothing. It actually has three different phrases in Corinthians. I have nothing. I am nothing. And I gain nothing. I hope your heart quavers a little bit At Matthew 25, 1 through 46. I hope it quavers more when you realize, when you consider How often you had an opportunity for loving others. But you were too busy. Too distracted, it was too costly, it was too messy, it was too scary because it was too unknown. So many places to take that. 1 John 3, 14, and 4 21. We know this is related to the judgment theme, right? We know that we have passed out of death into life because we love the brothers. Now some of you right away clicked into your systematics and you went, yeah, yeah, yeah, but that's a gift we get from God. No, it's not. That is not what the scriptures say. The scriptures say that God gives good gifts that we might be loving. And in the exact same passages, Corinthians 12, 13, and 14 principally. In case you think I'm overgeneralizing, just go read 12, 13, 14. In the exact same passage, it says, you put on. Love. You pursue love. And the distinction it is is fearsome. I will give you teaching and preaching and prophecy and tongues and healing and all those other gifts. I will give you those. So that you can work out love in other people's lives. I don't expect you to fully pay the price. I don't expect you to be able to bear up under the cost of loving other people You couldn't you couldn't get involved in the transaction of God's covenant love To us, right? So I had to send my son. I had to take care of the cost myself because you couldn't pay it. And so I will do that again with fruit of the Spirit, with gifts of I shouldn't say fruit, fruit and gifts are actually different. With gifts from the Spirit. I will invest you with what you need to pay the price. And to do it well, to be resourced, to actually be able to love people, to redeem them, to refresh them To dignify them as sons and daughters of Christ, kings and queens of the great Lord. But you have to put on love. But you have to pursue love. And that's from Paul. Right? The guy that said you don't have to do anything. I'm I'm tongue in cheek, right? Tongue in cheek We know that we have passed out of death into life because we love the brothers. We pursue love. We put on love. We are in the midst of paying for costly love. And because that is true, our hearts can be assured before the Father that we are his. Whoever does not love abides in death. And this commandment we have from him: whoever loves God must Also love his brother. Again, notice that internal community sense there. Not the guy out there, but his brother or his sister. This next statement seems maybe a throw-in, but it's not at all. Are you ready to move beyond words and talk? and take on the core and crux of being a Christian. In case some of you aren't familiar with the importance of the word crux, comes from the Latin word for cross. And its very commonly accepted definition is as a figure for a difficult problem that is the decisive, critical, or pivotal issue. On which an outcome depends. A difficult problem that is the decisive, critical, or pivotal issue on which an outcome depends. Loving God and loving others in the way that God taught us to love through covenant. Is the crux of Christianity This is gonna feel abrupt. That was like all my you know exhortation, you know, the homily, the hortatory, whatever you want to call it, right? That was the big come on Run with me. Run worthily with me. Don't be disqualified. Don't be confused. Be in the right race, going the right way, so that you win the right prize. And the next part is how did I get there? Like, what in the scriptures got me there Any goofball speaker that's good with words can stand up and motivate a crowd with the right kind of sentiment, the right kind of presentation. But we are more than that in Christ. And every word is precious. And as I mined the scriptures for this gold, I found a vein of it, or a scarlet thread of it. Sorry, I just learned this from Isaac. I was excited about that because I've been using the vein of gold for years and he just slightly transformed it to the scarlet thread idea and I was like, yes, I love that gold. I got a whole page of notes on the the back tables and stuff. I'm not really going to go over these, but I wanted you to have them. I wanted you to to see how the scriptures use the words for love and how they play out. And there's some unexpected things in there. So I hope that you'll look through that. I'm sorry that it's so much information and you know I'm not going to help you too much with it to tell you the truth. I mean if you come and ask me I'll I'll talk to you for hours about it. Don't expect anybody to do that, I'm just saying. Um but it's all there on that back page, right? So that if you want it, it's there. It's also already been uploaded to the website, so or uh the hope So uh it's there as well. Table one on the back page lists the four Greek words that are commonly translated love in either the Septuagint. translation of the Old Testament or the original Greek of the New Testament. So if you look at Table 1, just real quickly, four words, agape, Phileo, Eros, and Storge. I expect you to be infinitely familiar with the first three. Agape and Phileo. Eros is pretty easy, right? Erotic, that's where we got that word from. So you kind of get the idea there. Storge. Who is familiar with that word? Yeah. Okay. And what's it mean? I mean I already looked at it. Don't it's a family love. It's generally used like that. The word actually doesn't exist in the New Testament Uh phylostorgia is the only uh word that actually is used in the New Testament, which is just uh um uh like a conjugation if you will of s of storgae. So uh if you're gonna study the uh uh Eros doesn't exist at all in the New Testament uh in the Greek um it does surprisingly exist in Song of Solomon. But if you are a blue letter Bible user, it is not in that version of the Septuagint. I have not had a chance to run that to ground. The three principal translations of the Septuagint that are used in academic circles all use the word Eros. To describe God's love for Israel in Ezekiel 16. It's a very tender Uh it's a very tender passage, well, at least that part of Ezekiel 16 is. Um And so the word fits very well. The Blue Letter Bible translation uses a word that generally means to destroy Um and and I don't I don't understand that. Like I I don't know why. Um so even translators of the version of the Blue Letter Bible version of the LXX are always like, we don't know, but we think it generally means to abide with the woman. And I was like, okay. I don't know how destroy got to abide, but Um so if you'll check me there, just be clear, blue Blue Letter Bible will use that word for cast out or destroy. The other three principal texts use Eros, and I have not looked at what Nestle Allen uses, if for those of you that care about that. So agape, filleo, eros, storge. We're really not talking about Eros or Storge beyond what I've said. Agape and Filaleo are the other two. Uh you see in the approximate occurrences how common agape is. Now, Angela and I both grew up in churches where People try to make these very strong wooden distinctions, technical distinctions between these two words. They are unsupportable from Scripture. Doesn't matter where you look, I may have read all three hundred and thirteen occurrences of these words. Not positive, but I sure feel like I did. And they're just unsupportable. God loves his son with agape. God loves his son with Phileo. And it just it just keeps going. So I have tried to record some places that make it very clear that those are too wooden in their technical definitions. 2 Samuel 13, actually there's a few verses, but uh there's actually three verses in 2 Samuel where Amnon is talking about loving Tamar. Well, if you know the story, he plotted He deceived, he raped her, and then he despised her. And the only three times that it talks about how he felt about her, other than to call say he hated her after he sinned with her. The only three times it talks about how he felt about her, they use the word love, and the word is agape every time. Um I have some more examples back in the main body of the notes. So not the first uh bullet I've skipped over God is love for the moment. I'll come back to that one. But just the diversity and word choices there are four or five examples of Christ's talk uh God talking about loving Christ and therefore us loving being loved by God and they they seem to be able to use agape the most because clearly that's the most occurrence, but they also use Phileo. Peter's interaction with Christ is a big one where people try to go all out on that one. Um certainly there is some nuance to the words. They were clearly using words the way we use words to try to get at something, heaping up words, right? Paramount, primacy, ultimate, primary, right? Imperative. I heaped up all those words at the beginning to try to show you a different facet of how important love was Was I saying something different? Not specifically, but I was trying to give you a larger view at it by throwing color and shade and texture at the image that I was presenting to you. And I would encourage you to think of this passage in Peter very similarly, where they go back and forth. Peter keeps re- always responds with Phleo. God asks the question twice with agape and then switches to Phileo for his last one. More interestingly To me, in proving that our definitions or our distinctions between these two words are too wooden, are the following three passages. 2 Timothy 4. 10 for Demas In love with this present world has deserted me. Agape. I already read you the 2 Samuel passages regarding Amnon in verses 1, 4, and 15 it says he loved her. And it uses the term agave. I did not expect that one. John 3. 19, and this is the judgment that light has come into the world, and the people loved the darkness. Agape. Wow. So if you are used to trying to go through the scriptures and make these strong distinctions between agape and phileo, you just need to see. Okay, you're not going to get a lot of help there. Having said that We find in first John four, eight, and sixteen, that God is love. It's one of those crazy sentences that nobody's surprised by, and so we're just like, yeah, whatever. No shock there. No new information. That met with your expectations. There's another one, John 17, 17, is another similarly unsurprising statement. It says, Thy word is truth. And we're like, well, of course it is. You're not paying attention. When you and I say something and it's true, we say that it's true. We don't say that it is true. We talk about it in terms of an adjective. Right? It describes what we said. True words. But when we talk about God's worth, it is essentially true. I don't mean like kind of sort of almost all the way. I mean essential in that sense that there is nothing more true, more real. more at the heart and character of God's Word than its unbreakableness as truth, as its inviolableness as truth. It is. And all other things echo or should echo that. But that's the best that they can do. This is also true. God is love. Now, a couple of the questions I thought of as soon as I got there and I started down this line of reasoning and I knew I wanted to put this verse in the passage, and I was like, yeah, but what does that mean? I tell you what it doesn't principally mean that God feels good about us We don't even hear much about the love of God in the scriptures until we're considerably in it. Pretty much middle to late Pentateuch, like Deuteronomy. We have a few echoes of God's love in the Samuel passages. But often through something a man about how he's perceiving God. So there's just not a ton in the early Old Testament about this Loving God. And it doesn't mean that he's not loving. It's that we are looking for it in ways that reflect how we think and feel about love. So it's not that Anyone who does not love, does not know God. Same theme as before, right? Different verse, but we're still on that earlier theme we talked about. Because God is essentially love And even in the way that he's essentially holy and can have nothing to do with sin, he is essentially love and can have nothing to do with its opposite. Or its counterfeit. Hebrew for love, we start to flesh out. Meaning, if we were left with nothing with but the Greek, we would be in trouble. We would have some amazingly demanding prescriptions. Love? Well, you are not part of me. So the imperative of love, love for God and love for God's people, is clearly in the New Testament. We would have no issue understanding how important love is from the New Testament. But the richness of love, its meaning, its character, would be harder to get to without the Old Testament. One author, I don't know if this guy is a Christian or not, so I'm just gonna tell you that right away. He writes some interesting things in Ways that always make me want to flinch a little bit. But this one author, Simon May, wrote, If love in the Western world has a founding text, that text is Hebrew. Before Plato and Aristotle, the other dominant sources of Western concepts of love, and well before Jesus, is a footnote in his thing, because I was like, I don't like the way you contrasted it to Jesus. Jesus. So I read his footnote and I was like, okay, I'll give it to you. He just meant before the man named Jesus was born Right? And well before Jesus, Hebrew Scripture provides in two pifty sentences Ideas that have guided the course of love ever since. And then he contrasts it with our modern definitions of love and how, because we've lost The truths behind these two expressions of love, we are in really big trouble. Destroyed, broken relationship everywhere we look in every stage of relationship, in every uh endeavor of relationship Interesting book, by the way, if you're uh wanting another excuse, Love, a history is a is a good read. The author does go on to cite Deuteronomy 6. 5 and Leviticus 19. 18, those first two, the first and second great commandments, he does go on to cite those even in this book. Table two on the back of your notes has all of the Hebrew words. That's not entirely true. has all the dominant Hebrew words for love in the Old Testament. Now, a point of confession here. Flip your Well, depending on how you're holding your notes, make sure you can see page three of your notes. There's a table in the middle of that sheet. That's going to become important here as I try to overview a few things on table two Hebrew words for love with their frequency and ranking. Ah, or The verb, uh which I annotated in your notes, is the most common verb for love in the Old Testament. It occurs about two hundred and fifty times. About two hundred and eight of those are as a verb About 40 of them are a noun. Those are interesting references, by the way. And about four are an adjective. All total 250. Clearly the winner with regard to frequency not always of God's love for us or our love for God. And on one of the sheets, pages two and three, I've walked you through how a HAV gets used in those 250 times. Uh obviously um I'm summarizing, right? Um It's the word used in Deuteronomy 6. 5, you shall love Ahav the Lord your God. Um and then uh I don't know why I didn't highlight it like I did all the rest. I told Angel this morning I generally avoid Song of Solomon because I I just don't quite understand it. And uh Well, because of its subject matter, you can get yourself in big trouble. Um but maybe that's why I subconsciously didn't highlight it. But it does have an interesting layer. His banner over me is or was love, a hove again. And just to be clear uh really fits well with the idea of covenant and king. It's a military banner is the word that's used there. The word is necessarily of a military banner And he drives that in to this home and he says, this place I will protect. This place is under my covenant, right? So in that context, you get really that covenant-keeping king, and all that it means that he's a covenant-keeping king, he places his banner of love over us. over his bride. And so it it really is a a a rich metaphor if you're uh you're willing to uh risk Hong Solomon. Um I got called out on the carpet for maybe not being careful with uh the high regard I hold for scripture. I was being facetious. I have a high regard for every word of Scripture, but I will tell you that Song of Solomon scares me. That's all I meant by that, okay? Please don't be upset with me. Inspired by God, valuable to us. Frightening to me. I'm gonna skip number two in the chart and go to number three. Uh Rhea or Rhea, I'm not sure how you say that one. Uh really commonly used in the scriptures 187 times. As in Leviticus 1918, when it says, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. Now I've annotated it there, but What word in Leviticus 19, 18 is being is being translates re No. It's neighbor. Um it's actually neighbor. Um and it's a really funny usage, despite the fact that this is the way that all the tables for Hebrew, I I went and checked it myself multiple times because I was afraid of being wrong here. They use this word uh for love all the time, but it always characterizes friend, neighbor, companion You know, something like that, and often occurs with another word that shows um the the loving aspect of it. Um and I have uh just the last column is basically how did the authors of the Septuagint generally translate that Hebrew word. So if you're wondering how they translated it, you can see it in the back there or in the last column. Um but it's a it's a rich word, it it's a important word. Um and again in my mind it really does speak to that idea that when those Christ is when God is commanding us to love one another. He is largely talking about it in that context of family and of Christian community and of body. It's the love of the brother that we have. And again, I'm not trying to be completely exclusive of the rest of the world. There definitely needs to be an aspect to that. I can make that argument just from John 3. 16. Right? So I can definitely make an argument for that. That's not my point that it's not there. My point is if you go right out to that, you missed the inner circle. You missed the core. You miss the fact that your arena for loving needs to start in the context of your immediate relationships. Your family. Your wife should evidence you, your relationship with your spouse should evidence in the same way that Christ's love for the church evidences his love Your wife or your spouse should evidence that. And that evidence, as it says in other places in the scripture, by this shall all men know. That you are my disciples. Meaning your children should be able to see the love that you have for your spouse, and it should be so convicted So filled with light and truth and service and goodness and strength That it becomes a treasure that they long for. To be in your love, to share God's love, to have that strength And then as your family expresses that in your family Again and again and again, right? You see how it keeps going out? How did I get there? Oh, Rhea. Family relationships. The next ones I'm not going to spend much time on. They do occur. They're actually there a lot. And they fill out the definition of love. It's not all law and legal and and and hard and costly, right? It's always with delight. Read. The Lord's words of delight over the people of Israel, the covenant-breaking people of Israel. And he says, Because I made a covenant of love for you. And since it's getting late, I'll just steal my thunder a little bit. The Ahab or Ahava love of God seems to motivate his Hesed love. This one is what he resolves in his heart or mind if you can use those expressions of God, which I don't think you should, but I don't know another way to do it, to tell you the truth. His essential lovingness of us, which is part decision and part I don't even know what the word is. When you commit all that is most important about yourself to another. Whatever that word is. But that ahava or ahav love that God has motivates his actions as king in our lives. to express both his judgment and his goodness, if you remember that from last week. I'm almost kicking myself. I wish I'd started with a full lesson on Christ as King. As I went through these notes this week, I was like, oh, but it's back here in my notes on King. Oh, but it's back here in my notes on King. And I just gave you the picture. I have a full set of notes on that for our short-term missions trip. Which I'm not showing you. Um Test it is the other one. It's not typically in the love uh word grouping. Uh we generally translate it as you see on page three, steadfast love, faithful love, unfailing love, loving kindness, right? It doesn't It's not part of the Hebrew lexicon of love. But Cloverdale, whose first name I'm forgetting. Guy that wrote the Book of Common Prayer in the 1500s, come on, come on. Some of you people that are obsessed with Puritans should know this. Where's uh where's uh Quebec? I feel like he would know this. Anyway, w whatever Cloverdale's first Coverdale, excuse me. whatever Coverdale's first name is, right? He wrote the Book of Common Prayer in the 1540s. It became the book by which lay people studied daily, approached the Lord, and even agreed with whoever their laity was that uh excuse me, their clergy was, that they would um you know study that together. And so that turned into Oh, uh still called the Book of Common Prayer. It turned into a cycle of sermons and readings and uh uh uh holidays, and it really governed how people did Christendom for a number of centuries. Uh I know Angela still enjoys using the uh a modern version of the Book of Common Prayer now to just structure different readings. It's it could be quite helpful. But in the 1540s, he started translating this word facet as loving Dash Kindness, a hyphenated phrase. And authors, many of the great authors, were Christian men. And women. And they adopted that language. It was just kind of like part of them. And so they adopted that language of loving kindness. And so when the KJV was written in 1611, first edition. Guess how they translated this? Loving kindness. And then later generations were like, that's not quite right Because it doesn't have any aspect of covenant and has it necessarily has to do with bari, which means covenant, contract. And we have established forms from it, from old stuff that we dug up out of the earth and we understand. And so they tried to move it to steadfast love and some other things, but really, again, the Scots got it right. It should be loyal love. It's loyal to a king. It's loyal to a covenant. It understands that there's an authority Who is loving, but also in charge And so anyway, we keep translating it something love. I wish we'd translate it loyal love, but I put it in here because a covenant Is principle in our understanding of love, and so we were going to end up there anyway. And two, we keep translating it as love. And so I threw it in here. Abounding in steadfast love and emit. Which I think should generally be translated as truth instead of faithfulness, because truth means more to our minds than faithfulness. Again, I didn't highlight it, but in Psalm 136 the word occurs something like 26 times in that one psalm. Yes, it does. The Greeks in in the LXX, I again think disappointingly translated mercy. Elios or Elios. And so you'll see that at the bottom of my chart on page three, mercy, compassion. Most of those occurrences are in the Psalms. And then you can see on page seven some of the other words that are used for translating Hasid. But about 70% of the time the Greeks translated it as Mercy. Okay, I have a few minutes left. I am going to choose to spend those minutes on some excerpts from God is love. The ultimate priority of love and practical implications of love. First John 4, 8 through 16, 4, 8 and 16. We've already discussed this Actually, I cannot. I forgot the new class ends at 1040, right? That clock is wrong. I didn't make it. I am sorry. Yeah, almost. Wow. And then I have to be patronized on top of everything else.