Well we have the Christmas season starting already. It's a joy to be celebrating that again. It's neat to see all these uh decorations up front. We're grateful for our decor ministry. But just the the Christmas season is is such a joy. It's so uplifting when you focus on what Christmas is really about. It can be discouraging to some people because they get focused on uh other things. But Christmas is about Christ, right? That's why his name is in it. It's his birthday. Christmas is about Jesus Christ. It's about Jesus Christ, the Christ, coming in human history, coming down here, visiting our planet. We know that that's what Christmas is about. There is the eternal preexistent Son of God. And this was the time, 2,000 years ago, when God predestined for him to come into the world. And so he came and he became incarnate, and we celebrate Christmas because of that We wouldn't know that Christmas is about Christ, though, if we looked around out there in the world and saw them celebrating, doing what they do. Might not even hear the name Christ too much at all. In fact, uh you go shopping these days, it's rare to even hear Merry Christmas anymore when you buy something from their store. They say happy holidays. I always say Merry Christmas, that's what I say But you wouldn't know Christ is the center of all of this. I mean they're making a killing off of his birthday, they don't even acknowledge him, you know. So we need to make sure that our minds and our hearts are always focused on Christ. I think you know that there is a determined element within our society that wants to see Christ and Christmas and anything related to Christ completely out of the public square, out of the public view. They're working hard at silencing Christians from talking about Jesus Christ in the Bible in the public arena. You probably, depending on your situation, have experienced some of that as well, some of that pressure to remain quiet about it. I hope you don't. I hope that you keep talking and using the name Jesus Christ politically incorrect. We could care less, I hope. I hope you could care less if it offends someone that name Jesus is the name by which you were saved. Christ said, if anyone was ashamed of me, I would be ashamed of him when I come In glory. Think of His glory, think of His coming, and think of that moment. And then the pressure that is around you hopefully will disappear and you'll speak boldly and joyfully about the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Don't let them silence you. You keep talking about Christ in whatever arena that you are in. Make sure, not just for the Christmas season, but all year round that When people think of you, you're a Christian, you go with Christ, you love the name of Christ. Jesus is the center of everything that we are as a people of God. Would you agree? He's the heart and the center of all of it, Jesus Christ. Do you love Jesus Christ? Do you love him? Is he the affection of your heart? Do you think about him often? Do you pray to him in the morning? Do you dedicate your entire day to Jesus Christ? All of our life is about Jesus Christ. How could we deny him? How could we ever stay quiet about him? We never want to stop speaking about him. We will not go off quietly into the night. We will make noise And the noise that we make as Christians will be about Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the Son of the Father, the only way to God, God incarnate. We will speak of Him and sing of Him and rejoice in Him. And when people hear us or think about us, they're going to have to think about the name and the power and the work and the historical nature of Jesus Christ and all of that. Amen? We need to do everything that we can to keep Christ public and keep him proclaimed, and make sure we do that loudly and boldly, even while we try to remain humble before folks as well. So today it is our privilege, indeed our duty, to speak triumphantly of Christ and of his grace, because we're all indebted to his grace. We turn again to Titus chapter 2. We'll be looking at verses 11 through 14, probably for a few weeks Please turn there. I want to read it for you out loud. We'll focus on this great text that speaks of the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, the grace of God. Titus chapter 2. We'll read verses 11 through 14. For the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation to all men. Instructing us to deny ungodliness and worldly desires and to live sensibly and righteously and godly in the present age, looking for the blessed hope and the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior Christ Jesus, who gave Himself for us. To redeem us from every lawless deed, and to purify for himself a people for his own possession, zealous for good deeds. A beautiful passage. In Charles Dickens' famous A Christmas Carol, Ebenezer Scrooge was visited at night by the three spirits of Christmas, Christmas past, present, and yet to come. To teach him to love mankind rather than to love himself and his money. You know the tale. It's very creative and a lasting fiction, enhanced now by the theater and screen. But here in these verses we read not a fiction but a fact, historic. fact, the fact of the appearing of God's grace on the human stage. And what God's grace has done in the past, what it is doing presently And what will happen in the future for us as well. Today and in a couple of weeks to come, we're going to be visited by the Spirit of Grace. Or we're going to visit with the Spirit of Grace, might be a better way of putting it. We're going to learn all about God's grace from His Word. The Spirit of Grace is greater because the Spirit of Grace is operative in the world. It's real. It is powerful. This portion of Scripture is a is a wonderful explanation of grace. It's really a a tight knit and fully packed explanation of salvation and God's grace. There's a lot there to unpack and unfold in just a few words. I think it's one of the grandest statements in all of Scripture of what God's marvelous grace is all about and what it's doing, not just in the past, but the present and also the future. Many, as they've studied the letter of Titus, consider this passage, verses 11 through 14, to be the high point of the entire letter, or at least its theological core. If you're looking at what Paul was getting at, here it is, and it works out from here. In writing it, there's a sense uh I'm sorry, in reading it, there's a sense in which we climb up on a high mountain and we look out and we gaze upon the beauties of God's grace that we can't see quite as well from other hilltops. Verses eleven through fourteen are really wonderful concerning God's grace. And really it's all just one long sentence. You know how the Apostle Paul is. He gets there and he writes and he digresses and digresses, but it's all related. And so verses 11 through 14 are a complicated one long sentence in Greek. The subject for the entire sentence is right there in verse eleven. It's chorus, grace And furthermore, these verses are linked to what we just studied over the last several weeks in verses 1 through 10. And they're linked by that one simple yet common conjunction, the word for, gar in Greek. It just connects Verse eleven backwards to verse ten and what came before then. Verse ten, notice, look back at it, it mentions that God is our Savior, God our Savior. four we come into verse eleven and it expands on that thought by speaking of saving grace. And so now we find a reason for all of the instruction about how we were to behave in verses one I don't think a reason just for the slaves who were mentioned last, but all of the groups that were mentioned there in verses one through ten All of whom were told to adorn, put on, dress the doctrine of God in good behavior so that the church would have a good reputation. The reason for that is right here in verses eleven through fourteen Why should we adorn the doctrine of God our Savior? Why should we put effort into that? Because the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation to all men. Sometimes when you study Paul's letters, you'll note, as in Ephesians or as in Romans, he'll start with a lot of doctrine, and he'll give all of the why. Here's all of the the doctrine and the theological truth about what God has done in Christ, about God's predestination. He'll teach you all of that truth And then you come to the second half of the letter and it says, Now here is how you are to live, here is what you are to do based upon that truth. But sometimes in Paul's letters he reverses those and he says, Here is how you ought to live and then he says, And here's the reason why. That's what he's doing here in verses eleven through fourteen. The two must go together. The theological foundation and the practical living. All of it has to go together. You know, there are many people today that call themselves Christians and they want to separate, they want to detach the way they live, their convictions about morality, from what they claim to believe. They want there to be a separation. So they can say, this is what I believe, and then they live probably the way that they want to, right? You know what I'm talking about. They want those two things detached. Here, Paul is saying they cannot and must not be detached. They go together. They must go together. If we believe certain things about the grace of God and what the grace of God has done for us, then there are implications for how we must live Do you remember chapter one, verse sixteen? Glance back there again, just to give us the context again, where uh the apostle Paul wrote, he said They profess to know God. Well, that explains a lot of people today, right? They profess to know God. They have it on God's good side. They call themselves Christians. But by their deeds, they what? They deny him. And we went over that. So someone can say something, but what comes out of the mouth has to be backed up by how one lives, right? Belief and practice always go together. How you live expresses what you actually believe Now this section lets us know that if you believe in God's grace, then you must let God's grace transform your life and your Let me say that again. If you believe in the grace of God, if you've depended on the grace of God, if you believe in Christ and He's your Savior and you've experienced the grace of God, The implication of that is now your life needs to go through a transforming process as grace teaches you to be more and more like Christ. This is the theological mountaintop we are on, and we're looking out on the vast landscape so we can understand it. And here we see three time periods. In verse eleven, we see the past, the appearance of saving grace. And in verse 12, we see the presence, that is the present instruction or disciplining of saving grace. And in verse 13, we get to look into the future and see what's going to happen. The anticipation of more grace in verse 13. Verse 14 sort of is a reinforcement of the past and the present. So let's start with the past in verse 11. Focus on it. I don't know that we're going to get too much further than that today. Paul writes: For the grace of God has appeared. I love this statement. The grace of God is one of those pregnant phrases in the Bible. You can read over it quickly and go, yeah, I know what that means, but it yields a lot of truth if you take a little bit of time to dig into it. The grace of God is something that is possessed by God. It belongs to God. That's why it's called His grace. He owns grace, you see. And then grace then comes down from God to us to benefit man. Because grace is his, and because it flows down to us, it reveals something about God that he himself is a very gracious God. Grace flows from him to help man. We're helped by grace. That tells us something about God. He wants to help us. What does grace speak of? It speaks of kindness, it speaks of generosity. God has made his creation man, they're on the earth, and now they're in sin and they're helpless. And so rather than leaving man in his plight, God sends forth his grace to help. He knows we need help God's grace is a good thing. God's grace is something we should be thankful for and grateful for. Paul wrote this in 1 Corinthians 1. He said, I thank my God always concerning you For the grace of God which was given you in Christ Jesus. He's thankful for the grace, the grace that had been given to the churches. We should be grateful for the grace that's given to us. The noun grace, carus, simply means undeserved favor. Undeserved favor It is true favor with God. Imagine that, having favor with God, but it's not backed up by any kind of human merit or achievement. In other words, grace is something really that should not have been given to us. I wanted to put it that way, because sometimes when we say undeserved, we don't think about what that means. What that means is God really shouldn't have given us grace. But he did. So, in that sense, this is why we call it amazing grace, right? And we could add in there surprising grace or unexpected grace. If someone gets grace, you don't clap for them and say, hey, you got grace, good for you. You don't say that. You don't deserve grace. Christmas is coming, I know people anticipate what gifts that they're gonna get, maybe under the tree. Can you imagine seeing a very large Beautiful package under your tree this Christmas, and you read the little note on it, and it is from a person that you have treated poorly the entire year And never said you were sorry for it. And yet here's this gip that is under the tree and you don't feel worthy of it. What is it doing under the tree? You may not even want to open it because it's from this person you've mistreated the entire year But there's a signed note with the words, I love you and I forgive you. Would you even open a gift that's provided like that Well grace is something that if you want it, it has to be received. It has to be taken. It's offered, but it has to be received. And it cannot be received. In pride, with a demanding kind of hand. The only way a gift like that can be received is with what? A lowly, humble gratitude, right? As you unwrap the gift, you're thinking, I so do not deserve this gift. I can't believe it was given to me. Grace, by its very definition, is unmerited. It is undeserved. It is unexpected That is why so many people reject it. They're just too proud to receive it. They don't want it. They think of themselves above the need, you see. The grace of God is a good thing. It's a good thing for us, but it implies that there's need in us. It implies that there's evil inside of us. It implies that we're desperate, that we're insecure, that there's a judgment to come. When you receive grace, you are admitting that you need it And by admitting that you need it, you're admitting that you're under the judgment of God and the consequences for your sin, you see. Ephesians chapter two, verses eight and nine is also a wonderful explanation of grace. Would you keep a finger in Titus and flip over to Ephesians? I want to go over these verses with you also. Ephesians 2, 8 and 9. Some of you have memorized them. But look at them again anyways. It says, For by grace you have been saved, through faith. And that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God, not as a result of works, so that no one may boast. Paul writes it out so clearly there, doesn't he? It's also clear. It doesn't take much interpretation at all. God says, look, salvation and grace, it's all of God. It's not of you. God doesn't allow any human bragging. Because of deliverance from eternal condemnation can only be by his undeserved favor. All the human good works, all of the religious deeds that people want to do Saying basically I'm a good guy, none of that would save anybody at any time. There is no merit of any degree or any kind that you can give to get saved. Ephesians 2 8 says grace is not of ourselves. One commentator put it this way. Grace ceases to be grace if God is compelled to bestow it in the presence of human merit. Grace ceases to be grace if God is compelled to withdraw it in the presence of human demerit. Grace is just undeserved. That's the point. Romans chapter 4 and verses 4 and 5 explains grace this way. It says Now, to the one who works, his wage is not reckoned as a favor. You know, say thank you when you get your paycheck. I say, you know, that that's what's th they owe you that. They're supposed to get it to you. If they don't, they're breaking a law. So that you work for them and they owe you the paycheck. So now to the one who works, his wage is not reckoned as a favor, but as what is due. But to the one who does not work, listen to that, because some people come from uh one of these religious backgrounds where they think they're gonna sort of rely on grace and also on their good works. And here it contradicts that. It says, to the one who does not work, to the one who does not work, but believes In him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is reckoned as righteousness. You see, there's no work that mixes with grace. It's all of God Scripture is so clear about salvation by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone, it is amazing how many so-called Christian groups mess grace up. Listen, salvation is either a work that you have to contribute and work at, or it is a work of God's grace alone. It can never be both. Listen to Romans 11:6. If it is by grace, it is no longer on the basis of works. Otherwise, grace is no longer grace. Once you add 1% of human merit and work into grace, it's no longer grace. And that's not the good news of the gospel of the grace of God. So if someone is thinking to themselves, gee, I hope I'm going to get into heaven because I'm a pretty good person, at least compared to other people, you know that that person does not yet believe in the grace of God. They believe in themselves. They may sing about the grace of God, right? They may mention the grace of God in their prayers. They may nod when the grace of God is applauded in church. But like oil and water, grace and human works never mix. And if he still thinks he would get into heaven partially by being religious or by being good, he has no grace. Many churchgoers and even pastors, unfortunately, treat grace this way, like a shot that you might take in the arm, just to give you a little more strength so you can work a little bit harder at being a really good Christian and pleasing God and maybe one day getting in. But the grace of God was not given to man to supplement his efforts at his best, but was given to save man when he was at his worst. Isn't that what Romans 5. 8 says? God demonstrates his own love toward us in that while we were yet what? Sinners. What does that mean? Those who are undeserving, those breaking the law of God, those who were immoral, those who were liars. Those who were idolaters, while we were in that state, while we were practicing those things, Christ died for us. Notice in verse eight, so in Ephesians, we are saved by grace through what? Faith. Through faith, not works. Faith is not a work. Faith is a trust in someone else's work. The reason why you have to be saved by faith is you have to trust in what Christ did to save you, not something that you're going to do. Faith is a trust that goes outward, not inward Faith is a surrender. I can't do it. I'm not good enough. There's nothing here that I can do, no matter how hard I work on it. Save me. That's what faith is. It's a beggar's hand that is outreach. Please, Lord, have mercy on me, the sinner. Trusting that God is a generous and a gracious God. In fact, faith is the only channel by which grace can come to you. Because saving faith means to trust in what Christ did to save you. If you're trusting partially in yourself, then the faith that you're expressing is not really a faith in Christ's grace and you won't be saved that way. You're trying to be good, do better, be noticed by God, come to church a little more often, give a little extra money, do some more good deeds, throw it in there and hope that somehow that qualifies you But that's not grace. Now turn back to Titus two. We'll see this. Here in Titus two, verse eleven The grace of God actually is referring to a person, to the whole event of Jesus Christ's coming. The grace of God refers to Christ coming down to earth to save us. Notice it says, the grace of God has what? Appeared. Appeared, the grace of God has appeared. What does that mean? Well, an attribute of God cannot appear all by itself. An attribute of God is not something that's tangible. An attribute of God did not come down and appear in human history. Who did appear? Jesus did. He appeared in human history. That is what we celebrate at Christmas. The incarnation of the Son of God, his entrance into the world and his appearing his public appearance was at the his baptism with the John the Baptist By the Jordan River, he went off and he was tempted. Then he appeared in Judea and in Galilee and began preaching and teaching and healing. And so he made an appearance and he was there. But this is referring to His whole life coming down that entire time from conception until resurrection and ascension is considered his first coming to earth and it's called an appearance. The grace of God has appeared, you see Jesus is the help, the undeserved help that God offered. Jesus is the grace of God. There are other scriptures that affirm this. In the Gospel of John, chapter 1, verse 14, very famous verse, it says the Word of God, that's referring to Christ The Word became flesh, that means the eternal word, the Son of God, became a human being and lived among us, and we saw his glory, glory as of the only begotten of the Father, and then it says this. Full of what? Grace. He was full of grace. The attribute of God was seen in his life. He was full of grace and truth. And then in verse 16, same chapter, John writes, For of his fullness we have all received, and grace upon grace And then a contrast is made, for the law was given through Moses. What does that mean? All the tough standards about the way God says you must live, you must be holy, you must never break a commandment of God. That's what came through Moses. The law was given through Moses, but grace and truth were realized through Jesus Christ. This grace thing is connected to Christ and realized through his life. So Christ is the grace. Christ is God's help. Christ is the gift given to help us where we cannot help ourselves. Second Corinthians eight and verse nine. Jot that one down and think on its beauty. Second Corinthians eight and nine. For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sake he became poor. so that you through his poverty might become rich. That's grace. He's rich. He doesn't need us. We're poor. We need him. He decides to leave his riches, become poor, so that we can become rich. That's grace. Some have made an acronym out of that, God's riches at Christ's expense. It kind of comes from that that verse here. I like Acts. fifteen eleven too it says, but we believe that we are saved through the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ in the same way as they also are, Jew and Gentile 1 Corinthians 16, 23 says, The grace of the Lord Jesus be with you. Isn't that a nice blessing? Do you see why you see in the Bible over and over again, peace be with you, and then you see another blessing, right? The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ. be with you. And please notice the grace of God, that is Christ, appeared. Appeared. This too is a wonderful, wonderful word. It's an aorist passive verb, epiphino, a verb that means to appear or to shine. It's made up of two parts. There's the verb fino, which means to shine And then there's the preposition epi, which means to be upon or over, so it comes to mean to shine upon or to bring to light or to appear. We get our word epiphany from that Christmas is an epiphany. Christmas is an appearance, you see. It pictures light suddenly breaking into darkness That's actually literally what it means in Acts 27-20, where it talks about neither sun or stars had appeared in the sky during a storm that lasted for many days. Sometimes it refers to people when they make an appearance. For example, in Matthew 27-53, this verb is used of some resurrected people at the time of Christ's resurrection that uh Old Testament saints that entered into Jerusalem, the holy city, and it says there appeared to many, same word. In the Greek and the Roman world, they used this word also. They used it sometimes of one of their gods that they claimed made an appearance. So when it appeared, they would use this epipino verb. Sometimes he was used of a majestic like a king who would come and he would make his appearance, he would appear on his throne or he would appear in battle, and all of a sudden There he was. The man of sin, also dubbed the Antichrist in Scripture, will have an appearance as well. 2 Thessalonians 2. 8 Here in Titus 2. 11, appeared is the main verb of this entire section. Grace is the subject, appeared is the verb, and that's the main thought of this entire section. The verb appeared is put out in front of the Greek sentence to give it emphasis. It's like appeared the grace of God, you see And by the way, since it's a past tense verb, it means that this has happened and it's over with. There was an appearance, there was an epic event, and it happened in our past. What does it refer to? Obviously, the first historic revolutionary and transforming appearance of Jesus Christ in this world. Paul, writing here under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit says that this is no mere hype. This is true substance. There was a real appearing. Christmas is not a fairy tale. It's not It's not fiction. It's it's not a nice little tale that we say to children. It is rejoicing in something that has extremely strong historic evidence and testimony. It's about powerful truth It refers to the whole first coming of Christ, the totality of what his appearance on the world stage meant from conception and birth all the way through. His incarnation. It's all viewed as one event, one snapshot. Christ appeared. The grace of God appeared, you see. The grace of God has appeared. You look forward in the chapter 3 of Titus, verse 4, just for a moment, you'll see he uses it again. He says, but when the kindness of God, our Savior, and His love for mankind appeared, now you have kindness and love appearing along with grace, you see. There it is. Salvation, of course, follows because of that. This is how the Apostle Paul would often write about that first coming of Christ. He called it an appearance, such as in 2 Timothy 1:10. It says it now has been revealed by the appearing of our Savior, Christ Jesus, who abolished death and brought life and immortality to light through the gospel. John also uses the same term. 1 John 3. 80 says, the Son of God appeared for this purpose to destroy the works of the devil, looking at his entire life as an appearance. Peter also uses the same verb in 1 Peter 1 20 Christ was foreknown before the foundation of the world, but has appeared in these last times for the sake of you So God always knew him, but he's made his appearance, where the light has shone on him, so to say. He stepped onto the human stage. He's there and manifest so all can see he has made his appearance. Jesus, the grace of God, appeared in human history for us. It's astounding. It's beautiful. It's wonderful. He came to save us. That's what comes next, right? The grace of God appeared. Notice next, look back at it, bringing salvation to all men. Bringing salvation. It sounds like a verb, doesn't it? Bringing salvation, but there's actually no verb there in bringing. So terias is really an adjective that's functioning like an adverb. It describes the effects of the grace of God appearing. It's without an article, so what that means is it's the quality of salvation. It means God's grace has appeared in a saving way, with saving power. That's why it translates it, bringing salvation. Grace has appeared in a saving way, savingly. It brings or provides or leads to the salvation of men. Why is that? Because God is the Savior. Look back at verse 10 again. God is the mighty deliverer. God is the Savior. We're to adorn the doctrine of God, our Savior. God is a savior. God is interested in saving people. God is not interested in punishing them. God is not interested in sending them to hell. He will do that, but where his heart is, is as a savior. He's the savior of all men. If people go to hell, they go to hell because they neglect his salvation. Remember what Hebrews 2 says? How will we escape the wrath of God? if we neglect so great a salvation. If such a great deliverance has come by the grace of God appearing on human history and someone says, Bah humbug to God's deliverance Then they will face the torrents of eternal shame and pain and rejection and blackness and darkness, and that is a real and a literal hell You can't neglect the salvation offered of God, it's to not realize that you yourself are corrupt and need saving The death of Jesus Christ is powerful to save anybody. The atonement of Jesus Christ is not limited in its power It's only limited in its final effect because God demands repentance from sin and faith in his son, and if you don't, then you will face the wrath of God, and the death of Jesus will not benefit you at all. God is the Savior of men. Love that. God is the Savior, He is the deliverer. He brings salvation. Men are ruined, men are lost, men are in danger, but God is the Savior, you see. God initiates salvation. God desires salvation for all. God wants for salvation for all. He has a heart of saving grace. Now, we have to say that it is true that we're not delivered out of all of our troubles in life, are we? I mean, we have to go through a lot of pains, and sometimes we say, God deliver me, and he doesn't deliver us. It lets us suffer a little bit and we wonder, is this really true? I was talking with the father of the bride out of the wedding I did in New Mexico, and he's a firefighter out there in the West. And we got to talking about the the firefighters who were very suddenly burned to a crisp in Arizona where the the the fire rushed up the hillside so fast they couldn't even get the protected gear on in time and a whole slew of these these firefighters were lost and were killed. They were not delivered. They were not saved. They were burned and they died. When it comes to life in this world, God doesn't guarantee that we're not going to die. In fact, He tells us to get ready for death. He doesn't deliver us out of all of our pain. He doesn't deliver us out of our death presently in a temporal sense. Ultimately, he does That's the promise of John 11. 25, where Christ said, I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in me will live even if he dies. There will be a bodily resurrection of any of those firefighters who put their trust in the Lord Jesus Christ. Same for you There is ultimately the greatest kind of deliverance that transcends and is greater than any kind of deliverance we'd get in a smaller sense. We we are so concerned about the smaller ways to deliver us. Deliver me from financial ruin, O Lord Deliver me from whatever my boss who's gonna yell at me when I get to work. Deliver me from I didn't study too well for this test, help me do well this test. And we want all these little minor deliverances. And God says, you know, none of that stuff in the light of eternity really matters. When you're raised from the dead, you're not going to be pouting that you died You get the focus of eternity, and you understand the greatest, most long-lasting, joyous deliverance has been given to us in Christ. Our salvation, too, is permanent. That's why it's called eternal life, not temporary life. Imagine getting saved. Some people think you get saved, and what you got was temporary life. No, you got eternal life. In John 10, Jesus said, No one can snatch you out of the Father's hand once you're saved. You're put in there. No one's hand is greater than the Father's hand. No one will snatch you out of the hand. That's where you are. You're saved. You're delivered by the mighty hand of God, you see. And listen, God has always been a savior. Some people say, you know, the God of the Old Testament was a God of wrath. I don't like him. But the God of the New Testament, well, he is cool. And he loves people. Well, they don't read the Old Testament and they don't read the New Testament. You can just tell. Psalm 18, 2, by the way, that's in the Old Testament. The Lord is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer, my God, my rock, in whom I take refuge. What does that mean? I run inside of him and I'm covered and I take refuge, you see. My shield and the horn of my salvation, my stronghold. I think there's a song made up that Psalm 96, 2, sing to the Lord, bless his name, proclaim good tidings of his salvation from day to day. And Jonah 2. 9, I love that. It just simply says, salvation is from the Lord. What does that mean? It means it's not from me. There's no good works in it. It also means it's not from another God. There's only one name, Yahweh, that saves Christ is Yahweh, right? It also means that you can't even ultimately determine your salvation. You can't even muster your own faith, God has to grant it to you Salvation from beginning to end, bookends, is from the Lord. How about Acts 4. 12? Now, by the way, we go into the New Testament. No difference. And there is salvation and no one else, for there is no other name under heaven that has been given among men by which we must be saved. Christ. Romans 1:16. Am I not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for what? Salvation to anyone who believes, to the Jew first and also to the Greek. How about we just keep going all the way to the end of the Bible? Revelation 19:1. After these things, I heard something like a loud voice of a great multitude in heaven saying, Hallelujah! Salvation! And glory and power belong to our God. He's the Savior. Old Testament, New Testament And God saves any and all who come to Him for deliverance. If you're thinking He won't save me, you're wrong. If you're thinking that your sins are too great, you're wrong. God saves any who come. Because it says it brings salvation not to some men, not to a certain class of men, but to all men. You notice that? Bringing salvation not to the elite Bringing salvation not to the Jews only, bringing salvation to what? All men. Now not every last person on earth gets saved. We know that from the rest of the Bible. Not every person even hears about Christ the Savior. But all classes and nationalities of people are being saved, slaves and freemen, Jews and Gentiles, young and old, male and female, he's come for all men. Christ did not appear for a small group of people. Salvation is not for a small bunch of elites. Christianity is for the whole world. Christianity spreads throughout the whole world. Christianity spread very quickly throughout the whole world. It was not a local religion. It was a true religion that was for a God who had made all of mankind, and so the message was to spread throughout all of the world. Christianity is for Buddhists. Christianity is for Muslims. Christianity is for Hindus and Atheists and Shintoists and Taoists and whatever else there are out there. It's for all. It's a universal offer of salvation for all. It's for the whole world. Salvation is for all men. Not all get saved. Salvation is universally offered, but not universally accepted. Grace is sufficient for all men, but efficient only for those who believe and come and say, Deliver me But salvation is brought to all men. It's to be proclaimed to all men. We have no idea who the elect are. We're not supposed to know who the elect are. We're just supposed to proclaim the gospel to all men. It is made available to them. It's as if every single table needs to be served, and it's served with the offer of the grace of God, you see. It is proclaimed to all men. That same theme is heard in the pastoral epistles. 1 Timothy 2, verses 3 and 4 says, This is good and acceptable in the sight of God, our Savior, who desires all then to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth. 1 Timothy 4 10. We have fixed our hope on the living God, who is the Savior of all men, especially of believers. Please don't sit there and stubbornly refuse such a great salvation offer from God Almighty in the heavens to you. Jesus said, What are you going to give in exchange for your soul? What would it profit you if you gained all the things that you're lusting after and craved them? You gained the whole world and you had it all. Bill Gates looks like a popper next to you and you've got it all. You have the power you have the money of the best doctors. You can do whatever you want here face because you can bring some doctor in, you can fix it all up, make yourself a little better, maybe even figure out how to make yourself three inches taller. You got it all. What does it profit you if you gain all of that? Everyone's popularity, everyone's admiration, and you forfeit your soul. What are you going to give in exchange for your soul? What's the logic in that? How foolish that is. The most precious thing you have is yourself. Give yourself to the one who can save you, deliver you, and keep you all the way to eternity. We're all sinners. We say that as a cliche, but we're all sinners. I'm a sinner There there is a sense in which I do not have a right to stand here and open this holy book and preach it to you. I I even sinned this week in thought, preparing this message, and thought that very thought, God, if it were not for your grace, I don't know why I should stand up and tell anybody else anything at all. But it is his word, so we proclaim it, and we're all sinners. We all do not deserve what we have. None of us do. We're all sinners, we're all under the grace of God. But we all rejoice in the provision of grace. We it i uh you some of you have told me your stories and I know about your backgrounds and you know about my background. There's there's sin there, there's what displeased God. We we we've all violated the law We're all guilty. And even after we come to Christ, we still sin and thought and word and deed. And there's a humility that we should have before this. And there's a joy that we should have with it, right? And God, knowing all of the sins that I was to commit, still went ahead and died for me anyway. His grace for me undeserved. Do you feel that way? Therefore, let us draw near with confidence to the throne of grace, so that we may receive mercy And find grace to help in time of need. Don't draw away from the throne. Don't be proud. Don't act like you already have a religion. You're already fine the way you are. Come to Christ. Come to Christ. Receive His grace. Humble your heart. Let us also, those of us who have received His grace, have a heart warmed by grace. Yes? Have our heart reignited by grace. Remember what it is that we've been given. Be excited about grace. Get loud about grace. Proclaim grace to everybody that moves. Find them. Tell them. I'm a sinner. I've been saved by the grace of Christ. You know what the grace of Christ is? Ask somebody that question this week. Do you know what grace is? I say yeah it's a girl's name. No, it's more than that. It's more than that. And then lead right into the gospel But I do not consider my life of any account as dear to myself, so that I may finish my course and the ministry which I received from the Lord Jesus to testify solemnly of the gospel of the grace of God. Make that your theme this Christmas season. To solemnly like Paul testify Of the gospel of the grace of God. Acts 20, verse 24. Let's get our hearts ready for the Lord's Supper. Father, we are grateful to you for your grace. Not grateful enough. Forgive us for taking advantage of your grace. Help us next Lord's Day to learn about the instruct value of grace, how it teaches us to deny ungodliness and worldly desire and to live righteously. In the present age. Help us to hunger for that in our heart. Help us to learn from your grace. As we receive the benefit of grace, help us to learn from grace. And help us now as we come to the table To rejoice in grace as well. It is in Christ's name, of course, we pray and have access to you, the throne of grace. Amen.