Now that we have our hearts prepared with the greatness of our Lord, prepared to hear God's word, let's open our Bibles to 1 Corinthians. Chapter one, the letter of First Corinthians. We're in chapter one presently. The subject that we're going to be dealing with the next few weeks, I think, could easily be misunderstood. And so let me say from the outset that I am not opposed to education. My wife and I both were educators, taught 10 years in a Christian school, two different Christian schools. And we both take the education of our children, like many of you, seriously. Sue has homeschooled our kids from kindergarten all the way. through high school and our eldest daughter Hannah, many of you know is in her second year of college. She's doing well. Thank you for prayers for her Sue and I are also both college graduates. Spent 16 years of our education and public education in Maryland, including college time. I went on to earn two master's degrees. in theological education. I support education. I still consider myself here an educator And I can say I appreciate a good part of my education, particularly the things my seminary professors drilled into my head about coming to scripture and the Bible and all areas related to that seriously and studying it carefully. Education has helped, I think, every person in this room. To learn to weigh evidence carefully, to look at issues on different sides, to try to understand that, then to formulate our ideas, and then also to express ourselves in a meaningful and clear way. But though I am not opposed to education, I also clearly see the negative effects on society of an education. That is not based upon divine revelation. An education that is attempted to be done apart from the bedrock foundation of God's unfailing word. At best, there are limitations to secular education in that there's a lot that they're not told and that they're shielded from. Since it explain it fails to explain so much of the meaning of life. At worst, such an education results in harmful deceptions Which leave the students with a faulty paradigm on which to understand their lives. Unfortunately, while our society resolutely encourages and exhorts our children, for example, to read to achieve one of their slogans, they don't conclusively tell our children achieve what? And why? And for what purpose? And for whose glory? Very important questions. Yes, education can serve a noble purpose, but it can also intensify misconceptions and false beliefs. One illustration for now will suffice. Typically, when studies of this nature are done, it is found in America, that is, that the more educated someone is, the less religious he tends to be. Equally, the less educated someone is, the more they are likely to participate in religion and believe in God. That is generally accepted as fact, and I do not dispute it. Well, what does that reveal? How is one to interpret that data when it is collected? One way to interpret it is that the more one knows, the less he will bother himself with superstitions such as the Bible and God. that religion is for the ignorant, but those who are in touch with modern discoveries, well, they know better. Of course, that explanation fails in that it cannot give an adequate reason for the millions who were thoroughly educated and still believe in God and the full truthfulness of Scripture, even when they were educated in intensely hostile environments to Christianity. A second way to interpret those studies is that, generally speaking, the educational system in America is biased against religion. And the more one is immersed in a secular system of thinking, the more likely he is to develop the misconception that science, education, logic, and the like oppose true religion, when in fact they do not Science is not opposed to religion since they deal with different areas of examination, one physical, the other metaphysical. In the case of the Bible, much scientific analysis Corroborates its history. However, strictly speaking, scientific observation cannot address the question of the existence of God or spirit world. Of course, this second interpretation would be rejected by the educational elite. For if it were true, it would be quite embarrassing, don't you think? To those who pride themselves on leading the students into the light to not have achieved light at all. Yet there is much evidence that the second interpretation is a better explanation of the data, for it is almost unheard of in a public secular environment to find someone who is adequately defending biblical truth as real history and it makes their students learn facts of creation science. That absence of such learning, which is almost universal, I think if all are honest Would be enough proof of the existence of that bias. So it's not surprising that the more one spends time in a biased environment, that simply will reinforce that bias. And thus you have the product at the end. So education can convey wisdom or it can advance myth. Not all learning is equal That tension between true wisdom and false wisdom, true education and false education is at the heart of the passage we come to not only this week, but in the weeks to come. Look at verses 18 through 31 with me and we'll read the entire section. Actually, I'm going to begin at the middle of verse 17, because this is where Paul picks up his thought. He says, Christ did not send me to baptize, but to preach the gospel, and here's where we pick up, not in cleverness of speech, so that the cross of Christ would not be made void. For the word of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved, it is the power of God For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and the cleverness of the clever I will set aside. Where is the wise man? Where is the scribe? Where is the debater of this age? Has not God made foolish the wisdom of the world? For since in the wisdom of God the world through its wisdom did not come to know God, God was well pleased through the foolishness of the message preached to save those who believe For indeed Jews asked for signs, and Greeks searched for wisdom. But we preach Christ crucified. To Jews a stumbling block, and to Gentiles foolishness. But to those who are the called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ, the power of God and the wisdom of God. Because the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than For consider your calling, brethren, that there were not many wise according to the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble. But God has chosen the foolish things of the world to shame the wise, and God has chosen the weak things of the world to shame the things which are strong and the base things of the world and the despised God has chosen. The things that are not So that he might nullify the things that are, so that no man may boast before God. But by his doing you are in Christ Jesus, who became to us wisdom from God and righteousness. and sanctification and redemption. So that just as it is written, let him who boasts boast in the Lord. Now, as we study these words together, I want us to remember that we're in a much larger section here that spans from verse 10 of chapter 1 all the way to the end of chapter 4, chapter 4, verse 21. That section is concerning itself with wor worldly factions within the church. If you remember from last time, looking back through verses ten through seventeen. Paul was exhorting Christian unity in the local church, and he was exposing all the bickering that was occurring over polarization over personalities that was harming the church there in Corinth. We ended up last week in the middle of verse 17 with Paul expressing what his priority in his ministry was, and that was not baptism about which they were rallying around, but the preaching of what? The gospel, preaching the gospel, the word of the cross. We stopped in the middle of verse 17 because verse 17 is a transitional verse. It's a verse which introduces the theme that we're going to be immersed in here for some time to come. If you look at verse 17 again, you'll notice that Paul in verse 17 basically writes two things. First, he tells them, My priority as an apostle is not baptism, but preaching the gospel. That's the first thing he says. And then next he writes that the preaching of the gospel is incompatible with human wisdom Those two points in verse 17, and verse 17 is important because from verse 18 all the way into chapter 3 and 4, really, that tells us what Paul is going to be writing about. He takes those two points and he reverses them in order. And then he elaborates on that in our passage today, starting in verse 18, all the way to chapter 2 and verse 16. Paul is going to show why the cross of Jesus Christ is incompatible with human wisdom. That's what he's doing in that section. Wisdom from God is diametrically opposed to the system of thinking that is present in this world. And then in chapter 3, verse 1, all the way to chapter 4, verse 13, and maybe a little further. He goes back to his role as an apostle, to that of church leaders and gives their proper function. Since the cross is the way it is and the message of the cross means this, what then should be the role of church leaders, of apostles, of preachers? And remember, in dealing with these two topics, he's not directly talking about the divisions in the church, but he is addressing the problems that lay behind or underneath those divisions that were occurring in Corinth. And so in this chapter, I think Paul is forcefully teaching, forcefully teaching the Corinthian church through the use of the wisdom of the cross of Christ. He says the wisdom of the cross of Christ is not understood by the world. There is a worldly wisdom and a worldly education that is proud, it's self-centered, and it's blind, it's limited and its perspective. And that kind of thinking has led to the factions in the church. In short, what Paul is trying to do is simply this. The wisdom, to say this, the wisdom of the cross is antithetical to worldly wisdom. The wisdom of the cross is antithetical to worldly wisdom. And to prove that proposition and maybe just to drill it into their minds Paul provides a number of strange statements throughout this passage. In fact, they're like upside down kind of statements. They seem to be reversed, they seem to be all backwards, and he makes one after another after another. So that everything that we think is true, he just inverts it and spans it on his head. Everything is topsy-turvy in this section. Each one of these propositions, each one of these statements brings out what is wrong with the way people in the world think. And I think he does it very effectively. This is such a rich and a practical and a needed passage for us in the world today. We're going to take a few weeks to go through it as we try to absorb it. All right, here's our outline. First Reversed or upside down statement. Statement number one that seems reversed. And that's simply this. Wise speech Voids the cross. That doesn't seem right. Wise speech voids the cross. Look at the last part of verse 17, because that's what he's saying. He says, not in cleverness of speech, so that the cross of Christ would not be made void. That is an upside down statement. You would expect Paul to say something like, clever speech supports and explains and advances the cross of Jesus Christ. By the way, the word cleverness is Sophia. That's just the normal word for wisdom. It's just the normal word for wisdom. And the word speech is lagos. That's a normal word also for word or speech or or teaching And so cleverness of speech literally is this: it's wisdom of words. He says, wisdom of words would void the message of the cross. Now wisdom of words sounds good. That sounds like something that is a good thing. Wisdom is something that should buttress and support and flow with and along with God's word. But Paul says the opposite here. He says that if he used wisdom of words, wisdom of speech, that would actually void the message of the cross. How could that work? How could wisdom of words void the cross? Well, because it's the wrong kind of wisdom. That is why we see Paul explaining a lot about wisdom in this section. I found it fascinating here that the word wisdom is used sixteen times in chapters one and two. Sixteen times. You know he's talking about wisdom when he uses a word like that over and over. The word wise, Tophas is used four times, the word foolish is used two times, the word foolishness five times, the word wiser one time. This is the topic of the chapter. This is what it's about. It just permeates the section. Sometimes, as Paul uses that term, he's talking about true wisdom from God. Other times he's talking about the supposed wisdom of men within the world So when Paul says that he did not preach the gospel in words of wisdom, or wisdom of words, literally, that refers to the wisdom of men's word. The wisdom of men refers to Greek philosophical wisdom in that context. As it says if you glance down to verse 22, Paul said, Greeks search for what? Wisdom. They want to know wisdom. That's what the Greeks did. Yet it does also include the foolishness of the Jewish leaders who crucified Jesus, according to, if you look all the way forward to chapter 2 and verse 8, they didn't understand God's wisdom and so they put to death the Messiah. It's also in the passage called the wisdom of the world, down in verse 20. It is a wisdom that is a merely human wisdom, according to verse 25. In chapter 2, verse 5, it's called the wisdom of men. So this is wisdom that comes from men. It's human education. That is, it starts with man, it considers only man and his ideas, and it ends with man, human education. It's thoroughly human. It never in its learning takes into consideration God's revelation, what God has said about Himself, about this world, about us, about our mission, about the meaning of life. All of that is set outside the realm of education there. So again, the main thesis of what is following here is that human wisdom, human education, human learning, human insight Would void the message of the cross of Jesus Christ. How could anyone void the cross of Christ I mean didn't Christ already accomplish everything he was supposed to upon the cross, right? Didn't he already pay for the sins of the world? Did he not already die for man? How could anyone void that? I mean, what's done is done. The cross is where Jesus was crucified, right? He paid for our sins It's a place Jesus shed his blood. We just sang about that. He poured out his life for us as a payment to God. He was making a payment. Why? Because we had offended God. God is holy, and every one of us are sinners, and every one of us has offended God And so he made that payment. So if we would abandon our sinful lives and trust in him, God would give us a new life, eternal life. It's that simple. Jesus was innocent of sin himself. He never sinned in any way. Nevertheless, he allowed himself to be condemned as a sinner, as a criminal. To demonstrate God's love and his willingness to forgive all who would trust in Christ. And that work is done, right? It's all over with. Didn't Jesus accomplish that already? The cross can't be voided. Jesus even cried out from the cross, it is what? Finished, I've accomplished the work. So how could it be voided? Well, the verb void is kana'o, and it means to make empty, to deprive of substance, to dwindle down to nothing, to make vain or void. So something that's made void would not work, it would not accomplish anything, it would leave the person empty-handed. So yes, we can say the cross did indeed accomplish something. And the word of the cross, the message of the cross still accomplishes things today. But Paul did not want to preach the gospel with words of human wisdom Because if he did that, he believed the message of the cross of Christ would be made void to the hearers. Worldly wisdom, if used, would empty the message of the cross of its meaning and its power. If worldly wisdom is that bad, then shouldn't we attempt to know what he's talking about? What is worldly wisdom? What exactly is it? I think in this passage Worldly wisdom is being defined as as encompassing not only wrong content, that is a wrong message, but it also is talking about a sensational style of rhetoric that the Greeks engaged in. It refers both to the content, thus you see the word wisdom, and also refers to the form in which it was presented, thus you see the word Word, wisdom of words, philosophical rhetoric, cleverness of speech, as the Nasbee translates it. As you read what follows in the passage, it clearly includes both false content, that is, philosophical speculations. Because it's contrasted with the message of the cross, but it also includes a flashy style that's devoid of meaningful content. Because Paul also writes against the superiority of speech or of mighty skill in oration. See, the Greeks valued style. They valued rhetoric a lot. And Paul's not attacking a good use of language when it's grounded in the cross. No one can read 1 Corinthians 13, for example. And not say, wow, that's a beautiful description of love. Love is patient. Love is kind. He's not condemning that use of language. But fancy speech which would seek to impress the audience by winning arguments through rhetorical display rather than content. Clever rhetoric to the Greeks was often superficial. They would take any side of a debate and show how well learned they were by debating it and debating it and make it seem wonderful and get people astonished with it and move their emotions to their side to win approval ratings because of speech Paul is saying here that there is an eloquence that elevates the status of the preacher rather than advancing the message of the cross. The Baker exegetical commentary, I think, nails it down here. I'm going to quote him. To preach the gospel intending to charm and captivate the crowds with clever words in order to enhance one's own prestige only empties the cross of its effect. Preaching the cross, Paul articulates in chapter 1, verses 18-25, invites derision, not applause. In the cross, God seeks not human ovations, but contrition. What is inspired is not the preacher, but the word that is preached. Paul finds it contemptible to think that preachers could ever exploit the proclamation of one who was crucified as a means to upgrade their own worldly status, but that is what was going on at Corinth. In other words, the dynamic of the cross would be replaced with the dynamic of rhetorical persuasion And in a Christian context, that could result in many, many baptisms that could look good on the outside, but very few true converts. It can result in a lot of External conversion, but not touching the depths of a person. The Bible Knowledge commentary says this brilliantly persuasive eloquence may win a person's mind, but not his heart Whereas the unadorned words of the gospel, thought seemingly foolish by human standards, are made effective by the Spirit of God. Doctor Grimacki says if worldly logic or non-scriptural reasons are used to move sinners to a decision for Christ, then the cross has been stripped of its divine significance. And the Liberty New Testament commentary says, this truth, that is the truth of the gospel, needs no artificial dress. Now Paul's going to expound on this later in chapter 2, if you just look ahead for a moment in verses 1 through 5, and he says there, When I came to you to the Corinthians, brethren, I did not come with superiority of speech or of wisdom, proclaiming to you the testimony of God. For I determined to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and him crucified, and I was with you in weakness and in fear and in much trembling, and my message and my preaching were not in persuasive words of wisdom But in demonstration of the Spirit and of power. Why, Paul? Why did you do that? Why was that so important? Verse 5: So that your faith would not rest on the wisdom of men. But on the power of God. And then while you're there, look at verse six, because it also shows us that Paul did consider his speech to be wise. He actually did think his preaching was wise, but it was not the world's wisdom, not a wisdom they understood. It was God's. It was a different kind of wisdom. See, the Greeks also valued their philosophical speculations. They filled their minds with varying teachings. You can think of all of the Greek philosophers you studied in school. The meaning of light, what the gods were like, who the greatest God was, what the more basic elements were, what were the duty of human beings. We're told in Scripture the Athenians loved just to discuss something new. Paul warns in Colossians 2. 8 concerning the content of philosophy. See to it that no one takes you captive through philosophy and empty deception. according to the tradition of men, according to the elementary principles of the world rather than according to Christ. Don't listen to them. Don't be taken captive by them. In contrast, Paul was pretty simple. His preaching was direct and it was clear, and this is what he did. He just said, this is the truth. He didn't want anything to obscure the cross. When the cross was preached, he wanted to make sure they understood what he was talking about. Because its power lies in its unadorned form. Its success could never be carried on the back of the content of human philosophy or great Greek oratory style. The gospel was to be consumed raw, like sushi, not marinated and dressed up Paul calls the gospel in Romans 1. 16 the power of God unto salvation. That's what it is. That's what it is. The sophisticated speaking devices will not add any power to the power of God. In fact, to try to do that is already a disbelief in the power of God. Well, that's just that old message. We heard that a thousand times before. Paul was concerned that the gospel was heard right. and received correctly so that when it was received, the person's faith was really built by the power of God. No one would ever be able to shake someone who had a faith like that The more it was fluffed up with other things to make it interesting, the less clear that it was. Well, what were the people receiving when they received? Bringing this back to the present. There's so much there's so much I want to talk about. Just two examples I want to bring in our present situation and just briefly to show how this has influenced the the greater church of Christ in our world. In the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Liberalism, in a theological sense, infected the Protestant Church, particularly with modern critical theories of the Bible, questioning the truthfulness of God's word, outright denying miracles. And churches caved into their pessimistic view of the Bible. Churches like that are strewn all over the American landscape today. They deny the verbal inspiration of the Bible and its inerrancy. Human wisdom won out in those churches and denominations, and the power of God is no longer present in their churches. Had human wisdom brought directly into the church and taught in the church, thinking they were doing something wise and smart, keeping up with the spirit of the age, had all those wrong humanistic presuppositions to it ended up fragmenting the church. So you had wisdom that was brought in and it just divided the church. Because true believers can't function in in an environment like that. We can't be told the Bible's not true. That's our faith depends on that. And so they splintered the church. You want to know why there are many denominations in the church? That's one major reason. Wolves came into the church, they brought human philosophy with it, they said the Bible's not true, and it just fractured the Protestant church. More recently, the Evangelical Church is engaged in increasingly relying on worldly philosophy and fancy style and how to minister and outreach to the world in which it lives. Let's be relevant is the battle cry. They want to improve the ministry to the world. Marketing philosophies, stressing style over substance, permeate our church today. And that is also robbing the message of the cross of its power. Churches are filled, but they're filled with those wanting their ears tickled. And true converts are harder to find. The intrusion again of human philosophy, both in content and in style, is again fracturing the church, even now the evangelical church. That's what happens When human wisdom is allowed to come in and buddy up with the cross, it's going to fracture the church. That's what Paul was warning the Corinthians about. That's something we see displayed in our world in abundance today. Well, the second reverse statement that Paul says in here, another one of those upside-down statements, number two, is this a foolish cross Delivers mankind. That's verse 18. A foolish cross delivers mankind. Look what he writes here. For the word of the cross is Foolishness to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved, it is the power of God. That word for at the beginning of verse 18 shows that this begins the explanation of what he just stated at the end of verse 17. And that phrase the word of the cross means the message about Jesus' cross, right? The cross is the word. The cross is the message. That word, word, lagos, is the same exact word used in verse 17. The word of the cross is much different from the wisdom of words that the world dispenses Interesting that you can use the same term and mean entirely different things right there. Paul was not called to preach in the wisdom of Lagos, but there's another Lagos that is a message from God. The cross. And the cross is the cross on which our blessed Lord Jesus Christ died. The message of the cross is simply this: there is a Savior who died on a cross. to deliver mankind from wrath, the wrath of God to come. And that message is central to Christianity. You can't take the cross out of Christianity. There's no Christianity left after that The gospel itself is equated with the cross right here. The core of the gospel is the cross. That's not to minimize the resurrection of Jesus and his ascension and his other things that he did. But before you get to the resurrection and his exaltation, there first had to be crucifixion and death. And this message of the cross, Paul writes, is foolishness. The word foolishness is moria. We get our word moron from it And so this is a backward statement again because we have a message and it delivers, but it's considered to be stupidity, to be nonsense. And Paul words it this way because though the Corinthians had come to believe in the cross, they hadn't understood that cross all that well yet. I want to ask you, do you understand the message of the cross? Do you? Oh, I know you've heard it many times, but do you understand the message of the cross? I think many churchgoers don't. I don't think they understand it. Why was the message of the cross considered foolish? Well, because a cross wasn't something that was all that glorious, people. There was nothing glorious about a cross at all. It was something shameful. The cross was an instrument of execution by the Romans. It was a terrible, yea, a dreadful reality to them. They didn't even want to think about it A normal, respectable citizen of Rome or of Greece wouldn't even mention the word cross in their conversation. It was low-level base object in that society. Listen, crucifixion was reserved for slaves and and for those who were rebellious, insurgents, criminals Dr. Garland in his commentary says, It was not yet the old rugged cross sentimentalized in hymns, embalmed in stained glass windows perched on marble altars, or fashioned into gold charms. They didn't think of it that way. Linguistic and exegetical key to the Greek New Testament records Cicero and Orator and Statesman of Rome as saying The very word cross should be far removed not only from the person of a Roman citizen, but from his thoughts, his eyes, and his ears. So a bleeding, dying Jew on a criminal's shameful cross would seem to them to do absolutely nothing to advance humanity. And furthermore, Jesus, the one crucified, was crucified because he was rejected by even his own people, those who even knew the scriptures best. And as far as they could tell, Jesus was pathetically powerless to save himself from that cross. Listen, there are many, many things that our cultured and educated world will honor. Back then and now. If someone is a great artist, they will gain acclaim. A great musician, a great architect, a great author, even a great general on the battlefield They'll all take notice of someone like that. If someone launches a successful business, they can write a book about it. Or invent something handy. Everyone is appreciative. Or have some other great skill, that's something the world can get their mind around and they can laud. But the Christian message is none of those things at all. It is the story of a crucified Savior. The Christian message is about crucifixion, the cross, death, blood, shame. You're gonna have a hard time trying to spruce that message up. How do you attach beauty to something that seems heinous to its citizens? How do you make people like something that's odious to even mention? John MacArthur says that one man could die on a piece of wood on a nondescript hill in a nondescript part of the world and thereby determine the destiny of every person who has ever lived seems stupid It allows no place for man's merit, man's attainment, man's understanding, or man's pride When Peter first heard of a crucified Messiah, do you remember how he reacted? May it never be, Lord! God forbid. See, Paul is teaching the Corinthians that you cannot add human wisdom or beautiful rhetoric to the cross. You can't dress it up and make it seem nice. It is offensive from the get-go. It tells human beings God has rejected you the way Christ was rejected on the cross. That's what He thinks of you and your life and your sins. Unless you accept the payment of Christ on the cross, you will perish in that manner, and even worse So when the word of the cross is preached, the plain, simple, straightforward truth is what God wants people to hear, and it is what God will use as the power to save them. Don't have to worry whether or not you can preach well or not. Just present the gospel. Once someone grasps the meaning of the gospel, the Spirit of God will kick in and will convert them. If it is God's pleasure to do so. Notice very importantly, it is not foolish to everybody. I hope it's not foolish to you. It's only foolish to those who are what? Perishing. That is the one and only way in which Paul describes them here. The cross is foolishness to those who are Being eliminated, who are perishing, who are coming to ruin. Who are they? They're unbelievers. All non-Christians are unbelievers and are perishing. The word perishing Apaluni means to ruin. to be lost. The word does not mean to pass out of existence, by the way, but to come to ruin, to be disintegrated, to be destroyed. It is the extinguishing not of being but of a quality of life. And Paul divides all of mankind into two groups, those perishing and those being saved. And those are not future tense verbs right there, but present tense verbs. Showing the present reality, some are perishing, some are being saved. That is what God is doing now. Everyone in the world is either someone God is in the process of saving or someone that is in the process of being destroyed. Everybody fits that category. It's the only true way to divide humanity today. And who is who is determined by how they respond to the message of the cross. If they think it's foolishness, they're perishing. If they believe it, they're being saved. If you do not associate with the shame of the cross of Jesus Christ, the foolishness of that cross, If you do not see the wisdom in what God did upon the cross, if you do not cast yourself upon the Son of God for mercy, then you are one of those Paul says is perishing. You're headed to destruction. But hopefully most of us are not in that category. Paul writes, to us who are being saved, that same word of the cross is power. It is power, the power of God. The word power dunavis means ability. It does what it is supposed to do. It accomplishes what God wants it to do. It enables a divine act. It will deliver. It will rescue. It will save anybody who believes. Anybody It is not just a message about God's power, it is itself God's power. And it works to result in the salvation of men. It delivers the soul for all of eternity. It opens the eyes of the blind. It imparts life to those who are dead. It transforms the sinful desires of people. God will use that message and that message alone. To unleash his power, his saving power. The message is sovereign, not the messenger. The messenger doesn't need that much skill. The power is in the gospel There is no other message that God will ever use to save people, for there is no other message that conveys his wisdom to man. Notice Paul puts himself in one group. Us who are being saved. We're the believers in the cross. We're the ones who are not perishing. But are being saved. Again, the Baker exegetical commentary puts it so well. Quote Since the cross represents painful death and profound humiliation, it calls into question the conventional wisdom about power and the divine The ancients took for granted that deities possess power, and the degree of their power determined their ranking in the pyramid of gods. In the cross that pyramid is turned upside down. The most powerful God appears to be the most powerless. Victory is won by giving up life, not taking it. God offers a new paradigm that makes the experience of shame the highest path to glory and honor. Who would have thought of that in the ancient world but the true God? No wonder Paul says in Galatians 6. 14, May it never be that I would boast except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. Is this not sufficient reason for all of us here at Hope Bible Church to be fully dedicated to disseminating the message about the cross of Jesus Christ? Is it not? Should we not be doing everything within our power by the power which the Lord supplies to get that message out to people? God's wisdom is in it. It is not human education that will bring them to understanding it is the message of the cross and we have that message. It is our duty to get it out. It is our duty to work hard at it. One is either going to reach a fabulous, fabulous eternal inheritance and great glory, or he is going to descend into the lowest pit of everlasting destruction. And the message of the cross is what's going to determine it for them. This morning we're going to consider one more upside-down statement. And that is a God who actively opposes the wise. A God who actively opposes the wise. That's number three in verses nineteen and twenty. Paul writes, For it is written, I will destroy The wisdom of the wise, and the cleverness of the clever I will set aside. Where is the wise man? Where is the scribe? Where is the debater of this age? Has not God made foolish the wisdom of the world? This is backwards again. Do you see why? You'd expect God to be on the side of the wise. God should be there helping and advancing the cause of the wise. But the wisdom, again, is a worldly wisdom. And so here Paul says it is written. And he goes back to Scripture very wisely. He relied on previous scripture to ground and prove his message. When Paul says, For it is written, he's saying it stands written, and therefore what is about to be said is true. Gagraptai. It's a perfect tense verb. It is written. It stands written to this day, and its consequence lasts till today. And Paul is using this quote to show that there is a sharp antithesis between the wisdom of the world and that of God. Paul is showing that God has always been opposed to human wisdom. This is how he operates even from Old Testament times. Man has never been able to match wits with God. He said he would destroy the wisdom of the wise and the cleverness of the clever, and that comes from the prophet Isaiah 29 and verse 14. And this was God declaring this I will destroy the wisdom of the wise. Those are God's words. That's what He said He's going to do. I will destroy Apolumi again. I will bring it to ruin. The cleverness of the clever I will set aside, I will te'o, I will reject it, I'll bring it to ruin, and I'll reject it. All that they consider to be wise and clever and insightful Plever is the word sunus, which means to put together. It means insight, the putting of two and two together to come to a conclusion It's usually the application of wisdom in a certain circumstance. God says he's going to eliminate and make useless and destroy that kind of wisdom and insight. This is a clear statement of God's opposition to the wisdom of the world. God is against worldly education. He is against it. He says he will destroy it. I don't know how anything could be clearer. And Paul really is asking these questions as a challenge. He issues three times. Where are, where are, where are they? Where are the ones who know? Does anyone think he knows anything that's greater than what I'm saying here that God has given me to say? Where are they? Let them stand up and speak. He's not really inviting them to learn anything here. He's challenging them. He's mocking their ignorance. He's issuing a threefold challenge. Where is the wise man? What does he really know? Where are they? The wise man was elite in that society. This probably refers to the Greek thinker, the philosopher. To value the study of the philosopher with his limited ability to grasp reality while setting aside the Bible entirely is cutting off learning, not advancing it. It's to put an end to true education. You can't have real education without the cross. Let me say that again. You can't have real education without the cross. You can't. Because you can't have any understanding without the cross. You can't be ha h how could you be educated if you don't understand? You don't understand you're not really a truly educated person the way God says it. And the only way you can have understanding is to understand the cross. J. Vernon McGee wrote, someone has defined philosophy as a blind man in a dark room looking for a black cat that isn't there. He had away, didn't he? Where is the scribe, Paul also says? This was the Jewish trade, the scribe, the one who copies and interprets the scripture. He's involved in the scrupulous study of minutiae. He's skilled, he's a professional. Scribes are constantly referred to in the Gospels as on the wrong side of the truth, opposing Christ. They too missed who Jesus was So he is including both Greeks and Jews in his denunciations here. And then he says, Where is the debater of this age? These were the orators, the ones who traveled around proclaiming what it is that they knew with their style This was the speaker of the age. This person argued philosophy and argued it well. And the Greeks loved to do that, though it led them absolutely nowhere. All three of these categories are the elite. They're the professionals of their day. They have given their entire lives to study. And to learning how to speak, and to analyzing and preserving. And since the cross of Jesus would fail to meet their little criteria, Then these great men and women of the world would quickly discard it. There's nothing there. There's nothing there for us. There's no insight there in the cross of Christ. And God says, and I have discarded your wisdom, because there's nothing in what you know that is true. What do the wise really have to say about God's work on the cross? Did the wise men of this world come up with that message? Which one of the scribes thought up that one? Where is there a debater of the age that's out there impressing this truth on the hearts of people? Because they're convinced it's true You see, they're all outside the realm of truth. They're outside the entire realm of God's education They haven't even got the beginning point of it. This is a total universal put-down of all the learning of men everywhere. Their classes, their education, their degrees, as far as God is concerned, is worthless in imparting truth. Put all of the intelligence together, let them reason, let them analyze, let them debate. They have nothing. They'll never get the truth. God won't even let them. And if they wanted to prove Paul wrong, all they had to do here was step forward and declare God's wisdom, but they couldn't. This goes for today. Nothing has changed. Do you think it has? Who's the wise man today? The scientist, the philosopher, the college professor? God is the same opinion of those people today. The debater of this age, the politician, the pundit, the statesman, the scribe, a scholar, a liberal Bible critic, a linguistic, maybe, a linguist What do these men and women today really know? God says they're out of touch with reality. There's a true mental illness, out of touch with reality. John MacArthur said, could the apostle have written anything more appropriate for our own day? Where have our great thinkers, our philosophers, sociologists, psychologists, economists, scientists, and statesmen brought us? Never before has mankind been so fearful of self-destruction. Or been so self-consciously perplexed perplexed, confused, and corrupt. Modern human wisdom has failed just as ancient human wisdom failed, except that its failures come faster and spread farther. The outer life improves in a material way, while the inner life seems to have correspondingly less meaning. The real issues are not solved. Human wisdom sometimes sees the immediate cause of a problem, but it does not see the root, which always is sin. It may see that selfishness is a cause of injustice, but it has no way to remove selfishness. It may see that hatred causes misery and pain and destruction, but it has no cure of hatred. It can see plainly that man does not get along with man, but does not see that the real cause is that man does not get along with God Human wisdom cannot see because it will not see. As long as it looks on God's wisdom as foolishness, its own wisdom will be foolishness. End quote. Has not God made foolish the wisdom of this world? That last question just brings it all together. You want to know what he's driving at? There it is. God has made foolish all the wisdom of our world God weighed them in the balances. God looked upon them. He saw them. He listened to them and he said, that's all Moria. It's foolishness. Ouch! That hurts the pride of man, doesn't it? Yeah, well, you know, all that you've done your whole life, God says, is foolishness. Well, Paul wasn't a hypocrite. He looked at all of his learning that he had under Gamelel the rabbi and he said, It's all done. All learning I had is nothing. Knowing Christ is everything. The wisest educators of our day, apart from the cross, God calls foolish. When it comes to knowing reality, to knowing what is true, they are m moronon, made foolish. God purposely opposes today's education. He frustrates it. He locks it out of the truth. God has stupefied human learning. Listen, the greatest halls of learning in this world are the pews and the classrooms where people are learning the meaning and the application of the cross of Jesus Christ. Greatest place to learn in this world is learning about the cross of Christ. Where the word of cross Is preached. Jesus is magnified. He's taught as reigning supreme. There's faith in that, belief in that. Minds are open to the truth. You know, we get criticized all the time for being narrow-minded. I think they're narrow-minded. At least our minds is open to the truth. There's a shut to the truth. That's not open-mindedness. All of our advances in mathematics, the sciences, and technology have not made us any better. They have not advanced us. Contra Carl Sagan. Humans apart from God's revelation are still sitting in darkness today. They don't have any light. They can call darkness light, but it's still what? It's still darkness. Men are still impervious to the threats of eternal judgment which they are heading towards. They don't even know. They're heading to everlasting destruction. Well, when we die, it'll all be nicer and better. They're blind. And even if they knew, they would be unable to save themselves from it. In the words of Romans 122, professing to be wise, they became what? Fools. Well why? Why is the wisdom of the world such foolishness? Why is it that way? Well the rest of the chapter is going to let us know. Here's a little sneak preview for us Notice he says in verse 21, for since in the wisdom of God the world through its wisdom did not come to know God. That's why they never came to know God. All the religions in the world, all their philosophies, all their understanding, all their calculations, they didn't come to know God. God was well pleased through the foolishness of the message preached to save those who believed. Look down at verse 25. The foolishness of God is wiser than men. The weakness of God is stronger than men. And then he even gets to us, and this is going to be fantastic when we reach this. Why is God doing it this way? Well, because God wanted to choose those people in the world that were not so bright. Not so noble, nothing special about their credentials, and make them wise, and give them right living, righteousness. And sanctify them for his purpose so that they would be a people that he could hold up and say, see what I do with people. And all of the strong and the mighty and the knowledgeable They're nothing. That's why. That's why God is making it impossible through human thinking processes to come to know him and to know the truth. Sometimes we just bang and bang and bang our fists, so to say, on the minds of unbelievers, trying to get them to understand the truth. But you need to understand until God opens their mind and heart, they can't. God shut him out. And God is allowed to do that. He's done it in judgment. We read about that in Romans 1. Well, there's so much more in this passage. It's deep. The applications are rich. I hope to develop that for us over the weeks to come here to get us to think about that and how that affects even the way We educate our children, the way we think about leaders in our world, the way we process various things and understanding. We need to make sure we are receiving the Word of God and developing a pure biblical mindset, a biblical worldview to look at everything the way God does. Would you join me in a closing prayer? God, we are just humbled by what we read because we know there is nothing special. Nothing intelligent about us in this room. That you have revealed to us your master plan, the wisdom of the ages. A Christ crucified for our sins, so that we might come to know you and be changed. That you've chosen to reveal that to babes while shutting out those that are wise from seeing it. Lord, it is just the statement of your love and your mercy towards us, and we are so ever grateful for the truth Again, we pray our congregation will develop understanding of true wisdom. Deepen in that. Covet that. Love the cross. Understand the cross. Understand how diametrically opposed it is to the way this world thinks. It sets everything that this world values on its head. It turns it all upside down. You're not a God to even understand or know. Many of them know you exist, but they don't know you personally. And we pray, Lord, that you would be pleased to use us, weak as we are, base things of the world, to be energized by your spirit. Strengthened by your grace to continue to get the word of the cross out and then never be ashamed of it, as Paul. We ask this in the mighty, powerful name of Jesus Christ. Amen.