So same chart is up there as is on the sheet, but uh if I wave my arms at the screen it has a little bit more impact I think than just uh pointing at my finger or pointing with my finger at my own notes So we did uh a bunch of this last week. Uh God's love at the beginning, God's covenant, uh God's faithfulness to his covenant, um and then in the in the face of uh really the the highest degree of treachery, God uh disposing himself to restore us to right relationship with him that we might satisfy the requirements of the covenant and thus enjoy all of the benefits Of the covenant. And that disposition of God that we call grace resulted in the necessity of his action to make that restoration happen. And we're going to flesh that out a little bit more this week. But you'll notice I added to that then discipleship and salvation. Uh those are things that follow that restoration of relationship uh back to Barit. If I were uh a psalmist, I would matter of fact I reference this in the notes a little bit later. If I were a psalmist I would help you see this by being able to re-enter the temple of the Lord, to be in the Lord's house. We have been cast out of the garden, cast out of God's house, because we are covenant breakers And he was completely entitled in all that he did and just in any judgment that resulted from it. But because of his covenant love and the grace that he chose to extend to us without any merit uh on our part or any obligation on his part, he restored us to uh that house. He brought us back in to that house. That's the way the psalmists often uh look at themselves individually as well as the nation of Israel. Um and then once we're in there, um that enjoyment of relationship with him. And then that will ultimately uh be realized in what we call salvation. Uh so that's where we're at. Uh number one, uh if you limit this definition to just grace and atonement, which I would argue is one of the most prevalent ways that we describe uh our relationship with Christ. We talk about it in terms of grace and atonement. And some of it is wrapped up. I even hear it's funny now that I'm I'm listening to people pray or talk and they're using these words and I'm like, not quite right. But even this morning somebody uh used uh was referencing uh the free gift of grace. And and I I knew what the person meant and I wasn't disagreeing. I still not disagreeing with them in any way, but I really dislike That language, I gotta set it. It really does view the whole transaction as as there you go. Right? I set it down, it's done, I gave it to her, it's finished. And there's nothing about God's grace that's like that. Um it's uh It's misdirection to refer to God's grace like that. God's grace is his b disposition to redeem us to right relationship with himself. It's constant. It's continual. It's active. It's ongoing. It's a lie. It's a fullness that causes him to constantly act and us to constantly respond. In action, in case you you you missed that one. Okay? Not just in words or in talk, but indeed, right? As he commands us to love others. Love him and love others Um but we get that wrong, we make it static, we think about it too much as a gift, and that's by the way not unbiblical language. I discussed that last week, and when we talk about faith next week more, uh I'll use that gift language again directly from the scriptures. And there is an aspect of it where that's good. I just don't think it's the principal aspect, and I wish we'd stop making it the principal aspect. But we do it when we limit How we see God's activity in relationship with us, call that religion. We mentioned that last week, as only grace and only atonement. All that gets us is rescued, released, or relieved. And those words are proper in a bit in the in the biblical grammar, right? Those in the uh In the palette of words that we could use to describe our relationship to God, there is an aspect of it that is exactly that. Rescued, released, and relieved. But I started this class the very first time by showing you an amazing picture of the Grand Canyon and the rainbow and and my family and amazing more, amazing because my family was in it, right? You guys said you care. But I showed it to you on this little phone. You know, a little Actually it was my other phone, but you know fourteen megapixels, right? Capturing the glory of the Grand Canyon. But it's unimpressive Because it's a little picture, because you weren't there to feel the openness of it, or to see the depth of it, or the height of it, or to see how close that rainbow was. You weren't there to see all that it was. And so there is no way for you to respond to that setting, that scene, that environment in the way that we were having been there, or the way that you might be able to Ha if you have been there. And the same is true about God. During uh we, I don't know who we is, I taught during this quarter. Please be careful about making small pictures of God. What he does in grace and atonement is great, but it is only a facet of who he is. And if we Are not careful. We will stick God in a little box. He will be comfortable. He will fit in our pocket nicely This is what all people want whether or not they call Christ Lord and seek his glory, right? Uh I read a statistic uh just this week, I think. Nine hundred two apparently I'm not here broken my ears. Uh a statistic this week, uh about ninety-two percent of Americans this is a few years back, not too many. About ninety-two percent of Americans say that they believe in God. Now, what they mean by that Uh I don't know and I wasn't interested in the statistic. I just you know it was just there. Um but everybody wants to be rescued Everybody wants to believe that the universe will take care of them, or that they're somehow balancing out their good and their bad. I mean that that that doesn't make you uniquely Christian, to say you want somebody to walk up to you and hand you goodness. Everybody wants that. I don't know why I'm looking at you this morning. It's because you're close. Don't do that. Don't do number one. Hold that as a truth. Hold that as an aspect of who God is in the scriptures. But do not stop there. Do not be content with just that. God did so much more than hand you grace Or hand you atonement. He brought you back to himself from a position of slavery to another. And he Put you into his house in in close relationship with him so that you could enjoy all the benefits of that relationship Faith requires all of them. You cannot have faith and only talk about grace as a transaction. It requires all of it. It has to be grounded in God's love from the very beginning for you. It has to consider the covenant requirements and promises. It must know the covenant loyalty of God in the presence of your covenant breaking. It must see God is continually choosing to be disposed to restore you to right relationship. It must value the atonement which made it possible for God to then restore us to right relationship. It must see that remaining in real right relationship with God is his call, his requirement, his intention, his acting out And we'll talk about it more. I don't see it here. But his acting out through the Spirit, not only to restore you, but to give you also a means of remaining in right relationship with him To glorify and enjoy him, right? It was um memorialized in that first question in the Westminster short the Westminster shorter catechism. Right? What is the chief and high I see you, give me a second. What is the chief and highest end of men? To glorify God very good and enjoy him forever. Uh your comment and question. Maybe you can clarify, find, clarify faith, uh technologically sort of like uh Grace and we say, Hey, faith is a gift from God, but similar to grace, it's not an object to be held, it's a an attribute, a characteristic that we we We have faith, but it's an attribute and not an object that's like we say it's like a mustard seed, it's not something we have in us, it's it defines us. Yeah, problem is, like Grace, it's both. But we will touch more on the attribute aspect today and then next week I want to come back and chew on some of the gristle and some of the gristle talks about Paul's references to faith, I almost said grace, to faith as a gift. We'll also talk about how that same guy, that same apostle, talked about it. So in in as much as it's a gift, it's an object. Today I wanted to give you a a glorious picture of what faith is in the I wanted to show you it in its glory, right? Next week we'll hopefully that'll be the value statement that you need to entice you to study the you know, chew through the grizzly parts next week. But um this week I really just wanted to focus on the glory of it. Um so that whole thing Right is the definition of faith, if you will. I'm going to give you next week I'm going to give you a succinct definition that you can carry around with you if you like. But this week I just want you to understand all of those things make up faith. God's love in the face of our rejection, determining to enter into relationship with us by establishing requirements and promises, right? So Matt Kurie or Covenant consistent with his character and by providing the means by which we might live according to those requirements, enjoying the promise. Then this part here, right? Just be careful. Not only credits us with righteousness, satisfying the requirements of the covenant, but enables us to live according to those requirements through the Holy Spirit. So it's not just positionally returned there. That is true. You've got to get back into the house. That's a positional thing. But you have to stay there too, right? And we make it to static. Oh, I'm in the house. Right? Anybody that's got children or siblings e even right understands that there's an activity that's required to live in right relationship within a home. And it does not include yet I know you're shocked, but it's only one page. You gotta do something, right? You gotta be involved. You gotta be invested. It doesn't work to just sit there. Ezekiel thirty-six, verse 27 describes the new covenant in this way. And I will give you a new heart and a new spirit, I will put within you, and I will remember the heart of stunning. More to come on that next week No, you're you're exactly right, right? It it all the the entire test I mean that was a great passage and as soon as you did it I knew what you were gonna do as soon as you went in Ezekiel, right, because that is very fast that talks about the activity of God and the obligation of men, all in that same thing, right? The sovereign activity of God. But really the whole testimony of the scriptures is is is calling that out. You you can't read any part of the Old or New Testament and not see God's sovereign activity to restore us to reactive relationship. with him. And maybe that's the the part that needs to be underlined there is active relationship. And all parts of the Trinity are involved in this, which I kind of like. Not for any reason. I just think it's cool. Alright, if grace is God's disposition To restore us to relationship with him, resulting in actions to effect that restoration. You understand that, right? He he grace disposed God to restore us the relationship and therefore necessitated actions on his part because we were never going to restore ourselves. There was no way for that to happen. then faith is our responsive disposition, resulting in actions to obey and enjoy Him. All I'm trying to do there is show you that God's actions are kind of driving that way in the diagram. And our responsive action is driving this way back toward God, right? Back toward covenant, to be restored to him That's what I wanted you to see there. In that sense, it's more of an attribute and less of an object, right? We see God inclined, disposed, moving in grace. And what he gives us and what he calls us to is to respond and be disposed to him in faith. In that sense, there's a symmetry between grace and faith there. Side notes there, right? You want to see something about God's gracious disposition to restore us to relationship, read Hosea. Um it it's a little hard to get through just because uh because it's hard to get through, frankly. It's a terrible story Um and yet the entirety of it is God telling his people what he is what they're like and and what he's like. It's difficult to find a passage in the scriptures that better exemplifies God's activity in grace and atonement or redemption. Note the two parts of God's actions. The sacrifices of his son for the atonement of sin, redeemed from slavery to sin, declared righteous before a holy God whom we ultimately offended And that transfers us from outside relationship with him to inside relationship. But the second part of it is the sending of his spirit, and this is more the Ezekiel passage that Bob referenced and the sending of the Spirit to bring about obedience to the requirements of the covenant that we might live in the enjoyment of increasing relationship with Him or remain in relationship with him. Right? So I said earlier, to get in the house of God, to remain in the house of God. One is very declarative, one is propositional, you are redeemed. The the the ticket of uh iniquity, if you will, the the cost or penalty of your sins is paid. you are now restored, declared righteous, the positional aspect, if you will. But that's only a part, even the beginning, I might argue, of all that God intended to do Grace. And if you miss that, you again put God in the small box. I'm not going to talk too much about this, but I did want to uh demonstrate it here with the graphic. Works, because you know there's a lot about works and faith, right? Grace and works, works and grace, uh, works and faith, works in in that negative sense of the word attempts to get into or remain in covenant with God. One says, I I want to be declared righteous by my own activities. The other one says God, now that I've been declared righteous by your activity, I want to make sure I can have confidence in my relationship with you. With you through my own activity. So works attempt to get into or remain in covenant with God, enjoying the good promises of God, without depending ultimately on the grace of God, the atonement He secured through Christ, and the critically enabling means of the Holy Spirit. If I had to say what I'm talking about there, it's the These three boxes, hen, atonement, and discipleship. God's grace, God's atonement God's enablement through the Spirit. God, Christ, Holy Spirit. Romans 3. 28, for we hold that one is justified by faith apart from works of the law. All you have to do is read about the Pharisees and you understand what sort of arrogance played into their uh law keeping. Their attempt to get into um right relationship with God Through their own work. And there is so much ac ac actually we're going to touch on it here, even in the next passage, there is so much in the s in the studying that I did about faith where boasting were arrogance butt up against Faith talk about faith versus unbelief and or or faith or not faith or trust or not trust. And and there is truth or not true. There is some aspect to that, but it's actually not the principal aspect that I find in the scriptures. When the scriptures want to contrast faith with something, they contrast it often with arrogance. It's not always that word, but some color of the word arrogance. For if Abraham was justified by works, he has something to boast about, but not before God For what does the scripture say? Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness. That's a quotation from Genesis fifteen six Which is pretty much the quotation that the New Testament uses as an example of what faith is. So we are going to come back to Abraham multiple times. Now to the one who works His wages are not counted as a gift, but as his due. Missed the letter there, sorry. And to the one who does not work, but trusts him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is counted as righteousness. Again, if you're viewing faith as a static thing, those verses don't make a tremendous amount of sense in light of other scriptures. We actually make them make sense. We we say all the time things like, well it's just faith and nothing else. I'm sorry. I understand the point of that kind of language I understand that that language is intended to make sure we don't mix our works and God's work. Right? I get that, and that's good. But there is no such thing as faith alone. What are you talking about? Solophita, right? Did you just tear down the Reformation? Not at all. I recognize that that language came through the Reformation as a means of defending against an abuse of God's truth. And when you're doing that, you need short, pithy statements that people can remember. So that when they're in the So that when they are in a moment of trial, they have something they can use. It can't set up a complicated erector set in the middle of a crisis So you give people short statements that accomplish the end goal. Faith is never alone. There is no such thing as faith alone. God's activity to redeem you and restore you to his home and then to embrace you in the fellowship of that home is always something that must be responded to. If you are not responding to it, then you don't have it. That is the nature of your sovereign God. If you make him something wimpy, I don't know another word for it Mealy-mouth and wimpy, pathetic, spiritual, mystical, fantastical. I don't know what word you want you want to use But you make God something other than the all-consuming personality that He is, who in His power And his might and his unbelievable affection for you has reached out while you were kicking and screaming at him and surrounded you with his love and enabled you in ways that you cannot yet even fully see. If I have time, we'll get that part. That, that is the God Grace and your faith is always filled with a response for that. What's my footnote there? Oh, just that that last part is a quotation from Psalm 32. Sorry. I'm not going to do it, but you should, there's two quotations in Romans 4 there. You should look up the context for it. It it supports that that I just gave you extensively. Although strangely, we never bother to talk about them usually when we discuss this passage in Romans 4. There is perhaps no better development of justification by faith apart from works than in Galatians 3. That is what Galatians 3 is about And it continues into Galatians 4. But it also provides a really good launching point for our study. So flip your page over there The righteous shall live by faith. And I noticed I was using the word righteous abundance abunce, but it's not really a word we've discussed, so I have a footnote there that you should read. But if you'll accept my provisional definition Uh maybe I'll do a a lesson on this, maybe I won't, I don't know. If you'll accept a provisional definition, no. Righteous or righteousness our thoughts, words, and actions that conform to the character of God, which is always truth, so that we Do not break relationship with God, but rather live in the full enjoyment of relationship with him. If you um hobble righteousness as only conformity to the law, then I think you will find it difficult to not try to live out your faith by works. But it's much easier, if you will, or helpful to the end, if you take this definition of righteousness and you understand that at its heart It is remaining in right relationship with God through thoughts, words, and actions. The righteous shall live by faith. So three key passages in the New Testament that say this, Romans 1 17, Galatians 3. 11, and Hebrews 10. 38. Hebrews 10. I'll be curious. Well, it's not fair. I have it in my notes. All you have to do is read ahead. But um through it threw me for a little bit of a curveball. Uh Romans one, and then I I backed up to give you some context. Sixteen and seventeen, for I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first and also to the Greek. And I I wanted to cement this discussion of uh uh The righteous shall live by faith as the gospel. I am not ashamed of the gospel, for in it the gospel, reflecting back to 16. The righteousness of God is revealed from faith, for faith, as it is written, the righteous shall live by faith. So we see the gospel summarized, if you will, although that's not quite true. You see the purpose of the gospel revealed. in this statement, the righteous shall live by faith. And that's a direct that part in single quotes. I didn't make that up. It's like that in your scripture, uh your Bible as well Uh it's it's in single quotes because it's a quote from Habakkuk 2. 4. And it turns out each of these three passages goes back to Habakkuk 2. 4. So we're actually going to end the lesson today going back to Habakkuk and looking at Why does everybody quote Habakkuk? I mean, who even reads Habakkuk? Do you even know where Habakkuk is in in your Bible? What's one of the books right around it? There's a bunch of wimpy answers here. Nobody's really confident. See what I mean? Yeah, yeah Yeah, any of those minor prophets toward the end of your your Old Testament, right? Um But that's kind of my point. New Testament faith, justification by faith, right, is grounded in Habakkuk 2. 4. And yet we never talk about it. Galatians three, ten through eleven. Um we will keep coming back to Galatians three, by the way, over the next uh week at least this week and next week. Galatians 3, 10-11, for all who rely on works of the law are under a curse. Um for it is written, Cursed be everyone who does not abide by all things written in the book of the law, and do them. Again, I want to come back to that idea of what righteousness is. Can you imagine how easy God in glorious splendor descends on a mountain and writes with his own hand on tablets of stone, his law, and then augments it in the teaching through Moses as it follows. If you do these things according to the law Right? And you become so fixated on I gotta do this thing, I gotta do this thing, I gotta do this thing, that it becomes easy And if you just think about any human relationship that you currently have, it becomes so easy to become fixated on doing the thing. Well I did the thing Right? Why why is there a problem with relationship? You laid out these rules. I abide by every one of the rules. It becomes easy to be fixated on the the things. Instead of being in right relation with the one who established those things as a means for you to get into his presence and remain in his presence And so what am I doing there? Why do I why do I keep coming back to that? I'm trying to challenge some of your perspectives, to be honest with you. I know what your perspectives are on grace and faith and the law. I sat in all I sit in all the same classes and sermons that you do. I listened to a lot of the same passages That you do on the radio or the internet. I read a lot of the same commentaries, commentators, academics, pastors, sages, whatever you want to call them, I read the same ones you read. I gotta tell you, they're not quite right. That doesn't mean I am quite right. I'm just telling you, if you are limited to the little boxes and the picky words that you get out of all that It's not quite right. Stop assuming you have it all figured out and get back into the Bible. I had the experience this morning while going through Habakkuk again. I was like, wow, wow, look at it See it. I didn't quite understand. I didn't quite know. You're bigger, God. You're better, God. Your word is deeper and more unified. Your work is more amazing. Recapture. The glory of the Lord. And be so careful, I know why we do it, but be so careful about speaking ill in any way of any part of the sovereign work of God through all of this We love to talk about the wall like, ooh, that's a bad perspective. You can see why it can be dangerous, but that that is on us. That wasn't on God. Again, the righteous shall live by faith. Now it is evident that no w evident that no one is justified before God by the law. It's evident the righteous shall live by faith. Habakkuk 4 2. 2 4. Sorry. Hebrews 10 37 through 38. For yet a little while, that's a short quotation from Isaiah twenty six twenty, and the coming one will come and will not delay. That's back to Habakkuk. But my righteous one shall live by faith And if he shrinks back, my soul has no pleasure in him. So go ahead and wander over to Habakkuk Jonah Micah Nahum Habakkuk, right? If you need a little bit of reference or run up there Anybody that got there, you can brag for a second real quick because you got there pretty fast. And then read me verses three and four. Nice and clear. Chapter two, verses three and four. Well you were the first one to speak. You've got to read it now, so. Come on. Alright, for the vision is yet hastens towards the goal. What's the problem? What's the problem with what she read and what you see in your Bibles versus the quotation of this passage in Hebrews 10? That's true. They also added something to it. The author of Hebrews added something to this quotation, which is unexpected. Yeah, that's exactly right. You guys aren't answering like confidently Um and if he shrinks back, my soul has no pleasure in him. That that's not there. Um it does have a section that's similar, right? Behold, his soul is puffed up, but is not upright within him. So there's some parallel, but it's not there. Turns out the author of Hebrews deliberately quoted from the Septuagint instead of the Masoretic text, which is what you are reading a translation of in your Bible. He deliberately, word for word, quoted from the Greek translation of the Masoretic text. I'm not sure why. I'm not here to study Hebrews with you. I just wanted you to see that, right? Clearly, the author of Hebrews had an intention that made that translation useful toward toward the end. So I mostly wanted you to understand that it is still a quotation of Habakkuk 2, 3, and 4, but in Hebrews it's from the Septuagint. And again, word for word, not a summary or a paraphrase. So I have that in your notes, I'm not going to say it again. I would ask you also to notice that the context, at least for the phrase, is still in the Masoretic text. Behold, his soul is puffed up. It is not upright within him. We'll uh get to discussing that in greater detail here. So really from there I want to go back why Why do these three key passages, and by the way, if you just Google faith on the internet, you'll hit those three verses. Every book on faith has those three verses. Every paragraph of every book on faith has those three verses. You cannot study faith and not get your face slammed into those three verses. That's why I elected to use those three verses. And every one of those three verses is rooted in its principal proposition in Habakkuk 2. 4. So let's go look at Habakkuk 2. 4 I love the fact that Habakkuk is not a prophecy in the way that the other old minor prophets or Old Testament prophets wrote. If you just look at verse one of Habakkuk I, uh actually verse two, well, one and two, uh of Habakkuk I, the oracle That Habakkuk the prophet saw. Well, that's not unusual. The Lord has used that, or yeah, the scriptures use that phrase in other places to talk about things that God showed a prophet that he wanted them to proclaim to other people. But that's not what the rest of the book says. The rest of the book says Habakkuk had personal complaints against God, and he wanted an answer to them. And this oracle is God's responding to those personal complaints. Well that's really interesting and it's easier for us to relate to, particularly when we see that we have very similar complaints. And so I've given you an outline here. of Habakkuk. So we're just gonna go through it. And that's pretty much where we're gonna end the class today. Just one question. I noticed that you don't have the report from James. Uh it's actually on the sheet. Uh it's on the sheet. Oh, okay, sorry. Yeah, just further down. Uh just below the half line. Don't miss the result of faith is how the bullet starts. Yep. Yep. Okay. Thank you. That's okay. I I appreciate you being a good student of the scriptures, not mine. I'm a man of the scriptures. Sorry about that. Habakkuk 1124. Uh Habakkuk's first complaint. It's where are you? Why is everything so wrong? And why won't you just fix them? You say, is that actually what it says? Well read one through four, right? I don't want you to miss the thrust of one through four. Oh Lord, how long shall I cry for help? And you will not hear. Look at all the violence around me and the iniquity around me. Look at what's happening to me because of people that defy you. And there's a implicit, I'm the one trying to do the right thing here, Lord Where are you? Why is everything so wrong? And why won't you just fix it? If I can kind of cut to the chase here, right? Habakkuk is saying I'm I'm struggling to believe that this is worth it. Why sh why should I do this, Lord? Why should I continue in my activity to maintain relationship with you when you seem absent or indifferent or Maybe even against me. And again, I love the the personalness of this, right? This isn't a national prayer. This is Habakkuk. Just Praying to God. And God's first response is in verses 5 to 11. Look among the nations and see. Wonder and be astounded. For I am doing a work in your days that you would not believe if told. For behold, I am raising up the Chaldeans. So two Two things there. I am working. I am working. I am doing what I said I would do. Everything here is truth It has not failed. It is not asleep. It is actively playing itself out. It is the the river of reality that your world Swims in. But you wouldn't even believe it if I told it to you. Like you couldn't get how good this is if I told it to you. And then note something. I am raising up the Chaldeans. Uh a couple of the men in the room. Mm, actually today, maybe only one man in the room. And I are studying uh usually there's two or three of uh these men that I do small group with and we have a Tuesday morning study. Right now we're reading through the Red Sea rules And the very first premise is you need to understand, you know, Israelites wandering through the wilderness after being freed from Egypt, they're heading in a certain direction. God says, No, no, don't go that way Go this other way. And the way he tells them to go, puts their backs against a river, their sides against two mountains that are insurpassable, and the The superpower of the world showing up on chariots. And they're wandering around with their children and their sheep. Why are they there? God put them there. Why are we in the situations that we're in? Because God Put us here. God is preparing the Chaldeans. And then he describes them several times in Habakkuk in the most awful of terms. But God is raising up the Chaldeans. Habakkuk is having a crisis of faith and God has established that he is still doing these first four, maybe five, things. on the list. Kabakuk is looking at it from a discipleship perspective and saying, What's the point? And God is saying, you don't understand. My grace is Still infinitely active. It's just so much bigger than you can imagine. Habakkuk's second complaint. How can you say you are good and allow such wrong? Like fine, this is your activity, right? You're doing it All right, I'll concede the point. If you say you're acting in ways that I can't understand, it's kind of hard for me to argue with that, right? You wouldn't be able to understand this. Where do I go from there? Well tell me anyway. I mean what's the point? So he takes a different tack, he says fine, I don't understand it. But if that's your activity How can you say you're good? How can you allow this wrong and be a good God? Why won't you protect me? How long must I wait for a response And implied there, fix it. I need a remedy. I don't want you to just give me another answer like, well, I'm doing good things, but you wouldn't understand it. That's not what he's waiting for. He's waiting for a fix it. And then two I broke this up because I think there's two valid points. Really it's 2-2 through 20, but um I want you to see these these two points in here in God's second response God's call should be for faith in 2, 2 through 5, and the pronouncement of woe on the Chaldeans, his instruments of judgment. There's a side note there that I don't know that I have time for. Well, but I'm going to try it anyway. I want you to see this. We talk about faith all the time. as something God gives us that allows us to trust in what He has done for us, notice that past tense, and what He will do for us. Well in the timeline of Well, time. What does that leave out? Now. He did something for me to atone for my sins. He will ultimately rescue me from this body of sin. But I live now. Talk about faith all the time as though it were past and future. But there's no warrant for that in this And I love the fact that the uh Old Testament writers were happy to complain to God about now. That delights me. Because it shows me that God's people Not only have an ability to, or a warrant to, or um permission to, but have an obligation to talk to God about Well now my situation more here and now is this. Judgment is the same way. God will, uh God is, excuse me showing people through his blessings and his trials, if you will, today what he is like. And those of us that are in Christ are sustained by grace And the strength of the Holy Spirit in ways that the rest of the world is not. We have something that is valuable that the rest of the world does not And that is constantly around us and in us, and it's him constantly drawing us to himself. There's a constancy about that. And one day He will fully complete that in what he does in that final coming, that final resurrection, that final redemption. He will fully return us to Eden Now he gives us glimpses, but he will give it to us in whole and someday. And judgment is the same way. To live in sin now is hurtful to people. The entertainment industry would have you believe it's awesome. But I you ever seen somebody go a little nuts and start laughing? Like out of stress or fear or doubt? Have any of you ever seen that? I I I was hoping for a yes or a no Yeah. I've done it myself. I don't know that I've done it myself, although yeah. Well you you slip and you fall and you laugh about it and I don't have to laugh about it. My wife laughs about it harder. And I'm usually being angry that she's laughing at me for being hurt. But I get your point. Um I I've actually seen it several times, and it's it's a little frightening to tell you the truth. What the entertainment industry does with the hurt of sin. They're always laughing about it, acting like it's something funny. In the meantime, those people are taking drugs and killing themselves and working through marriages and grinding out their lives. There's a certain aspect of judgment today. And it will just be consummated. I just wanted you to see how God does that. Some some activity now, and that that activity will be finalized. in the eschaton, the end times. And that's what he does with the Chaldeans here, by the way. So anyway, and Yahweh answered me, write the vision, make it plain on tablets, so he may run who reads it. Just stop there for a minute, right? What does Yahweh tell Habakkuk? Write this down, so that it for all time people may see what it means to have a crisis of faith and how I respond to it. So that he may run who reads it Not be defeated, not stop, not sit still, not be stagnant, not give up, not become defensive or reclusive. Run. Did you see the imagery? Write the vision. Make it plain on tablets so he may run who reads it. For still the vision awaits its appointed time It hastens to the end. It will not lie. It's almost as though God were telling Habakkuk, you think I've stepped back or stepped away, but this thing is happening. It's going now. And it will Be fulfilled in its time. Behold, his soul is puffed up. It is not upright within him, but the righteous shall live by faith. The wording there is just hard to wrap your brain around. So I want to try to help you a little bit. I used one of my commentaries on Habakkuk for this, so most of this comes from that one commentary. Notice that a soul puffed up and not upright are God's descriptions of those who regard him as other than who he declares himself to be. Right? Habakkuk is saying, You're gone. You're absent. You're not helping. You're watching evil You're you're allowing it or enabling it or whatever you're doing, you are not being faithful to who I thought you were And when God wants to describe that activity, he describes it as a soul puffed up, not upright. A soul puffed up is contrasted with one who lives by faith. Do you see that? Behold, his soul is puffed up. It is not upright within him. But but, right, a contrastive, but the righteous shall live. by his faith. Instead of trusting in him, they hold aloof in a spirit of self sufficiency, trusting in themselves. Faith is an attitude that includes both personal loyalty and that trust in his word that waits patiently until it is time for him to act. Don't miss the result of faith. Living in a fallen world, so this is just why I moved it down here, is because it fits so nicely right here in the notes. Living in a fallen world in right relationship with God is an active faith like that spoken of, uh so I I biffed it there in James 2. 21. So let's go ahead and look over there real quick. Was not Abraham our father So back to Abraham as an example, right? Was not Abraham our father justified by works when he offered up his son Isaac on the altar? You see that Faith was active along with his works, and faith was completed by his works. Habakkuk was complaining against God. Habakkuk was basically Telling the Lord, I see no reason to continue in faith based on my current experience and what I have determined what I think about my current experience. And God is rebuking that and coming back and saying, that is an arrogant. But the righteous one will live by faith. He will not be cast down. Think about all those calls in the New Testament to rejoice always, to be thankful always. What is that? That is living with your eyes rightly on the object of your faith, the glory of God played out across all experiences in the world, in a way that enables you to put one foot in front of the other, and not sheepishly, but heroically. Sacrificially, abundantly. Seeing God's grace as constantly reaching out and embracing you and bringing you toward Himself. And using all the trials around you to do it and to show you things about him that you could not see in another way. You say, why is it like that? I don't know. I just know that the scriptures say from beginning to end that the trials of our lives are what show us the glory of God. And his continual leading of us into those trials is the continual drawing of us up into greater glory and greater knowledge We don't have time to go back into uh Genesis twenty, twenty two, the Isaac story. But uh maybe next week we'll get there a little bit. Active faith. And then 3, 1 through 16, Habakkuk's prayer, O Yahweh, I have heard the report of you. And your work, O Yahweh, do I fear. This reminds me of Job at the end of all things, all the complaining, all the stuff. He finally gets to speak to God, right? O Lord I now see and I cover my mouth. I regret my previous words because I have seen things too wonderful for me that I cannot Explain. I have heard the report of you and your work, O Yahweh. And your work, O Yahweh, do I fear. You see that? Your work Not a done work, but a doing work. It's not that it's not done. There's an aspect of it that's done. But there's an aspect of it that's necessary that he keeps doing. The continual grace that reaches out and draws you in. The continual grace that leads to him directing the Spirit in your life, in those trials. Every wasted moment of your life, every moment of your life that you waste, every secondary moment of your life is a moment when God is calling you. There's a moment when he is determining to work in your life in ways to draw you into significant, glorious relationship with himself This next couple of verses is just great. In the midst of the years, revive it. In the midst of the years, make it known. Again, I can't help but see Habakkuk here going, Oh Lord, I know that people throughout the ages to come are going to need this same message. They are going to need to see this same wrestling of faith played out and they're going to need to be refreshed and revived in it. They're going to become weak in their faith. They're going to become sedentary in their faith. They're going to become stoic, right? Bastion-like faith. What does that even mean? And they're going to need you to revive your message and make it known in the midst of the years. This is amazing. Although it almost eluded me. His brightness was like so put a put a period on that thought. And it's almost as though he wrote the thought And then he walks away from it a little bit and he turns around to reflect on the thought for a minute. And this is how Habakkuk assesses what he learned about God in this oracle. He says, his brightness was like the light rays flashed from his hand, and there he veiled his power. I need you to picture this. What he's saying means I saw glory come from God. And it refreshed and revived me in the crisis of my face. But it pictures, and this isn't quite accurate, but I just Just trying, right? If you don't like it, then cast it off. But it pictures God at this time shrouded the fullness of his glory, like holding it like this. And all he did for Habakkuk was let the light creep from between His fingers. Kind of like what he did with Moses on the top of Mount Sinai, right? You can't see all my glory. Or what he did in the tabernacle. Or or or over and over again in scriptures you see something similar to that But God is taking the overwhelming radiance, goodness, glory of all that he is, and he's hiding it or veiling it in his hands. And he just let Habakkuk see the cracks between the fingers. But we all With unveiled face, beholding the glory. Isn't that cool? Do you see that? Our trials here today. Our God letting glory come from him through the cracks in his fingers. And I'm not making it a small thing. I'm just saying that is the glory that we can see today. But it shrouds an overwhelming glory. I love the picture of him as so glorious. Rays flashed from his hand. And there he veiled his power. Second, I want you to see in this passage, uh we will come back to this concept of faith as duty to live in a continual desire to behold his glory. That comes from John Owens uh works. If you want to look it up, it's in volume three. I have a reference to it there. Um and you should look at 2 Corinthians 4, 3 through 4, 1 Corinthians 2, 14, and John 1. 5. All of them talk about the duty to continually um desire to behold God's glory. This very thing that he's veiling. And third, I want you to see how Habakkuk sees the centrality of the truth that has been shown him and asks that the Lord keep reviving it and keep it keep making it known as though he saw the struggle of our faith. down the years. And look where it results is praise. O Yahweh, I have heard the report of you and your work. O Yahweh, do I fear? In the midst of Would I copy it twice? Oh I did, I guess. I'm not sure why. But that's his praise at the end of his prayer, right? Yeah, that was actually supposed to be the last verse. Ac that's not right. Hold on, hold on, hold on. God the Lord is my strength. He makes my feet like the deers. He makes me tread on my high places. That's what that last reference was supposed to be. That was his last praise as a result of all those other things, right? 17 through 19. God the Lord is my strength. What did God return to him? Not just confidence, but strength to act, strength to live, strength to remain in right relationship with him. And that is where the New Testament goes when it wants to talk about living by faith.