Let's start with a word of prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for this day, this wonderful day that you have made, crisp and cold and clear, and we thank you for uh the Lord's Day. the the opportunity that we have to gather together as uh as your people and uh to worship you together. Uh we thank you for this particular opportunity to gather around your word and to study what it says, how it reveals who you are. and how it reveals your great plan of redemption from beginning to end. We ask, Lord, as we gather around your word, that you would fill us with your Holy Spirit so that we would have open hearts and minds and really be able to so in what you're trying to teach us from your word and and uh and furthermore to apply it to our lives so it affects how we live. We thank you, Lord, for your great love for us demonstrated throughout history. But especially in the love that it took to send your one and only Son, Jesus, to die on that cross for our sins. And we pray these things in Jesus' precious name. Amen. All right, here we are, part number twenty. So that means this is a thirty-nine part series. through the book of Revelation. So part number 20 means we're actually past halfway. As of as of today, we we passed a halfway mark. in our study of the revelation of Jesus Christ. So uh today we're gonna the the the lesson's gonna be titled Satanic Slaughter and this is gonna be the sixth trumpet. So we've been following Going through these judgments that the Lord is uh meeting out, and we started with the seven seals, and then when we got to the seven seals, there were seven trumpets, and we are now on the sixth trumpet, and then we're gonna see in the seventh trumpet there. are going to be uh seven bowls, seven bowl judgments that are poured out on the earth. And so uh we've gone through the We're in the period of the tribulation from chapter six to chapter nineteen. And the second ha and it's a seven year period of tribulation, and the second half of that is called the Great Tribulation, the last three and a half years, and that's where we are. right now. So we're going to talk about this sixth trumpet. We're going to talk about the release of demons, more demons, the return of death. So the the previous one there was just uh uh torment and now there's gonna be death and uh and then there's gonna be a reaction of defiance, believe it or not. uh by the people that are are that remain after this sixth trumpet. Uh but first let's do a little review Of where we were last week. So last week we did the fifth trumpet, the first part of chapter nine. And so we had the fifth angel, the presence angel, sounded his trumpet, and then Then John says he saw a star from heaven fall. We talked about the fact that this is uh talking about Satan, and there's a description of the fall of Satan in Isaiah chapter 14. Isaiah chapter 14, a very interesting chapter. It starts out talking about a human king, but then it transitions into talking about the fall of Satan. And Satan's given keys to open the abyss, this bottomless pit, and out comes uh these demons. Um so as as the bottomless pit, uh the abyss was open, there's smoke and a great furnace and it darkens the sun and uh there's this vast billowing of of smoke and and also all these demons coming out. Um and so there's a swarm of demons, and John in his vision likens them to locusts swarming out. And he's got a description that's that's Kind of uh that's unbelievable. It's uh he remember John is seeing this in a vision. He's seeing things that are indescribable and then he's describ trying to describe the indescribable, doing the best he can. And he there's he there's a reference to locusts and there's several references to scorpions with these demons that are coming up out of the pit. And the demons are specifically focused on tormenting men. Uh, not what normal locusts do. They're not to touch the green grass or the uh any of the trees, but only men. Uh and only certain men, only men that do not have the seal of God on their forehead. And they're not permitted to kill anyone. So there's limits to what they can do. The Lord has placed limits on what these demons can do. Not allowed to k To kill anyone and they're only allowed five months in which to torment the unbelievers. So they're not allowed to touch believers, they're not allowed to kill anyone, and they're on they only get five months So very specific limits that the Lord put places on what these demons are allowed to do. And so there's a description of the appearance that he uses um the appearance was like horses and their heads have things that look like a crown and their faces look like men's faces and women's hair and lions' teeth and a blush breastplate of iron. And so we came up with an artist rendering of what's something like that could look like uh you see a uh a man's face and women's hair and a lion's teeth and a thing that looks like a crown and an iron breastplate and a squing like a scorpion and it's a locust. Um so I don't know what these things looked like, but John seeing something Really utterly bizarre that these demons look like, and he's doing the best he can to describe it. Uh so they're three times they're compared to scorpions. Um and At the end he says that they also have a king over them. Uh the king is the angel of the abyss, so there's some sort of uh king over the demons that come up out of this abyss, then he gets a name in Hebrew a Baden and Greek a polyon, and both those words mean destroyer. Yeah, so uh and at the end, so this is the we we've heard about uh these three uh at the end of the f first four trumpets we had an eagle flying through the sky that said woa woah woah to the inhabitants of the earth because of the trumpet blast of the other three angels. And so now we've had the first of those woes, the fifth trumpet. And at the end of this description of the fifth trumpet, we get a reminder of what was said in chapter 8 verse 13 that there are three of these woes coming and that means there's two more after the the fifth trumpet. And so that brings us to the sixth trumpet. Any questions about where we've been Well we we talked about last week especially with the fifth trumpet. Okay. Uh so today we're gonna we're gonna go and move into the sixth trumpet. So if you would open your Bibles to Revelation chapter nine. And we're going to start in verse 13. So Revelation chapter 9, verse 13, in your Bible or your device. And I encourage you to follow along and uh as we go through these uh descriptions and the vision and Uh I'll I'm gonna be going through what some of the commentaries say about these visions. Make sure you keep your eye on the actual scripture. Make sure you keep your eye on the actual scripture because I'm going to be talking about things that are my my best estimate of what the interpretation of these things are based on my reading of commentaries by Thomas and MacArthur and others. But remember to keep your eyes focused on the scripture while we do this, because the scripture is really what counts. Um okay. Uh so let's read. Let's read what the Scripture says, verse 13 to verse 21. Then the sixth angel sounded And I heard a voice from the four horns of the golden altar which is before God, one saying to the sixth angel who had the trumpet released the four angels who were bound at the great river Euphrates, and the four angels who had been prepared for the hour and day and month and year were released, so that they would kill a third of mankind. The number of the armies of the horsemen was two hundred million I heard the number of them. And this is how I saw in the vision the horses and those who sat on them. The riders had breastplates, the color of fire and of hyacinth and of brimstone. And the heads of the horses were like the heads of lions. And out of their mouths proceeded Fire and smoke and brimstone. A third of mankind was killed by these three plagues by the fire, the smoke, and the brimstone which proceeded out of their mouths For the power of the horses is in their mouths and in their tails, for their tails are like serpents and have heads, and with them they do harm. The rest of mankind who were not killed by these plagues did not repent of the works of their hands, so as not to worship demons and the idols of gold and of silver and of brass and of stone and of wood, which can neither see nor hear, nor walk. And they did not repent of their murders, nor of their sorceries, nor of their immorality nor of their thefts. Very sobering. And so this is the sixth trumpet, the sixth angel, and we're going to go through this in detail. First I'll give you another couple paragraphs from uh uh John MacArthur's commentary uh just before he launches into this particular part of scripture. Uh MacArthur says this, Mankind lies between two power powerful opposing spiritual spheres. Each seeking to to conform people to itself. No one is neutral in the cosmic battle. Everyone is either part of the domain of darkness or of the kingdom of God's beloved Son. Colossians 1. 13. As they yield to one spirit For the other, people become the companions of God or the companions of Satan. The companions of holy angels or the companions of demons the companions of saints or the companions of sinners. To doubt that reality is the gravest mistake any person can make, because the making the wrong choice results in eternal Disaster. God offers people the life giving gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Satan and the forces of hell lure people to their destruction by dangling before them the passing pleasures of sin, Hebrews eleven twenty five. The loud voices of hell have always tried to drown out the preaching of the gospel. There is coming a day when the siren call of hell will be so loud as to be all but irresistible. The people of that time will ignore the repeated, powerful preaching of the gospel and the warning conveyed by by terrifying, devastating judgments from God, having rejected all offers of grace and mercy, they will see death come upon mankind through the trumpet and bold judgments, which will deliver death on a scale unprecedented in human history. Yet even then they will not repent. In fact, they will curse God. People at that time will have made the irrevocable choice to side with the forces of hell. While there will be divine judgments throughout the seven year tribulation, they will escalate during the last three and one half years, the time Jesus called the good. Great Tribulation in Matthew 24. Those judgments will unfold sequentially in three telescoping series, the seals, the trumpets, and the bowls. Out of the seventh seal comes the seven trumpet judgments, out of the seventh trumpet comes the seven bowl judgments. Like the fifth trumpet, the sounding of the sixth trumpet heralds another More severe demonic attack on sinful mankind. This attack, unlike the previous one, brings death. So remember there was only torment in the previous one, now we get death. And so this is all part of a sequence that started in uh Revelation eight thirteen with the eagle flying and saying, Whoa, whoa, whoa uh that because of the trumpet blast of the other three angels. So there's after the first four trumpets, uh there's this idea that there's three woes attached to the four the fifth, sixth, and seventh trumpet. And so the fifth trumpet was the demon locustords And now we get 200 million demonic riders from the Euphrates with the sixth trumpet. So let's take a look. Let's dive in and take a look at what the scripture says here. Verse 13. Then the sixth thing. And that voice says, one saying to the sixth to the sixth angel, who had the trumpet, release the four angels. who are bound at the Great River Euphrates. And so this is the sixth angel and the sixth trumpet of these sequential trumpet judgments. And John hears a voice The Greek text literally says one voice, stressing that John heard a single solitary voice. There's all these You know, there's lot there's lots around this throne. There's all these angels and there's these these presence angels and there's uh the elders and there's the best hosts, and but he has this one single voice coming out of the altar is what he's saying here. And the Greek makes it the stress on one here. And this was uh so it could be the lamb, because the lamb is right there. Or it could be the voice of an angel whom John sees standing right next to the golden altar of incense. We saw that in the last chapter that there was a separate angel, not the seven angels, that was right there at the altar of incense as well. So it's one of those two, either the Lamb or that other angel. Angel. So identifying that source of that voice is not possible from the text. It doesn't tell us exactly who it was, but it does tell us where it came from. Uh it came from the four horns, so it came from right in the middle of this altar. Uh horns are the small protrusions from each corner of the altar, of the golden altar which is before God. John had already seen this particular altar uh which is the heavenly counterpart to the old testament altar of incense. He'd seen it twice already previously in the vision. Uh and so that altar of incense was first in the tabernacle and then when they built the temple it was in the temple uh and it was the place where For the burning of incense, and it was right outside the Holy of Holies, right by the veil to the Holy of Holies. Uh so Exodus chapter thirty verse one through ten is a description of this altar. Uh moreover you shall the the the copy, the copy on earth, the real ones in heaven Copies on earth. Make sure we have that straight. Real one in heaven, copy on earth. Um wherever you shall make an altar as a place for burning incense, you shall make it of acacia wood. Its length shall be a cubit, and it's width a cubit. That's a really small thing. A cubit is eighteen inches. So this thing is only eighteen inches by eighteen inches. A little. And not ch it's not huge. Little. Eighteen inches by eighteen inches. Uh it shall be square and its height shall be two cubits, so it's taller than than it is wide. It's thirty six inches tall. It's only eighteen inches square. Uh weird looking thing. Um it its horns shall be of one piece width, so it does horns on the corners, just like the one in heaven does. You shall overlay it with pure gold. topping its sides all around and its horns, and you shall make a gold moulding all around it for it. So you shall make two gold rings for it under the moulding, and you shall make them on its two side walls on opposite sides and they should be holders for poles with which you'll carry it. So poles to go through these rings so they can carry this thing because they were moving it around They would take the tabernacle down, they would move it to a new place, set it up, put the put all the equipment up there, including this altar. But uh so God designed it so it could be moved around when it was in the tabernacle. You shall put this altar in the front of the veil that is near the Ark of the Testimony. So in front of the veil. So there's a veil of the Holy of Holies. The ark's in there This is right in front of that. Um, in front of the mercy seat that is over the Ark of the Testimony, where I will meet with you. Aaron shall burn fragrant incense on it, he shall burn it every morning when he trims the lamps. When Aaron trims the lamps at twilight, he shall burn incense. There shall be perpetual incense before the Lord throughout your generations. You shall not offer any strange incense on this altar So you f if you recall in the Old Testament there was an instance of strange incense or strange fire that Aaron's sons tried to offer on this thing and they were wiped out. Um burnt offer and you shouldn't not no strange incense or burnt offerings. or meal offering, or you shall not pour out a drink offering on it, and shall make atonement on its horns once a year. He shall make atonement of it on it with the blood of the sin offering of atonement once a year throughout your generations. It is most holy to the Lord. So that's the description of the copy on the earth and then the real thing is up in heaven and that's what John is seeing. But John would have been familiar with the altar of incense from the Old Testament. And so he could recognize him. When he sees it in his vision, oh yeah, I know that. That's the altar of incense. That's It's the real one. I've s I I know about the copy of it from my reading of the Old Testament. So the voice comes from this altar, uh from the surface of the altar, between the four protruding corners, and it commands the sixth angels. So this Whatever whoever this voice is has authority to command angels. Commands the sixth angel. Let the trumpet release the four angels who are bound at the great river Euphrates. So that the four angels are bound indicates that these are probably demons. There's no indication that That holy angels are ever bound for any reason. No, we never have that in scripture of of holy angels being bound. And so these are most likely fallen angels that have been bound there Um most likely uh these demons have been bound and now the the the Lamb, Christ orders the sixth angel to to release them 'cause now it's time for them to do the thing that God has uh planned for them for long, long time and now the a the hour has come. His control so God's control over de demonic forces is complete. They are bound and lose to his command. Uh the this the the word bound there is in the perfect uh tense, the participle uh perfect tense of the participle uh translated bound implies that these four angels are bound in the past. with continuing results. In other words, they have been bound. They were bound. They have been bound, bound, bound, bound, bound, bound, bound, bound, released. That's what the sense of this Greek term is. So these are angels that have been bound in the past for continuing, continuing, continuing And then released for a certain purpose. And so they're bound, they were in a state or condition of bondage until God's determined time came for them to be released to execute their function as instruments of divine judgment. So the site of the imprisonment of the angels is the great river Euphrates, the longest and most important river in the Middle East. And it figures prominently in the Old Testament. We there's lots and lots about the River Euphrates in the Old Testament. There's lots of the Old Testament empires that interact with Israel are um bound by the River Euphrates, it's part of their boundaries, part of their empire, uh, for most of the the history of the Old Testament. The use of the definite article suggests that these Four angels are a specific group. So it's not four angels, it's the four angels. Notice that, the four angels. So it's a specific group. It's a a definite article, uh specific group for a specific purpose. That's really what the text is bringing out here. The Greek the text Tenses and the specific articles that are hidden here in the Greek suggest it's it's a specific group of angels for a specific purpose, God's specific purpose. Uh the precise identity of these uh demons is not revealed, but Daniel chapter ten does give us insight about the warfare between holy angels and demons that specifically influence nations. The demons that are exerting influence over particular nations. We see that in Daniel 10. So Daniel 10 verse 13, for example, a holy angel tells Daniel The prince of the kingdom of Persia was withstanding me for 21 days. So that prince of the kingdom of Persia is a demon. And the holy angel is battling with this demon for twenty one days, he tells Daniel. Uh then behold Michael, one of the chief princes, so the archangel Michael comes to help the the an the holy angel against this demon. He's struggling. It's evidently a very powerful demon. That he's been battling it for twenty one days and he needs the Archangel Michael to come help him Uh for I had been left there with the kings of Persia. He's talking about demons that he battled there. And then in verse twenty of uh uh Daniel chapter ten, do you understand why I came to you? But I shall now return to fight against the Prince of Persia. So I am going forth and behold the Prince of Greece is about to come. Another demon. He's going to battle another demon that's influencing the nation of Greece. There's one that's influencing Persia over here, there's one that's influencing Greece over there, and the holy angels are battling them. And that's what's revealed to Daniel there in Daniel chapter ten. So whoever they are, these four powerful fallen angels can control a huge demonic army set to wage war against fallen mankind when God releases them to do so. They're bound and they can't do anything that they want to do Until God says that they can, and only and then they can only do what God says that they can do. Okay. Uh continuing to verse 15. And the four angels, who had been prepared for the hour and day and month and year, were released, so that they would kill a third of mankind. The number of the armies of the horsemen was two hundred million. I heard the number of them. Death, which had taken a holiday under the fifth trumpet, so men sought death. under the torment, the five-month torment and the fifth trumpet, now death returns with a vengeance. The four angels, the one bounds at at the river Euphrates, who had been prepared By God for this exact hour, day and month and year. So he'd been holding them bound by his authority until he released them. Then then they're released when it's time. At the previous moment in the predetermined year, the predetermined month and the very day and the exact hour that God calls for by His sovereign plan, He will release these four high-ranking demons. So that they can u he can use them in his ongoing judgment of the world. So he's he's got this progressive judgment of the world. And when it comes time where God decides to judge in a particular way that uses these particular demons Then he releases. Not before, not an hour before. And the s terrifying purpose of this demon horde and these demon leaders is to kill a third of mankind. Um the judgment of the fourth seal killed one quarter of the earth, if you remember, in chapter six, so the fourth seal killed one third This additional third brings the death toll from these two judgments alone to about half the earth's pretribulation population. So if you use the population of the earth now, it's eight billion So if you kill one quarter, what is that? Two billion. And what's eight billion minus two billion? Six billion. And what's one third of six billion Two billion. So it's another two billion. And so you're left with four billion if when you started with eight billion. So it's a half. Half the population is killed in these two alone that leaves aside everything else that's happened. But just those two, um, the fourth seal and the sixth trumpet kill a quarter and then a third, which adds up to a half. If you start with eight billion, you'd be down to four billion. So this is two billion dead in this one event. To slaughter two billion people will require an unimaginably powerful force. Uh and so John reports the number of this force, the armies and the horsemen Uh as two hundred million. Um that's likely an exact number because we've seen him use general numbers for vast hordes that hordes that nobody can count, for example, in chapter five and chapter seven. So when when he wants to use a general number, he uses a general number This sounds like a really specific number. Um and as if anticipating skepticism about the size of that number, John emphatically he insists that I heard the number. I heard it. It was 200 million and I heard it So it seems like from the way the text is talking about it, this is talking about an exact number, or or very close to an exact number Something like that. Not not a vague number like he's used before. In addition to the demons that we've already had roaming the earth throughout history, the ones that were encountered by Jesus, encountered by Paul, um the spiritual forces of witness in holy in heavenly places in Ephesians six and the innumerable bound demons that were released from the abyss in chapter f and uh the fifth trumpet. Now we get another demon horde of two hundred million strong horde of demons. Uh there the the word armies is plural, the number of the armies of the horsemen. So it's not an army of the horsemen, it's armies. And that may suggest that each of the four demon Um uh demons gets their own army, and so there's four armies and it adds up to two hundred million. Um but it's the armies is plural. in in the text. Uh so some have suggested that this uh is the human army referred to in chapter sixteen and led by the kings of the east. Um and usually when they talk about that they say, well the Chinese army numbered 200 million in its 1970s. However, there's no reference made to the size of the army of the kings of the East in chapter 16. Further, that army arrives in the scene during the Six Bold. Judgment which takes place during the seventh trumpet, not the sixth trumpet, so that army comes later. There's a big human army, but it comes later, it doesn't come now Uh there may be at that time an existing standing army of 200 million, who knows. Uh but it seems unlikely that a human army that big could be transported all over the earth to kill two billion people Um because you could it couldn't just be in one place. It would have to spread out over the whole world to kill two billion people. Um and that seems unlikely that a human army could do that Uh and keep in mind that the Earth's population has been drastically reduced and there's no reason to believe that armies won't be part of the people that are dead from this the uh the stick seal for example. Um so and and the description of this army does not seem like a description of a human army when we get to the description of what they John says they look like. So I I think that's not correct. And I don't think it's correct that this is the same army that it's talking about in in chapter 16. Uh the figurative language used to describe the army's horses suggests that this is a supernatural rather than a human force, as does the fact that it is commanded by four newly released demons. Then continuing along. In chapter in verse 17, we get this description. This is how I saw in the vision the horses and those who sat on them. The riders had breastplates, the color of fire, and of hyacinth and brimstone, and the heads of the horses are like the heads of lions, and out of their mouths proceeded fire and smoke and brimstone. So this is another description of something that uh John is actually seeing in a vision and he's trying the best he can in human language to describe this supernatural vision. Uh so but before he describes the horses, which are the actual agents of destruction, John briefly describes those who sat on the horses. Um he noted that the writers had breastplates, the color of fire and Of hyacinth and of brimstone. The color of fire is red. Hyacinth is dark blue or black, like smoke, and brimstone is a sulfurous yellow. describing the rock which when ignited produces burning flame and suffocating gas. So that's what he's trying to describe here with these colors. Uh he's trying to the you know the colors are the features of hell that we get in Revelation chapter fourteen, nineteen and twenty and twenty one. And they paint a picture of God's wrath pouring out on the sinful world through these demons. Horses in scripture, as we talked about before, are Associated with warfare and scripture in many different places in the Old Testament. Exodus, Deuteronomy, Joshua, 1 and 2 Samuel and on and on and on. But it's clear that these are not actual horses from the description. This is something else. This is a demon horde. Uh and the heads of the horses are like the heads of lions, and out of their mouth proceeded fire and smoke and brimstone. So a lion-headed horse with fire and brimstone coming out of its mouth. A third of mankind was killed by these three plagues, by the fire and the smoke and the brimstone, which preceded out of their mouths. So in God John's using descriptive language best he can to describe what he sees in this vision. and he sees h the heads and there's he describes them as horses, but then he says the heads look like lions. Uh denoting fierce, relentless, determined stalk to stalk and slaughter their victims. Um he John notes three times that the demon horses killed their victims, all of which picture the violent, devastating fury of hell. They incinerated their victims with fire, they asphyxiated them with smoke and brimstone. So this is like unleashing hell on earth And they sees the devastating results, and he describes the re results he sees in the vision, and the results are that if A third of mankind was killed by these three what he calls plagues, fire, smoke, and brimstone. That's coming out of the mouths of these Horses that have heads like lions. Um and so this is the word plague used here Uh the fire and smoke and brimstone is described as plague using the word plague. And that word, this same Greek word for plagues will continue to appear in the book of Revelation uh to describe God's judgments, especially during this three and a half years of the Great Tribulation. So we'll see it again in Revelation eleven. Revelation fifteen, chapter sixteen, chapter eighteen, chapter twenty one, chapter twenty two, described as plagues. Yes. Yeah, so yes, so so God even in his judgment is showing mercy. He's showing um he's giving people an opportunity He's continuing to withhold the final judgment. So it's progressively getting worse, but he doesn't just wipe them out in a second at the very beginning of this thing. The seven-year tribulation period, the judgments become more and more severe. Well, he continues to give people opportunities to repent. And yet they don't. Uh which is the saddest part of this whole story. The very end of this chapter says that they hardened their hearts and they they did not repent. Uh yeah, just unbelievable. Watching all this happen and then continuing to harden their hearts. So we have this this progressive outpouring of God's wrath that keeps getting more and more and more severe. uh by increments. Any questions so far? Yes, Tegan. So um it's interesting. We're gonna get to some language at the very end of this passage uh which is which sounds pretty general that they're not repenting. Uh it sounds like they've stopped repenting a at this point. Um but we know that at least For some time during this whole period, there are people that are repenting because we have a whole bunch of martyrs that were martyred during this period of time. We have those that were saved out of the Great Tribulation that we saw before the The witnesses, we're going to get to the witnesses. The two witnesses uh are coming up. in um chapter fourteen we got we got the hundred and forty four thousand witnesses. We get the two w yeah, they're still going Um we we have the the two special witnesses we're gonna get to here in a minute. Um but it's not cle it's um it sounds very depressing anyway at the end of this chapter in particular. that pen men were not repenting. Um which is a very sobering thing to think about. That uh and and we have we have similar hard heartedness throughout the Bible. We have Uh the nation of Israel that watches God do all these miraculous things. W watches God um you know the the the plagues on Egypt and saving them with the Passover and then parting the Red Sea And and almost immediately they're grumbling and saying, let's go back to Egypt. Um you know the back to Egypt club was really big and in Israel as they're watching God miraculously save them time and time again But they're instantly rebelling against God. I mean, really, almost no time goes by between the time that they are miraculously saved through the Red Sea Now they watch God destroy their enemies, and then they grumble against God and against Moses almost immediately. So that's the nature of a hard hearted person and we seem to be getting that here at the end of this chapter as well. But it it's a good question. Are there is there anybody being saved? at this point. Um and it's not clear to me from this passage at the end of chapter nine that there's still being people saved after that. Yeah. Okay, so good question. So uh we have a s we have a seven year period period of tribulation that is uh uh that that works itself out in seven seals, seven trumps, and seven seven bowls. Um and so and and generally that's divided into three and a half year periods. The uh the first part of it is the Tribulation. The second half of it is the Great Tribulation, last three and a half years. Um and most commentators Put the dividing line from the first three and a half years to the second three and a half years at the seventh trumpet. So there's silence in heaven And then there's gonna it's gonna get much worse when you start the trumpets. So the trumpets and the seals are definitely in the second half. And so w in these trumpets we're definitely in the Great Tribulation, the three and a half. Now, some commentators want to start the s the the Great Tribulation, the second half in the sixth seal Which is okay too. Um the sixth seal is a you know, the huge earthquake that kills a third of mankind. They they say, yeah, that's great tribulation when a third of m mankind is killed. Uh so it's either the either the sixth seal Or the seventh seal starts the second three and a half years. But here in these trumpets, we're definitely in the second three and a half years. So we're in the Great Tribulation, the second half of the seven year tribulation. So this this thing is happening over a time span. So it's not uh so i we can read it all in you know thirty minutes we could read through the whole tribulation but remember that it's taking place over a time span. And for example the fifth trumpet was five five months long. Um now w we're not told how long the sixth trumpet is, how long it takes to kill two billion people, but it it probably takes some time because the whole thing has to take seven years. And so there's been some time Um and maybe some little bit of recovery time sometimes between these judgments. Uh but we're in we're firmly within that last three and a half years of tribulation. Good question. Okay, so here we go. Any any uh questions about where we've come so far. So there we go. That's a horse with a lion's head with uh fire and a brimstone coming out of the mouth and uh something riding on top of it that has a breastplate that's made out of fire and brimstone and uh so and a and notice it has a serpent for a tail and the serpent has a head because the scripture says it has a serpent for a tail and that serpent has a head Uh so I don't know exactly what John saw. This is a this is an artist rendering of maybe when Yeah. Yeah, and two hundred million of 'em. Um so yeah, an army of two hundred million of those. is something like what John John saw. And so then we get to verse 18, a third of mankind was killed by these three plagues, by the fire and the smoke and the brimstone, which proceeded out of their mouths. For the power of the horses is in their mouths and in their tails, for their tails are like serpents and have heads, and with them they do harm. So both the fire and smoke and brimstone kind of the mouth and this tail like a serpent that's uh that's killing people. Um not a pretty sight. And so as if it's not frightening enough already, uh John sees more about the deadly power of the demons with the the snake for a tail, uh the power of the horses in their mouths, but also in their tails, he says, oh by the way. Um he's heard so first he had likened the horses' heads to savage lions, and now he says their tails are like deadly, venomous serpents that have heads, and with them they do harm. So the horses' tails were not actually serpents because the horses were not actually horses. This is something he's seeing, this is a vision he's seeing, and he's He's kind of describing it the best way he can using familiar objects. But this is a demon thing he's seeing. Um he's trying to use familiar things like serpents and lions to describe something that's uh essentially indescribable. And so that but they the point is they have vicious deadly power to kill a third of mankind, two billion people. Um yeah. So these images describe the supernatural deadliness of this demon force in terms that are understood from the natural realm, things like lions and serpents. The scorpion stings from the previous demon assault that we had in the fifth trumpet, the snake bites inflicted by this host will be fatal. So the previous was just just uh torment so bad that you wanted to die. Now we get actual death from the both the head of the lion and f the head looks like a lion and the tail looks like a snake. And then we get to this very sad ending here Um verse 20 says the rest of mankind, so very general, but I think this leads open the possibility that You know, ninety-nine percent of the people are are n not repenting, but there's a remnant. The rest of mankind who were not killed by these plagues did not repent of the works of their hands, so as not to worship demons, and the idols of gold, and of silver, and of brass, and of stone and of wood, which can neither see nor hear, nor walk. And so there was not a mass revival. That's clear. Clearly, this is everybody doesn't look up and say the Lord has has has uh poured out his wrath, we better repent. There's not a big revival like that. But I think the This probably leaves open the possibility of f a small number still uh still a faithful remnant clinging. So the death of one third of the Earth's remaining population will be the most catastrophic disaster to strike the Earth's since the flood. So the flood killed everybody but eight. Uh this is gonna kill a third of all that are left after all the other disasters. Yet in an amazing hardness of heart, the rest of mankind who were not killed by these plagues did not repent. It seems unimaginable Uh that after all these years of suffering, so we're somewhere into the three and a half years of the Great Tribulation, so uh three and a half years plus something, so maybe five years or so of at least of this um the progressively more terrible destructions, uh judgments from God, coupled with the powerful preaching of the gospel by the hundred and forty-fourth thousand evangelists and other believers according to Matthew 24, the survivors will still refuse to repent. at least the great mass of them will refuse to repent. Yes. And so uh th it's there is some mystery involved with the with the uh doctrine of election, um and so a and the fact that people are naturally uh dead in their transgressions. Um and so d dead people don't repent. And so how do you become alive? How do you become spiritually alive? The regeneration of the Holy Spirit. And so it takes the regeneration of the Holy Spirit for somebody to be able to re repent. Um and so yeah, so uh yes, so there's there's some mystery there with the way the Bible describes the doctrine of election and the fact that uh we're called to repent and the fact that we're called to evangelize. Um but all those things are true. Yes, God elects and yes we're called to evangelize. Both. Both of those things are true. Uh But the it but the the vast majority will, according to Scripture, refuse to repent at this time. Yeah. And s and starting with the sixth seal judgment There was a widespread recognition that these were judgments coming from God. Before that, it seems like there wasn't a widespread recognition that the judgments were coming from God. But in the sixth seal We saw the widespread acknowledgement that this was judgments coming from God. And so that realization is there, and yet the vast majority refuse to repent. And so this is tragic. This is very sad. Um it's um the survivors will still refuse to repent. So having failed to heed the Bible's warning, today if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts Hebrews chapter four, they will perish. Tragically they will choose to worship the dragon and the beast. We'll see that coming in in chapter 13. instead of the lamb. So after all of this, the vast majority of people that survived this are going to worship the dragon and the beast. We'll see that in chapter thirteen. Um the Antichrist rather than Christ. So yes, very very sad and tragic, we see. Um so and and so as John concludes this account He lists uh five particular areas of sin that people will cling to uh in defiance and refuse to repent. So the first is idolatry. Um and so uh they didn't repent of the works of their hands so as not to worship the demons and the idols of gold and silver and brass and stone and wood that can neither see nor hear nor walk. So ever since the fall men have practiced idolatry, uh worshiping the works of their hands hands. That phrase is used throughout scripture to refer to idols, the works of their hands, worshiping the works of their hands. That's in Deuteronomy, 2 Kings, 2nd Chronicles, Psalm, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Hosea, Micah, Hagi. This phrase, the works of their hands, worshiping the works of their hands. to their hands is a uh scriptural method of identifying idolatry. So in ancient times and even in some cultures today, people actually worship idols of gold and silver and brass and stone, which can either See nor hear nor walk. But to worship any idol or false deity is in fact to worship demons. That's what it says in Deuteronomy 32 and Psalm 106. And we get some other examples of that. That worshiping idols is worshiping. Demons. The Septuagint, for example, which is a Greek translation of the Old Testament from before the time of Christ, renders Psalm 96. 5 as all the gods of the peoples are demons. The Apostle Paul declared that the things which the Gentiles sacrifice, they sacrifice to demons. That's 1 Corinthians 10 20. When people worship idols, gods that do not exist, demons who do exist will impersonate those gods and hold those idolaters captive to their demonic power and deception. So Paul's saying when people worship idols, what they're really worshiping is demons That's what First Corinthians ten says. False religions are not void of the supernatural, they're full of it, because they are the best opportunities for demons to capture souls. They are the fortresses mentioned in Second Corinthians. ten, which must be assaulted with the truth if souls are to be delivered. So for example, look at an an a religion like Islam, where did that come from? Where did the Quran come from? According to to Muhammad, where did he get that from? And an angel. Well what was that really That was a demon. It was a demon that wrote the Quran. That whole this that whole religion is from a demon. That's what Muhammad says. It came from this angel But that but no angel gives scripture contrary to the word of God. And so that was a demon. And that whole so that whole religion is based on uh a a demon demon. Yeah. Mormon did the thing so Mormon did the same. Same thing. The angel Moroni is who Joseph Smith got his Book of Mormon from, and the Book of Mormon contradicts the scriptures, so that's a demon too. So Mormonism is based is comes from a demon as well. Um yeah. So t those are two of the largest uh uh counterfeit religions in the world today. Yeah. So uh that's a good question. That that's a good question, especially in the case of Joseph Smith. That's a longer discussion. I I've um I taught a c a course on comparative religions before and I I I took the opportunity, this was years ago to study Mormonism quite a bit and uh Joseph Smith is was a very interesting character. He was a convicted peepstoner, uh glass looker. Um he he uh he had a scam where he would say he could look for water to for digging wells And he did it by putting a s uh a glass, uh like a uh like a uh a a magnifying glass looking kind of thing in a hat. And he'd take the hat and he would go like this and he would say, yeah, you can dig for water there. Now when Joseph The Scr Smith did his own in his own words described how he translated the gold plates that the angel of Moroni gave him said he put a glass in a hat and looked at the plates and I mean he used the same scam. Um and so it's possible that yeah he just made that whole thing up. That's possible. Or it could have been a demon involved in it. Uh but yeah for in the case of Joseph Smith I I wonder if he didn't make the whole thing up. Um But m but maybe he made the whole thing up at the prompting of a demon. Uh I don't know. Um All right, good yeah, good point. Um someday we'll do a comparative religion class. Yeah. Yeah, so i in i yes in that sense uh so i the the revelations that uh Muhammad came to uh uh claimed to have were sometime in the sixth century. So Christianity had been around for centuries by the time Muhammad came on the scene, and there's obviously influences from the true scriptures in the Quran. There's somebody who knew what the Bible said was involved in compiling that thing But it's obviously there's massive corruptions of what's in there. There's really weird things in there um i i uh that that modern Islamic scholars have real difficulties with because they're obviously um uh uh obviously false. There's some obvious uh some obvious things that they have to explain away. Uh but there's also obvious influences from the Old and New Testament in in the Quran. And of course The Book of Mormon, um, you know, they they it it claims to be a succeeding revelation on top of the Old and New Testament. But it includes their their translation, they call it translation. Translation of the of the Bible includes all kinds of extra stuff in the book of Genesis about Joseph Smith. So they've added Joseph Smith into the book of Genesis in their translation. But there there are no ancient copied manuscripts of the Old Testament that include anything about Joseph Smith. Um they just stuffed it in there. Um you know, yeah. It's weird. I mean there's really some really bizarre things that people believe. Um uh yeah, it's interesting in the truth. And so uh I wouldn't be surprised If there were demons that were involved in that process of deceiving um Muhammad and Joseph Smith and being at least involved somehow in pushing these false revelations. Or they could have just made it all up. But I wouldn't be surprised if demons were involved in something like that in false religion. Um to try to lure people away from the truth. Uh and they've been spectacularly successful. How many Muslims are there? Were like one billion Muslims in the world? Um yeah. Uh at the future point in the world history, idolatry, mysticism, spiritism Satanism and all other forms of false religion will become pandemic as demons lead people into more wicked and vicious behavior. So that's what we see here. Uh and they did not repent of their murders and nor their sorceries, nor of their immorality, nor of their theft. So continuing on, unbridled, unrestrained, escalating wickedness, as a result, uh there's more and more violent crimes like murders. So of course Do we see that in our own society? Borders become worse and worse and worse. Is that a sign that we're coming to these times? I don't know Um I don't think we ha we're in any of this. We're we're not in I mean the church is still here. The the sign of the beginning of this tribulation is the rapture of the church. And that hasn't happened. So we're not in this. But we are in a period where things are getting worse in terms of murders in particular. And so they're bereft of morality, evil, unrepentant people, imitate the demon hordes, murderous bloodlust. And believers, of course, will no doubt be prime targets as they lash out to seek revenge for the disasters that God is bringing. He describes a third sin. So we've had idolatry, murder, third is sorceries The Greek word that's translated sorceries here is the Greek word from which we get the English words pharmacy and pharmaceuticals. uh can also refer to not just good medicines, but it can also refer to poisons, amulets, charms, seances, witchcraft, incantations, magic spells, contacting mediums, or other things tied to pagan idolatry. So that's a very broad word. in the Greek, uh pharmacea. Uh it's much I mean the the in the our English word of uh pharmacy and pharmaceuticals is much more narrow. But that Greek word is much broader uh as is my point here. Uh people will dive deeper into the satanic trappings of false religion. The next thing is uh that they refuse to turn away from is immorality Uh it's the Greek words pornea there from which we get the English word pornography. And that word pornea in the Greek is a general term. uh describing sexual sin of every variety, fornication, adultery, rape, homosexuality, all uh within this Greek word pornea. Uh so we get sexual perversion. So of course we see that in our own day But it's not this. This is worse somehow. Uh finally people will refuse to repent of thefts. That's the fifth one. Um honesty will be non existent. People compete for increasingly scarce supplies of food. Food, clothing, walter, and shelter. So under the influence of this massive demon force, uh the world will descend into a morass of false religion, murder, sexual perversion and crime unparalleled in human history. And so we see headlines that things are getting worse and is this the sign of the end of the uh end times? Maybe. But it's not this. It it is not this. Because we It's a sober to realize that the Lord will one day come to execute judgment upon all. and to convict all the ungodly of all their ungodly deeds which they have done in an ungodly way, and of all the harsh things which ungodly sinners have spoken against him. That's what Jude fifteen says. In light of that coming judgment, it is the responsibility of all believers to faithfully proclaim the gospel to unbelievers, thereby snatching them out of the fire, June 23. So this stuff has not happened yet. We have not gotten to the rapture yet. So what should we be doing now as followers of Christ? Evangelize, proclaiming the gospel. It's much, much better for your unbelieving friends, neighbors, coworkers, and family members. to be raptured with us than to live through this. And so that should provide motivation. All of this should provide motivation. For us to proclaim the gospel to those around us that are headed for this. They're headed for this, they don't see it, it's going to be awful We don't want them to go through that. We want them to be raptured with us. And so use this as motivation. As you read these words, use it as motivation. Alright, any questions? Yes, she's absolutely right. Uh uh thank you for that. It's Alien Intrusion is the name of it. Gary Bates is the author. Alien Intrusion. Not Alien Invasion. I apologize. Thank you for that uh correction. Um yeah. 'Cause you don't want to read some weird book by by a guy that by somebody that believes in aliens and that the aliens are coming. Um yeah, yeah. Don't read don't don't read a book called Alien Basin. Read the book called Alien Intrusion. Alien Intrusion. Make sure it's by Gary Bates. Gary Baines. Yeah, thank you. Um anybody else? Alright, let's close in a word of prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for uh the opportunity that we have today. To share the gospel, to share the gospel with unbelieving friends and family members and co-workers and neighbors who do not see what's coming. Uh you've revealed in your word here in the book of Revelation what is coming for unbelievers, what's coming on the unbelieving world. Lord, please let it be a motivation to us to spread the gospel. We thank you, Lord, that you have provided a way of redemption and that this is not the fate of everyone. Uh that you have provided a way of redemption through your son Jesus Christ for his by his uh substitutionary atonement on the cross to pay for our sins. We thank you for all that, Lord. We thank you for the opportunity that we're about to have to worship you uh together as a body of Christ in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs and in the preaching of the word and in prayer. We thank you for all that, Lord, and we pray that uh the worship that we're about to offer will be acceptable in your sight. And we pray these things in Jesus' name, Amen