All right, let's get started with a word of prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for this Lord's Day and the opportunity that we have to be the body of Christ gathered together to worship you. We thank you especially during this hour for your word. and the opportunity we have to study your word, Lord. We ask that you would open our hearts and minds so that we could truly understand what you're trying to teach us from your word and also that we'd be able to apply those lessons to our lives. so that we would be not just hearers of the word, but doers of the word. We thank you, Lord, for your great love for your church We thank you for your love for Hope Bible Church. We ask, Lord, that uh as we uh live out our lives as the body of Christ, that we would um take the commands in the scripture uh seriously to love one another, to encourage one another, to lift one another up, uh so that we would always be encouraging one another and spurring one another on to love and good deeds. We thank you so much for your love, Lord. uh that comes first. Your love that uh worked itself out in the life, death, and resurrection of Christ for our sins. And it's in Jesus' name that we pray Amen. Okay. So we're going through the book of Revelation. We're on lesson number 11. Uh it's a 39 part series. Uh so uh we have this one and two more for this quarter Uh and then two more quarters uh to go through the book of Revelation, but today we'll be going through the final letter to the seven churches. So the seventh church, the Laudicea church, that's characterized as a lukewarm church. And we're going to talk about what that means. So we're going to look at this letter to Laodicea. We're going to look at the correspondent who it came from, the church, who it goes to, the city that that church was in, so the surrounding context and circumstances, the concern that Christ Christ has for this church, the command that he has and the counsel that he gives. Uh if you'll remember, we're uh John's on the island of Patmos, the he he sends these seven messengers with the seven letters, they go to Ephesus. They go to Smyrna, they go to Pergamum, Thia Tyrus, Philadelphia, and the road comes around through Hieropolis to Laodicea, the last church. And so that's where we will be today. But first some reviews. You. So uh last time um something came up and I wanted to go back to it for just a second. Uh somebody asked me after class, uh can there be two meanings to the same passage of scripture? And uh the short answer is no. There can't be two meanings to a passage of scripture. It only has one meaning. It can have multiple applications. For example, prophecies can have an uh they have only one meaning, but they can have an application to the uh the people that received the prophecy at the time, but there could also be a future application um as well, um prophecy can be like that. Um but there's still only one meaning to the passage, what what that passage means, uh, and I want to make sure that's clear when we look at uh passages of scripture. Now the other thing that I have done in this class is I have actually gone through passages of scripture and pointed out to you that there is some disagreement. among uh well-respected, good and godly men who have written commentaries about what that one meaning is. Sometimes there's disagreement among uh followers of Christ about what that meaning is. Um and one of the examples at from the very beginning was this um this phrase at the beginning of each one of the letters. uh to the angel at the church in Ephesus, Angel Georgisardis. Uh that Greek word is Angoloi That Greek word to the angel, to the angoloi. That Greek word simply means messenger. It means messenger. However, in many places in Scripture, the it means a very specific kind of of messenger, uh the angelic beings that God uses as his messengers. And that's why they're called Angeloi messengers because that's how God characterizes those angelic beings. However, the Greek word angloi, as I mentioned, just means messenger. And so we're left to struggle with does does it mean in a particular context an angelic messenger? Or does it simply mean a human messenger? Because it means messenger. That's what the actual meaning of the text is. And in this case, um there's a split among the commentators, and I Um my judgment from reading all the commentaries was it's most likely the meaning is a human messenger in this context. And so I pointed that out, but I also pointed out that others disagree Now that doesn't mean there's two meanings to that to that passage. There's only one meaning, uh but sometimes people wrestle with what that meaning is. Um does it does everybody understand that, uh the distinction? I just want to make sure that that uh nobody gets the impression that I have said that there could be two meanings to uh a passage of scripture. There's only one meaning Many applications. And sometimes we struggle and wrestle with what is the meaning. Okay. Alright, last time we did the church of Philadelphia, and uh Christ identifies himself as he does at the beginning of each letters. He he is holy uh Um, and of course only that refers to God. He's the only one that's absolutely holy, so it's a statement of Jesus' divinity. Um He also identifies as he who is true. Uh truth in combination with holiness is a common theme here in the book of Revelation. It's in Revel here and also in Revelation six, fifteen, sixteen, nineteen. Combination of holy and true. And we see that here. He also defines himself as he who has the key of David, a key of David. Scripture represents authority, uh, and David uh symbolizes the Messiahic line. And then finally, uh he who opens the door, no one shuts, he who shuts the door, no one opens. Um and so this Christmas uh has absolute authority, sovereign control over his church. This is the picture we get from his introduction last week to this letter to the church in Philadelphia. And the fact that this uh this true holy sovereign omnipotent As we said last time, there's um and as has been a the case all the way through here after Ephesus, there's no Specific information in Scripture about how this church started, the one in Philadelphia. With the exception of Acts 19, that tells us that the gospel went out to the province of Asia from the church in Ephesus. We have some extra-biblical um uh writings about Philadelphia that the early church Father Ignatius went there uh on his way to Rome. Um and then he later wrote a letter back to that church when he got to Rome. Um we have the uh record of some Christians from the church in Philadelphia being martyred along with the early church Father Polycarp. And we know that But this church persisted, it lasted. This faithful church that was faithful in the first century was able to withstand um the Muslim uh takeover of the whole area in the six hundreds and seven hundreds and was still a thriving church all the way to the fourteen hundreds. Um now it did eventually disappear, but it persisted for centuries and centuries and centuries as opposed to some of the other churches we looked at that had winked out in less than a hundred years after the book of Revelation. It was situated in a in a um kind of a strategic location in terms of culture. It was uh it was founded to be a center of Greek culture and language Um and it was at the junction of several roads, several important roads, so it was a good strategic location um from a secular point of view, but also from a gospel point of view. Many people passing in all these strategic roads, and there's a church, uh a faithful church that can spread the gospel. And so this church, this one um goes right to um there's no concern so it goes right to commendations. Um their deeds. There's nothing uh wrong with their deeds that that Christ points out here. Uh he points out that they have little power, however, they're also impacting the city, even without uh kind of the secular idea of what would be power. They've kept the word and they've not denied the name. So they've been faithful. He identifies them in all these ways to show uh To encourage them and say that you've been faithful. Because of that faithfulness, there's promises there that there's an open door that no one can shut. So Christ first commends them for being faithful, and then He gives them some um promises based on their uh faithfulness. Uh their salvation is secure. Uh he goes through this idea of uh the persecution that they have from what he identifies here and then uh one other letter that we've already seen. the synagogue of Satan, just like in Smyrna, um Christians in Philadelphia um faced hostility from unbelieving Jews. So this is the second time we've We've seen that. Uh and in spite of all that, the members had kept the word of his perseverance. In other words, they had persevered under uh persecution. And then we get to this uh keeping you from an hour of testing. Uh we see this uh I think um it's it's clear that it's an expansion from just beyond just this church because it uses this phrase come upon the whole world. Something coming upon the whole world is obviously not just the church of Philadelphia. Um and so uh this is why uh most commentators who who look at this passage say, hey, now we're talking about the tribulation. Because of the way it's phrased, that he's going to keep them from a certain hour, and that's a certain hour that's coming upon the whole world. So what is it in the book of Revelation that's coming upon the whole world So we're going to see that in Revelation 6 to 19 in the Great Tribulation. The verse promises that the church will be delivered from that. Um and so what is it that we've seen in other places in Scripture that the church is going to be delivered from? But we see uh the description of the rapture prior to the to tribulation in John 14, 1 Corinthians 15, and primarily uh in great detail in 1 Thessalonians chapter 4. So we talked about that last time. Then we have this promise that those who persevere to the end, who have general uh genuine salvation will um uh no one will take their crown, um they will become a pillar in the temple of God. All these promises about their future uh glorification. Um and so they've had these enemies uh internally. They've uh they've had earthquakes in that that region we talked about for several the churches were uh the cities were destroyed by an earthquake in seventeen AD. But uh there they will not go out um the promise that they will not go out from heaven uh underst that would be understood to be their eternal salvation and glory. And then he talks about uh writing the name of God, the name of the city of God, the New Jerusalem, and in fact his new name, Christ So this is a assurance of salvation, assurance of salvation, assurance of salvation for this faithful church. um over and over and over again essentially um that uh their their salvation is secure no matter what they're facing now. So this uh letter that we saw last time reveals the holy true and omnipotent God, he's pouring out blessings on this faithful church. He has no um uh no overt concern about this church, only commendation and the wonderful promises. Um and so that was the kind of the um the best case scenario for all these these churches that we've seen. Um any question before I go on, any questions about last week's lesson and last week's church? Okay. Uh so today we're gonna have the last church, love to see a church We're going to go from the best church to the worst church. Um so unfortunately, uh so if you open your Bibles to Revelation chapter three, uh Revelation chapter three, we're gonna start in verse fourteen with the last of the seven letters. So remember that we've talked about the fact that there are seven messengers. to these seven churches. They go around to the seven churches, most likely dropping off the leader of that particular church at each of his churches. And so now we're down to just the leader, the messenger for this one church. And he's got a really negative message to give to this this one church and he's b by himself now. Uh so uh Revelation chapter three verse fourteen to the angel Ongeloi, messenger of the church in Laodicea, right The Amen, the faithful and true witness, the beginning of the creation of God says this I know your deeds, that you are neither cold nor hot. I wish that you were cold or hot. So because you are lukewarm and neither hot nor cold, I will spit you out of my mouth. Because you say I am rich and have become wealthy and have need of nothing, and you do not know that you are wretched. and miserable, and poor, and blind, and naked. I advise you to buy from me gold refined by fire so that you may become rich, and white garments, so that you may clothe yourself, and that the shame of your nakedness will not be revealed. And I salve to anoint your eyes so that you may see Those whom I love I reprove in discipline. Therefore be zealous and repent. Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in to him and will dine with him and he with me. He who overcomes, I will grant to him to sit down with me on my throne As I also overcame and sat down with my father on his throne. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. So that's the word of the Lord to the final of these seven churches, the Lord of the church. So there's Laodicea at the very end of this road. Uh there's no praise for this church. The criticism is their is they are lukewarm. We're going to talk about what he means by that. Uh exhortation is to repent, be earnest and repent. Uh and the reward should there be repentance, is to be seated with Christ. So as an introduction to this little section of scripture, uh John MacArthur in his commentary writes He re he refers back to uh the saga of Israel in the Old Testament. Perhaps the most tragic theme in all redemptive history is the sad story of wayward Israel. The Jewish people were the recipients of unprecedented spiritual privileges. The adoption of sons, and the glory in the covenants, and the giving of the law, and the temple service, and the promises, whose are the fathers, and whom, and from whom That's Romans nine. That's Paul talking about Israel in Romans nine. God chose them from all the world's peoples, rescued them from Egypt, brought them into the promised land, loved them, and cared for them. For and protected them. Yet despite those privileges, Israel's history was one of continual rebellion against God Finally, God brought devastating judgment upon his rebellious and unrepentant people. First, Israel fell to the Assyrians 722 B. C. Then Judah was carried into captivity by the Babylonians, 586 B. C. , and Jerusalem destroyed 2 Kings 17 recites the sad litany of sins that brought God's judgment on his people. And then bringing it forward to this uh church, tragically the sorrowful unbelief of Israel finds a parallel in the church. There are many people in churches, even entire congregations who are lost. They may be sincere, zealous, and outwardly religious. But they reject the gospel truth. They have all the rich new covenant teaching about Christ's life, death, and resurrection contained in Bibles, they neither believe nor obey. As a result, they are doomed, just as unbelieving Israel was. Paul described them as those holding to a form of godliness, although they have denied its power. And then wisely counseled believers to avoid such men as these, 2 Timothy 3. The church in Laodicea represents such apostate churches as have existed throughout history. is the last and worst of the seven churches addressed by our Lord. And so all these churches are real churches that actually existed in the first century, but they're also types of churches that have existed all the way out through history and exist today. Uh there are dead churches unfortunately uh today, lukewarm churches. Um and we'll talk about what that that means as we go through. Um yeah. I think that's right. Yeah. I think that's right, and I think that's why Christ did this, put it in the in the book of Revelation so we could see uh what type of churches existed then so we can see what kind of t churches and what kind of dangers uh churches have always faced, will always face, um, and and provide a suitable warning. to avoid such things as the dangers that these churches fell into. Everybody see that? Okay. So we have the first verse to the angel of the church of Labosia right, the Amen. The faithful and true witness, the beginning of the creation of God says this. So Christ is introducing himself like he does in each one of these seven letters. And the first five were all taken from the vision in uh different phrases from the vision in rah in Revelation 1 12 to 17. Philadelphia was different. He did not use phrases from Revelation 1, 12 to 17 for the Philadelphia introduction, and he does not use phrases from Revelation 1 12 to 17 in this introduction. It's different. Uh he used uh three divine titles essentially. He describes himself as the Amen. That's a unique title in Scripture for Christ. Only here. Only in this passage. Of course, Amen itself occurs many other places. It's a transliteration from Hebrew into Greek. So it's a transliteration of a Hebrew word. And that Hebrew word means truth, affirmation, or certainty. So when you're saying amen, you're saying truth Preach it. Truth. What you just said is you're you're identifying that as true. Uh when you say amen at the end, you're saying truth. Amen. That was the truth that he just said or they just said. Affirmation or certainty. It refers to that which is firm, fixed, and unchangeable. Amen is often used in scripture to affirm the truthfulness of a statement. We see that in the Old and New Testament, the Hebrew word and the Greek word that's derived from that Hebrew word. Numbers 5, Nehemiah 8, Matthew 5 and 6, Mark 9, Luke 4. John 1, 3, 5, Romans 16, 1 Corinthians 16, all use Amen. Um either the Hebrew form or the Greek form. The Greek form of Amen is rendered differently differently in different English translations. In the King James Version, that Greek word is rendered verily So if you see the word verily, verily, I say to you, from the King James, if anybody grew up using the King James, you remember that, verily, verily That's the Greek word amen. In the New American Standard, it's truly, truly, truly, I say to you That's Amen, Amen, I say to you, in the Greek, transliterated from the Hebrew. And so when you see those words come out in Scripture, verily, verily, or truly, truly, that's Amen, Amen. Amen, amen. It's is there. Um and so whatever God says is true and certain. That's that's the emphasis of this Amen. He is the God of truth. Um and so uh Christ, of course, is certainly the Amen in the sense that he is God incarnate. So it's a a a title, a a statement of his divinity. But there's actually more to it than that, I think Second Corinthians chapter one, Paul says of Christ, for as many as are the promises of God, in him they are yes. Therefore also through him is our amen to the glory of God through us. So this idea that um through the person and work of Christ that all God's promises and covenants are fulfilled and guaranteed All the Old Testament promises of forgiveness, mercy, loving kindness, grace, hope, eternal life, they're all bound up in Jesus Christ's life, death, and resurrection. Those are the fulfillment of all of those promises, all those truths that have been revealed all throughout history. God's revealing of His plan of redemption, those are all fulfilled in the life, death, and resurrection of Christ. So he is the Amen, the verification, the certainty of all those truths, all the way down through. So this is a really wonderful way for Christ to be identified here as the certainty, the amen to all that God has said. Uh you see that? See how how nice that is? The amen, because he is the one who can confirmed all of God's promises. This is just a wonderful way for Christ to identify himself. He also identifies himself as the faithful and true witness. So that expands on the thought expressed in the first title. Not only is Jesus the Amen because of his work, but also because of everything he speaks is the truth. He's the true witness. The witness is the one who stands gets up on the stand and proclaims the truth. So he is the truth, but he's also proclaiming the truth. He's completely trustworthy, perfectly accurate, and his testimony is always reliable as the witness, the true witness. In John 14, he's identified as the way the truth and the life. So he is the truth. So this is an appropriate appropriate way to begin this letter to Laodicea uh because it's imperative that they understand that he has made an accurate and true assessment of their condition. There can be no doubt about his witness, his assessment of where they stand. It also affirmed that his offer of fellowship and salvation in verse 20 was true, uh because God's promises were confirmed through Christ's work. So uh the uh the offer that He makes to the Sun Redeemed Church therefore is also true. And then the final one, so the the third and final uh title he gives to himself is the beginning of the creation of God. The beginning of the creation of God Um so there could be some confusion here. Uh the English translation race translation could be misleading. Uh it could almost sound like, well, does that sound Unlike Jesus is a created being, and in fact, unstable and ungodly people have taken this phrase to mean aha we see Jesus is created being here. But that's not the case. The actual Greek it is not ambiguous y y there's no room there's no wiggle room like there could be in the English translation in the Greek there's no wiggle room. Arche does not mean that Christ was the first person God created, but rather that Christ himself is the source or origin of creation. So if if you read that uh that word as the origin of the creation of God, then there's no ambiguity, there's no Uh there's no doubt if you know that the Greek word that's translated here beginning has the sense of the origin of creation. The the beginning in the sense of He began the creation. He he originated the creation. He's the beginning of creation, the originator of creation. Um through his power everything was created. So origin. So if you look at the actual Greek word that beginning is fine as long as the understanding of beginning means he was the beginninger, the the one that begin it who began the thing Not beginning in the sense that God started this up and the first thing he started with was to create Jesus. That's what some people have falsely said that this this means. But that doesn't fit. that Greek word arche. Does not fit. But the sense of that Greek word in Greek is the um The originator. The source or originator. That's what that Greek word means. Source or originator. Through his power everything was created. We see that in other places in scripture. So if we were to try to take it that way it wa as Jesus as a created being, it would uh refute other parts of Scripture. It's not in incompatible with other parts of Scripture. John I, for example Uh in the beginning was the word and the word was God and the Word was God. Uh and the Word became flesh and dwelt among us. So uh Hebrews one two as well, that all things were created through him. Um so it uh It there has been there have been people that have deliberately confused the issue, uh uh based on the English translation of that Greek word, but uh in the Greek there's no confusion. Uh the letter to the Laoliceans was much in common end with Paul's letter to Colossians. So Colossae is a city that's right close by Laodicea, a sister city just a few miles away. Um and Paul wrote some things to the letter uh in his letter to the church in Colosse um that uh may some of the issues in Colossi may have spilled over to the church that was right next door. We don't know for certain. But in Colossians, Paul points out that there was a form of Gnosticism there, Colossians chapter 4, from the Greek word gnosis, knowledge, that taught that Christ was a created being. Um its uh proponents also claim that they possessed a secret sp higher spiritual knowledge above and beyond the simple words of the scripture. So the Gnostic heresy evidently existed in Colossae. Colossae is the next town over from Laodicea. So there that could have been a problem. Not specifically identified here, but it could have been a problem. Just like it was in Colossi uh the sister city to Laodicea. Just as the last uh five churches we looked at, uh this church uh there's no record in the New Testament about its founding So we uh may we have to make assumptions. Uh we read in Acts chapter uh nineteen that the gospel went out from Ephesus into the whole province of Asia. Uh Laodicea is a city in the province of Asia, so most likely it went out from Ephesus. Uh Paul, we know Paul did not found it. Uh since when he wrote Colossians, the city uh to the s city right next to it, uh he had not visited Laodicea, but he was hoping to. Uh since Paul's co-worker, Epaphrus founded the church in Colossae. So in Colossians one we see that Epaphrus, a man a f a friend of Paul's name, Epaphrus, founded the church in Colossae, which was the town right next to Laudicea. Uh we can make a educated guess that perhaps Epaphras also started the church in the town next door in Laodicea, but we don't know for sure. There's also a suggestion from historical writing that uh a man named Arcippus, who was the son of Philemon, uh was a pastor there. Um we have i uh uh a book from the fourth century so the three hundreds called the apostolic constitutions um and that book has a list of the pastors from ancient churches going all the way back to the beginning. So it says such and such a church, pastor today, pastor before that, pastor before that, pastor before that, going all the way back. So that's an extra biblical writing. And in that book, it says that the pastor at this time was a man named Arcippus, who was the son of Philemon, identified in the book of Philemon as the son of Philemon. But that's not scripture. That's another that's a book, that's a historical book that says so. The city itself. It was in the the Lycos Valley, the Lycas River Valley, uh southeastern most of the seven cities, about forty miles southeast of Philadelphia along the road. It had two sister cities that were right next to it. Uh Colossi, uh the call the the the book of Colossians written to the church in Colossi, was about ten miles to the east. and the city of Hieropolis, about six miles to the north. So a little triangle of cities there together. It was located on a plateau several hundred feet high like many of these cities were up in uh built up on a hillside so you could look around and you could see the enemies coming and all that kind of thing. So it was geographically impenetr impregnable. However it was vulnerable because they didn't have any water. actually in the city and they had to pipe water in through a system of aqueducts from several miles away and those aqueducts could be easily blocked by somebody that was coming against the city and cut off the water supply. So they were uh vulnerable that way. Uh the city was founded by a Seleucid uh uh ruler um called Aniachus II And he named it after his wife, his first wife, whom he divorced. And he divorced her in two fifty-three BC. So we uh we make the educated guess that he probably named the city before he divorced her. So probably the city was founded and named after before he sent her packing. Um so most likely founded before that that date, Laodicea. Named after the wife of a ruler named Antiochus II. Uh so its original settlers were actually from Syria. That was where Antiochus II came from, although a significant number of Jews also settled there. We have tax records from uh Jews from That's how we know there was a significant uh uh Jewish population there. And and there being a big controversy that um the Romans tried to uh um take that temple tax for themselves uh and caused a big uh big controversy. Um so there was a Jewish population there. All right, so what else do we know about this uh city Uh with the coming of Pax Romana, the peace under Rome. So Rome took over the whole Mediterranean area, and then there was essentially peace because Rome owned everything Uh there was peace inside in many places where there had previously been conflict. Uh it was located the at the junction of two important roads, an east-west road leading from Ephesus, the first church that was on the uh the coast of what is today Turkey. There was a uh a road that went east from there and uh Laudice was on that road. And it was also on the north south road from Pergamum that went all the way down to the Mediterranean Sea, the south coast of modern day Turkey. So it was the intersection of those uh these roads. Um and the location made it an important commercial city. So it was actually a very rich commercial city And we have some extra biblical writing that talk about the the banking system there in Laodicea. First century BC, Roman statesman and philosopher Cicero, who left a lot of writings, he would cast his letters of credit there because Laodicea was such a important strategic banking center. So if he had to he had to he had these letters of credit from Rome, if he wanted to get his cash, he would go to Laodicea. Big important banking center in Laodicea. So wealthy did Laodicea become that it paid its own reconstruction after a big earthquake in 60 A. D. The Romans offered to help it and they said, no, we don't need, we got tons of money. We don't need your help, we can rebuild our own city. That was how wealthy Laodiceo was. Um It was also famous for a couple of things, for um soft black wool they produced. The wool was made into clothes and woven into carpets and they were much sought after. Laudice in black wool, very famous. It was also a uh important center of ancient medicine. Uh there was a nearby temple to a Phrygian god named Menkoru, um and there was a medical s school associated with it, and it was most famous for an eye salve that they developed, which was exported all over the Greco-Roman world. So famous Laodicean medical eye salve Um and all three of the industries there will come up in Christ's letter. Uh the finance industry, the wool industry, and ISO very specifically mentioned in this letter by Christ. And so uh We see Christ do that in his earthly ministry, right? He takes things that people know and he makes illustrations. He makes parables based on the real life experiences of the people he's talking to. He does that in this letter to Laodicea also. Alright, so it's important to know kind of that background information, to know what Christ is getting at here with these illustrations. illustrations that he uses in this letter. So into the uh uh the content of the letter So starting in verse 15, we get so he's Christ has introduced himself and now he gets into the uh the content of the letter. I know your deeds. And he started many letters like this. I know what's going on. I can see right into your heart. I know what's happening. I know your deeds. But they are neither cold nor hot. I wish that you were cold or hot So because you are lukewarm and neither hot nor cold, I will spit you out of my mouth. So there's nothing to commend here. So many of the letters start with even if there's something uh there's a problem with the church, many of the letters will start with what's right with the church. Not here. Nothing about what's right with the church here. So he launches right into his concerns Um and he starts with deeds. Deeds always reveal people's true spiritual state. As indicated by the Lord's words in Matthew 7, you will know them by their fruit. And he's identified their deeds. I know your deeds. So of course salvation, we've talked about this before, is by grace, by grace through faith alone. Deeds, however, confirm or deny the presence of genuine faith. That's what the point that James makes in James chapter 2. The omniscient Lord of uh of the church, Jesus Christ, he knew their deeds and that they indicated an unregenerate church in this case. So his rebuke, his specific rebuke here is you're neither cold nor hot, but lukewarm This is a metaphor. Uh this is something that they would have um quickly understood. Um this language is drawn from Laodicea's water supply. It it it traveled the water supply had to travel several miles through an underground aqueduct to reach the city. The water arrived at the city foul and dirty and tepid. It was not hot enough to relax and restore, like the hot springs at Hieropolis. So there's this three cities. Hieropolis is famous for hot springs. They've got out of hot water. Kalasi, the other sister city, has a nice cold stream that flows into it. And so they have cold water. But not Laudicea Laudicea has lukewarm water coming out of this aqueduct system. And so Christ is using a word picture here that would be easily understood by the Laudicean audience that it went to. So yeah, he's using this picture, neither cold nor hot, spew you out, and it's a illustration that that fits um that that fits like a glove to this uh church he's talking to. Uh so he's comparing but of course he what he's really getting at is spiritual condition. Um spiritual state to the c he's comparing spiritual state to the city's foul tepid water, um and it gives them a powerful, shocking rebuke. I will some translations say spew, spew you out of my mouth. Um and so uh using the the spiritual Um analogy is making here, hot people are those who are spiritually alive and possess the fervency of a transformed life. The spiritually cold are probably best understood of those who outright reject Christ. They have no interested in Christ through his word, they make no pretense to have uh uh have listened to his word, and so they're not hypocrites, they've just alright rejected. And the lukewarm here fit in neither one of those categories. They are not saved like hot, and they do not openly reject the gospel like the cold. They attend church, claim to know the Lord Like the Pharisees, they practice a self-righteous religion. So uh the they're hypocrites playing games here and um it's it's interesting. Let me um Let me just uh maybe I'll s maybe I'll say it here. So um there is there's very interesting statistics that sometimes tell the truth and sometimes sometimes don't tell the whole truth. Um there is a long standing statistic that says that those who are Christians had the same divorce rate in America as the general population. You everybody heard that statistic before? Um and so the the way the study was originally done Um ev everybody just uh it was very general. You were either uh you know, uh Jewish or is Islam or atheist or Christian. You just check what your religion was. And when you do it at that level people who self-identified just checking a block, Christian, the divorce rate is the same for Christians and for everybody else. There was a follow-up study done Because that seemed that seems odd. Could that really be true? Uh the follow-up study asked the group who checked the block saying they were Christians some follow-up questions, like how often do you go to church? How often do you read the Bible and how often do you pray? And it turns out that in the group that said they attend church regularly, pray regularly and read the scripture regularly, the divorce rate was really small. Really small among that group. Among the group that I self identified as Christian but said they never went to church and never read the Bible and never prayed their divorce rate was actually higher than the general population. Higher uh than the general population, pulling the the the divorce rate for those who just checked the block Christian up, way up to so that it was level with the whole rest of the secular world. So what does that tell you about the dangers of being a Christian in name only, but not really redeemed. Y y y y people like that tend to think they're safe and end up in worse shape than the rest of the world. A higher divorce rate than the secular world among those who check a block saying they're Christians but never go to church, never read the Bible, and never pray Uh very interesting, I think, a and applicable here. Okay. So the Lord describes such people in Matthew seven, twenty-two to twenty-three. Many will say to me on that day, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name? And in your name cast out demons. And your name performed many miracles. And then I will declare to them, I never knew you, depart from me, you who practice lawlessness. The people in the church in Laodicea. He sp Christ spewing them out of his mouth. may claim the name name of Christ like these this church in Labosia did, uh, but they're not saved, and that's very dangerous. Smug, self-righteous hypocrites, more difficult to reach for the gospel than cold hearted rejectors. The the latter may at least be shown they are lost, but those whose self righteousness think they are saved are often protective of their religious feelings and unwilling to recognize their real true condition. Uh it's in some way more dangerous than somebody who's openly rejected the gospel. That's the lesson that that we're getting here. They're not cold enough to feel the bitter sting of their sin. So there's no one further from the truth than one who makes an idle profession but never experiences genuine saving faith. They think they're safe, but they're not And that's r uh in some ways more dangerous. Um 'cause why would you pursue any any kind of repentance or or any kind of saving faith if you think you're already there? You're in that kind of self-deception. Okay. And so then he continues, because as verse 17, because you say I am rich and have become wealthy and have need of nothing. And you do not know that you are wretched and miserable and poor and blind and naked. So they think one thing, but a totally other thing is actually true of them. They they have a a really, really warped um self-perception. They think that they're rich and wealthy and don't need anything, and in fact, Christ says they're wretched, miserable, poor, blind, and naked. Um they're it's compounded by self-deception. So he rebukes them um with this uh their their inaccurate self-assessment You say, I am rich and have need of nothing. However, I, Christ, say, that you are wretched and miserable and poor and blind and naked Uh so which one is true? Which one is true about this set of people in this church? Their own self-assessment or Christ assessment? Uh well I think it's pretty obvious They ha they have a a dangerously warped self-assessment. Just like the people in Matthew 7, who Christ says will come to him at the end uh and say, hey, you know, didn't we weren't we in the church in Laodicea? Didn't we didn't we come to the church in Laodicea? Yeah, I never knew you. A away f away from you. Away from it, yes. So yeah, we do see the prosperity gospel in these in these days and um it's a very dangerous thing to conflate uh uh physical riches with spiritual riches. They're they're not the same thing. And w we see a movement, it's probably been around forever, but there's some famous um uh examples of it in uh twenty first century America of people they confess Material wealth with spiritual riches and uh and nothing could be further than from the teaching in Scripture. Yeah, very good. Any other thoughts, questions? Yes, Raymond. Yeah. Yeah, we do have the legs the leg lengthening guy who has all the videos on YouTube of all the people whose legs he's lengthened and um and and one begins to wonder How how many people are there out there with legs different lengths? I mean I I don't I can't I can't recall ever meeting anyone who their big problem is life was their legs for different lengths. May I mean there probably are some, but he he has like hundreds of YouTube videos of lengthening people's legs. Um and so you know, this this idea of of faith healing I I remember he hearing uh John MacArthur address this and and his retort was, Well, why aren't they at the hospitals? I mean if they can heal people by putting their hand on, why aren't they going through every hospital? There's hospitals all over with sick people in 'em. Why not They just walk into the hospital and heal all those people. Um they don't. They'll only heal within this kind of secret service that you can't really tell what they're doing. Yeah. So yeah. So their deeds contradicted their words. Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven, declared Jesus, but he who does the will of my Father who is in heaven will enter Uh the he who does, he obeys the the deeds will be there. Um not just saying Lord, Lord, uh Jesus said in Matthew chapter seven. Uh the rich lung young ruler is another good example, Matthew chapter nineteen. Um so the rich lung ruler, if you remember, he came to Jesus and he wanted to know how he could earn his way into heaven And so Jesus rattled off some uh requirements of the law. And do you remember what the rich leg rulers said back to Jesus when he rattled off the requirements of the law? All these I have kept he said to Jesus. Right to Jesus Christ, All these I have kept. And then he said, Very interesting to to Jesus, what do I lack? What what then do I lack? So He had some kind of self-awareness that i he he lacks something. Um and so what did Jesus say? Go and sell all your possessions. So give some deeds that are in keeping with righteousness. Let me see some deeds that will show uh your repentance and obedience. And what and the particular deed that he recommended was one that he knew would be difficult for this rich young ruler. He went away sad because his possessions were great. Um so yeah. So he had a a a warped self assessment. All these things I've kept, yeah, right? Yeah Jesus said here all you have to do to earn your way to heaven is keep all the wall. Oh yeah, I've done that. I don't think so. Um self-deception there. Same thing there, same thing here with uh Laodicea. We don't we don't need anything. As previously noted, it was a very wealthy city. uh f uh material possessions. This was a wealthy banking city. Um and that may have given the members of this church this false sense of security as they imagined that their spiritual wealth mirrored their cities or their own material wealth. dangerous place to be, um thinking that because you're well off, because things are going well in a uh physical way, a material way, that means that I'm okay spiritually. Those things are not the same. Uh but they may have gotten uh that sort of idea, false idea. Uh they were rich in spiritual pride, but bankrupt and saving Grace, believing they were to be envied, they were in fact to be pitied. We're wealthy and we don't need anything. That was their assessment, but what was Christ's assessment? Wretched, miserable, poor, blind, naked. That was Christ's assessment of them. Um they probably looked down on unsophisticated people, um like those who were um satisfied with biblical teaching and the person and work of Christ. But the reality was, as Jesus pointed out, they were spiritually, so this is his spiritual assessment, wretched, miserable, poor, blind, and naked And so what does he advise? So he gives him some advice. And here's Christ's advice starting in verse 18. I advise you to buy from me gold refined by fire, so that you may become rich. They thought they were already rich. And white garments, so that you may clothe yourselves. They thought they were already closed in these rich uh uh black wool things. Um but Christ said they were naked. And that the shame of your nakedness will not be revealed, and I salve to anoint your eyes so that you may see. So he could have instantly and dis uh judged and destroyed this church. Right? Fire could have fallen from heaven like Sodom and Gomorrah and wiped out this church. Christ would have been justified in doing that. Instead, he graciously offers them genuine salvation. He says, poor. Here's what you need to do. Here's the offer of salvation. And so he once again uses a word picture that's uh fits like a glove to the people in Laodicea. Um three features of Laodicea are right here in his advice to them. Um, there the city is known for its wealth. Um, you need to buy gold from me. The city is known for its wool industry. You need to get white garments from me. The city is known for its I salve. You need to get I salve from me See what he's done here? He's gone right into the source of their pride and said that m that you're you're wretched And you really need these things that you're so proud about. You you need you need real um real spiritual uh gold from me, real spiritual clothing from me, real spiritual sight from me. Of course he's not teaching salvation by earning good works. He he's not teaching that, obviously, that would be in contradiction to everything else in Scripture. Uh lost sinners have nothing with which to buy salvation. That's not what he's teaching here. He's using an illustration from secular things, the conditions of that city, to teach spiritual truths. All sinners have to offer is their own wretched lost conditions. That's all we have And in exchange for that, Christ offers his righteousness to those who truly repent. His gold, his garments. I can't buy those things. I have nothing to buy with. Um Christ offers them. So he ad he advised them, he but he uses the language of uh commerce there, um, to buy from him these three things. How do we buy from him those three things? By repentance, um, by being saved by by grace through faith. Um, that's how we by those things from Christ. So th they they represent, they symbolize true redemption First, they need to purchase gold refined by fire so that they might become rich. They needed gold that was free of impurities, representing the priceless riches of true salvation, similar to what Peter wrote in 1 Peter 1. Chapter one, faith more precious than gold. Um, this idea that faith is more precious than gold. So he offered these Lodiceans a pure and true salvation that would bring them into real relationship with him. They're in danger of he's going to spew them out of his mouth. He's going to tell them I never knew you. But he's offering them true salvation. Second, he advised them to buy white garments, to buy from him white garments so that they might clothe themselves. themselves and the shame of their nakedness would not be revealed. Uh once again, the famous black wool industry of uh Laudicea in a spiritual sense then re would represent um their filthy sinful garments which are unregenerate and instead he talks about white garments symbolizing the righteous deeds that always accompanied genuine faith as we see all the way forward in Revelation chapter 19 with white garments. We'll see that again. But he's making he's painting a word picture for these people that is perfectly suited to their own situation. So that they should there should be no way they can misunderstand what he's saying. It's so personal. to them. Uh he o and then he c and then Isolv is is the final one and th this is a city that's famous for making this Isolv that gets sent all over the Grec and Greco-Roman true Roman world and he bores right in on that. Um he offers eye salve to unite their eyes so that they might see. So this was another source of pride for the Laodiceans. The eye salve, but they but if there's a spiritual reality there, uh that they most likely were involved in the same thing that The Colossians, the city over next door, was kind of tainted by this Gnosticism that they had some sp uh superior spiritual knowledge. And Christ was saying, No, you're blind. You need eye salve. You need some spiritual eye salve because you're you're totally blind. Uh blindness in Scripture is a picture, a symbol of um lack of understanding, lack of knowledge of spiritual truth. In many passages of scripture, Matthew fifteen, Matthew twenty three, uh Luke chapter 6, John chapter 9, Romans chapter 2, 2 Corinthians 4, 1 John 2. The symbol of blindness is used uh to to illustrate blindness to spiritual truth. And that's what uh we see here too. Um and then Acts chapter 26, like also uh unregenerate people, the Lodiceans desperately needed Christ, as Acts chapter twenty-six says, to open their eyes so that they might turn from darkness to light, from the dominion of Satan to God that they may receive forgiveness of sins and an inheritance among those who have been sanctified by faith in him. That's Acts chapter 26. And that applies here to this church in Laodicea. Verse 19. Then he has this kind of promise for what will happen Um if um if they repent. So they need to repent, and what will happen if they repent? So those whom I love I reprove in discipline, therefore be zealous and repent. Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in to him, and will dine with him and he with me. So this is the promise, this is what will happen if you repent. If you take my advice, I've just advised you what you need to do. If you take this my advice, this is what will happen. Some argue that the language of Christ's direct appeal to the Labiceans in verse 19, those whom I love, I reprove in discipline, indicates they were believers. However, that's contradictory. So um s scripture is always consistent, and so we've seen consistently in the verse before and the verse after them identified uh pretty clearly, I think, as unregenerate, then verse 19 can't mean the opposite. Uh it can't be. Um so it seems better suited f uh as the whole passage being to the unregenerate, uh desperately in need of the gold of true riches, the garment of the Of true righteousness, the I salve that brings spiritual understanding. But because the Laodiceans outwardly identified with Christ's church and his kingdom, they were in the sphere of his concern. They get a letter. They get a letter from the Lord of the church, even though they're an unregenerate church. He has his eye on them. He's concerned for them. To approve means to expose and convict It is a general term for God's dealing with sinners. In other places in Scripture, John 3, John 16, 1 Corinthians 14, Titus 1, Jude 15. Discipline refers to punishment and is used of God's convicting of unbelievers in 2 Timothy chapter 2. Thus the terminology of verse 19 does not demand that Christ be referring to believers. And I think from context of verse 18 and verse 20, he's not uh dealing with with believers. Um The Lord is compassionately, tenderly calling those of this unregenerate church to come to saving faith, uh lest he convict and judge them. Uh we see that kind of heart of God come out in Ezekiel chapter eighteen, Ezekiel chapter 15. three. Um does the Lord uh desire that any perish? Uh but he desires that all would repent and come to salvation. Um you get the f the sense of the heart of God there And here's Christ coming to this unregenerate church that he could have sent fire from heaven to destroy, but instead he comes to them and offers them repentance and salvation. But in order for the There's some work that needs to be done here. You're you're you're in you're you're wretched and wicked and naked and blind right now you need to things need to change. There needs to be a repentance. That the kind of attitude of mourning over sin and hungering and thirsting for righteousness that Jesus spoke of in Matthew chapter five in the Sermon on the Mount. So, repentance, of course, is also not a meritorious work. The New Testament call to salvation always includes repentance. We see that in many scriptures. It's not a merit. So in other words, we don't uh earn our salvation by repenting. Uh that's not uh uh good doctrine. Uh but repentance always accompanies and includes Salvation always accompanies and includes repentance. So that's why Christ um uh he he focuses on that here. Uh so he uh Christ follows this call to repentance, verse 19, with a gracious invitation in verse 20. So behold I stand at the door and knock. I'm here, I'm I'm I'm knocking on the door. So they the the Lobosan church could have or should have probably expected him to come solely in judgment. But we have this this uh this wonderful reality that he says, behold, here I am knocking at the door All you need to do is open the door. And if you open the door, I will come in, dine with him, and he with me. So this invitation is first of all a personal one Um salvation is individual. So Christ comes to people as individuals. Parents' salvation or your brother or sister's salvation and repent repentance and salvation. It's an individual thing. He's knocking on the door of individual people. And so that's why it says if one person, anyone, open the door by repentance and faith, faith, Christ would come in. But there's a picture here. There's a picture of Christ outside the door of the church. um uh uh kind of a word picture painted as well. Uh Christ is not already inside this church. He's standing on the outside knocking on the door uh of this this church um uh wanting to come in offering them salvation to uh if they repent. Uh but he's on the outside right now of this church, uh not inside there Then we have He who overcomes, I will grant. So this promise, wonderful promise that He overcomes, which is anybody that's a genuine believer. So if there is repentance and if they come to salvation, salvation, then they become he who overcomes and w they're um uh heirs to these promises um grant to sit down on his throne with him um just like he sat down on the throne throne with the Father. There's wonderful promises for anybody that will come to him uh in repentance. Respond, in other words, to him knocking on the door. Uh to enjoy fellowship with Christ and his kingdom and throughout eternity. is blessing blessing beyond comprehension. And he he that's what he's offering. He's offering uh sitting down on the throne with him here. Um so um the right to sit on on Christ's throne and heavenly throne is but one of many promises that we see to seven churches. Um we've seen Promises at the end of each of the letters, um piling up promises, eating from the tree of life, the crown of life, protection from the second death, the hidden manna, the white stone with the new name on it, the authority to rule the nations, the morning star, white garments symbolizing purity and holiness, the honor of having Christ confessed their names before God and the Father and the Holy Angels in heaven, to be made a pillar of God's temple, and to have written on them the name of God in the New Jerusalem and of Christ. All these promises in each one of the letters. Each one of the letters has all these promises for he who overcomes. He who overcomes will get. Each letter has all these promises. And here he says He whoever comes will sit down on my throne with me. Um and so um that's one of the the startling things about these letters to the seven churches is the piled up promises that Christ makes to encourage those who are steadfast in obedience to Him. These promises are amazing. And and the culminating promise here in the seventh letter is To him, I will grant to him to sit down with me on my throne, just like I sat down with my father on his throne. When I demonstrated my obedience, uh perfect obedience to him in my life, uh life uh and death, even to obedience to death on the cross, I got to sit down on the throne of my father just like that Anybody who uh perseveres, uh is faithful to me, and overcomes to the end, will sit down on my throne with me. What a promise that is. Absolutely amazing coming at the end of this letter to a terrible church, but he offers repentance even to the people in this unregenerate church, and he comes with this unbelievable promise at the end to sit down on the throne with him. So, I've run us out of time. So Uh I have uh thirty seconds for uh comment or question. Okay, uh let's close in prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for our time together around your word, and we thank you so much for all these wonderful promises. Uh we thank Thank you for uh the fact that you've recorded from Genesis to Revelation your entire uh plan of redemption. uh that we can we can read and see the entire thing. Uh we thank you for uh that wonderful plan. We thank you for the love that it took to send Christ to to live as a man, a perfect life, his life uh death on a cross, burial and resurrection, uh all to save uh w worthless, uh, naked, blind sinner like me. Uh we thank you so much for that. kind of love Lord and uh we thank you for the opportunity we have uh in just a few moments to uh to worship you uh publicly as a body of Christ and we pray that that worship would be acceptable in your sight and that your name would be glorified in what we do. And we pray these things in Jesus' name, Amen