Problem evil part four. I'm a little sorry for dragging this out for four weeks. Um I gave you a little break with Daniel last week. As a matter of fact, then I walked in this morning and somebody said, Where's Daniel? We want Daniel. So uh apparently there was some reprieve there. Um and I'm glad I'm guessing that's why you guys keep coming back actually, that there's hope that Daniel will show back up next week. Um But um I just this topic is so huge and I you know it's it's difficult. The Lord has blessed me uh to be in this church long enough to know some of your stories and I don't want to say a lot of you, I don't think that's true, but there's enough of you in the room. And I know what you're walking through, and I know how long you've been walking through it. And it it's this problem of evil. And although you don't phrase it the way we have in here, you have your own words for it Um so much of what you wrestle with every day is how can the God I read about in the scriptures allow this or do this or accept this or and then what you make up is something that is not God. What what you end up with is something different than the God of the Bible in what you believe and what you say and what you hold to be true. And I'm not mad about it like, oh my word, you've made up a false God. I just feel sorry about it Because your help is in God. Your only help is in God. And a false God, a weak God, a weak God who is not in control of absolutely everything that happens in this world for all time and in every way, whether you call it evil or catastrophic What abominable, whatever words you may use that seem completely separate from what you call God, until you are willing to call all things in this world Or set all things in this world under his sovereign control, and believe that by some mechanism we cannot possibly understand, it is the greatest good And I am not being cavalier here. My mind has been, and my reading has been on hard things. Some of you have come up to me and even slightly rebuked me for a few of the books that I've read in here, the paragraphs that seem hard to you. I've read harder. Those were just the ones I shared with you because I thought they were palatable by the full spectrum of people that are in the room I don't know how God can be in control of the desecration of the dignity of a woman's body. I just know it happens. I don't know how I can call God good and watch one of you suffer with the loss of a loved one, either to actual death or to a denial of Christ. I struggle with that. I don't have a perfect explanation. And I spent a decent amount of time preparing for this week, going back and looking at the academic arguments, the logical arguments That were meant to be solutions for the problem of evil. And I was unsatisfied by them. As an engineer, they appealed to me because they're logical and rational. But as a person that wants to Find God in my own life and share Christ in others' lives, I was wholly unsatisfied with those arguments. And so I have avoided them. God is sovereign in all things. We spent an entire week on that. God is good in ways that you cannot comprehend. Actually, saying in ways makes it sound like you can comprehend a good portion of it, and there's some facets of this goodness you can't quite quit your brain around. That's not true at all. There are some facets of God's goodness that you can get your brain around, and all the rest of it is unfathomable to you. And no matter what you go through in life, those things are unalienable truths. Those things are more true than your very experiences. So I frame I'm kind of stealing my first thing here, so maybe I should just stop and read my notes because you know I spend hours early in the morning writing them. We started uh so clearly I am not going to conclude this is it for the problem of evil, this is the last week, but I am not going to conclude with this, you know, grand clear, logical, rational argument for the problem of pain. If you want to know what it is, I will spend we'll have coffee together and I'll lay all my books out on the table and we'll f Find the rational argument that you like the best. I can do it based purely off of mathematical symbology. I can do it based on philosophy. I can do it several other ways if you like. We'll we'll lay them out there and we'll see which one of those seems to satisfy you the most. I suspect you will feel like I do Nice to see that there's a rational argument for it, but man, how does that fit when you're talking to a w a woman that's just lost her first child? How does that fit when there's unfaithfulness in a marriage? How does that fit when a son or daughter that you have invested so much in and your hopes are so high for Have walked away from you and from Christ, and they don't even see the ingratitude of it And on and on and on. And so I'm not finishing like that. We're going to finish differently. We're going to finish with, what do I do now? We've framed the problem of pain. We've talked about the truth of God's sovereignty and the truth of God's goodness. Now what, Scott? Acute intellectual exercise. But now what And that's what I hope to appeal to you today with. So we began to study the problem of uh evil And we called it a nuclear-powered idol factory, and that plays into why I called this living fully in the fallout, right? The thing that uh follows the escape of all that nuclear energy, bad nuclear energy in this case, in the world. How do we live in the midst of this fallout? That there is God and there is evil. Problem began This problem we're talking about, the instant Adam and Eve determined to act according to two fundamental considerations. And I love this because there's a I've talked to you about this before. I love it when I can find these golden threads that go through the scriptures, these things before that I enjoyed, I liked, but it was like a a nugget of gold here. And as I get the studying I realize it's threaded through his scriptures And it somehow just makes it so much more precious when you find the vein of gold in the scriptures instead of that one nugget. You see God acting over centuries to show the value of this thing and it just magnifies it. We must see it because it's a heart being. I don't know why I'm using geological references. I'm not a geologist, but anyway, through the scriptures I do have a buddy that would be in the back applauding right now. He is a geologist. Um problem begins in Genesis, and you're gonna see me threaded at least up to the point of Romans, and then that's where we're gonna base our study on this morning. The first part of the problem is, did God actually say? Is he who he says he is? Does he do the things he says? Is his word completely honest? That was the first part of the problem of pain. It was the predicate question, right? The thing that must come before pain is the questioning about who God is. And the second thing that then comes is that that forbidden What was forbidden was good. And that the forbidden was to be desired. First, is God who he says he is, and is he faithful to his word? And the second is, is there some good that I could have that God isn't providing me. And is actually preventing me from. Romans 5. 12, therefore sin came into the world through one man and death through sin, and so death spread to all men. And Romans 8. 20, for the creation was subjected to futility, bondage to corruption. So there you have it. You have a summary of the origin of pain. in our reality. Moral pain? Questioning God? Suspicious that there's some good outside of him that he is keeping from us, preventing from us, or in some way in his sovereign plan, just not allowing us And then the corruption of nature. So you have moral corruption and natural corruption. There's really little outside of that, right? Tsunamis are evil things because they kill people. Lots of people Some immediately, some painfully over the course of weeks. Malnourishment, disease, on and on. So I've included them both there. Both came from this one questioning, these two, one questioning God's character, one questioning whether God was good. So why did we study uh his sovereignty and his goodness? Because it's these first two questions. We then sat with Job in the ashes of all that we once had in Eden and asked if God exists, how can evil exist? How can an omniscient, omnipotent, omnibenevolent God, the God described in the Bible, allow so much natural and moral evil? And it's a hard question. It's hard for us to answer in the abstract when we're talking about things that are Outside of us when we're talking about global events, the things that we read in the news that aren't right in our face, but it's nearly impossible when the child that we care for so much looks us in the face and is ungrateful and disrespectful in the face. I get a lot of praise from my sons. We were ready for my oldest to leave the house. It was time. One of us was gonna knock the other one out, and I'm generally meaner than him. So My second, we're in a similar place. He's turning 17 today. He's getting into that place where he's ready to be done. And I understand that. I raised them that way. But man, it slays me to be disrespectful. And and you think I'm being dramatic, but if you could be in the house, you're like, Scott, you're a lunatic That's how bad it cuts. Or when my wife often, unwittingly, adds that last bit of I call it disrespect, but I don't know that that's the right word. I just don't know what the right word is and I don't want to waste time finding it. At the end of a long day of indignities, insults, injuries, doing my best and getting nothing in return that even looks like a an off-handed word of gratitude. And then I come home and and often through something innocent like just her expressing hurt over me being way too late or something like that, right? Not even a real insult But in my mind, it's yet another failure. And it undoes me. I can at least guard behind me, I don't really care about you, at work defense I can't pull back on that home. I don't want to pull back on that home. I do care. In the midst of those evils, that's where I was going with that, in case you lost me in that long dissertation, in the midst of those little injuries of the day that that challenge our hearts In the injuries of every day's work, and I had so many conversations with men in the room about this one, men in our church about this one, in the indignities of every day's work, my heart grows grim. I'm it's not new to me, I guess, but I feel like I'm swimming in it right now. Uh this transgender, homosexual, in your face saying is is sneaking up on me hard at work, actually seeing my face at work. As people come in and are openly like I feel like they're testing me during the interviews Hey, I just want you to let you know my husband it's a guy I'm talking to. You know, my husband and I really like to take off and do these things and then they kind of look at you like, are you gonna flinch? Well yeah, I'm gonna flinch If you're gonna work here, you might as well know I think that's a horrible thing. And I can still treat you with dignity every day of the week, and I will not tolerate anybody else not treating you with dignity while you're here. But don't ask me to tell you that's right. You want to know whether that's legal or not? It's not. My lawyer gets upset every time he finds out I've said something like that. That equals those grievances Those are the ones that carush your heart. A few times in our marriage, things have happened, I don't mean between us, just events have occurred that have been bad, and for some reason I mean bad And for some reason, those are easy ones to stand against. I'm like, yeah That was so awesomely horrible It's all of the Lord, and I'm quick to prayer, and I'm quick to trust, and I'm quick to faith. But in the injuries of every day, man, I just feel myself sinking. I feel the unbelief. I see the unbelief. It plays out in anger. It plays out in unkindness. It plays out in indifference. It crays out the unthankfulness we said already. How do you go home every day and look at a spouse who you've prayed for every day who doesn't know Christ? How do you go home every day and pray for a spouse whom you know God made in his image, male or female? And that person refuses, refuses to see themselves as God sees them. And they hurt themselves sometimes just emotionally. I say just like that's somehow easier. I think sometimes physical injury is far easier either with what's in the heart But to watch that happen day after day. So we sat with Job in the ashes and we asked ourselves questions about those wives, the big ones and the little ones. Little ones. And we chose to pursue the answer in the same way that God chose to answer Job by looking not at our own thoughts and our own reasoning. first, but at the words of God recorded in his rationally reliable and verifiable scriptures. That's important. That book that we get this truth from is a m did you see any in the n I I don't even watch the news but because I was traveling there's news on I feel like everywhere and so you sit and you watch news, right? It's better than the advertisements And I just this week they had a thing about the pyramids. They found some underground stream or river or something and now they think they know how they got the stones to the pyramid. And I'm like You're so dumb you don't even know how the pyramids showed up? And you expect me to believe in evolution? The stones are right there. And we have a record of it in the scriptures And in other places. Oh well, that doesn't make we don't understand. Yep. Put that in highlights. But our Bible is not like that Trustworthy. Trustworthy. Not available to you for you to manipulate Find me another book. Find me another writing that's as reliable as this scripture that we hold to be true. And it's there where we find Who God is? It's there where we read Job 38 through 41. 40 specifically, I guess. Job is speaking in the last chapter. So we turned, as God told us to in Job, to his words, not our own thoughts. And in part two, we looked at God's total sovereignty over all Including natural and moral evil. Evil does exist, and God is in control of it. And for anybody that objects to that because you weren't paying attention two weeks ago or you objected to it then and now You're the one that has to respond to me. I don't have to answer you. You have to tell me why it is that Satan appears before God to get permission for what he does on this earth And then tell me how that is not God being in control of all things. Didn't say blameworthy, I didn't say the sponsor of, or the cause of, or the fount of, or the beginning of, or the source of, I didn't use any of those other words I just said he is in control of all of it. We need to put away the language God let It suggests it may be an appropriate word, but it suggests that he just did this for a moment. Turn his back to it. Not looking. Didn't see. I'll fix it in a second. That's garbage You take every hurt, every injury, every word that rubs you wrong. You take all of it, and you put it in your hand, and you open your hand in prayer before the Lord and say, Lord, I I am undone by this thing that you have done. Or any degrees thereof. I'm frustrated by it, I'm annoyed by it, I'm grieved by it, I'm provoked by it. Desperate because of that. I don't know. Whatever it is. Put it in your hand. Set it in front of the Lord. Open your fingers. I I honestly recommend doing this physically. You say, do you? Yes. I probably look weird, except it's like four thirds in the morning and no way he's up. I do it. I do it because I'm so stupid I can't remember the lesson unless I have the physical object part of it to do it for me You did this, God. And now, show me the next step. Show me the next step. God does not grind his people into the ground. He is good in all things. And I don't even have enough strength or breath in my lungs to figure out how to respond Okay, I'm insufficient. That's a prayer I picked up about five years ago. Driving to work every day, gone. I can't do today. But you gave it. So you do it. We looked at him in control of all things. Evil does exist, and God is in control of all of it. And in part three, Daniel's lesson last week, I'm sorry I missed it, we looked at God's goodness in, and these are directly from his notes. in his plan or his providence, his mercy, his words, his refuge and encouragement, his fatherhood, his creation, his attention and value to all that he does create And in salvation. We have looked at what can be known about God according to Romans 1. His invisible attributes, namely his eternal power and divine nature. You say, what are you talking about? Well we've looked at what we can know about God, that he's omnibenevolent, that he's omnipotent, and that he's omniscient. And it it screams, it testifies to, it assures and insures That he is sovereign and that he is good, which is what the diagram on the right there is meant to try to summarize, lest you have gotten lost in my multitudinous words I need to do an aside at this point in time. I am not I I I am not insensitive to it. Further, I am very sensitive to it. This idea that People get run over sometimes. People get run over by me all the time. I I hear people criticize me of this at work. I'm very good at supporting other people. I'm very good at delegating responsibility for something. And when I do it, even when I think I could jump in and rescue a bad situation, I do not do it. Because I gave that person authority to accomplish whatever it was. These are generally leadership type things I'm talking about But every once in a while, a situation will unfold and somebody will come to me and basically go Help. Like, uncle, I give up. I I need help. And throughout the course of my career, no matter how hard I've tried, and I'm not excusing it, I need to get better at it I fix it. Whatever it is, I get it done. But in so doing, people feel abused. Right? Flew into action, made decisions, got things done, got results. And people are like, I kind of just wanted to talk through it. I didn't mean for you to solve it. Or I'll do something radical, right? Like you know, I'll be talking to somebody and we're going back and forth. I was like, look, I don't want to spend a month and a half trying to solve the problem. Time is expensive Take 50 grand, spend the money, buy the thing, get it done. Get me an expert to solve the problem. Call the lawyer, call the engineer, call county, call whoever needs to be called. Fix my problem Pay what needs to be paid. And people stand back and they went, what? I was like, problem's fixed. People get run over by grand purpose sometimes. And they even understand it. They understand the idea that if there is a grand purpose, they may be too small to be a consideration in that. That's something we kind of make sense to us. We don't like it. We don't want to be the thing that's too small to get run over by grand purpose. I'm not saying anybody accepts that as good But we do kind of have a sense that that's a thing. And that is not Maybe maybe that is a a valid premise in most of life, right? World wars don't pivot on the needs of a single person. And so maybe that analogy works in those cases. It does not work with God. No part of it works with God. It's a completely ridiculous argument in the face of God. His grand purposes are able to accomplish all that he intends on the grandest scale that we could possibly imagine and beyond it. There is nothing grander than the plan of God. And at the same time, your knees, who you are And what you have been, are, will be, and will become in him is at the center. of that grand plan. I don't know how that works, so don't ask me, but it's testified to in the scriptures. And so I just want to spend a few moments with this is a complete aside. My lesson is here. I just want to touch on these verses here. Okay? It's a complete aside Before the face of the God of Job thirty-eight through forty, we can feel overwhelmed with our own insignificance in the grandness of God's plan. Where is the room for the care of one in a hundred and seventeen billion? That's the current estimate of every life that has ever been on this planet based on the timescales that uh modern scientists think this planet is in here for. I obviously think that's bunk, but nonetheless, that's the number, right? Where is there room for the care of one amongst a hundred and seventeen billion? Or if you want to be current, and I looked this up at 629-28 a. m. this morning Eight billion one hundred and ten million four hundred and fifty nine thousand four hundred and ninety-nine. How could you possibly matter that much amidst all those people? And if you've seen the suffering of even one individual in some other places in the world, you would go, Yeah, I I'll go to the back of the line. That's okay. You don't need to consider me right now. Now that's not true of all of us. Some of you would still be at the front of the line. There's no part of this. There's no part of this that's meant to diminish any one person's situation. That's not my point. Matter of fact, my point is the opposite. That although we think that makes sense, we would compare ourselves to somebody else and go, oh my goodness. There are no backs of any lines in Christ. You have access to the throne of God I know you've said about that before, you've heard that phrase before, but I hope thinking about it in this way makes that a little bit more valuable to you. You have access to the throne of God. He hears you. He sees you He loves you to be there. He created a meaning for you to be there through Christ. Otherwise you always had to be separated by a mediator, and yet now you can come right there. No more bail. Another golden heart vein. Another golden heart vein through the scriptures. And so I just want to read some of what Christ's own testimony says about it. Psalm 34, 17, when the righteous cry for help, the y then it should be, actually It was the Lord hears, and I don't like that because that's not what's actually written. It's Yahweh. So when the righteous cry for help, Yahweh hears and delivers them out of all of their troubles And I wrote of David because some of you were thinking, well, it says when the righteous said it's me. It's David, murderer, adulterer, genocide disturb. How do you say that? One who commits genocide We we talk about the census. And the righteous cry for help, and that's what we are in Christ, through some mystery that's also so hard to understand. Yahweh hears and delivers them out of all their troubles. Psalm 145, 18 through 19, the Lord is near to all who call on him, to all who call on him in truth. He for and I love that because what are we talking about here? Truth. That God is sovereign and that God is good. We hold on to that. And we put those painful things in our hands and we present them to God and we say the truth. You did this. And you see what it has done to me, and you have not allowed me to do anything but continue to serve you faithfully in thanksgiving. Haven't gotten there yet. So keep doing, Lord He fulfills the desire of those who fear him. He also hears their cry and saves them. Isaiah 65, 24. Before they call, before they call. I want this. Before they call, I will answer. While they are yet speaking, I will hear. I I I I am not dramatic for drama's sake. I generally don't like drama. And the whole time I'm teaching, I'm thinking to myself, what sort of icky dramatist are you? Like, shut up, stand behind the pulpit, read your notes, be done with it. But I am so excited about the goodness of the God and the hope that it presents to such a terrible person like myself. There's no way I could ever bring myself to share with you the wrongs I have done. Out out loud, out in front of the world, and the worst ones that have been accomplished inside my head But if it weren't for the lavish goodness of God, I have no prayer. And so I I I'm sorry. I actually get excited about this for myself. First Peter three twelve, for the eyes of the Lord are on the righteous, and his ears are open to their prayer. His ears are open to their prayer. Trace that through the scriptures. An open ear Trace that through the scriptures. Another, smaller, perhaps, but another golden thread from beginning to end, the open ear of God, and our need to maintain an open ear with Him It always means to not only hear, but to recognize and to do and respond and to be, to achieve that which you have spoken. And his ears open to us so that we might achieve what we speak when it is done in truth. First John 5 14 through 15, and this is the confidence that we have toward him that if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us and if we know that he hears us and whatever we ask we know that we have the requests that we have asked of him Spent a lot of time on that, but I'm just gonna keep moving. John 9 31, we know God does not listen to sinners, but if anyone is a worshiper of God and does his will, God listens to him. Can anybody tell me what the The the most often cited that The most often cited way in which we offer worship to God It only needs one or two words, and it would be a hyphenated word if you used two. What is the way in which we offer worship to God most if if we do it according to the scriptures? Oh don't mumble. I'm screaming at you. You gotta scream back. I don't want to spiritually truth. That's good. That's good. One word or a hyphenated word though. That was like five or six Ah, really good. Not the word I was looking for. Really good though. You were listening two weeks ago. Bonus points for you. Thanksgiving. Oh, thanks for it. Rusty word. It's a highly word. And the holiday is one word, so take my blessing back. Psalm 102, 17. He regards the prayer of the destitute and does not despise their prayer. The destitute, the worthless, the undone, the hurt. Your testitute. You've got nothing. He loves to hear those prayers. Evening and morning and at noon I utter my complaint and moan, and he hears my voice Again, of David, and on the heels of Psalm 52 and 53. 52 is him confessing his murder and adultery. 53 is him saying there is no one that is righteous. And yet he stands here in this psalm and says Evening and morning and at noon I utter my complaint and moan, and he hears my voice. Not just the words go in, but that the words go in and that the action flows out in response and in rescue. That word years means. Look it up. Do the study. It's worth it. For everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. O you who hears prayer, to you shall all flesh come. I want to end in that one on this particular topic of my aside, but I wished I had thrown in here the one about the Lord bottling up each one of our tears. Because they think it's significant in the idea that the Lord again there's no lie. You stand before the Lord And every hurt, every evil that he brings into your life. I will not let go of that. I will not compromise on his sovereign control over all natural and moral evil. I will not do it. But as those things come to you, as he superintends their flow into your life, he collects everything. Every one of them is precious. Every hurt, every word, every action, every scar, every misfortune He collects every one of them, and you will stand before him one day, and he will do a work such that you see that every one of them was gooder. Yes, I know. Well, that's not a word than you could have imagined. You will never stand before the Lord in even one of the things that you have experienced on this earth, no matter how bad. And say, I was not overwhelmed now that I see, or I am not overwhelmed now that I see what goodness you intended for me, for others. Through that thing. The goodness will overwhelm you. And you will only regret your response when you fail to give God the glory for being in control. And be control Thankful to him for what he was doing. Hate that clock. I swear somebody speeds that up. Jeff, fix that. Alright, so based on all that, how should we then live? The title is taken directly from a book by Francis Schaefer, which is quite good. It's an apologetic kind of book. It's pretty sweeping. Uh Francis Schaefer is an interesting man. I've mentioned him before. He was really concerned with the separation between the truths that we study on Sunday and the lives that we live Monday through Saturday. And so he just broke down all those barriers. He's like, nope, nope, no separation between church and life, man. It's it's it's God and it's life and it's life and it's God and it's Okay, we've talked about it, we've seen the truth of God. Now what? And let me tell you what The emphasis here is on practical. My motivation today is to get you to pick up some practical means to respond to the problem of pain every single day. If you care here's another one of these you know mic drop statements that I'm so famous for. If you care About having the truth of Sundays played out Monday through Saturday, you will take on some version of this practical discipline in every day. Romans 1, 20 and 21. For his invisible attributes, namely his eternal power. This is hard for me, this is in ESV and I memorized it in the KJV. See it's hard to even read. His eternal power and divine nature have been clearly perceived ever since misspelling the creation of the world in the things that have been made. So they are without excuse, for although they knew God, saw what could be known about God. Flip your page back over, look at the diagram, what did we just finish studying? What can be known about God in response to the problem of S just the way Job did it. For although they knew God Could see what could be known about God, they did not honor Him as God or give thanks to Him. Look at those first couple of things there on the first page. Did God actually say That's not honoring God. That's doubting God. Did God actually say And isn't there some good he's preventing from me? That's right here in Romans 1, 20 and 21. It did not honor him as God. Or, look down at your page. What's it say next? Don't whisper. Yeah. Are you a witness for Christ or not? Say it loud. This is not a quiet room. In case you hadn't noticed, it's not a choir room. I'm in it. That word is so common and means so little to us. You just gloss over it. Your brain doesn't even really register it Why give thanks to God? Oh thanks. Check. Gotcha. Good stuff. It's not small. It's not small. They did not honor him as God, neither were thankful. Did God actually say? And isn't there some good you're holding out on me? They did not honor him as God, neither were thankful. And what did it do? It brought all natural and moral corruption into the world for all men, for all time, until Christ And it still not fully unrolled the chaos until the Lord remakes all things. This is Romans. This is New Testament, guys. This is us. I mean I think the Old Testament's us too, but some people disagree with me They became futile, vain, useless, worthless, unprofitable, silly, foolish, empty. I don't care what word you want to fill in there. People can attend church. And then go live the lives as though the truths that they learned in church were completely useless. As though the God that could be known, whom they were supposed to honor and give thanks to in the rest of their lives. Was not worth the experience of the rest of their lives. He was not more significant than how they feel about themselves. He was not more significant than how they feel about work. It's much more significant than how they feel about school or money or fill in all the other blanks. They became futile in their thinking, and their foolish hearts were darkened. I gotta tell you, I worry some. I I've known this verse. I can quote this verse upside down and backwards. I've quoted it in the year six or eight times, fast as could be. As long as I can do it in the KGV, I never stumble. It's only when I need to do it in the ESV, I stumble. I worry a lot of mornings. Lord, is my faith empty? Am I futile in my thinking? Thinking I have become wise, as it goes on to say, I've actually just become a fool. A fool who attends a building with a body of people that look and dress and act well look and act like me, if you don't dress like me, I don't know A club? A cult? The problem continues to be for us what it was in the garden. What did God actually say? And will we honor him by living what he said? That the forbidden was good and that and that the forbidden was to be desired Is what God has given me, has given me, is giving me good? Or must we unseat him from his throne to gain what we know is good Just like that first sin. Because the word thanks means so little to us we might skip over the necessary result, the necessary action of honoring God Giving thanks. That is the necessary action of honoring God. How do you honor God? Give thanks. Give thanks There's a strong facet of obedience, and I saw that in Daniel's notes last week. And I'm a strong believer in it, and I hold myself to that standard. Harshly But if that obedience is not predicated by thanks first, then it is still me sitting on the throne of my own life saying, God, I don't need you. I can live just enough on my own my own. I can earn the goodness I want. I can secure it by my own efforts. And so it must begin. A desperate kind of thanks, an open-handed kind of thanks that says, all of this is your doing. Now help me to walk faithfully in the midst of it. Isn't this the human inheritance, the legacy of the garden? The serpent's hissing lie, the repeating refrain of his campaign through the ages, God isn't good. And so I am not, will not be thankful. It's a great book. It's very Uh touchy feely. Um I I think Angela actually hates it more than I do. Uh I must be getting old and soft because it doesn't bother me as much as it does her. Uh but I can highly recommend that um reference in footnote three there. I I can highly recommend that. Um I have actually been reading slash listening to that while traveling all week and I have I have tremendously enjoyed it. Tremendously As I have shared before, I was never so struck with the significance of Thanksgiving until trying to memorize Ephesians 5, 1 through 6. It's on a set of uh those uh laminated cards that I showed you rosemary a number of weeks ago Um but two of them in particular are disciplines of purity, of of mind, of heart, um all all kinds of purity things. Um you know, for obviously for men. Uh um But Ephesians 5, 1 through 6 is on there, and it says, let there be no filthiness, amongst other things, let there be no filthiness, nor foolish talk, nor crude joking, which are out of place. And I don't know why, but I was looking for something far more noble to follow that, right? Don't let those things be there. Let this other thing be there. And I was expecting something huge And what I ran into was, instead, let there be Thanksgiving. And I was like, what? I was looking for something like, you know, manly. Thanksgiving? And I began to study Thanksgiving. Eucharisteo. I've got it written a little further down the page in green there with the Greek strongest concordance number. Do that study. Download the Blue Letter Bible. Go to Ephesians 5, 1 through 6, click on verse 4. Click on thanks or thanksgiving. Go to the reverse interlinear tab. I use the blue letter Bible a lot. Go to the reverse interlinear tab and find the word Thanksgiving and click on G. 2168 and it will give you all of the references in the New Testament, because it's Greek, in the New Testament for Thanksgiving. Or Eucharisteo. Read them all. And then find a way by looking up in the Septuagint that same Greek word in the Septuagint, which will then take you to its Greek Hebrew equivalent And do the same thing in Hebrew. I failed to look that up this morning. I'm not nearly as good at Hebrew as I am at Greek. Don't ask me what that word is. It's a great study and we do not have time for it this morning Thanksgiving is what replaces sin in my life. Thanksgiving is what makes me the imitator of God, Ephesians 5, verse 1. that is required so that Ephesians 5 verse 6 is not talking about me. Do not be deceived. My brothers, is what it said. For because of these things, the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience. Replace disobedience with thanksgiving. Unless you think you can weasel out of that with some sort of religious-sounding language, verse 6 says, do not be deceived, my brethren. Who's he talking to? People in the church. That he's concerned won't take this to heart. We'll just be like, well, we're Christians. We're Christians. Who are you defending yourself against? The Spirit? The truth of the Word? You don't defend yourself against the truth of the Word. You take it right into your heart. And your mind, and you let it move your feet and your hands and your mouth. Do not be deceived, my brothers. Because of these things, the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience. Why does the wrath come? Because we failed to replace self-worship with Thanksgiving. And the Thanksgiving can't be there until you see all things that come to you. All things that come to you as from God. Under His control. Otherwise thanks to him is stupid. That guy punched me and I'm saying thanks to you. What sense does that make? On the night before Jesus was to suffer, that horror of the cross and the rejection of God I don't know what the what is doing there. And the rejection of God. As a result of Christ's work, we will never have to face that rejection of God He took bread and gave thanks, Eucharisteo, and broke it, and gave it to them And it became the model of our communion, our remembrance of all that Christ secured. Can you imagine knowing like knowing Because it says in the garden he agonized over what was about to come. He knew in only in what only God could know of a future event was so real to him that it might as well have already happened. And he knew that on this night. And he breaks bread and he says, Thank you, Lord, for what you have given us. And he and he hands that out. And there's so many other places in the scripture that we could go this morning. Do not have the time. You should do it. Study Eucharist On on the eve of that horror that he knew so well it might have already might have already it might as well have already happened. He's giving thanks For the simple things that God's given. And He's calling us to remember it every single time we take communion. Thanks, Lord, for the body broken. You can pray that for him because you know that you benefit from it. It doesn't cost you anything initially. But how about when it's your body? How about when it's your heart? How about when it's your ego? How about when it's your sensitivities? How about it when it's your hopes? And again, don't forget, in the midst of this, I believe that God is infinitely good. So I'm not really worried about your your brokenness per se. I'm worried about how the evil one is going to use it in your life to discourage and defeat you. But he will not grind to sin and ground. He loves us and he catches every tear and he hears all of our moans. And even before we pray them, he knows them and he's acting That's why we read all those hearing verses so that we didn't forget that as we're talking about this brokenness. So you can give thanks for the broken body of Christ, but what about your body? What about your blood? Christ so keenly understood the suffering that was about to come that it was as though it were upon him. We see that in Luke 22, verse 15, I have earnestly desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer. He knew the suffering was coming, and in verse 44, still before the suffering had begun. And being in agony, he prayed more earnestly, and his sweat became like great drops of blood falling down to the earth. He was about to be completely rejected by God. Something we will never know A horror we will never know. We are anchored in this study by the goodness of God. He was anchored in his suffering by the rejection of God, the taking away of all goodness, the wrath of God for all that was broken, all that was done in the garden All that failed to honor him, and all that failed to be thankful to him, that was what he was looking for At least in our suffering, we know somehow, in a way that we don't understand, it is anchored to the goodness of God irrefutably, unseparably I don't even know if that's a word. So we're let's have a real pre- This Eucharisto, Eucharisteo, excuse me, word is the same one used in Romans 1. 21, failed to give thanks. The greatest thing is to give thanks for everything. He who has learned this knows sorry for my type of knows what it means to live. He has penetrated the whole mystery of life, giving thanks for everything. That was quoted in the Thousand Gifts book, which is where I got it from, but it's actually this Albert Schweitzer guy, Reverence for Life. I have not read that book And I don't know much about Albert Schweitzer, so if it's a bad reference, don't shoot me. I like that quote. 1 Thessalonians 5, 16-18, rejoice, always, pray, without ceasing, give thanks. in all circumstances, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you. I am so tired of sermons and lessons and uh what do you call them? Uh conferences on the will of God. You want to know what the will of God is? This is the will of God for you. This is the will of God for you. Rejoice always. Pray without ceasing. Give thanks in all circumstances. That is the will of God. Lord, the horror of my hurt right now threatens to overwhelm me. I am drowning in the horror of my hurt. What do I do? Thanks. But the rain of God's truth on the rage and wild of your mind and heart And pull as hard as you can toward thankfulness And the author of this book, Thousand Gifts, literally keeps a journal. And I am wholeheartedly encouraging you to do it. Maybe not quite like hers. Hers was a little touchy feely for me, but she got all enraptured by, you know, the iridescence of soap bubbles one morning. And I was like, well that's great, but Not sure I can pull that one off. Maybe if I'm more screwful. Um but I I did appreciate I did appreciate how she approached it. And I gotta tell you, I want all of you to go home and get on Amazon, buy one of those cheap journals. I've got bunches of them. And just start right now, daily, what you are thankful for. And then pray it to the Lord, by the way. First Corinthians ten thirty through uh I have no idea what that's supposed to be, ten thirty through something else. Uh It looks like thirty-one, based on what I wrote. If I partake with thankfulness, why am I denounced because of that for which I give thanks? So whether you eat or drink or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God, don't miss That giving Eucharisteo is made synonymous with glory to God. You've got to go back and read 1 Corinthians to catch the whole context there. I didn't want to take the time or the space to write the whole thing there. But it's really interesting. It's talking about meat offered to idols, and he's like, you've got to give glory to God. And he talks about meat offered to idols in a little bit. And then he comes to this part and he says, if I partake with thankfulness to God is the implication Why am I denounced? Because of that for which I give thanks. So whether you eat or drink or whatever you do, do all of the glory of God. What's he saying? Thanks is glory to God. See earlier references to principal means by which we offer worship to God. Rewind the tape, listen to that. Or, you know, whatever that is. Ephesians 5. 20, giving thanks always and for everything to God the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ Colossians 3. 17, and whatever you do in word or deed, do everything in the name of Are you listening to these large words? All things, everything, whether you eat or drink or whatever you do. So if I just tie that in I I love all these persons and then test them out giving things, so it always seems Super positive and in Joe, one of the versions she refers to and it has been an encouragement to me is so one. Um Verse 21, the Lord gave and the Lord has taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. And it just magnifies to me that it's easy to be Thankful when things are good. Um and when everyone's getting along and then you're like eating your health is good and all these things, but when the Lord takes away whatever that taking away is to also bless his thing Yeah, I didn't put it on that's excellent. I'm sorry, I'm just racing for time. That was super good. But no, no, that was super good. I uh I didn't mean to dismiss it. That was awesome, thank you. Um I forgot to put, I don't know why, because it was like cheap in my mind, but I forgot to put Philippians 4, 4 through 6 on here. Rejoice in the Lord always. Again, I will say, rejoice. Let your see you see the relationship between rejoicing and thanksgiving. Let your reasonableness be known to everyone. I love that one. It is reasonable to be thankful to God in the midst of our sufferings because of who He is And who we are in him. I love that. It's reasonable. It is rational. It is logical to rejoice in the Lord when we see the truth. Be known to everyone. The Lord is at hand. He's close. He's near. He's paying attention to you. You are not in the back of the line. There is no line. Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God. Angel and I have had some opportunities in the last several weeks to get together and be praying about things that are super hard for us, that are discouraging to us. And it has been interesting as I've been working on this lesson to think about journey, but as I've been thinking about the path that we've we've walked in those weeks. the difference it has made when because of reading the book that I just recommended to you and because of preparing for these lessons as we pushed those truths into our prayers and how defeated we were at the beginning and how good it was to go, no, this is you, Lord, and it hurts. But thank you for, thank you for, thank you for, thank you that I can expect you to do something here that is good, even while I feel so desperate about how it could turn out. And I am so unable to affect the outcome as near as I can tell. Like I have no ability to direct this in the way that I want. Thank you that I can trust you to be faithful to your word, to control all circumstances, and to be good in everyone's own. Giving thanks always and for everything to God the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Colossians 3:17, and whatever you do in word or deed, do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through Him. God's reign, and this is exactly what John the Baptist proclaimed was near and even come in Christ, is always a cause of thanksgiving. Revelations 11, 17, saying, We give you thanks, Lord God, the Almighty, who is and who was, because you have taken your great power and have begun to reign. I love that. Christ announced the coming of the kingdom as a reality for that day, as well as a fuller reality in the future. And I can give thanks because the Lord is unfolding his power, his great power As a result of the reign that was secured through Christ, who is now seated at the right hand of the throne of God in heaven, superintending all things as our great priest, king, mediator, and savior. Will you with me? And hopefully even with some degree of accountability amongst yourselves. Will you, with me, take on the discipline, the necessary discipline of your faith, which is called Thanksgiving? Lord, you know what we are, and how difficult it is for us to take the truths from this morning and this day. into tomorrow. And so be pleased to do a work that I can't understand how you do in my life and have often failed at when I've tried it on my own. And please accomplish it for myself and all others that wish to walk a full life with you A life beyond simple ideas, a life of consequence in Christ, that we might have a reason to exercise our apologetic to give a reason meekly for the hope that is in us. All these things I pray in your name. Amen.