Let's open with a word of prayer. Uh bow and pray with me. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for this day which you have made. We thank you for the wonderful privilege we have as gathering uh for of gathering as the body of Christ to worship you. Uh we thank you for this part of the worship where we get to worship you by studying your word. We pray, Lord, that you would pour out your Holy Spirit on us so that we could truly understand what you're trying to teach us from your word this morning. morning. We thank you, Lord, for your wonderful love and grace and mercy that you've showered on each and every one of us. We thank you especially for the love that you've shown in sending Christ to die on this cross for our sins. We thank you for your sovereignty over all of history all the way to the end. And we pray these things in Jesus' precious name. Amen. All right. So it's good to be back. Um I was out last week and uh I um Uh thank you to Carrie for stepping up and teaching while I was away. Uh so since um I was last here, I went to a wedding and I went to a funeral. So um Wedding last Sunday, September tenth, uh my nephew that's my nephew there standing with me. He's in the Navy. Um he and his bride are both nineteen years old and starting starting out in life. Uh that's my uh my mother sitting and uh one of my nieces uh standing to my right. Uh so that was a wonderful time uh to ha to go to a wedding. So this is the ups and downs of life uh in a broken world. We went to a wedding and then two days later we went to a funeral. Uh the funeral was uh very interesting. The the widow asked me to speak at her uh husband's funeral, what I did not know was that it was a Hindu funeral. Um they they were both Indian immigrants, um and so I I had the privilege of uh presenting the gospel at a Hindu uh funeral. Um it was a it was a good experience. Um I am also No, this one was in Virginia, in Fairfax, Virginia. Um but There you see you see um kind of the the cycle of life this the ups and downs of of life going to a wedding and two days later going to a a funeral. So here's our schedule. So we've done two weeks of introduction. And today we're going to dive into the text. So I hope everybody brought a Bible Or a device that can show you the Bible because we're gonna get into um eight verses of a lot to cover and only uh an hour and fifteen minutes, but we're gonna try to get get through eight verses uh here today, first eight verses of our uh of our text. So uh this is what we're gonna learn today. So as I said I'll I'll tell you what I'm gonna tell you. then I'm gonna tell you, then I'm gonna tell you what I told you. So today this is what we're gonna talk about. So in the introduction, so this is we've done kind of an overview of the whole book but now we're gonna in the text it starts with an introduction. And so the introductory verses there in chapter one We learn several things about the book. It it tells us about itself. The book does. It tells us about its essential nature, its essential theme, its divine source, its human recipients, its prophetic character. its supernatural delivery, its human author, its promised blessing, its compelling urgency, it's trit then there's a Trinitarian benediction And there's an exalted doxology, and that's in the first six verses, and then in verses seven and eight we have a preview. of the second coming. So that's what we're going to look at today. Just as a reminder, to put everything into context, Uh every every way everything about how we see the world, everything about our thinking is grounded and rooted in the Word of God. And that includes things about the future. So the the way we see the past is grounded in the Word of God. Uh the book of Genesis tells us about the creation of the universe and the creation of man in the fall. Uh and so that's how we view um origins, how we view things today grounded in the Word, how we view things about the future as well, is grounded and rooted in the Word of God. So before we start though with today's um material, let's take a look back at review. So um what we have is so this is a map, this puts uh puts us into geo geologic geographical uh context. So John is on the island of Patma When he sees these visions, he's been exiled there. It's off the coast of the Roman province of Asia, which today is Turkey. And the letter is going to Initially go to seven churches there in Asia Minor. There are many charts that you can many people have made charts about to lay out the book of Revelation. This is a chart that MacArthur has in his little book, uh, because the time is near. Um it talks about uh how the first few ch chapters of the church on earth and then there's the tribulation period and then there's the millennial kingdom and then there's the final rebellion and judgment and then there's the eternal state. So this is a very high level view with just a few things on a chart, uh including the rapture uh and the return of Christ. So that's a very, very simple chart Last week you saw a much more complex chart. Uh so Carrie I think went through this chart last time. This is a great chart um that has everything in there. Uh of course it's really hard to see in this tiny little writing. So I blew it up section by section. So um uh just to to go to do a review. So we have uh three main sections, what you have seen and the things which are and the things which what which shall s take place after these. And so the first two sections, chapter one and chapter chapter one, what you've seen, chapter two and three, the things which are, um, we're gonna s we're gonna the next couple of weeks we're gonna go to through chapter one and chapter two, and then we're gonna go through each of the churches after that. Uh then is most of the book describes the seven-year tribulation period. Um and there's many, many details, and we'll get into each and every one of these things as we go through the book, uh but there's a lot of detail about this seven-year tribulation period. What happens during uh this tribulation. And that's essentially chapters uh four and five which is a pre-prelude and then it goes all the way through. Chapter 18 really, chapter 19 is a transition uh into the uh the later things. Uh we have seven seals, seven trumpets, and seven vials or bowls that describe the judgments that God brings on uh the world during that seven-year tribulation. Uh to blow that up a little bit, we have the wrath of God described with seven seals and seven trumpets and seven bowls. There are six seal judgments and then the The seventh seal contains the trumpets, and then you have six trumpets and the seventh trumpet contains the bowls. Um and so that's how the the judgments play out, and we'll we'll get into that in in great detail when we get there. And then the things which shall be after this, the hereafter, uh depending on what your translation is, uh that's the King James things things which shall be hereafter. Um and that's um Satan is bound and then He's loosed and and then there's a thousand years of peace and um I mean he's bound, there's a thousand years of peace, he's loos. And then we have the Great White Throne judgment uh then the new heavens and the new earth. And that's the very end of the book, things which shall be hereafter. And so that's a great chart And so I hope everybody has a copy of that and you can keep that uh to refer back to as we work our way through this uh this revelation that um that God gives about Jesus Christ and about the end times. Great chart. And I'm gl so glad that Kerry was able to find this chart and um and go through it with you. last week. So now on to the book of Revelation. So uh open your Bible to Revelation chapter one. And so this is really the introduction to the book. And a little bit of a preview of the second coming at the end of this little section of scripture. So let's read it Let me read it out loud and you follow along in your copy of the scripture. So I'm reading from the NASB 95 here. So uh the Revelation of Jesus Christ which God gave him to show to his bondservants the things which must soon take place. And he sent and communicated it by his angel to his bondservant John, who testified to the Word of God and to the testimony of Jesus Christ even to all that he saw. Blessed is he who reads, and those who hear the words of the prophecy, and heed the things which are written in it For the time is near. John to the seven churches that are in Asia, grace to you and peace from him who is and who was and who is to come, and from the seven spirits who are before his throne, and from Jesus Christ, the faithful witness, the firstborn of the dead, and the ruler of the kings, of the earth. To him who loves us and released us from our sins by his blood, and he has made us to be a kingdom priest to his God and Father To him be the glory and the dominion forever and ever. Amen. Behold, he is coming with the clouds, and every eye will see him, even the I am the Alpha and the Omega, says the Lord God who is and who was and who is to come the Almighty. So that's our scripture that we're gonna we're gonna take a look at today. We're gonna go through it and and try to get try to really get into, dig down and get into uh what what God is trying to reveal to us. This revelation of Jesus Christ. So I thought I would start off with um a little quote from this is from John MacArthur. So this is from the uh the commentary that MacArthur wrote on the book of Revelation So, uh quoting MacArthur, many people are fascinated, even obsessed, with the future. They faithfully read their horoscopes, seek out tarot card readers, have their palms read. Feed on futuristic science fiction material or call one of the many psychic hotlines advertised on TV Some people delve more deeply into the occult, seeking out mediums, as did King Saul, futily and sinfully attempting to obtain information about what is to come by consulting the dead on behalf of the people. the living. The dead cannot of course respond to such efforts at contact, but demons do, masquerading as the dead and propagating lies. All such attempts to discern the future, however, are in vain. There is only one who knows and declares the future, God. Only in Scripture can truth about the future be found. The Old Testament prophets, particularly Isaiah, Ezekiel, Daniel, and Zechariah, provide glimpses of the future. So did our Lord in his Olivet Discourse in Matthew 24, along with Peter and Paul in their inspired writings. But the book of Revelation provides the most detailed look into the future and all of Scripture, the fitting capstone of God's revelation to man in the Bible. The Book of Revelation unveils the future history of the world all the way to history's climax and the return of Christ and the setting up of his glorious earthly and eternal kingdom. By way of introduction, John lists 11 characteristics of the This marvelous book. It's essential nature, central theme, divine source, human recipients, prophetic character, supernatural delivery Human author, prep promised blessing, compelling urgency, trinitarian benediction, and exalted doxology. And so that's MacArthur's introduction to the book of Revelation that we're about to dive into. So I thought that was a pretty good good way of uh of describing um how people are hungry for information about the future, but they're looking in all the wrong places. And so instead we're gonna look in the right place for information about the future. So um the beginning of this uh this passage of scripture, the first couple of verses. The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave him to show to his bondservants the things which must soon take place And he sent and communicated it by his angel to his bondservant John, who testified to the Word of God and to the testimony of Jesus Christ, even to all that he saw So, what do we see here? The first four words give us the title of the book, The Revelation of Jesus Christ. So that's it it proclaims its own title in the first four words. Greek word that's translated revelation there, Apocalypsis. Uh it appears eighteen times in the New Testament, and always when it's used of a person, it has the meaning of to become visible. It's that kind of revelation, making something visible, revealing something. Something that was invisible becomes visible. That's the sense of that Greek word as it's used in the New Testament. For example, in Luke chapter 2. When Simeon is presented with the infant Jesus, he describes him as a light of revelation. Apocalypsis to the Gentiles and the glory of your people Israel, something that was hidden and is now revealed. Semin exalted that the Messiah had been made visible to In Romans 8, Paul talks about the transformation of believers in glory as the revealing of the sons of God. Paul and Peter, 1 Corinthians and chapter 1, 1 Peter chapter 1, use apocalypse, the same Greek word, to refer to the revelation of Christ of the second coming. They're talking about the second coming and they call that apocalypse, the reveal. revealing of Jesus Christ when they're talking about his second coming and other parts of the New Testament as well. The Book of Revelation can contains truths that had been concealed then. but have now been revealed. So it's referring back to things that have been In many cases hinted at in the Old Testament. Now, the Book of Revelation does not directly quote the Old Testament, but it does refer to Old Testament scriptures many, many, many times. times. Uh 278 of the four hundred and four verses uh refer or allude to something from the Old Testament. Some Old Testament prophetic truth uh is referenced in more than half of the verses. of Revelation and amplifies what was only initially suggested at in the Old Testament. And so what's the the purpose is uh this revelation is to reveal the majesty and glory of the Lord Jesus Jesus Christ. It describes in detail the events associated with his second coming, revealing his glory that will one day blaze forth unmistakably uh in the sky, uh as Jesus described in the Olivet Discourse in Matthew 24. So other New Testament books uh use the phrase uh this the phrase that's used here, uh Apocalypsis Jesus Christos, the revelation of Jesus Christ, that this is best understood in the sense of a revelation about uh Jesus Christ. Um that's the way it's referred to in First Corinthians chapter one, Galatians chapter one, second Thessalonians chapter one, first Peter chapter one. So this is a revelation about him. It's not uh ness it's not the focus The focus isn't revelation of Jesus talking about other things, but the focus is revelation of Jesus, about Jesus. That's clear from the way that phrase is used in other parts of the New Testament. And so what we get in the book of Revelation is everything we see, every uh vision, every description of Christ here in Revelation is one of majesty, power. and glory. Uh so there's a contrast between the first coming and the second coming. Uh the way he is described in Revelation is consistently in his glory. He's no longer the suffering servant. Uh so another quote. So uh this is a quote um that I found interesting from uh uh a guy that wrote an expository commentary on uh uh the book of Revelation as well. Uh d talking about this contrast. So he says um and this is um W. A. Criswell. So W. A. Criswell I think he's a longtime pastor at uh First Baptist of Dallas. Um Criswell says, The first time our Lord came to this world, he came in the veil of our flesh His deity was covered over with his manhood. His godhood was hidden by his humanity. Just once in a while did his deity shine through as on the Mount of Transfiguration, or as in his miraculous works. But most of the time the glory, the majesty, the deity, the wonder, and the marvel of the Son of God, the second person of the Holy Trinity, were veiled. These attributes were covered over in flesh in our humanity. He was born in the stable. He grew up in poverty. He knew what it was, the hunger and to thirst. He was buffeted and beaten and bruised. He was crucified and raised up as a felon before the scoffing gaze of the whole earth The last time that this world saw Jesus was when it saw him hanging in shame, misery, and anguish upon the cross. He later appeared to a few of his believing disciples, but the last time that this unbelieving world ever saw Jesus was when it saw him die as a malefactor, as a criminal, crucified on a Roman cross. That was a part of the plan of God, as part of the immeasurable, illimitable grace and love of our Lord By his stripes we are healed. But then is that all the world is ever to see of our Savior dying in shame on a cross? No. It is also a part of the plan of God that someday this unbelieving, this blaspheming, this godless world shall see the Son of God in his full character. In glory and majesty, in the full-orbed wonder and marvel of his Godhead, then all men shall look upon him as he really is They shall see him holding in his hands the title deed to the universe, holding in his hands the authority of all creation in the universe above us, in the universe around us and in the universe beneath us, holding this world and its destiny in his pierced and loving hands. That's W. A. Crisweld, um he wrote a book called Expository Sermons on the Revelation, and so that's a good contract. I I really like that. Good contrast between the first coming and the second coming. This is not the suffering servant. With that we're gonna see in the book of Revelation. We're gonna see the glorious king of the universe. And not only are we seeing it But everybody's gonna see it. Um and it's clear the the the scripture makes it clear over and over again that th this is not a he's not gonna sneak back into this world. Um everybody's gonna know about the second coming and it will be glorious. Okay. So uh continuing along with our uh with our look at uh at these words uh here in our scripture passage. The next four words. So the first four words tell us the the title of the book, The Revelation of Jesus Christ. The next four words which God gave him. So where did it come from? The book of Revelation is the Father's gift to the Son. So this is the Father giving something to the Son as a reward for his perfect, humble, faithful, holy service. So Paul describes this a little bit, gives a preview of it. In Philippians chapter 2. In Philippians chapter 2, Paul says Christ Jesus, although he existed in the form of God, did not regard equality with God, a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself, taking the form of a bond servant. And being made in the likeness of men, being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. Therefore, also God highlighted. highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name which is above every name, so that the name of Jesus every knee will bow. of those who are in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and that every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. So that Paul's pointing forward to the the Christ's coming in his glory at the second coming there in in Philippians chapter two. So this exaltation of Christ by the Father, the Son of the by the Father, uh described in Philippians chapter two, is described in gr much greater detail here in the book of Revelation. Uh it thus contains the full disclosure of the glory that will be Christ at his return, his ultimate reward for from the Father for his faithfulness during his humiliation. And so the Father gave a number of tokens of his uh the signs of his pleasure with his son The first token was his resurrection. A token of the Father's pleasure with the obedience of the Son. First was the resurrection. Second was the ascension into heaven to sit at his right hand. The third is the sending of the Holy Spirit from the Father and from the Son uh to the f to his followers. And the last was the gift of the book of Revelation that the God gave to him. God gave to the Son Which promises and reveals the glory that will be Christ at his second coming. Yes. So uh the the idea that uh he's giving this book and but we'll see here in a few seconds what the purpose is is for him to reveal to his bondservants. And so this is the gift that God the Father gives to God the Son. Here's a revelation that for you to give to those who I've given to you. So that's the purpose. Yeah. No, no. So yeah, it's not that. It's it's this idea that um that the sun can reveal to his followers this the glory of the sun. And so remember uh when Jesus was in in his earthly ministry Um it you know, it's not given to to to uh to you to learn the day and the hour of this coming of the Son of Man and Uh it's only the Father. But now the Father says, okay, here's this gift of this revelation for you to give to your followers, to reveal to your followers something about your coming, your your glorious coming. And so I don't think it's in the in the vein of knowledge to Jesus, but it's a revelation given to him. And as we'll see here in the rest of this verse one It's given for the purpose of him giving to his followers. For the purpose of that's right, for the purpose of worship and for the purpose of revealing the Son's glory ahead of time. So the everybody's gonna see it when he comes to the second time. But here in the book of Revelation, uh Christ is allowed by the Father to reveal some uh many details of what that's going to look like to his followers. And so that's a gift from the Father to the Son, the the idea that he can reveal. Good question. Next we see the human recipient. So it's revelation of Jesus Christ, that's what it is. It's God gave to Jesus to show to it to show to his bondservants. That's the next phrase there in verse 1. And so the Greek word. Dulas there. It's translated bottom servant here. It literally means slave. Most English translations translate Dulos bondservant. It literally in Greek means slave. This Dulos, however, was a special type of slave. One who served out of love and devotion to his master. And we see that in Exodus chapter 21. Exodus chapter 21 describes such slaves, but if the slave plainly says I love my master, my wife and my children. I will not go out as a free man. In other words, uh they had a uh a rule for slaves that they could only be these bondservants could only be bondservants for a period of time and then they had to be set free. But there was a provision in the law for somebody that wanted to continue to serve their master, uh, to be able to do that. And that's the kind of bond servant or kind of uh slave that uh that's described here with the word do loss. And so in Exodus twenty one, I love my master, I will not go out as a free man, even though I could, uh uh but the law says I I sh I can be set free. His master shall bring him to God, then he shall bring into the door the door posts, his master shall pierce his ear with an all, and he shall serve him permanently. as his choice, choice to serve this master. And that's the picture that the New Testament is trying to describe for our relationship with Christ. He is our master, like a master to slave relation. However, it's a master that is that we would willingly serve we w willingly choose to serve because he's so good and kind. Um, it's not like the human institution of slavery that we have seen over many, many, many, many years. um i that that is so awful. It's it's describing something very different from that. It's describing something where the servant chooses to serve this particular master. And so that's why I think most English translations translated bond servant to try to disentangle it from the modern idea of slavery and and that that modern slavery there there's nothing good about that. And and what what the Bible is describing though is obviously different from that. And so I think that's why most English translations say bondservant. Okay. This is why unbelievers find the book of Revelation incomprehensible. Uh it was not intended for them. It was given by the Father to the Son to show those who willingly serve him. And so those who do not willingly serve Christ This is gobbledygook, it's nonsense. Um they'll never be able to understand it because what was the purpose of this revelation? It was given to by God to Christ to show to his bondservants. And so if you're not one of Christ's bondservants, servants, this is not for you. It's not it's not revealed to you. It's only revealed to the bondservants of Christ. And so incomprehensible to the unbeliever. Now all of Scripture in a certain sense is like that. Uh without the light of the Holy Spirit, the the scriptures as a whole are incomprehensible to unbelievers. But particularly this revelation, it's it's very specifically says this is revealed to the bond servants of Christ. Then we see the prophetic character of the book. We see that it's definitely prophecy. must soon take place. So the emphasis of the bit, the thrust of the book, most of the book is about things that That haven't taken place yet, but will take place. So it's prophecy. The book lays out for certain, for sure, very clearly that it's prophecy. So the emphasis on future events sets it apart from all other New Testament books. Some New Testament books. touch on future events, but this one that's the focus. It tells us right up front here in the first verse. The Gospels, of course, focus on the life and earthly ministry of Jesus. Acts is the chronicle of the early church from Pentecost. Uh the epistles have the primary emphasis of explaining the meaning of the life, death, and resurrection of Christ and applying that to the life of the church in the present. The present when the writer was writing and the present when we're reading it here. Now. And so the the book of Revelation, of course, does contain some information about the past and the present, but the vast majority of the book Chapters four to twenty-two is all focused on future events. And then after that we see the supernatural delivery of the information in the book It says, and he sent and communicated it by his angel. So this book was communicated by an angel. The book is therefore unique among New Testament literature. only book sent and communicated to its human author by an angel. That didn't happen with any of the other books of the New Testament. In the end of the book, the last chapter, chapter twenty-two, Jesus reaffirms this truth that we see here in the first chapter. Jesus repeats it in the last chapter of the book. He says, I, Jesus, have sent my angel to testify to the child. to you these things for the churches. And so at the beginning of the book, we get this emphasis that, hey, Jesus sent an angel to communicate these things. And then at the end of the book, he circles back and says, oh, by the way, remember What I told you at the very beginning, I sent this by an angel. And so what are we to make of this? Angels are a big part of the book of Revelation. So not only are they tr involved in the transmitting of the book. to John, they play a prominent role throughout the scenes that are depicted within the book. Angels appear in every chapter of Revelation except for chapter four and chapter thirteen. So twenty two chapters, twenty Twenty of the chapters have angels in them. Angels, angels, angels. In fact, um one of every four references to angels in the entire Bible are in the book of Revelation. So 25% of all references to angels in the entire Bible are in this one book. Angels, angels, angels, angels. Not a whole lot about angels in most of the Bible But boy, there's a lot of angels in in the book of Revelation. And so we'll be talking about that as we go through as well. Um so the word angel or angels are used seventy one times in the book of Revelation, more than any other book in the Bible. Then we meet the human author. So it's the revelation of Jesus Christ. It was given by God f for the purpose of Jesus showing it to his bondservants. It was transmitted by angel to this and then it was transmitted by angels to by an angel to one particular bondservant, John. Uh his bondservant John who testified to the word of God and to the testimony of Jesus Christ even to all that he saw. And so I mentioned the first time that this is once again So the Bible goes out of its way in many places to make sure we understand that it's eyewitness testimony. That the apostles when they're writing um the writing the gospels and writing when Luke was writing Acts and when um John, Paul and Peter were writing their epistles, they they go out of their way to make sure that their readers understand that these are things that they saw, that they heard with their own ears and saw with their own eyes. And and these visions They were given by this angel sent by Christ to John were things that he saw. He saw these visions, and he wrote them down. First hand account. Um yes. I think it's interesting that John in his old age identified himself but when he was impossible, he never himself to the cycle Jesus. He never said his name. about that. He identifies himself at least uh twice in this in this book. And uh we'll we'll I'll I'll give you a theory about why that what that might be. So uh this was this was John the Apostle, the son of Zebedee and brother of James. Uh and now so the enormity of the visions John received staggered him Throughout his gospel, John never directly referred to himself. Yet in Revelation he twice uses the phrase I John and in the first chapter and in the last chapter. 19 and 228 he says I John. He puts himself in there. An exclamation that expressed his amazement that he was receiving such overwhelming vision. So I think it would just staggered him And he put his name in there because he was blown away by by what he saw. Um yeah, so that's a great point. So he he never referred to himself ever at his gospel, uh, but here we get him twice. chapter last chapter uh he refers to himself i john uh yeah overwhelming visions uh as he had loyally testified to the first coming of christ In his gospel and in his letters, so John faithfully, under the Spirit's inspiration, testified to all that he saw. Concerning his second coming. And then after that, we get a promised blessing. And so this may this sets Revelation apart as well. We get this Unbelievable blessing here. Blessed is he who reads. Just by reading it, you're blessed. And those who hear, those who hear somebody else read it. are blessed. The words of the prophecy, and heed the things which are written in it. So read here And heed is the key here. Three things. The three participles translated reads here, heed are in the present tense. Reading, hearing, and obeying the truths taught in the book of Revelation and the rest of Scripture are to be a way of life for believers. And in Revelation it says specifically a blessing. to read, hear, and heed these words. The change from the singular he who reads to the plural, those who hear the words of the prophecy and heed the things which are written So singular to plural and plural depicts the first century church service. So it it essentially this is what happened at most early church services. It was common practice when the church gathered for one person to read the scriptures aloud for all to hear. We see that in 1 Timothy chapter 4. And so that makes sense that John would would put it that way. The Holy Spirit would reveal it that way because that was the common practice. After the blessing, then we get an idea of the compelling urgency behind the book. For the time is near. Before we go any further, let me s let me stop and uh see if there's any questions. We we've yes, go ahead Ruben. I think they use the word imminent. Uh yeah, so we'll talk about the time uh aspects here. Uh the time is near. Uh and the the word for time, I'll touch on that in just a second. It's a a specific Greek word for time here. It's not talking about a time of a clock or time of a calendar. It's talking about an epoch. Um that's it it's a different Greek word. The the English uh tr translation doesn't allow the precision that you have in Greek and I'll I'll talk about that in a minute. Um any any uh any other questions before we keep going because we're going pretty fast here. Alright. So uh we're all the we're already all the way up to uh verse three. So we've we so in only uh in only uh in only th uh two lessons plus uh forty five minutes we've made it through three verses. We're we're going at warp speed. Uh So Yeah. Um and so that then we get to the urgency. So there's some urgency to this book and it comes comes out here starting in the end of verse three for the time is Nier. Timeer in verse 3 does not translate Kronos. The Greek word used is not Kronos there. Kronos would refer to time on a clock or on a calendar. Instead, the Greek word here is kairos, which refers to seasons, epochs, or eons. So you see how that how different that is in the Greek than how So you can sometimes stumble over the English word time there. The time is near. The epoch or era or season is near, is really what the Greek is saying there Um so it's not like uh the Holy Spirit was ch was trying to fool John and the rest of us that hey it's happening right around the corner or as the clock and the calendar says. No. It says the season or epoch Or Era is near. Uh Kairos, not Kronos. Uh those are two different Greek words. Uh and the words of course are chosen Very particularly by the Holy Spirit to get the right purpose across. And so sometimes it does take um a little bit of Greek study to be able to understand the New Testament. And so uh I have never taken a Greek course. But I I have a I have a a black belt in Google searching and things. So um so there's a lot of tools on the On the internet, um I I use Blue Letter Bible. So if you know if you're familiar, just type in Blue Letter Bible and it comes up and and you can you put the English text. Um the English text shows up there and to the left of every verse is a little link that says tools. And if you click on tools, it will show you the Greek. And you can hover your little cursor over any English word. and it will right next to it will show you the Greek word and it will tell you all the meanings of the Greek word. It's a really useful tool. It's called Blue Letter Bible. It's a free thing on the internet. Oh yeah, yeah. It's got a little uh icon that you can press with a with a speaker on it and it'll pronounce it for you. Um yeah, it's it's great. It's wonderful. So you don't have to go to seminary and take Greek classes. I mean it's still nice to go to seminary and take Greek classes, right, Carrie? Yeah, so i I mean, I'm not saying yeah, don't if you if you want to go to seminary, if you if the Lord's leading you to seminary, go to seminary. Uh but if you if you don't have time and or money to go to seminary, you can still use these tools to delve into the Greek and learn um get the the nuances of what the Holy Spirit is saying in these verses like this difference between Kairos and Kronos. I got that from Blue Letter Bible. So yeah, so you can do that. Anybody can do that So what it really means is the next great era or epoch of God's redemptive history is near. It's the next one. The return of Christ is imminent. The next event on God's prophetic calendar. There's no more prophecies that need to be fulfilled before that. Everything else has been done. The next big epoch or era is the second coming. So that's near. That's next uh in fact. And so that's what the Holy Spirit is revealing to uh the f the bond servant. Of Christ here. The next thing in the prophetic calendar is these things that are about to be described to us in the book of Revelation. Peter says the same thing, 1 Peter said chapter 4, the end of all things is near. Here, uh, and he's saying the same that means the same thing as we're talking about here. Uh 1 John chapter 2, uh the same John says, children, this is the last hour. He means the same thing. Peter's saying the same thing. John was saying the first same thing in his in his letter, and he's saying the same thing here. in the book of Revelation. It's the next thing. The next era. The next thing that is coming is uh Christ's second coming. Uh and so it's in spite of the the skepticism of scoffers who demand where is this promise coming Uh so if you look at the 2nd Peter chapter 3, so check 2 Peter chapter 3 is the the one that says that with the Lord a day is like a thousand years, a thousand years is like a day. And so people like to rip that out of context and say It's about the days of creation or whatever. But look at the context of that passage of scripture. What is it talking about? It's talking about the second coming. And in terms of the second coming Peter points out that with the Lord a day is like a thousand years and a thousand years like a day. And he's talking to scoffers who have come to him even in the first century saying, where is this coming, he promised? Um where is the promise of his coming? For ever since the fathers fell asleep, all continues just as it was from the beginning of creation. But Peter points out that he talks about the flood, first of all, that at the time of the flood They were eating and drinking and giving in marriage, marrying and giving in marriage, and then the flood came and took them all the way. And Peter says, So will it be at the second coming of the Son of Man. When Christ returns, it's gonna happen and y it's gonna happen all of a sudden. Uh is what Peter that's Peter's point there in Second Peter chapter three. Then we get to the greeting. So unlike modern letters, in which the sender puts his name at the end Which if you think about it, that's kind of silly. Why do you put your name at the only at the very end? In ancient letters, more sensibly, they put the name at the beginning. Uh they named the writer at the beginning of the letter. I don't know why we Don't still do that. John identifies himself as the writer and names the seven churches. We'll see that uh next week when we we get into the seven churches. They're listed uh in 111. Uh that they're in the province, the Roman Province of Asia, modern Turkey, he names the recipients. So he identifies himself and then he names the recipients, uh John to the seven churches. And then he gives us standard greeting. Grace to you and peace. And that same a very similar greeting to that is in many of the New Testament letters. Paul's letter to the Romans starts like that. His letter to his first both his first and second letters. to the Corinthians start like that, his letter to the Galatians start like that, his letter to the Ephesians start like that, his letters to the Philippians start like that, his letter to the Colossi the Thessalonians. So you see the pattern. This is a standard greeting. From someone who's writing to fellow believers, fellow bondservants of Christ, grace to you and peace. Standard reading, yes. I've heard that that to show he was writing to believe that he was both Jewish and Gentile, because grace was becoming Gentile reading and shalom was the Could very well be. Could very well be. And um i if if so, then that would be something that uh both Paul and John here do um as something that um made sense in that context. So that that could very well be. Then the phrase him who is is and who was and who is to come identifies the first person of the Trinity, God the Father. He is, was, and is to come. The threefold description views God in time dimensions, past, present, and future, even though he's timeless. Then the seven spirits, who are before his throne, refers to the Holy Spirit. So we have God the Father and God the Holy Spirit, who is and was and was to come, and the seven spirits who are before the throne, God the Father, God the Holy Spirit, uh are referred to here. And then After God the Father and God the Holy Spirit we get, and from Jesus Christ. So this is a clear description of the Trinity. Uh, here in this in these the end of chap uh verse four, the beginning of verse five. Grace and peace also flow from Jesus Christ, the faithful witness, the firstborn of the dead, and the ruler of the kings of the earth. So we have a A very brief description of God the Father, a very brief description of God the Holy Spirit, and then a much more extensive description of Jesus Christ. Why would that be? Why would we do that in the revelation of Jesus Christ? Uh So yes, this is a book, The Revelation of Jesus Christ, and so we get a much fuller description of the third of the second person of eternity than we get in the first and the third. So the first person, the third person described very briefly first, and then we get this much more extensive. Description. It is only fitting that John mentions Christ last and gives a fuller description of him, since he is the theme. of the book of Revelation. So he's first described as a faithful witness. Uh that's one who always speaks and represents the truth. So in John's Gospel, how was Jesus described. Full of grace and truth. We saw him uh as uh as full of grace and truth, John says in John uh chapter one. Uh and so here's that um emphasis on his truthfulness, faithful witness always speaks the truth, and that characterizes the Lord Jesus Christ all the way through from John chapter 1 here to the uh book of Revelation. The Greek word here translated firstborn Does not mean firstborn in the time sequence, uh, but rather first in preeminence. That's the emphasis of that Greek word. Not time sequence, but the first as in the preeminent one. Of all who have ever been or ever will be resurrected, he is the premier one. Because obviously there were people that were resurrected before Christ Lazarus, for example, Jesus raised him from the dead. That happened before Jesus' own resurrection. So it can't possibly be a time sequence, as in the first one who ever rose from the dead, but as in the one. Who rose from the dead? And never died again. Never died again. Absolutely. Absolutely. Um okay. Uh and then the so the faithful witness, and then he's described as the ruler. of the kings of the earth. And this depicts Christ as absolutely sovereign over the affairs of the world That Jesus Christ is the sovereign king of the earth is repeatedly taught in Scripture, not just here. It's taught in the Psalms in Jeremiah and Zechariah and Matthew, Luke. John, uh he is the sovereign king of the earth and um as I mentioned before that uh s his nature as the sovereign king was masked to a certain extent during his first coming. But it's revealed here in his second coming. But it's not like that hasn't been taught already in the scriptures. The the fact that he He is the king, promised all the way back in the Davidic covenant, but taught uh revealed here In the book of Revelation, as sovereign king of the earth, the ruler of the kings of the earth, the description of Christ here in the introduction to Revelation. Okay. Um the work of Christ on behalf of believers caused John to So he puts he puts in a doxology here. Here's when he's describing Christ He just he breaks out in this uh in this doxology. Um in the present Christ loves believers with an unbreakable love. We see that in Romans chapter eight. And the greatest expression of that love came when he released us from our sins by his blood. And so that's how John describes it here, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, that Christ released us from our sins. by his blood. A reference to the atonement provided by his sacrificial death on the cross. Here is the heart of the gospel. Sinners are forgiven by God, set free from sin, death, and hell by the sacrifice of the God. sacrifice of Jesus Christ on the cross, and John just can't contain himself. He's got to mention that in his description of Christ. This un unbelievable, merciful, um, graceful thing that has been Done on John's behalf and our behalf is released us from our sins by his blood. Christ's love also caused him to make us to be a kingdom That's the next phrase we see here. Make us to be a kingdom in which we enjoy his loving, gracious rule and almighty sovereign protection. So he has made us to be a kingdom. And finally he made us priests to his God and Father, granting us the privilege of direct access to the Father. So if you remember in the Old Testament, who could go into the holy place the priests who could go to the Holy of Holies. Only the high priest and only on the Day of Atonement. And so um so what was the event on the cross? Well Jesus was on the cross, the the event that happened that demonstrated this fact. we now have access to the Father. The veil was torn from top to bottom, and that veil to the Holy of Holies was now removed. by the death of Christ. And so John is coming back to this here. We're priests to his God and Father. We can go into the Holy of Holies. We can go directly to the Father because of the blood of the Son shed on the cross. And so John is just going through this going through this right here in the introduction. Uh this is the gospel. This is the the the whole the implications of the gospel. The fact that we have access as priests to God uh like The the high priest was only a shadow of this. He can only go in once during the Day of Atonement. We can go in anytime we want. Any time of day or night, three hundred and sixty five days of year, we can go right to the throne of grace. And so uh and John's pointing that out. This is w this is what Christ has given us by his blood. Uh He's made us to be a kingdom. made us priest to his God and Father. And then he closes it off by um By to him be the glory and the dominion of forever and ever. So uh John just can't contain himself. He's gotta he's gotta glorify Christ. To him be the glory and the dominion forever and ever. As he's he's describing these things that Christ has done, uh he he Can't he can't just stop with a description. He has to end with worship. To him be the glory and the dominion forever and ever. Amen. Then the last two verses that we're going to stay. study today um are the preview of the second the actual preview of the second coming. So we have six verses of introduction. And then we get this, uh verse seven, uh the first great prophetic oracle. So we have an the introduction is done, and now we're gonna get into uh prophecy here. And the exclamation there that starts this off, Ido Um behold. That's word translated behold there. It's a strong Greek word. It's an arresting call to attention. Hey, look at what I'm about to tell you. Behold. It is intended to arouse the mind and heart to consider what follows. Hey, pay attention to what I'm about to say. Behold. Uh this is the first of its twenty-five uses in the book of Revelation. So this Greek word Translated, behold, happens 25 times in the book of Revelation. This is the first one saying, hey, pay attention to this. Look at this Behold. We get it here in verse 7 of chapter 1 and then 24 more times as we go through the book of Revelation. Because the book of Revelation is filled with startling truth that demand careful attention And finally, the first thing John calls to attention is to the door the glorious truth that he, Jesus, is coming. Behold He is coming. This is the first thing that we get this attention drawing, attention-grabbing Greek word, behold. He is coming. So that's the first thing that should be uh that should grab our mind, our hearts and our minds as we start to study this book of Revelation. Behold He is coming. And so the present tense is coming. Erchomai suggests that Christ is already on the way It's in present tense. He is coming. Not uh some you know, he might come someday far off. You know, he is is coming, present tense, is coming Uh so he's already on the way and thus that his coming is certain. The present test also emphasizes the immis immincy of his coming. The time is near. It's a repetition of that theme. He is coming in the present tense. Uh And the clouds picture Christ's descent from heaven. During the incarnation, Christ's glory was veiled. Only Peter, James, and John caught a glimpse of it at the transfiguration. But at his second coming, every eye will see him. So behold he is coming and Every eye will see him. Not just the chosen few on the Mount of Transfiguration. Every eye will see him. No secret, not hidden, not stealthily. Every eye will see. His glory will be obvious to the entire human race in the second coming. John divides those who will see the second coming. coming into two groups here. Those who pierced him. And that does not refer to the Roman soldiers who actually put the spear in there, but to the unbelieving Jews who instigated his death. Those who peered that's those who pierced him. John describes the second group as all the tribes of the earth A reference to the unbelieving Gentile nations, like the Jewish people, they too will mourn over Christ, the second coming. Uh we'll see the descriptions of what happens during this period of tribulation. And um yeah, uh it th there's no secret, uh Jesus comes, and then there will be mourning over the judgments that happen, and the judgments will fall on those who pierce them, and all the tribes of the earth as well. And they will mourn, uh the Bible tells us here. Having given the response of both believers and unbelievers to Christ's second coming, John interjects his own response uh so the the the initial response to his second coming is the doxology that John gave in ja uh for the believers is the doxology John gave in chapter six. And now we have unbelievers who will mourn And then John interjects his own response. He uses the strongest words of affirmation in Greek. uh this word nigh, so it is to be. Very strong Greek word of yes, so so be it. And the Hebrew or Aramaic equivalent is Amen. It's really the Greek equivalent of amen is what uh ni is here. Uh so it is to be amen. He so he uses both. as emphasis here. John pleads for the Lord Jesus Christ to return. That's what he's doing here. He's saying, Amen. And it it's kind of um uh a first uh a first using of the phrase that it will come at the very end, even so come Lord Jesus It's similar to that, saying that here at the beginning in chapter one, saying it again in chapter 22. And finally, the Lord God puts his signature on the prophecy of the second coming. And so This is God the Father speaking and putting his stamp on this introduction to the prophecies here in Revelation. And we see here in this particular passage three of his divine attributes that guarantee the certainty of the pledge of Christ's return. First, we have the Alpha and the Omega. And that emphasizes God's omniscience, all knowing. Alpha is the first letter of the grief alphabet. Omega is the last letter of the Greek alphabet. So all knowledge is conveyed through the letters of the alphabet and thus God's designation of Himself as the Alpha and Omega affirms that he has all knowledge. And then he's described as the one who is, and the one who was and the one who is to come. This is the second time we've used that phrase: God's transcendent, eternal presence is not confined by time or space or any feature or event in them. And then finally the designation of God as the Almighty affirms his omnipotence. So we have these descriptions, these word pictures of the attributes of God here in verse 8. I am the Alpha and the Omega, says the Lord God, who is and who was and who is to come, the Almighty. Almighty, three attributes of God displayed here as a stamp of guarantee or pledge of this second coming of the Son And the things that are going to be revealed to us here in this book of Revelation as we go through. So, this is what we learned today Uh we learned that in this introduction to the book we get all these um descriptions about the book itself, about how it's essential The theme is Jesus Christ. It has a divine source. It's God gave it to him. It has human recipients. It has a prophetic character. It's was by supernatural delivery an angel. uh brought it. It has a human author, John, who actually wrote down the visions. It has a promised blessing Blessed are those who read and hear and heed the message of this book. It has compelling urgency. The time is near. It has a Trinitarian benediction. We have a description of God the Father, God the Holy Spirit, and then a more uh a broader description of God the Son, and then there's an exalted doxology at the end of that description of all that Jesus has done for us. And then we have a preview, behold He is coming. Any questions? Yes, Draymond. Yeah. I always heard when people talk about uh the blood of Christ, uh how the side so it's correct about the shed blood of price. Yes. But he doesn't take his take his strike, so I don't have a lot of people do it work. Yes, so without the shedding of blood there is no remission of sin. And so uh a blood sacrifice was required. So we have a holy God and this holy God has been sinned against And he's a just God and so he he must punish sin. Uh we wouldn't want us to serve a God that just looked the other way at uh rapists and murderers. Um and so a blood sacrifice was required and so it was required either from us or from a substitute. And the substitute was Christ in his blood. Yeah, so this is a good point that uh Carrie makes. So uh Those references, those who appear to him and coming in the clouds, are actually not quotations, but but references to previous Old Testament prophecies. So I mentioned that there's actually no direct Old Testament quotes in the book of Revelation. But over and over and over again it refers to things that are mentioned in the Old Testament. And that and Carrie's just given two examples. Those who pierced them is actually referring to um a a portion of Zechariah. And coming in the clouds is actually referring to a prophecy in the book of Daniel. Um and so it it is good and um there is there's lots and lots and lots of examples like that that we can look back at Old Testament things that kind of hinted at things that are now more fully described. described in the book of Revelation. Yes, smell. Can you put that last slide over the under there on on Hope Book? Which uh where you told us what you told us. This one? Yes that. Yeah, so I I I ha I put all these slides on Hope Book. So you can you can look at them all. So I put the whole thing up there. So yeah, so yeah, no no problem. You can look at uh the whole thing. The whole the whole slide presentation is on Hope Book. I put it on as a PDF because it won't go as a PowerPoint. It's too too many. It ten it limits me to only ten megabytes, so I gotta put it on as a uh as a PDF. It won't fit as a PowerPoint. Yes. Can we expand a little bit about the use of the plural spirits in the reference to the Holy Spirit? Oh yeah, seven spirits, yeah. So that's kind of a s common theme. The way it's uh we'll see it when we when we get to the churches uh when we get the description next time too. Um that that way of using seven. So seven uh is an interesting number. It's the number uh going all the way back to the ancient Jews of completeness. And why is that? Why is seven the number of completeness? It goes back to creation, seven days of creation. And it's very interesting when you when you talk to secular people about uh these various different things that appear in our calendar Um so a year is the s earth going around the s the sun and uh the months are are are basically tied to the lunar cycle. But where does a seven-day week come from in every single calendar that's ever been in the history of mankind has always had a seven-day week? Where does that come from in in uh observational nature? Nowhere. Nowhere. It it comes from creation. That's where it comes from. It comes from the fact that every civilization has known about some somewhere far enough back has known about the seven days of creation. And so and then in in a book like Revelation, we've got uh many descriptions of things that are seven. And and that's because Seven is the number of completeness. It means perfect or perfectly complete. And so to describe the Holy Spirit, he's a perfect spirit And so the book describes them as seven spirits because seven is the number of perfection. So the Holy Spirit is perfect, so he's described as seven spirits. That that's where it comes from. Yeah, so that's good. So yes, so um this book of Revelation fits with the whole rest of scripture. Uh it doesn't it's not just uh you know, a standalone all by itself. It it it fits with the whole story. The God's whole redemptive story from Genesis to Revelation is one story Um and this is a an important part of it. Um the fact that he's coming again, but um but i we we've we've known that he's coming again. It's it's The scripture has told us in many places all the way through, yes, that he's coming again, and the whole story doesn't work or doesn't fit without a second coming. But here in Revelation we get to see um a little bit of the details about how how that's gonna happen. Yeah. But yes, the the scriptures demand it Um and so the the the story wouldn't be complete without without this description of the second coming. Yes, Raymond. I was saying if God didn't finish all the work, then that'd be a waste of his time. Right, so yes, God's plan is perfect and he's got this he had this all laid out from before the beginning of time, and he's sovereign And so yes, his plan is going to uh come about. Uh every bit of his plan is going to come about because of his sovereignty. Anybody else? All right, let's close with prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for your promises contained in your word. We thank you for this description we have of the second coming of Christ in his glory. We thank you that we serve a living Savior, and we thank you that He is the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. We ask, Lord, that uh as we go to the worship service, that uh the worship that we offer you would be acceptable in your sight and your name would be glorified in everything that we do today. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.