I hear some of you doing it already, but let's open again to John 17. We continue our exposition of this great chapter. Today we're going to begin in verses six through nineteen. Won't get that far, but We will uh introduce it. I'll read the whole section there from verses six through nineteen. Follow along, please, then as I read. The Lord praying, he says, I have manifested your name to the men whom you gave me out of the world. They were yours, and you gave them to me, and they have kept your word. Now they have come to know that everything you have given me is from you. For the words which you gave me I have given to them, and they received them, and truly understood that I came forth from you, and they believed that you sent me. I ask on their behalf. I do not ask on behalf of the world, but of those whom you have given me, for they are yours. And all things that are mine are yours, and yours are mine, and I have been glorified in them. I am no longer in the world, and yet they themselves are in the world, and I come to you, Holy Father, keep them in your name, the name which you have given me, that they may be one even as we are While I was with them, I was keeping them in your name, which you gave you have given me, and I guarded them, and not one of them perished, but the son of perdition, so that the scripture would be fulfilled But now I come to you, and these things I speak in the world, so that they may have my joy made full in themselves. I have given them your word, and the world has hated them, because they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. I do not ask you to take them out of the world, but to keep them from the evil one. They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. Sanctify them in truth. Your word is truth. As you sent me into the world, I also have sent them into the world. For their sakes I sanctify myself, that they themselves also may be sanctified in truth. Well, we know that Jesus began this prayer by praying for himself in verses one through five, and we've covered that already. Now he turns and he begins praying for his disciples. By interceding for them, Jesus is Acting and functioning as the disciple's priest, as the disciple's advocate, as if pleading a case in court before the Heavenly Father. This large section of the prayer necessarily follows his prayer for his own glorification in verses one through five. For unless the Lord Jesus was to be glorified, none of what he asks on behalf of his disciples could come to pass. The glory of the cross and the glory of the resurrection spilled over and brought blessings to the disciples. And so he prays. Even in the very last part of the prayer, in verses 20 through 27, that we did not read, but you can notice, Jesus continues to pray for his disciples. Yet he adds, to his prayer another group, that is the future group of disciples who would believe in Christ through the witness of his immediate disciples So the order of the prayer is significant, and I remind you of this. First, Christ prays for himself for glory, then for his immediate disciples, that is, the apostles. And lastly, for all who would eventually come to believe in him through the ministry of the apostles. And so Jesus prayed for you and me right here. Though he has not yet gone to the cross to die for these men, he still begins his priestly work now by the ministry of intercession. That is the work of a priest, the ministry of intercession. So this prayer, then, is a pre-cross preview of Christ's post-cross priestly work. We mentioned before that this is a great prayer. It's really, I think, an unmatched prayer in all of Scripture. It's great because it is prayed by the one who is great and who knew God best. When you see someone talk to God who knows God thoroughly and completely, you know this is the best prayer. The Son says that he is the one who had communion with the Father in eternity past. Notice that back in verse 5. He is also the one who was set apart by the Father for a special task, and then was sent into the world to accomplish the Father's task. We mentioned that in verse 4. You can look ahead and see it also in verse 18. He is the one who lived on earth with one purpose, to glorify God. How many of us can say that? That also is said in verse 4. And if you want to go way ahead to verse 25, he says he is the one who knows the Father. So he knows God and he prays as one who knows God and knows him well. Knowing God intimately allowed Christ to speak to the Father in exactly the way the Father wanted to be spoken to. Many times we find prayers in the Bible and they're genuine, they're from the heart, and God answers them, and God moves in their heart, but we're not necessarily thinking in our mind, huh, that person is asking for exactly what God wants, but here we know that he is Because Christ knows the Father exactly. In other words, Christ could speak about glorifying the Father because he knew that is exactly what was on the Father's heart. Christ could speak to the Father about purity and the unity of his followers because he knew this is what the Father would grant, this is what the Father would want him to ask. This prayer then already lets us know how our prayers can be answered better. If you're wondering how can I improve my prayers, how can I be sure that they would be answered? You learn right here that By knowing what God wants and by asking according to His will, that is how we get answers to our own prayers. We need to know what God would want us to ask. And uh sometimes we think maybe we know more than we should and we need to keep searching in Scripture and understanding the mind of Christ, because the more we know God, the more we can ask with confidence Then we can see our prayers answered, then we become encouraged, and we continue to labor in prayer. So if you're struggling with The Christian who spends much time becoming familiar with God through His Word, paying attention to everything that He says, thinking about it, not reading it quickly, but understanding what it means. And then praying that way, now you begin to see your prayers lit with fire. Do you remember what James 5. 16 says? The effective prayer of a what? A righteous man can accomplish much. But if you're not practicing righteousness, living that way in your own life, and then asking according to his will, then you already see what's stopping or hindering your prayers right there. And so to enter into a greater prayer life, we need to enter into a greater relationship with God. The one who is in tune with God can expect his prayers to be answered. He who would gain the ear of God must have a heart that attracts the favor of God. If it seems your prayers are weak, if they're ineffective, you need to look no further than your need to grow in your relationship with the Lord. This prayer is also a lesson about the importance of intercessory prayer. You may hear that spoken from time to time. Let's engage in intercessory prayer. Pray in that fashion. What does that mean? What is intercessory prayer? It is earnest prayer made on behalf of other people You're not necessarily praying for yourself, you're praying and you're interceding for someone else before God and praying for them. It's pleading the case of another before the throne of God So that God's will will be done in their lives. Blessing will come to the person you're praying for. Intercessory prayer is an act of love, and it is commanded of all Christians in the church. First Timothy chapter two and verse one is an example of intercessory prayer. Paul writes there, he says, first of all then, I urge That prayers and entreaties, petitions and thanksgivings be made on behalf of all men. He even goes on to talk about kings and those who are in authority. That is what intercessory prayer is And it is the work of the church. It is work everybody in the church is to be engaged in. It is work we should be engaged in. Another verse, Ephesians chapter 6 and verse 18. Paul says With all prayer and petition, pray at all times in the spirit, and with this in view, be on the alert With all perseverance and petition for all the saints. Be on the alert, pray for all the saints, not to all the saints, by the way, but for all the saints, right? Intercessory prayer is prompted by being on the alert, having the people on your heart and praying for them, and it's what we should be doing How important the ministry of intercessory prayer is. If you're looking for the best way for you to impact the kingdom of God, impact the world, it is through believing and persistent prayer. It should be Something that should be at the top of your list when it comes to ministry expectations for yourself. Dick Eastman has uh a book on prayer, The Hour That Changes the World, and he writes there, intercession is God's method for involving his followers more completely in the totality of his plan. There are a lot of things I'm not going to get to do in my life. There are a lot of ministries I'm not going to get to perform. There are a lot of places I'm not going to get to go, but I can go all those places and be involved in all those ministries by intercessory prayer. Isn't that amazing? It is really God's method. It's his way of connecting everyone and having God's work move forward. What does intercessory prayer do? Now you're not always going to see this. You're not going to Get on your knees all the time, pray, and then s and then you know step up and see the answer to prayer. It's going to take time, it may come over years, but if you're persistent with it, this is what you can see. You can see a mission field opened for the Lord's work and for his church because of your prayers. Isn't that amazing? You can solidify a new believer's faith. You see them wobbling, you see the temptations around them. You can realize that you're needed to pray for that person or people like that and keep praying for them You could see a believer going through a hard time. You can tell they're discouraged. They're they're deceived to a certain degree. They're they're not looking at life properly. And the things that are coming out of their mouth are not what you're used to hearing. And you can start praying for them to be strengthened. You can comfort those who are weak and weary. You can bring conviction to a sinner that you think would never come to Christ. I know those that saw me the days and weeks before I came to Christ There's no way that they would believe that I was about to turn to Christ. You can't tell that outwardly. You keep praying for someone, and someone that looks a thousand miles away from Christ, God can turn on a dime Take intercessory prayer seriously. Young or old, it doesn't matter. God will use you to accomplish great spiritual work. You want to know who the real movers and shakers are in the world. They're not those in the White House and on Wall Street. They're not those in Hollywood. They're those that are on their knees begging omnipotence to work. And that can be you The fact that Jesus prays for us here also ought to inspire us. Think about that. God loves you. Okay, okay, I got that Jesus is praying for you and has prayed for you. That means something good is going to happen in your life. That means that you're protected. That means that God is working in you. He's there constantly praying for you, and he prayed for you back here. This prayer shows us that Jesus was acquainted with what our weaknesses were. He knows about the how you doubt him, he knows about the temptations. He knows how you wander away, he knows how you don't know how to obey him, he knows all of those weaknesses, he knows what you don't want to tell other people in this church because you're you're too proud to tell 'em sometimes, right? You're too proud to confess your sins because you don't want other people to know. He knows that he still loves you and he's still praying for you to work through you. He is the shepherd of our souls. They don't even have to worry about what change in shepherding strategy are we going to have at Hope Bible Church because one thing is for sure Christ is always the shepherd of all of our souls, right? Mine included. What is striking about this prayer is the love and the concern the Lord Jesus had for his followers when he is the one that's about to be rejected, spat upon, and go to the cross and be brutally murdered. He's praying for them. Too often when we go through our trials, we think all prayers of the church ought to be for me alone right now. Ever feel that way? This is my day. Everyone should be praying for me. Well, I felt that way too. I know how that is. Well what's amazing is when you see someone going through trials, they have financial uncertainty, their health is not all that good, they wanted a job, didn't get it, and were disappointed, and they're praying for other people. Isn't that great? They're praying for you. And you're thinking, why are they praying for me? Because they're praying for because I love you. Because they love you. So this is a needed thing, and this is a mark of love. Now In verses 6 through 26, I'm going to give you an overall outline that will be for several weeks, not for today. We just basically see in this section of intercession three main intercessions The first one is in verse eleven. I want you to notice. It is where Christ directly appeals. And with all these words, these are the main Intercessions. These are the main requests. Verse 11 has the first one. Keep them from evil. That's what he prays. Keep them from evil, Father. That's verse 11. Note it. You can underline it because that's one of the main intercessions in the prayer. And then In verse 17, you see the next one. Sanctify them in truth. Keep them from evil. Sanctify them in truth. Those are the first two And then the third one is reunite them with me in glory. Reunite them to me in glory. That's in verse 24. So verse 11, 17, and 24 have the main intercessions of this entire prayer. Okay? The rest of the prayer are really just explanations and reasons Christ gives to the Father for making these three specific requests. And really, I think all of these three intercessions have as their aim another one that he uh mentions, but they kind of all work together here, and that is that All of them would be one, and there would be oneness with them, with him, as he has with the Father. So unity has is the aim of all of these requests as well. Today we're going to get into the first intercession, and that is in verse 11: Father, keep them in your name. And so our outline is going to go like this for today. Who are the objects of his intercession in verses 6 through 10? the objects of his intercession. And then the reasons for the intercession in verses 12 through 16 and a little part of verse 11 there as well. And then the intercession itself right in the middle of verse 11 And then the goal of the intercession, which we probably won't get to today in the last part of verse 11. The objects of his intercession, verses 6 through 10, the reasons for the intercession, verses 12 through 16. The intercession itself And verse 11 and the goal of the intercession, the last part of verse 11. Look at verses 6 through 10, the objects of Christ's intercession. Let me read it again. The objects of Christ's intercession. I have manifested your name to the men whom you gave me out of the world. They were yours, and you gave them to me, and they have kept your word. Now they have come to know that everything you have given me is from you. For the words which you gave me I have given to them, and they received them, and truly understood that I came forth from you, and they believed that you sent me I ask on their behalf. I do not ask on behalf of the world, but of those whom you have given me, for they are yours, and all things that are mine are yours, and yours are mine, and I have been glorified in them I am no longer in the world, and yet they themselves are in the world. Then he goes on to his actual request. So you see that he's talking first about the ones that he's praying for, and he gives who they are, what their qualifications are, what their credentials are, and he's laying them out before the Heavenly Father. It really is a prayer first and foremost for these Eleven men who had been with Christ had been most intimately instructed by Christ. Jesus prays for them. Because from their ministry, blessing would come to every other believer. This is how God designed it. He sent Christ into the world. Christ chooses his twelve. One is an apostate. He has his eleven. And from those eleven and Matthias that will fill the twelfth spot, he then brings salvation and blessing to all the rest of mankind. That's his plan. And so Jesus says in verse 6, notice, I have manifested your name to the men whom you gave me out of the world. They were yours and you gave them to me. Beloved, that eternal, predestined, foreknowing relationship that God the Father had with the elect is so clearly given in this verse. Jesus manifested, that is, he revealed God's name to these select men. Now, when he says he revealed God's name. He doesn't mean he was running around Israel shouting the name of Jesus, uh the name of God so that everybody would get that. The Jews already knew the name of God. Some of 'em used it in vain, right? A lot of people today know God's name anyways, and they also use it in vain. In Hebrew thought, remember a person's name stood for who they were. When you reveal the name, you're revealing the person. The the name stood for all the essential things about the character of the person who had that name. So when you reveal the name, you're revealing the whole person, the whole character the nature of God and Jesus is saying, I came and revealed you, Heavenly Father, to these men. Psalm 2222 predicts that The Christ would do this. He says, I will declare your name unto my brethren. The brethren of Israel, that is. That's what Christ did. He declared God's name to his fellow Israelites. And Jesus, just by who he was, performed this revealing ministry to them perfectly. Remember all the way back to the prologue in John chapter 1 verse 18, it says, No man has seen God at any time. And then it says, the only begotten one who is in the bosom of the Father, showing the relationship of Son to the Father. He that is the Son has explained him. The Son has explained the Father. That's what it's saying. The Son who became visible explained the invisible God who nobody can see That is just what Jesus did. Jesus, another way of putting this, is Jesus was the exegete of the Father. He was the expositor of God's invisible nature so that all of us would have clear and have made known to us the truth of God. When people saw Christ, they saw God. They saw God in his character and who he was. Now I think what's interesting here in verses 6 through 10, and might easily be overlooked, is that before Jesus actually gives his request to the Father, he stresses the credentials of the men he's praying for. I like this. This is interesting. You might not think of this in your own prayer life, but this is what he's doing here. The first credential that he stresses with them is in verse 6. He says, They were yours, and you gave them to me. That's so interesting. Father, I'm asking on behalf of these men, these in particular, because they were yours and you gave them to me. They are your chosen ones, you see. They're your love gift to me. And so I'm praying for them in particular. That little group of men. No matter what you may think of them, happen to be the personal possession of God the Father Furthermore, in the rest of verse 6 and into 7 and 8, Jesus gives a second credential as he prays to them. He says, And they have kept your word. Now they have come to know that everything you have given me is from you. For the words which you gave me I have given to them, and they receive them. That's the human side of their credentials, the divine side, they're chosen and given by the Father to the Son The human responsibility is they received the word. They kept the word. That's their credential. On the one hand, they're elect, they're chosen, they're given to Christ. Yet because they are elect, they then have received your word and they have believed, Father. Everyone whom God chooses comes to Christ and believes. Remember? Everyone. They have kept your word. That means they obeyed God's instructions, his specific utterances. That word word is Ramatan. And uh it just means the words, the specific words God gave to Christ, Christ gave to them, they listened to them and they received them in faith By the way, it's not enough, you'll notice from the mouth of Christ here, it is not enough for people to say that in some general way they love Christ. In some general way, they follow Christ. We bump into these kind of people all the time, right? Sure, I'm a Christian. Yeah, I love Christ. I follow Christ. You have to receive the words of Christ. Do you see that? He said, I can pray for them because I gave them your words and and they received the words. Liberal Christians like to talk about following Jesus' example in some vague way. You can't do that. If you can't receive Christ's words, you can't follow his example. It's not enough to be vague in our following of Christ. The believer must hear the words of God and receive them, accept them, indeed keep them, right? Or there's no saving faith in that person. Someone who hears the words and says they believe them but don't keep them is not a believer, and Christ does not pray for them here. Christ taught about God, gave them the words, and expected them to keep the words. Believers cannot be choosy about which ones they believe. Ever run into people that say they believe part of the Bible and not the other part of the Bible? Well, they're an unbeliever. You have to believe all the words of God. You can't believe in part of the Bible. You pick and choose, then you're believing what it is that you want to believe based upon what? Not based upon the fact that it came out of God's mouth. Not based upon the fact that Jesus is your Lord, right? How can you call Christ Lord when he believed the Old Testament and not accept the Old Testament? How can you call Christ Lord and not believe in what the Lord gave as a message to the twelve apostles to bring to the rest of us? Keeping the word of God is the mark of what a true believer is. There are many who start out and appear to believe, but then they turn back. John chapter 6 was a perfect example of that, where there were many, many who saw Christ feed the five thousand. We forget that all that enthusiasm and excitement about Christ feeding the five thousand Multiplying the loaves and the fish resulted in a great turning away of people from Christ because they could not accept the words of Christ. They rejected the words of Christ. They followed him up to a point, but as he kept talking, they didn't like what they kept hearing. And so there came a point where they said, no more, I won't follow these words any further. They turned back. They were not those that belonged to the Father and were given to Christ. Jesus Himself said in John 8:31: If you continue in my word, then you are disciples of mine. And indeed, we read by the end of that chapter they were already departing from him in John 8. So he said, No, you're not a true disciple of mine. Even though it says in John 8, they believed in him. Continuance in the Word, abiding in the teaching, was the way Christ could tell if someone was truly a gift from the Father to him. And so today you hear someone who prays to receive Christ, then they turn away from wanting to hear the word of God. They go back into the world. They go off to some place that's not teaching correctly anymore. They're no longer following Christ. What does that indicate? That indicates their faith was furious. They're not true believers. Mark it down. True faith always endures. True faith always endures because it is the kind of faith given and granted by God the Father. What was it they were supposed to believe? Well, look at verse 7. Everything that Jesus did, he did by the will of God. All the truths, the principles, the doctrines, everything that he brought to them, it was all from God, and they believed that, these eleven And then the last half of verse 8 shows they believe that Jesus is God in human flesh, that he came forth from the very side of God. They believed that also. They had no doubts about the person of Christ. They were sure of it. Look back at chapter 16 just to remind you in verse 30 where they even say that here He says, Now we know that you know all things and have no need for anyone to question you. By this we believe that you came from God. Now they knew that they knew By that point, their assurance had become so strong it had become greater. They said, now we know. Jesus really did come forth from God. He really was on a divine mission. They accepted that. They believed that. Do you? Is that what you accept of Christ? So these are the two credentials to the Father of these whom he prays for. They were chosen and possessed by God, and they were believing, proven by the fact that they kept his word. I think that's a principle for prayer, if I could just digress a minute. That the person you're praying for lay their credentials before them. Father, this is a child of yours. They've been born again into your family. You've put your name in them, your spirit lives inside of them, and they are in need, Father, and so we pray for them. You see how you can do that? You can remind the Father. Say, why do we have to remind the Father of that? Well, for the same reason that the Lord Jesus does here. God knows all things, but he wants to hear those who are praying say the truths that are there. That way, as we voice them, we know that he knows that we know that these are the truths that we believe. You see? These are people that are seeking to do your will, and they don't have the resources, and they're in this country over there, Father. We're praying for them, you see And they've come to church to learn and be obedient, and I see them struggling. Lord help them. You know, that's how you pray for people. You remind the Father of the very truths that He wants you to know in praying to Him. God wants to hear us say that. See who you pray for and what you pray is very important. Look at verse 9. I ask on their behalf. I do not ask on behalf of the world. Beloved, that is a landmark verse in understanding Christ's relationship with believers versus his relationship with those who do not believe. Everybody thinks Christ is going to accept everybody. Here you specifically see him rejecting prayer for the world. I ask on their behalf. I do not ask on behalf of the world. But of those whom you have given me, for they are yours. I'm not going to pray for the unbelieving world, Father. That's the cosmos, unbelievers. Jesus says he's not praying for them. Why not? Because the intercessions that he's about to make can only be for believers. The three requests he's about to make, he cannot and would never ask of an unbelieving world. How can the unbelieving world be kept from evil? It cannot. How can an unbelieving world be sanctified by the truth? It cannot How can an unbelieving world be brought to Christ in glory in a state of unbelief? It cannot. Yet when Jesus prays for his disciples There is an indirect result that would come to the unbelieving world, and many would get saved. Look down at verse 21 for a moment. Down at verse 21 he says that they may all be one, even as you, Father, are in me, and I in you, that they also may be in us, so that the world may believe that you sent me. See, he has the lost world in his mind as well But he's praying for the believers to be a certain way so that that would spill over and even help those who are unsaved. Jesus shows care first for his own and also for a lost and dying world through his prayer. You know, if you really grasp this truth that Christ is interceding for us, you would see how ridiculous it is when we worry and we are fearful and we have anxiety. Can you see that? You know, when another believer is praying for you, you might say to that person, Thank you, that gives me a degree of comfort, I appreciate that, but you're still wondering, hey, are they praying the right stuff for me? Is God listening to them? You know, who are they? When Christ is praying for you, do you have any doubt that the Father listens to the Son? Do you have any doubt that the Son knows exactly what to pray for you about? Where is the place for anxiety in that? Where is the place for fear in our lives when we know Christ is constantly praying for us? What does that do to all fear? And I mean all fear, every phobia, everything that we have. What does it do? If we properly understood this, we're kept, we're safe, we're on target, we're held, we're empowered, we're loved, we're forgiven, we have a bright future. Where's the room for worry in that? God cares for us. He has power to help us. Christ is praying for us. Spurgeon wrote of this: every one of us, beloved, when we listen to the words of Christ. Should recollect that he is praying for us. That while it is for the great body of his elect he intercedes in this chapter, yet it is also for each believer in particular that he offers intercession However weak we are, however poor, however little our faith, or however small our grace may be, our names are still written on his heart, nor shall we lose our share in Jesus' love. Now he gives the reasons for the intercession in verses 10 through 13. There's at least three reasons here he's interceding for them, verses 10 through 13. The first reason I think that he's praying for them is in verse ten, and all things that are mine are yours, and yours are mine, and I have been glorified in them. In other words, bless them, Father. I'm praying for them, Father, because if I am to be glorified in this world It will be a glory that is found in them. Christ's glory in this world will be extended by the work of these disciples What an incredible thought. That Jesus invested the future of his glory and his name and his reputation in this world in what this raggedy band of Galilean men would do. Yet he knew God, and he knew God's grace, that it could transform men like this in the mighty workers for the kingdom, in the faithful, stalwart preachers. So, when you think God cannot use me, He can only use those other kinds of Christians, He can't use me. I have too many problems. You don't know about my past, you don't know about my upbringing. And what I would say to you is you don't know God all that well. Because your upbringing and what your little foibles are and your temptations, all that, none of that matters. There's nothing unique about any temptation you have ever had that's not common to man. God delights in taking people who doubt that they can be used and turn them into people who can be used. You need to remember that. He not only can use you, Jesus has already planned to use you. He's put one of the spiritual gifts, at least one, into your heart in order to use you, and that's his plan in the body of Christ. Some of you sit back, you hear of needs, God can't use me. You should be stepping forward. You should be saying, God use me. I don't know how you'll be able to use, just use me. I'm here. I believe in you. I don't believe in myself That's what you should be doing. Stepping forward to be taught, trained to be able to do that. Your weaknesses are no obstacle to God's sovereign will. Come on, why do you think the foibles and the missteps of all these men are constantly shown to us in the Gospels? I mean, these men were constantly blowing it so we would understand it's God, not us. We should get that message from ourselves. But I don't know how to talk all that well, remember Moses? I don't know how to be a good administrator. Well, then God will pick you to do something else. God will use you. A time in my life I was petrified to stand in front of anybody and give any kind of a talk. I can tell you that. God wants to take care of us because he wants his son glorified in the world. You and I bear his name. Christ lives in us. He wants to work powerfully through us. Second reason is in verse 11 at the beginning, but also in verse 13, if we can kind of connect those two, verse eleven and thirteen. He says, I am no more in the world. And then in verse 13, he says, But now I come to you. So here's the second reason he's praying for them. They're going to need your help, Father, because I'm not here to guard them from false teaching anymore. I'm not there to keep them from the evil one anymore. I'm not here to teach them the truth anymore. So you sanctify them. And so you keep them from evil. I'm not here to encourage them to persevere when the going gets tough. So you bring them all the way to glory, Father. Those are the petitions. Christ's absence demanded this intercession on their behalf because they were going to be left in the world while he exited from the world. And then the third reason for the intercession is in verse thirteen as well. It says, And these things I speak in the world so that they may have my joy made full in themselves. The power of Christ's joy in a person. They were going to be surrounded by trouble, but they would have the joy of Christ in their lives. The world was going to hate them. Yet we know the love that God has for these, and that God's joy would give them an unyielding strength in the face of persecution The Lord would tarry and not come back as quickly, and they would wonder about that, yet they would remain eager in their expectation of looking for him, joyfully waiting for for the second coming of Christ. I want my joy to be in them in my absence and so I'm praying for them. This is my reason. Listen, it does not please the Lord when Christians are gloomy. Now, I am not advocating a phony smile. But I am saying that when we understand our faith and we understand what has been given to us, it should cause something to glow inside of us that makes us happy. There should be a happiness there. You should not be looking at what you cannot do. You should not be looking at your regrets. We should not be looking at the past sins. We should be focusing on our Savior, understanding the promises we have, and there should be a joy, a joy that spreads when we get together. It's like coals that are put together. They glow a little warmer when they're together, aren't they, right? If you're in sin, that's why you're not joyful. You need to confess your sin, forsake your sin, get accountability from your sin, and enter into a joyful walk with Christ. He left his joy with us. He's praying for that reason here. He wants us to be joyful Christ didn't want his band of followers on the earth everywhere to be known as well there are a bunch of stoics down there on earth. The Stoics were already had their thing going in Greece, right? Yeah, they they were they were S stiff upper lip, you know, they could handle anything. They would take life as it came to them. They would be strong. It wasn't just about that. There had to be a joy in people's lives that they would understand They they must know something, the rest of us don't know. Either they're crazy and insane. You know, either on LSD and they're drunk Or there's something about them that's different, and I want to know what it is. There's something about their joy, and I want that because I don't have that. That's how we're supposed to be. So one of the great evangelistic tools is our love and our joy. That we are joyful people, that we face life with joy. It brings God honor when we have joy together, even as we worship God. Truth should delight our hearts. Now we come to the intercession itself. And this is the highlight here of this first section of his prayer for the disciples, and it's in the middle of verse 11. Look at it, because it's important. He says, Holy Father Keep them in your name, the name which you have given me. Keep them This is the same verb that is used in Acts in various places to refer to Paul being kept and shut up and locked in prison. A guard set around him. So what Jesus is saying is keep them, guard them, protect them from evil. You see? He also says in verse 12, While I was with them, I was keeping them in your name, which you have given me, and I guarded them. Jesus guarded his disciples. He kept them from harm. Look at the wolves that surrounded them. All of them, the Pharisees, the Sadducees, all the false religion, all the hypocrisy, he guarded them from that. Now look at verse 15. There the request is repeated, but it's even more specific. Keep them from the evil one Jesus kept them from Satan and all of his influences in the world. He kept them from spiritual harm. And now he's leaving the world. He's asking the Father to continue that guarding work and do it, notice, in your name. This is probably even better translated, by your name. In other words, by the power of your name. Again, the name refers to God's attributes. Keep them by the by your own holy power, Father. Notice he starts his request in verse 11 by calling God Holy Father. Holy Father, keep them. Because it is by his holiness that he would keep them in purity and keep them clean and keep them set apart from evil and keep them from the destructive nature of lies and false teaching I would say again to digress, just another principle of prayer, that it is something we can learn when we talk to God, to learn to use the different names of God in our prayers. Sometimes our prayer is always, dear Jesus this, dear Jesus that, or O Lord this, or O Lord that. God has other names. I like how Christ uses these names, Holy Father, and he in the context of calling him Holy Father, he asks him to do something in keeping with his name. Do you see that? You can learn to do the same thing. Think of the names of God, and as you make a petition, match the name of God with your petition and ask based on that. That shows that you're not praying in a mindless kind of way, just saying the same old prayers over and over, but you're learning who God is and you're talking to Him intelligently, you see. God has holy power, He's a holy Father. The disciples' prayer, what we call the Lord's Prayer, even starts that way, does it not? Hallowed be thy name. He's holy. He's that way. Speak to him that way. God has holy power to keep them. Oh, I'm so glad he does. I don't know what would happen to me if he didn't. I don't know if I just go wandering away, see something off in the world that would attract my eyes. Grab hold of my heart. If God didn't keep me, what would happen? What if it was all based on me? Like John 10, 28, 29. No one shall snatch my sheep out of my hand. My father who has given them to me is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. Let me just put it real bluntly here. Our salvation is guaranteed by the keeping power of God. It's just that simple. How do I know for sure once I'm saved, I'm always saved, and I'm headed to glory? The keeping power of God Clearly, what Christ is concerned with at the brink of his departure is that the work that he has done in these disciples will last. He didn't want to start something and have it fizzle out, would you? Would you want to pour your lives into certain people and then it would all just end after you would depart from them? I'd be devastated if God called me somewhere else and I would hear a month later whole Bible Church shut down its doors That would be devastating. Christ doesn't want that. He wants this mission to continue on. He wants this movement to go. He's praying for the Father to keep them. The glory he prayed for back in verse one would be no glory for him if the disciples were not kept safe from spiritual harm. What good would it do to go to the cross, provide life to his people, and then lose all of the ones he was going to die for If they, those men closest to him, became lost, the demons would mock God's whole plan of salvation. And the travail of Christ's soul would have been for naught. You know, Adam fell from paradise. You know that. Angels, according to Jude 6, fell from their own domain. But these disciples must be kept from falling, kept from spiritual ruin. For they are in Christ. And in Christ, they're more permanently protected than Adam was in the garden, and angels were in heaven. How about that for our position? In Christ is a better position than all of those others. No creature in Christ can ever fall because Christ prays for us and God always answers the prayers of Christ. We're protected by his intercession. Jesus prays for his little lambs to be protected among vicious wolves. Father, stop all the mouths of the wolves. Let not one of them perish. False teachers who are controlled by the evil one. Keep them from them. You know Jesus' prayers were answered. You know in Hebrews 7 it says Jesus ever lives to make intercession for us. I like that. He he rose from the dead and he ever lives He's never going to die. And he always lives to make intercession. And he always lives to make intercession for us. We're protected. We're protected. 1 Peter 1, verse 5 says that every single believer in Christ is, listen, kept by the power of God through faith unto a salvation ready to be revealed in the last times. That means even your faith that is needed, even that faith that you have as wobbly as it may feel this day, even that faith inside of you is kept by God. He keeps that faith so he can keep you. You say, I thought faith was my doing. Oh no, it was not. Proper biblical theology understands that even the faith, the opening of the eyes is a gift from God. You cannot give yourself faith. You can't even keep the faith that you think you gave yourself. God grants you the faith, and God grants you to keep believing. And that is why Jesus prays for God to keep us because He's the one that will do it. See, Christ knows the dangers of the world. There's a lot of evil enticement in the world. The world has many deceptions, many demonic doctrines, so many. And they're able to corrupt. I think our souls would be drawn away if it were not for him. Remember Simon Simon? Satan is demanded to sift you like wheat. Imagine having to go through that. The sifting of Satan, whatever that is, doesn't sound good to me. And Christ says, but I have prayed for you. And then expressing the confidence of the result of his prayer, and he says, Once you have turned, see, once you have turned, I know what's going to happen. Once you've turned, you feed my brethren. You feed my sheep. The subtleties of sin, the subtleties of false teaching are impressive. Teachers of the world take a good truth and they twist it to lead, if possible, even the elect away from God. God loves you. That's a biblical truth, is it not? And if he loves you, he wants you to be happy. That's only partly true. Depends how you're going to be happy. So go ahead and do what makes you happy. And there you see a truth taken to a half-truth taken to a falsehood. can be completely wrong. Having sex outside of marriage, but it makes me happy and God loves me. Going on a shopping street, but it makes me happy and God cares for me. Spending your time for yourself, but I just need all this time for myself, you see. I'm loving myself. Just like God loves me. And all of that makes me happy. And the world can just pull away from truth through falsehood. God does not want you happy if you disobey Him. He wants you to find His greater joy in obedience. Half truths lead to full destruction. And yet in this evil world, a world deceived by Satan, Christ is purposefully leaving his disciples. And so for his own he pleads to his holy father. In contrast to the wickedness of the world, he does not pray for them. He prays for his disciples. Keep them. Keep their salvation. Keep their faith. Keep their hope. Keep their souls. Keep them from the evil one. Psalm 121 says, The Lord is your keeper. The Lord is your shade. The Lord will protect you from all evil. He will keep your soul. Yet there is one who was lost, yes? There is one who was not kept, Christ mentions him. There is one who did perish. Notice in verse 12, the latter part, I guarded them and not one of them perished, but except the son of perdition. So that the scripture might be fulfilled. Son of perdition means the son of destruction. Obviously, this refers to Judas Iscariot, the one who betrayed Christ that very evening, who had just left the room to receive his filthy pieces of silver The scripture in Psalm 41, verse 9 mandated that a close friend of the Messiah, the close friend of Christ, would betray him And yet it was still Judas' choice. And so Judas was lost. He was not kept. His soul was destroyed. People want to know, is Judas forgiven? No, he was not. He went to destruction because the scripture mandated one be lost. How sad for Judas. He was given the great privilege of being with Christ and having so much persuasion to believe in Christ. And yet, because his heart was unbelieving and covetous and loved money, he was doomed. The keeping power of God does not apply to the non-elect. And so he was lost forever. Before we close, please notice one other thing. Well Jesus does not ask for. In verse 15, I do not ask you to take them out of the world. He could have, he could have asked that right then and there. Hey, I'm leaving. It's going to be more fun going, Father Bring them with me right now. Take them out of the world. Let's go. Let's get on with things and go to glory. He could have asked that the disciples come with him. But he didn't. He said, I'm leaving them in the world. I'm not asking you to take them out of the world. The world, the same world that he said, in the world, you will have tribulation in John 16, 33. That means Christ purposefully left them in the world to face tribulation. He did that on purpose. Oh, there's so much instruction here. We don't have time for it. We often in our prayer lives the first thing we want to pray for is what? Take me out of trouble. Lord, there's trouble, take me out of it. Get me out of it right away. See, God doesn't listen to my prayers. I'm not praying anymore. In fact, sometimes when we pray like that, the trouble gets worse. Well, I'm not saying another word. I'm not saying another word. We want the home life easier, our job nicer, friends more pleasant, children more obedient. We'd rather pray for those and pray, God, change me, make me more patient, make me more godly, develop my prayer life more, help me to long for the glories of heaven more. No, those those requests we don't want those. We want those for somebody else. We don't want it for us. For me, take the trouble away. God, you must not love me because you're not taking the trouble away. Spurgeon again. Some men, when they are converted, are all for going speedily to heaven, but they have not done with earth yet. They would like to wear the crown without bearing the cross. They desire to win without running and conquer without a battle But their whim has no countenance from Jesus, for he exclaims, I pray not that thou shouldest take them out of the world. He doesn't pray we'll have it easy. He prays we'll be conquerors in the world. And 1 John 5, 4 says, whatever is born of God overcomes the world. To be left in the world does not mean just to be left on this planet. It means to be left within the world of humanity with all of its sinful expressions Jesus does not want us buried away from the world in some monastery or some convent. We are not to be an isolated club, us four and no more. Churches that gather a few like-minded families because they like each other and don't want a fellowship with anybody else are violating the will of God We are not to make it hard for the people of the world to know who we are or that we're even here. We are to be as Christ was, among sinners reaching the lost. And our children need to see us doing that. Wanting our children protected from evil as well and good. But pulling them away from the world is not God's will. He left them here also. Not even Jesus pulled his own out of the world, though he knew all of the temptations that were there. But if my children have contact with the world, They're going to become like the world. How can I keep my children from evil in the world? That's a good question, and there's a good answer. Pray for them. Christ prayed for his children, his disciples. He interceded on their behalf. Be not afraid of the evil influence, for God will keep your children also. And sanctify them in the Word of God. That's what Christ does with His own. We'll see this next week in verse 17. He prays for the Father to sanctify them in the Word of God, in the truth. Some people can be so concerned about avoiding temptation they make very little contact with the world. The logical conclusion for all of that is go join a convent. There are some great monasteries out somewhere in Egypt. Holiness does not demand isolation, beloved. True Christianity is Christ among sinners, in contact with sinners, hearing their vile words. Hearing their foolish philosophies, and yet showing them the right way, overcoming lies with truth. A light is most helpful among darkness. You can't possibly be in the world and not see evil and hear evil. But someone may say, but trash in and trash out, that's true. But you're to put a filter in there, and that filter is the Word of God. The Word of God, training people in the Word of God, is how we are sanctified, not running away from the world because we're afraid. We are to have a renewed mind in the truth of God, and that helps us to conquer all lies. And that's how we live in this world. I close with another quote from Spurgeon. It was found that some men who had separated from society were guilty of more vile and vicious practices and sinned more grossly than men who were in the world Brethren, common sense tells us at once that living alone is not the way to serve God. It may be the way to serve self and wrap ourselves in a garment of self-complacency, but it cannot be the way to worship God truly. For we thus become unable to bind up the brokenhearted, to bring the wanderer back, or to win souls from death and sin Out of the heart proceedeth all evil, and if it were in retirement, we should sin, because we should carry our hearts with us into whatever solitude we entered. I have heard of a man who thought he could live without sin if he were to dwell alone. So he took a pitcher of water and a store of bread, and provided some wood, and shut himself out in solitary cells, saying, Now I shall live in peace. But in a moment or two he chanced to kick the pitcher over, and he thereupon used an angry expression. And then he said, I see it is possible to lose one's temper, even when alone. And he at once returned to live among men. Christ keeps us from evil so we can be among the world and be his followers and sanctified and useful to him in this world. May God give us strength to respond to his word and let it impact us the way Christ intends. Father, thank you for this day and the truth of your word. We pray it would have an impact on our thinking and our minds, in our practice, in the way we view ourselves and our families and we interact with this world, that we would be strong lights, that we would reach out, that you'd give us a heart for evangelism. And as we even are careful with the temptations around us. Thank you for the keeping power of Christ. We love you, Lord. Amen.