So the easy one is this first one. Who's who's familiar with this this top model, this accretion model of hydration of the Earth That's the easy one? That's the easy one. That's the easy one. Uh you guys understand hydration of the Earth, right? The Big Bang Theory. Uh no Whatever it is, don't ask me to explain it, but uh ultimately a large bang. Uh and then the coalescing of matter into pretty much everything that we see around us. One of the problems with that is simply How did the earth get hydrated? How do you get water on the earth? Right It's it's a fundamental problem that nobody ever bothers to think about too much, but you gotta get water on the earth to make life possible in the first place. So Darwin's theories don't work without water Um and how do you get? I'll make the problem worse. Has anybody ever heard of the snow belt? I had not. I had to look it up. I was actually doing some background on a series of classes that I may or may not ever get to. since apparently I'm not making any progress. It is a circumference around any star in which moisture cannot naturally exist. It can't just float in the ether someplace as frost or ice or something else and it's just because it's too close to the star, right? It would immediately be destroyed. And our planet is inside what's called that snowbelt, meaning water cannot exist within the circumference around our sun in which we exist. So the question becomes, again, how do we get water on this planet? To begin Darwin's theory for the formation of life. And the answer is, don't worry, asteroids. We have seen asteroids hit other planets. We have extracted matter from other asteroids that show signs of water or component parts of water. And so we just got pummeled by asteroids for a sufficient period of time to deposit the oceans of the world. Except It didn't work on the moon, and we know it gets pelted by asteroids all the time. And it didn't work on Mars, and it didn't work on it's never worked anywhere else And the amount of asteroids that you'd have to pummel the world with to get an ocean out of it. Amazing. Right? But that is the prevalent I mean I'm being sarcastic because I can't help it, it's just dumb. That is the prevalent scientific model for the hydration of the earth. So much so that recently we've discovered that there are amazing reservoirs of water below the Earth. Now that doesn't shock any of you because you're familiar with the Genesis ex time of the flood, where the deeps were opened. Right? And so if you've read anything about that before, you have it in your head, that that's not too shocking. Believe it or not, it's amazingly shocking to most of the world. that there are there is far more water below the surface of the earth than there is above the surface of the earth. And that's fairly recent, that study, the proof of that study How that came about is only within the last few decades and super funny to me. Because it comes out in that very article which I found and read In the very article that revealed the research on the depths beneath the crust, they're like, clearly this plays some part Alongside the accretion model. I was like, what are you talking about? There is no sustainable model by which this hydrated the Earth And then you find all these reservoirs, not Christians, by the way, find all these reservoirs of water below the crust, and you go, oh yeah, clearly it fits in with that other model. Well is that science or is that Something else at that point in time. Is that a refusal to confess that the Genesis account of the flood actually has some merit? Right? But they won't do that They won't do that. They won't even open the door to an ancient text that has repeatedly been proven to be reliable. as having any explanation to the origins of this planet. That's the easy one. Here's the hard one. Um Io last week asked me about uh a question in class and I I put her off because uh I didn't fully hear the question at the time, but I believe that she was asking me how to respond in a personal way to someone um uh uh about basically their uh struggles with uh the conflict between science and religion. So I went and found her after class and I said, Hey, could you repeat the question to me? I'm not sure I totally heard it. And I don't she's not room right now, which is disappointing. But um I don't think she'll mind since she apparently asked the question during class. Uh the question ultimately was that her son is coming home from school and asking difficult questions about uh the the conflict between science and religion. And so that was helpful. I I talked to her a little bit to try to understand the challenges a little bit more. And sure those things are happening and I you know I said, look, there's no easy answers. You really have to take them uh uh you know one at a time and do your homework and um And see where you get. But the second one was ultimately what he was struggling with, or son is struggling with. That uh everybody at school, everybody at school, which I take to mean, you know, his teachers. are telling him that religion is a social or a cultural construct. And I I just want to ask you about that for a minute. How would you respond? If somebody said religion is a cultural construct or a social construct I tell you what, you're dead on. Dead on. I'm going to say as much in a few minutes, but I'm going to put your statement on pause so I can put it in context with some of my remarks in a few minutes. That's true. That's true. Um it might be a good response to the teacher who is saying that to him, but to the individual, the young man, right? He's really saying, you have taught me all my life That there is this thing called the legend that is true. And there's a statement being made here, which I'm waiting for somebody to bring this point up There's a statement being made here that says what? What what what does this sentence even mean? That religion is based in um people of media, different cultures, different people groups throughout history have come up with it themselves. Right. So it lacks what? God is a creator. That's right. Some fundamental objective truth to it, right? It's it's a myth is the phrase that's all I heard oh okay so I was gonna say I heard a voice, I didn't see it. It lacks authority. It lacks authority. Right. Right. It lacks relevance, it lacks rationality. Right? It's just a thing that came out to make uh culture and society convenient. So that's that's probably what he meant by it. I didn't get to ask he or she. I didn't get to ask the teacher, so I don't know But I thought I wonder what their point was, as I was kind of thinking through this after talking to her. I thought I wonder what their point was. And so I would like to go back and ask, but I think I think ultimately you're dead on in what you said. And the consequence of it being unmoored from tangible foundations means that it lacks relevance and authority. So I I agree with all those statements. Go ahead. Most religions of the world are cultural contracts. Fantastic. I was gonna say the same thing again. Re really how the secular world views religion, all religions are cultural constructs Because they do the um the data from religious systems, they group them all together. They don't recognize the fundamental differences of So we just group them all together, especially when atheists are feeling and it comes with the words. Well when the atheists deal with religion, they prove them all together. And when the secular immediate deals with religion, they prove them all together, as if there's no difference between Christianity and Islam or Christianity and Buddhism. Well if you look at the culture, in the culture Christianity comes about is a culture, followed from a man called Jesus Christ. When you look at Um Judaism. Judaism comes about as a culture following a man called Moses. You see when you read the Old Testament and the New Testament, they have a lot of those cultural overtones in the text I don't disagree. There's some nuance there that I want to pick on, but I'm also aware that I have four minutes to finish this discussion. What did he mean by that? And to see if he really knew what it meant or was he just saying it. And then if he didn't know really what it meant, I would ask him if he could go back to the teacher. and ask him to explain it so that he could explain it to his mom. We're doing a great job covering yes, by the way. So all these are great answers. We're doing a great job talking about how the world views this statement, why they made this statement, what this statement might have been. I'm asking you, we're in a class called the Christian mind. I am asking you, when faced with this challenge What is your response at this point? Those were great answers to set a background. At this point forward, I want to know what you, as a Christian mind, say to this claim. It would only be tricky if you have a real relationship with you have a relationship with factory and process like that. I love that answer. Help. Uh I don't have time. I love that answer. I would I think there's some necessary explanation that needs to go. And I don't know your name. Eileen, nice to meet you. Um I think there's some next I see. I think there's some necessary explanation that needs to go with that relationship, but ultimately if if what we're saying there is a real a real God entering into real relationships that includes words that have been communicated to us, then absolutely right, we are doing what is rational and real in that relationship. That is not a cultural construct, that is an individual essence. Right? We are responding to each other according to God's spoken words that have been revealed to us through the scriptures. I as someone who believes the Bible is one hundred percent true, the entire Bible, do not like to put my belief into the term religion because religion as a social construct is true for every other religion on this earth because every other religion is not based on on what I believe in the spirit as a whole. Even though many religions claim to believe in parts of Yeah, I I I love it. I would challenge you all to keep thinking about this a little bit. I don't have enough face to be an ethious, that's right by uh Geisler. I went to the back of that and read a section because I'm preparing for the next couple of weeks we're going to start tackling the problem of team And uh I'm I'm dreading it actually. It's just hard and I it's one of those ones I know I won't have definitive answers. That's why they call it the problem of pain, is because it remains a problem for us. And uh Teresa actually talked about it a little bit last Sunday night. Um in uh one of the testimonies that she provided. And it it's hard. But I'm going to tackle it in the next couple of weeks. And while studying that I was in one of the appendix and Geisler was working through a dialogue between a Christian and an atheist There's a point here relevant to what you said by the way. Um was working between this dialogue and and it was so patronizing. You know, it was it was well let me show you that you're wrong. I I don't I don't care about somebody else being wrong. I care about knowing God better today and tomorrow than I did yesterday. I care about applying Him in ways that magnify Him in my life I care about coming alongside other people and doing exactly what Christ said his whole purpose and mission was in life when he gave his first sermon, and it was to set at liberty those who are in bondage to heal those that are broken. And that only happens in durable truth. You give somebody a placebo and it might make them feel psychologically better for a while, but it feels nothing But you give them good medicine. You do your work and provide them the actuality of a cure. That matters. Your Bible is not only a book that you can believe in, it's a book you can test and verify. To a great extent. There are miraculous things in it that would be challenging for us to test and verify outside of testimony, which we have We certainly have more testimony for the miracles in the scriptures than we do the accretion model of hydration. One of the scientists, one of the pivotal scientists we studied last week was Charles Pierce, the guy that came up with, or Todd he didn't come up with it, he codified or systematized the scientific method. And he talked about it as a way to quantify or fix belief. And what he was opening the door to is you might be wrong. Your research might be wrong And you you keep the door open to that, you keep refining, and you keep pursuing truth. It was a fairly honest assessment. Well, given the veracity of scriptures And their discussion of oceans of water beneath the crust that could have been released in a global flood versus this accretion model of hydration, I know which one I'm going with. And the scriptures are the same way. They are not a cultural construct because they actually refine culture. They speak against culture. They go counter-cultural. What culture, what an evidence, or what have come up with the scriptures? They tell them don't pursue wealth above all things. Serve others. That women are filled with a terrible dignity as image-bearers of Christ. And men are meant to leave whether they want to or not. No matter how challenging it is, no matter how humiliating it is, we have a long image of leadership, and so we always think about it as the opposite of humiliation, but it is often humiliation Put your hands to the thing that nobody else wants to touch. Set your time and your heart and your resources towards a thing that nobody else sees sufficient value in, but you must do it Because it's necessary. Those are counter-cultural ideas. They are anti-pragmatic. Spend everything for the soul that is going to hell. And you get nothing from it. Well, in an earthly way earthly calculus, I guess, right? It's countercultural in every way. And it's not cultural in the sense that it's a myth because it's verifiable. It's one of the most verifiable things that we have. There is no history book that has greater accreditation In your Bible. Pursue God with your mind. Please don't listen to me rambling here. Bill Daniels, you know, does the security stuff and he was away from church and this week he shared with me that sometimes when he's away from church he flips through the cameras. I'm like, that's really creepy Bill. But he flips through the camera things, right? And he's like, Yeah, check my boys, make sure they weren't sleeping in class. Stalker. And you know and then I I I settled into your class and I stayed there because you're entertaining. You walk around and you wave your hands and I can tell you I can't hear you but I can see it. Apparently he texted his son and says, Mr. Mahoney seems pretty excited So when she got the response, as always. Um I I want you coming in here for the spectacle. Please develop a Christian mind. Not as a discipline that improves you, per se. I'm not looking for self-help and improvement here. Your God is greater. Your God is more relevant. Your God is more meaningful. What you have in Christ is so infinitely more valuable than you currently suspect that it is. There is no book, no matter how much we love it. And you see me, mine is one of the greatest marital struggles I have is the number of books I buy. My wife doesn't like it. And we don't have enough bookshelves or corners of the house to stack them in any longer So my way around that by the way is Kindle, just so you know. But anyway, um I love books, but there isn't a single one of them that gets it right They come close, they speak about truth, they describe God in good ways that are helpful and constructive and protective, that we don't wander off in in areas and in ways that we should not, as other men have so many times. But they are insufficient. Whatever box you have God in your life, wherever you are separated from him in any way You're wrong, and you need to be pursuing your good and great God. That is the point of this class. If you do not take it on as a mental discipline, the pursuit of your God and all the value that is in him Oh, you are rejoicing, the evil one. You have believed a lie. And you have settled C. S. Lewis quote, right? You settled for playing in the streets when somebody offered you a vacation at the beach. That's a paraphrase of a C. S. Lewis quote. Okay, let's get the real class started here. We covered uh the basis of the scientific revolution starting at Copernicus. We covered the antagonists of the scientific revolution last week, beginning with Charles Darwin and moving to Thomas Huxley. I threw a uh uh a salute into Bertrand Russell, but I'm actually going to mostly pick up there. But as it pertains to today's class, I need to fill in a little gap or a little reminder from last week. We're going to cover The consequence of ideas is where we're at. It's on page four if you have your notes. We're going to come cover the consequence of ideas. This idea of a conflict, an established, accepted uh verifiable substantive conflict between religion and science, that idea has had amazing consequences. And and that's where I want to pick up today, but is important that you catch this from last week. Charles Darwin's theories This is not a quote from him, it's a quote by others about his theories, just so you know. Charles Darwin's theories purported to support modest humanism. And they don't mean like uh you know like bounded humanism. They mean humanism that is modest, humanism that is humble. Does everybody basically understand the idea of humanism? Somebody give me a two or three word definition for humanism. That that is part of it. Do you remember last week what we talked about with materialism? All things are just material in motion. being modified over time. That's materialism. So if that's materialism, then humanism is replacing some of that materialism, although it's actually augmenting that materialism. Then then what would we say materi uh humanism is Make decisions for yourself. The agency of the human is really all that is left for us, right? In a materialistic world, the only thing that is The only thing that provides deterministic agency is humans. So if we don't do it, it ain't getting done. So that's good. So this is a modest humanism. I don't know how you blend those two words together, but nonetheless, purport is a support, modest humanism. And then this quote is from a book I've got at the bottom of the page there. Six modern myths. Short book, very easy to read, highly recommend it to you. The use of the Copernican Revolution as a metaphor for modest and realistic humanism. Seems to have first gained ground during the Enlightenment of the eighteenth century. The nineteenth century joined it to Darwin's evolutionary metaphor and put man in his place on earth, just as astronomy had put him in his place in the heavens. The insinuation here is that religion and and you know in from a uh astronomy or cosmological perspective, the geocentric view of the world, that religion ultimately establishes man in a central as a as a central figure in all of reality. And therefore bespeaks an arrogance or suggests or uh indicates or requires an arrogance that is unbelievable And science has come to put men in their place. And we first did it, uh Galileo first did it with the heliocentric view of the universe. We already discussed how that was false And Darwin did it from a biology and genetics perspective. Not the culminating creation of a divine intelligence, but an accident An improbable, matter of fact, the most improbable accident that has ever happened, resulting in you. So it's it's necessarily humble, it's necessarily modest, it's necessarily self-deprecating. That's their statement But you'll see as we move forward, the consequence of their ideas was the exact opposite. And in fact, a quote from Darwin, man's godlike intellect has penetrated into the movements and constitution of the solar system. Man's godlike intellect has penetrated into the movements and constitution of the solar system. I'm going to finish up with Bertrand Russell here in this set scientific antagonist section. If Charles Darwin was something like um Calvin was the word I was looking for. All I could think of was institutes of the Christian religion. If Luther and Calvin are the the theologians on which we have based m much of church theology in the last five hundred years Then Charles Darwin would be the theologian that established doctrine theology, systematized it for the scientific revolution John Draper, Andrew White, and Thomas Huxley in particular, as we discussed last week, are the people that picked that up and ignited the world with those humble humble ideas that Charles Darwin had. Bertrand Russell If you have your notes, you'll see the quote Britain's best known twentieth century atheists. Atheists, excuse me. me. Um wrote a a significant book. Quite good, I think I'll say. Called the History of Philosophy. Um he has written a uh a great number of books, but uh his history of philosophy is one that's so prevalent in universities today. His reputation for being against God is also somewhat notorious, as you can see from that quote, Britain's best-known 20th-century atheist. And he wrote much that was critical of the Christian religion in the Bible. Nonetheless, I challenge you all to read and consider his insights from chapter 12 of his small book. Science in the Modern World. It's an e book e-book that's available either free or on Project Gutenberg for uh or excuse me, free on Project Gutenberg or $1. 99 on Amazon Um it it when I say small book, I I literally mean like half an inch, right? Not not an inch or two inches or three inches or some of the other books you've seen me bring in here. Uh i it's a small book. And it's interesting. It it should make you angry, and I hope that it does, and I hope that it provokes you to think about things more clearly and understand what the consequence of some of the modern ideas are A summary of Russell's book by a guy named Michael Roos. Let there be, I'm using him because he has really been the modern profit, if you will, of the scientific revolutions, the ideas that Huxley um popularized across the world And that originally came from Darwin's theory. So a summary of Russell's book on science in the modern world, Michael Rue says, let there be no mistake This is a war which has been won decisively by science, a result for which all decent people should be profoundly grateful. With the death of religion goes superstition and oppression and hatred. With the success of science comes understanding and freedom. and love. That was written I I'm not sure I'd have to look at the date on the book, which might be in the reference hold, please. Nope, I quoted the another source, and I didn't bring the book with me today. Um but he only lived between 1809 and 1882. So we're a long way from him. You see all those posters out on people's lawns? Love is everything. Science is true. My neighbor has one up and he knows that it drives me nuts. He puts it as close to my property line as he can. And then he acts like a raving, hateful lunatic. But isn't this the whole point of the religion as a cultural contract the the consequence of that idea is that you can live however you want because it's just the social taboos that religion is putting on you. If you can just shuck religion, you can have that freedom. Absolutely, but I will not be sucked back into that discussion because I'm running short on time. And Doreen already mocked me for not finishing my notes. I just want you to see, again, consequence of ideas, right? Darwin's ideas, whether he meant them to or not. And by the way, he had a responsibility To deal with the consequence of his ideas. We're going to talk about James Pierce just briefly for the sake of time. But James Pierce, his ideas got out of his hand Right, this guy that came up with the scientific method, he ended up forming what what was called pragmatism at the time, which basically means if it's practical, if it's effective to the end that we intend, then it's it doesn't matter whether it's right or wrong, it's good Right? So we we take goodness and we define goodness by whether it's practical or not. And that got out of control. He didn't mean it to be like that. And so he coined a new phrase and he wrote a bunch of books saying, I am not in support of pragmatism as this buddy of mine who I was at Harvard with, you know, we had some discussions, we kind of formed these ideas, and he went off onto this like rampant pragmatism No God, hate God, nothing about God. Let me talk about value. He talked about it from a values perspective, this other guy. And Pierce was like, that is not what I meant Let me tell you what I meant and let me give you a different word for it so that you have it. And he called it pragmaticism, because you know it's harder to say, and therefore you couldn't mistakenly say it, right? He called it pragmaticism But he took pains to say these were not my ideas and and you have gone in a place that has consequences that I am not willing to support. Darwin had a responsibility to do these same things And I will withhold further judgment about why he allowed it to happen, but the truth is he allowed it to happen and he supported it. conveniently find people like Huxley and others. Ideas have a consequence. Look where we're at The ideas that we are swimming in today, so that we don't even see them because they're in the water all around us started with an attack On the veracity of Scripture and the reality of God. Consequence of beginning of a word. Somebody say something? John Zayou? With her dying coke. I know everyone went out. I try to be sensitive to interruption. The Coke was a new one though. Let it never be said that I'm, you know, bulldozed people, I even give up for a coke Consequence of ideas is uh I stole that shamelessly from uh famefully me uh from a a book by R. C. Sroll. It's on uh a history of philosophy. It's a much smaller book than Bertrand Russell's, which is you know that big, you know Again, highly recommend that you read the book. It helps you think. It helps you think. More than that, it builds your faith. I guess I when I say help you think, I just I hope I'm being clear about that. I want you to have your faith built up. And I wanted to encourage you. sustain you. I want you to see the glory that you are robed in, in the truthfulness of Christ, in the historicity of Christ, in the imminence of Christ, that he is with you. That all of his recorded history in the scriptures are him unwinding the curse so that he could be with his people. That's what I mean when I say I want you to think. These ideas have consequences. Sprohl's book talks about those consequences through a history of philosophy. I'm not doing that so much. I'm specifically interacting with the scientific revolution here. The scientific revolution eroded man's confidence in the divine regard. How often have I said to you, I want you comforted in Christ. This do I need you to think. Do you see where it comes from? This isn't just me. It is me. It's a conviction that I've had for several decades now. But it's not just me. It's well documented that the scientific revolution, by antagonists and protagonists alike, eroded man's confidence in the divine regard. Trying to figure out where the quote came from. I mean I know what book it came from, but I want to make sure it's the right person. Yeah, Grape Ruth book, the one that was actually used to provoke that um debate, the Oxford debates that we talked about last week, where, you know, drove the definitive nail in the superiority of science over religion and made the best example of religious uh science and theology look embarrassing. That was kind of the the news line for that, even though that's not at all what what happened Draper's book, more than Darwin's theories, for what was discussed there. History of the Conflict Between Religion and Science. And in that book, on two separate pages, the first sentence of this is from page 175. And the second one is from page 8. Of what consequence is man? After talking about the history of conflict between science and religion, he basically said science has stepped on the scene and has taken over the truth. We now know. We don't live in the dark ages. We don't have what you know what uh Bertrand Russell said, right? You should be Thankful. All decent people should be profoundly grateful. With the death of religion goes superstition and oppression and hatred. I'll tell you what else what goes. The confidence in the divine regard. You understand that phrase? Divine regard? What does that mean? What is the divine regard? It's important. Romance on put in our regard uh considered. That would be the opposite. You're talking about our regard for for for God. Absolutely, one hundred percent. That is not what the sentence means. Psalm eight, right? Yep. This is God's re super good, but mirror that. Um Of what consequence is man his pleasure or his pain? To dethrone the earth from her central dominating position? He's interacting with that idea that You know, once geocentrism was thrown out and heliocentrism was proved, clearly religion was bunked debunked. Uh to dethrone the earth from her central dominating position, to give her many equals and not a few superiors. seemed to diminish her claim upon the divine regard. And I only use him because Draper's book was the source It was used has been used for over 200 years to support the claim of the Dark Ages that that whole period of the growth of religion Right? All the work that Christ had done and accomplished in the explosion of Christianity across the globe. In modern textbooks, that's called the Dark Ages. Of superstition and hatefulness and the disregard of the dignity of God's image bears. That's how it's been written down. And it's Draper's book that was most often cited. And White. Draper and White. And so I gave you that quote, right? The guy that started that understood what the consequence of his ideas were. And the consequence is God doesn't care. God does not care about you, or if he does, he cares about you in some marginal way. You have been put in an order of all things and compared to other things, according to Darwin, you're just an accident So how important do you think you are to the divine regard versus the majesty of a sun or a star or a squid? Or I don't know. I don't even want to guess. That's one consequence. Another consequence is that scientific method is the tyranny of empiricism. If you can't test it, it's not true Empiricism, in the way that Bertrand Bertrand Russell and many that follow in his footsteps mean it is that if I can't sense it, I can't know it. In what re uh this is only partially true. Keep drawing two circles on the board and putting natural in one and supernatural in the other. Where does God primarily reside? In which of those two circles? Everywhere. Supernatural. Supernatural. Right? I'm just using simple catechism here, right? What is God? God is spirit. Right. Don't mean that everything in the natural order is not touched by him. That doesn't speak to him. Romans 1, 20 and 21, the invisible things of him. Why are they invisible? Because he's supernatural. The invisible things of Sam from the creation of the world, that's the natural order. I'm going to get confused if I keep commentating on my quotation, but the invisible things of Him from the creation of the world are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made What is he saying? That a natural order speaks to the supernatural nature of God, so that they are without excuse, because that when they knew God, they glorified him not as God, neither were thankful, but became stupid. Vain, empty, futile, worthless, with no end in their thinking, and their foolish hearts were darkened. But this empiricism, this tyranny of empiricism, exercises supernatural. You are no longer permitted. To have communication about the supernatural. To do that is superstition. To do that is foolishness. And yet the very book that we use to establish the criteria For what we know about the supernatural has over and over and over again been attested to by archaeology, by science, by observational art, if you will I call it art because you never know. Read the same scientists. It is difficult to approach something without bias. I have this experience. I see this thing. We all see this thing. It is empirically demonstrated. But what does it mean? And what caused it? And to what end does it move? And those are hard questions. And yet we look at the scriptures and they are the most reliable thing that we have. And they have over and over again been authenticated, even in the face of criticism, and this will never happen, and you'll never be able to prove this. Wait thirty years And we dig something else up, and sure enough, we find that it's true. Or we discover something else in the heavens and we find that it's true there You want me to believe this that you have no reasonable mechanism for? No attestation, no testimony, no eyewitness. And yet we've got documents that have been verified to 3,000 years old. That sentence was busted, but you know what I mean. And we won't believe it. And yet the guy that came up with the scientific method said this is all about observational science fixing belief because he he was he was humble enough to realize that Given observational science, given the scientific method, you can still be wrong. And so he called it fixed and belief, and I love it Basically said if you can't sess it, you can't know it. And yet I stand before you and say that I can spend the remainder of the day quoting from the scripture. Verses that talk about God being with you, near you, in you, caring for you, sacrificing the Son for you Ready to walk through every valley with you in a way that yields such light and such joy that there is never a time when thanksgiving and gratitude and praise are not the right response, so much so that to fail to do it is literally a sin that causes damnation and punishment for God. What was the sin of the Israelites? We say all the disobediences. That's fine, but that's not what the scripture says. It says in gratitude. Grumbling What have you done? You have believed that because you're having a difficult time seeing God move in your life in ways that appeal to your five senses that the truths that have been repeatedly attested to in the written documentation that he provided us and has preserved for millennia is untrue or is not true in the way that you think it is. It's true, but it's true in some other way. Well what other way? There is not a single person in this room that is not guilty of this. I am not. I am not. I am passionate about this because I see that in every day's work I believe the lie. That God is not there, that he is not infinitely in control, that he is not caring for me, that he does not intend to pour all that I need into every situation to glorify him. And it may hurt and it may be challenging, but I have all that I need in him. Not only to do what needs to be done, but to do it in a way that evidences God's glory with gratitude and praise, not manufactured, but Real. One of the joys that sprinkles out of the heart and causes song or noise without words, because you can't find the right word to do it. Something like what you felt if it wasn't sheer panic. Something like what you felt when your child, first child, came. Or when your spouse actually said yes, and you can imagine why she would do that. I can't flip it around because that just doesn't work for me, but you you get the idea. Something like that, Joey Charles S. Pierce, right? The king of empiricism, because he was the guy that codified the scientific method, which is all about empiricism. Charles Pierce is credited with codifying the scientific method during a transatlantic voyage when he was finally given time to think about it, free from some of his other responsibilities. He defended the superiority of the scientific method over other methods of overcoming doubt and fixing belief. That's a a direct quote. Right? He continued to defend the superiority of this scientific method over other methods of overcoming doubt and fixing belief. And then a quote from him on in a paper called The Fixation of Belief. Above all, this is a little pointy-headed, but I do think it's worth going through, so just bear with me. Above all Let it be considered that there uh let it above all let it be considered that what is more wholesome than any particular belief is integrity of belief. And that to avoid looking into the support of any belief from a fear that it may turn out rotten is quite as immoral as it is disadvantageous. The person who confesses that there is such a thing as truth, which is distinguished from falsehood simply by this, that if acted on, it will carry us to the point we aim at and not astray. And then, though convinced of this, Who dares not know the truth and seeks to avoid it is in a sorry state of mind indeed I don't exactly know what Pierce's religious philosophies were. I suspect I would not have agreed with him on many things. But he did write an awfully interesting paper called A Neglected Argument for the Reality of God, in which he ridiculed many Christian ideas. But he did make an attempt to argue for the reality of God and the need to pursue him through these very methods To apply this very integrity of truth to the pursuit of God I already told you he struggled with uh the consequences of his own ideas with the pragmaticism thing. I'm not gonna say much more about that. So eroded man's confidence in the divine regard, severed the supernatural realm from man entirely through this tyranny of empiricism created a mechanistic view of all that exists. Mechanistic science. And ultimately that means if we can't conceive of the machine that can do it, then it can't be done. You're absolutely right, but back to Bertrand Russell's quote, right? science and religion are at war and his philosophies have fund I mean that's that's what has been taught. That's not what's true. That's the cultural concept. And that's that's that's wonderful. I'm not I'm not there yet, but I am getting there, right? When I get to a quote from a guy named Lauren Isley, you'll know that I'm I'm ready for your quote, okay? I am gonna get there. Um mechanistic science, anti-supernaturalism. How does that play in? Same same discussions that we were just having. I got all passion and I came out here. I said I believe a lot in the work, right? What is that? That's me saying I don't know how to get through this valley right now. I don't see a path by my own resources, my own strength, my own intellect. I can't call Bill off. It just happened to help me out, right? Like I don't know how he's gonna make it Right? So I despair. Gratitude is the farthest thing from it. I'm frustrated. I'm grim. I'm stoic. But what am I doing? I'm looking for mechanisms in the natural world to do the very thing that God said, stop. And pray and be settled and rejoice, and you will see that I am God. Well uh I never know where I'm gonna get in the class anymore. I feel like I don't know why. I feel like I regularly speak on a time thing and I'd be fine, but you guys are killing me. I have been thinking about this class for a number of months now. I've been thinking about this problem of pain that I'm about to move to and thinking about it the stuff that I'm teaching you today. And one of the things as I studied the scriptures and and because I always want to go back, I don't want philosophy. I want I want scripture. And one of the things that I have been really impressed with over the last weeks and months is simply this. We don't see God work much in our lives. For two reasons. We don't ask. When we ask, we ask them this. And two, we don't believe. And while Christ you know, a study of Luke, I still don't understand why anybody from my small group comes to this class, why would you subject yourself to me twice in one week? But nonetheless On Tuesday nights, nope, Thursday nights. Um we've been studying through Luke. And I had I've just been so impressed with the abundance of mercy that Christ poured out while he was here. So much so that John the Baptist said, Are you the Messiah, the one that was to bring judgment and mercy? And Christ's response was, Yes, I am the Messiah. And then he just poured out radical mercy in the form of crazy miracles. Crazily indulgent, abundant Merci and miracles. But over and over again during Christ's ministry, he says, I'm not going to do that in your life because you don't Believe. You aren't trusted. And so if it's in your head that I'm a nutchild standing up here talking about God's mercy because you're not saying it in your life, I've got to ask you those two things. Are you asking So that you can be faithful to the Lord in the obedience of Thanksgiving and gratitude, sharing his light with the rest of the world, with the family. with your church and even in the mirror to yourself. Are you asking in those reasons and are you believing? Help thou my unbelief. If well, forget if you know that you suffer from a mechanistic view of God's goodness. And you've been taught that it's okay. And I'm going to be very careful here about systematic theologies that we've established to fence The goodness of God from those that would abuse it and talk about, well, my gift this and my gift that and healing this and healing that, and all they're really looking for is to establish the authority of the man And and dead on, I'm not challenging any of those things. But even our theology has gotten classic. God works in this box. We are after the, you know, uh Acts speaks about the formation of the church, and we call that this period. Church Acostolic was what I was looking for. Thank you. Church age is also good though. I just hadn't thought of that one. Alright? We are after that age, and and God works in this box. Oh, does he? I understand why those borders are set up for safety. But when you are grasping for God, I I'm not convinced those borders are helpful to you Your God is profligate in his mercy. Those are words generally shouldn't be put together, so please repeat that too often. Your God is exceedingly abundant, more merciful than you can imagine, and more imminent in your life, more interested in what you do. He could not be less interested in the mechanics of your life, in the sense that he's not limited by them, nor is he limited by the box that we put them in, the post-apostolic age. Nor does he care what you think about eschatology in the sense that we're discussing it here today, right now, again. Please be careful. I waved my systematic theology book around and told you how many copies I have and how I gave them to people, and I love them so much. Please take me as I intend. Another consequence is the arrogance of man, not the humility of man, but the arrogance of man, the tyranny of pragmatism, whatever is useful is good. And it doesn't matter whether there's a standard outside of that. Galileo exploited this changed status of the earth when he had his mouthpiece, Salviati. I told you about this guy before We s say this, we seek to ennoble and perfect the earth when we strive to make it like the celestial bodies and, as it were, place it in heaven Darwin's theories made white males the apex of nature. How do I know that? Because um eugenics is the word I was looking for, right? Eugenics were a logical consequence of the scientific community, and I shared several of them with you last week when we talked about it. The people that first picked up Darwin's ideas and ran with them, eugenics. Racism is a necessary consequence of it. Sexism is a necessary consequence of it. Darwin's theories made white males the apex of nature. Which clearly I'm not supporting. I don't know why I feel the need to say that in this community. You should all know me well enough. But just wanna say I do not support that. Undismayed by the empire of chance, man determines to pr preserve a mind free from the wanton tyranny that rules his outward life. Did you hear that? undismayed by the empire of chance, meaning there's nothing out there but chance. That's all that there is is random chance And we stand stoically in the face of that, undismayed, and we determine to preserve a mind free from the wanton tyranny that rules our outward life. We determine that we will be free of the tyranny out there Probably defiant of the irresistible forces that tolerate for a moment his knowledge and his condemnation. I'm not going to finish the quote. The basic idea is there's nothing We're here, we get to determine everything while we're here. It's our minds against everything else. It's just wanton chance and reckless tyranny and chaos out there. And you're only going to be here for a short period of time and then nothing. And so you get to rule for the period of time that you're here. And if you don't do it well, you miss your chance. It's all up to you That's the consequence of those scientific ideas. Historicism, though, actual historicism. Like if you study history, if you go back and look at the evidence, historicism corrects this Huxley and evangelism. It it undoes um these this this false War between science and religion, and the broad brush painting of religion as superstition and hatefulness Man named Alfred Whitehead, who was an amazing mathematician. I was unfamiliar with him until I started the studying, but he did a series of lectures at Harvard called the Lowell Lectures. You can find them online, look at them in the footnotes And while I can can uh while I can't succinctly quantify Whitehead's religious beliefs, I think he was a panentheist, for those of you that are theologically oriented out there or systematically oriented out there. I think he was a panentheist, but I can't quite say. He certainly co-authored Principia Mathematico with Bertrand Russell Britain's best known 20th century atheist. So this guy hung out with people I don't like. There can be no living and these are some quotes from his book. There can be no living science unless there is a widespread instinctive conviction in the existence of an order of things, and in particular, of an order of nature Capital O order, capital N, Nature. When he was talking about, he was addressing them as a scientist, he was addressing scientists And what he was saying is there's no ability to do science meaningfully. There's no point in doing science meaningfully unless you believe that all of the natural things that we see in the world are ordered There is an order of things. They are sustained in it and intended on it, and they will achieve what they were intended to do. Not just matter, not just humanism, not just pragmatism, but this order. And in particular, One that orders these things. Regarding this conviction, Whitehead writes: there seems but one source for its origin It must come, he's talking about the idea that there's an order and therefore we can study it and have a fruitful study. If we study it and it keeps changing underneath of us and dissolving or deteriorating into chaos, what's the point? But if we can come to an understanding of it and then use that and depend on the systematic, dependable order of those things, then we have a shot at improving things like medicine Or law, or so many other things. And so he says that pursuit of science, that conviction that it's meaningful and purposeful and valuable There seems but one source for its origin. It must come from the medieval insistence on the rationality of God. The very thing you were taught was irrational and at war with science He here says is the basis of that science and is a fact-matter of fact a necessary basis of science On the rationality of God. Notice how he got more into his lecture there. Probably like me, right? Started off with the order of nature, capital O, capital N, and here he gets to The rationality of God, conceived as with the personal or as with personal energy of Jehovah and with the rationality of a Greek philosopher. I am unclear from reading large segments of his lectures whether he was actually Supporting the medieval concepts in a God creator, God creator. I know that he saw that historically and was definitely affirming the fundamental necessity of that conviction for the pursuit of science. And his whole lecture speaks to that. The faith in the possibility of science generated antecedently. to the development of modern scientific theory is an unconscious derivative from medieval theology. That's a mouthful of words, but he basically says if we had not believed in God, we never would have gotten to where we're at with science. So for on this topic about the order of things, it seems like it is a concept that it's a core concept for The Christian and then also for the atheist. How is it like for the Christian we can say um yes God is in all things and holds all things together. And so yes, there is order to because God is the order of things. And then for the atheists there would take that and say because it would take that and say um everything is mechanistic because there is Um how did we get to the point where um I guess the atheist kind of slipped back into their side Uh this sounds glib and I'm not trying to be glib, but uh and maybe I've m matter of fact I probably should take that as a A good commentary on my ability to convey well what I've been trying to convey over the last three weeks. That is exactly what I've been trying to do over the last three weeks though, is is talk to you about how early ideas and I've been deliberately trying to lead leave off my commentary on those ideas as we go through. How early ideas open the door to the lie that there is a conflict between observational science And the truth of God, how that was picked up by men that wished to shake their fist in the face of God and promulgated for two centuries. And then now, in the late 1800s, early 1900s, when Whitehead spoke, there began to be an opportunity for the history to be set right. And these same men of science are are now saying there's no way to actually view these things. You painted them as too discrete observational or two discrete camps, I guess I'll say But this very man who who did not love God or did not trust God according to his word, but instead believed that God and matter had some relationship that he couldn't quite express. That's what it means to be panentheist and I know I didn't explain that, but that's what it means to be like that. The idea that God is an everything kind of you know Hindu type thing except the panentheist adds the opportunity or the possibility of God also being somehow personal in that. Distant, removed, with matter intervening, but somehow a personal God that has intention. So I I really am challenging that fundamental is does the world actually see God differently than we do? My response is they do not. They choose to close their eyes to the very evidence that would draw them to an intelligent creator and a personal God. And that's a cultural construct. That is us saying we will not serve God, right? That is Romans 1, 20, and 21. When they saw God, they did not glorify him as God, neither were thankful, and their foolish hearts were darkened. Uh don't tank me dude, I got ten minutes. Blurs the line of their expertise and then launches their authority outward and upward in every direction. That's the big place to to pump the brakes and say, hold on a second, you don't need to have a say on this, this, this. Right? So A big issue we have in this concept is the idea that you wanted to look at progressive biology. You wanted to look at it, and then now you want to make moral claims on everything in life connected on something that you have put together and even didn't even necessarily do that correctly. And I think that's the space was sort of The contrast that we have from the truth of Scripture is that Scripture permeates everything perfectly. Right? So everything in life that God has laid out for us fits perfectly so that I can both trust that he controls all things, creator of all things, and he cares about my morality, and he cares about salvation and sin and Does that make sense? Yes. So those couple of quotes I gave you from Alfred Whitehead basically talked about there is no such thing as science that is not predicated first on the on the truth. that is God, an ordered creator, who is communicating himself in a rational way through that which is created, holding it together Maintaining it toward the end that he had. That becomes, that is, that is the necessary predicate for the endeavor of science. And again, not a Christian. Just seeing what's there. There's a whole intelligent design thing craze right now. Those people are many of them not Christians. Not Christians at all. They're just saying this doesn't work without an intelligent designer. Whether he's involved or not, whether he's a clockmaker that got it started or whatever, you know, they go all different places. They do not know God, but they see. They see the necessity of the supernatural invention intervention in the created order. We don't work without something else And they see that. Now to combat that, because science was losing ground in the early 1900s, See Great Awakenings, C global uh revival, because they were losing ground in the early 1900s, scientists moved to blocking. And you get scientists and philosophers like Hume that came back and he was like, oh, you're all talking about this thing gets set in order and it has this purpose and you know, the the cause and the event are related. And so he just severed that. For reasons I'm not clear you talk about authority, like why he was able to speak to this, I don't know But Hume came along and he said the event and the effect, or the effect and the event, are distinct. We don't need to talk about what caused this. We can look at things as, hey, there's prints on the screen. Wait, wait. I think I'd know that as an engineer. Um you know. How did it get there? What caused it? Doesn't matter, it's there. And it's material Right? So it must have just gotten there. And the fact that he spelled words, oh boy, did we get lucky on that one, separated event from effect. And while Hume is often laughed at in the scientific community, his philosophies are still amazingly prevalent. And you see echoes in them in of his philosophies in so much that we do as law and politics and community and science and education and religion I can be religious because it makes me feel better and it works for me and it helps me live a better life and it keeps me controlled and it keeps me off of having to take drugs that would be expensive in you know medical insurance and a dream of society and so it's just good that I'm religious. It doesn't matter how I got here, it doesn't matter whether it's true Me being able to be here in this way and a beneficial and having a beneficial effect, that's all that matters. I use religion as one But how about gender? Doesn't matter. I mean, what is more unscientific than the whole transgender thing? You are chemically male or female. You are hormonally male or female. You are structurally male or female. And you can throw in other hormones and you can alter structure, but you can't change that chemical thing that's a part of every cell in your body. And yet we say it's absolutely a thing that you get to override that. What is that? That's Hume's philosophy. The event and the effect Don't have to have any relationship whatsoever. And it creeps into our Christian thinking again. I don't have time to embellish that, but see previous commentary. Or hear previous commentary. Lauren Isley was a prolific and influential scientist. I told you I'd get here, I gotta do it, influential scientist that wrote between 1950 and 1970, listen to this, a PhD anthropologist, he received 33 honorary degrees. as well as the Phi Beta Capital Award for the best science book, Darwin Century, wherein he states very reluctantly In one of those strange permutations of which history yields occasional rare examples, it is the Christian world Which finally gave birth in a clear, articulate fashion to the experimental method of science itself And so that's a I'm I'm going to end with a Bible statement, but um that's a great quote from a non-Christian scientist. It says this idea that there is a revolution or a conflict between science and religion is garbage. I want every last one of you to know that you can serve your God with your mind wide awake to all that is true. And you will never regret your confidence in the God revealed through scriptures. As a matter of fact, you will grow in your confidence. You will grow in your capacity for obedience. You will grow in the comfort that you find. in a God who is imminent in all that he is and does, who has spent all of our history undoing the damage that we did to our relationship with him so that he might be with us. And he has written lavishly across the created order of who he is and what he was what he is like, what he was like, what he is like And how much he cares for each of us. Acts 17, 25, and 28, since he himself Gives to all mankind life and breath and everything. In him we live and move and have our being. You say that's so familiar. Why do you read it? Because there is nothing materialistic or mechanistic or humanistic in it. But it puts God at the center of every breath that you take. It doesn't happen because he forgot to turn it off. It happens because he speaks it into you, because he cares about you at that moment, because he is drawing you to yourself Because he is being merciful to the sinner to give them another breath and another breath and another breath and another chance to confess sin Your scriptures don't make much sense. They sound like mantra unless you understand much of what we have discussed over the last three weeks. And you're so used to hearing them and so used to not thinking about them that they are cheapened in your heart and mind. They play little part as currency in the economy of your life. And yet you are each equipped with a surplus of that currency that is unbelievable. It is more than enough for all that you have in need. And I wish I had another hour, and I'm sure you wish I didn't. Philoplos.