Alright, we are recording. We are. Off and running. Okay, so my resources, of course, is becoming a woman who pleases God. We're going to be in chapter three today. A wise woman develops a heart of contentment. Another great book I used for preparing was um a book by Barbara Hughes, Disciplines of a Godly Woman. Great book. She has a wonderful chapter on contentment. And then one of my favorite authors, Elizabeth George, A Woman After God's Own Heart. She has some wonderful things about the home written in this book. And also I didn't bring a copy of it, my paper copy with me, but I put it in your notes, Spurgeon. org, love reading Spurgeon, and so I used his sermon on contentment from Philippians as part of my resources. I also want to let you know I did not use this book to prepare for my lesson, but she's an excellent author, an excellent teacher, and that is Susan Heck. And she has written some Bible studies for women. She calls them with the Master Series. And she's written one in fullness of joy. It's on the book of Philippians, so if you want a further study in contentment, that would be a great resource. So Psalm 73, 25 and 26 says Whom have I in heaven but thee? And besides thee I desire nothing on earth. My flesh and my heart may fail, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion for ever. Do you and I have that same heart cry as this psalmist? Besides, God, we don't desire anything else I think if we're honest with ourselves, we live many days, much of our time, as if God was not enough. We've heard recently two sermons in November from our pastor, my husband. God quenches your deepest thirst from Psalm 63. Psalm 63, 1. O God, you are my God. I shall seek you earnestly. My soul thirsts for you. My flesh yearns for you in a dry and weary land where there is no water. I'd encourage you to listen to those sermons again in your quiet times. And do we seek God earnestly? Do we thirst for God as David did? And that's really at the heart of contentment. Paul says in Philippians 4. 11, for I have learned to be content in whatever circumstances I am. John MacArthur in his Philippians commentary says the Greek word translated content in that verse, Philippians 4. 11, appears only here in the New Testament. In extra-biblical Greek, it was used to speak of being self-sufficient, having enough, or not being dependent on others One ancient writer used the word in reference to a country that supplied itself and had no need of imports. True contentment comes only from God and enables believers to be satisfied and at ease in the midst of any problem. I love this definition by Jeremiah Burroughs from his book, The Rare Jewel of Christian Contentment, which by the way was first published in 1648. So I have this in your notes. You can fill in the blanks. Christian contentment is that sweet Inward, quiet, gracious frame of mind, which freely submits to and delight in God's wise and fatherly disposal in every condition. I'm going to read that again. Christian contentment is that sweet, inward, quiet. gracious frame of mind which freely submits to and delights in God's wise and fatherly disposal in every condition. So it kind of it that definition encompasses the character that we have but our attitude towards God and I think it's quite a statement that not only submitting to but delighting in God's wise and fatherly disposal in every condition. Well, how in the world are we going to learn that? How are we going to achieve it? Well, the Apostle Paul had to learn it. The chapter title for the lesson that we're doing today is A Wise Woman Develops a Heart of Contentment. And Barbara Hughes in her book Disciplines of a Godly Woman states that contentment is a discipline. So you've got the word learn, develops. discipline. So if you thought of yourselves this finish with school, I think there might be a couple people actually in here still in school, but if you've been out for a while, guess what? You're still in because we're pupils and the Lord is continually teaching us contentment. Barbara Hughes in her book said, what are women discontent with? Well, women are discontent with their reputation. They want people to think of them as attractive and intelligent and successful. Women are discontent with their marital status. If they're single, they want to be married. If they're married, sometimes they want to go back to being single or married to somebody else or changing something about their spouse. Women are discontent with their money and possessions. I mean barbecues asked whoever has said ever that, oh I have I have enough money. You want a better home, you want a better um vehicle, more discretionary money so you can go and travel, you want a budget that's not too tight. Women are discontent with children. Either the desire to have children or if they have children wish that they weren't as challenging sometimes to to train or wish their children would make different decisions Some women aren't even content with the very fact that they have been made a woman. So our outline today is going to be first to cultivate Home, sweet home. And so we're going to focus on contentment in our homes. Then secondly, we're going to look at contentment, whatever lot that God has given us, in much or in little. And then thirdly, we're going to look at confidence in God's providence in our lives. So let's start with the first, cultivate home, sweet home. So whether you have a castle Or a cozy little cottage. The Lord wants us to cultivate that home, sweet home. I want to encourage you, if you haven't already done so, to read chapter 3. in our book, Becoming a Woman Who Pleases God. It's a great chapter and at the end there is a wonderful application section called Growing in the Ability to Develop a Heart of Contentment. So again that would be a great quiet time study to work through. And the book that I'm using mostly for this section is Liz George's book. A woman after God's own heart, she has a chapter called A Heart That Makes a House a Home Now if you right now were thinking about the perfect home, what would that look like to you? Would it be that little home on Main Street where you grew up? Or would it be in an apartment in a busy city where you can look down at all the hustle and bustle? That's what my mother-in-law would have loved and she's probably now super excited because she's going to be in the city of heaven looking at all the hustle and bustle. So she's probably loving it Would you like a large home with lots of space and a big backyard for the kids? Or would you like something a little more cozy and beautifully decorated? Well there's a country music song that that I think is kind of cute. I like. It's performed by Lone Star and it's called My Front Porch Looking In. And so this man, I'm going to read a few lines of it. He didn't own anything and he got to own a home. So let me read part of it I'm not going to sing for you today, sorry. I'm going to do a couple songs. We'll leave that for the more gifted people here. But it's he says, the only ground I ever owned was sticking to my shoes. Now I look at my front porch in this panoramic view. I can sit and watch the fields fill up with rays of glowing sun or watch the moon lay on the fences like that's where it was hung. By the way, this is like totally my my type of home. But then he goes on to say, My blessings are in front of me. It's not about the land. I'll never beat the view from my front porch looking in. So what was he looking at? The songwriter goes on to tell about his wife and his children inside that home. That expresses what home is really all about. Proverbs 14. 1 says, the wise woman builds her house. In a commentary on the book of Proverbs, a gentleman named Robert Alden writes of this verse. He says Although the Hebrew word for house and home is the same, home is the preferred word here. A house is not always a home. And this verse does not speak of house construction, masonry, or carpentry, but of home building, the knitting of family, and the day-to-day routine of creating a happy and comfortable place for family to live. So you may own a simple cottage, you may own a cot a castle today, you might be here and not own any home at all. You might be renting one simple room in a house You might still be living in your parents' home. But whatever your living situation is, that's your home and you're to build it. And may I also note that you don't have to be married. to build a home. Every woman is a home builder. Proverbs 24, 3 through 4 says, By wisdom a house is built, and by understanding it is established. And by knowledge, their rooms are filled with all precious and pleasant riches. So we're just going to explore right now what are pleasant and precious riches that we can fill our home with. Well, if you want to think about the thermostat in your house, and right now we all have it up a little bit because it's been a chilly week, a woman sets the climate and the temperature in her home. And where does that start? With the precious and pleasant riches number one, and that is spending time with God every single day. It's at the top of the list. Prayer and God's Word every single day. We don't have strength on our own to carry out what God requires of us and what what each day holds. Only God has that strength. We need his wisdom and strength to carry out our days. So pick the best time of your day and give that to God. The time that you're most alert and the time that you could get the most accomplished. Give that to God. And usually that's in the morning, but if it can't be, pick that prime time for the Lord. That's the most important riches that you can pour into your home because then that's going to spill out. After that, there's so much that we could bring into our home. Here's just a few. Proverbs 15, 1. A gentle answer turns away wrath. Bring gentleness into your home. James 3, 17, but the wisdom from above is peaceable. Peace should be a treasure we're bringing into our homes. Proverbs 12. 25, anxiety in a man's heart weighs it down, but a good word makes the heart glad. So we need to be bringing good words into our home. Proverbs 15, 15. A cheerful heart has a continual feast. So cheerfulness needs to be brought into our home. There's a great list in this book that the author is called Wise Woman's Meditation Alphabet. I actually typed it out. It's attached to your notes But it's full of pleasant riches that you can bring into your home, scripture verses. So I would encourage you to use that if you're thinking through, what do I need to bring into my home? Use that. But there are some things that should never be brought into our home Proverbs 14. 1 not only tells us that the wise woman builds her home, but also that the foolish tears it down with her own hands. So women, we have the capability of being a one-woman demolish demolition machine. So instead of building with precious riches, we can ruin and destroy the very foundations of our home. We can do that actively. Or we can do it passively. Just a few examples of actively is do we have anger? Proverbs 15, the second part of 15. 1, while a gentle answer turns away wrath Um fifteen B says, a harsh word stirs up anger. Proverbs twelve eighteen says There is one who bring who excuse me, there is one who speaks rashly like the thrust of a sword. That's quite a vivid picture Words out of control, out of anger can bring death and destruction and ruin to the relationships in our home We can actively destroy our home by criticisms. Just one illustration that I thought of is there's a hus I knew of a husband who, when the children were little, he wanted to start some fun family traditions at Christmas time. So he said to his wife, He said, let's let's bake a birthday cake every year for Jesus. Well she thought that idea was so stupid. And so she just openly criticized him in front of the children. And that wasn't the only criticism. It went on for years. Whenever he would bring up an idea that she didn't like, she openly criticized him and in front of the children. So instead of being thankful that she had a husband that wanted and had that desire to lead the family, coming alongside to help him carry that out, she destroyed actively the foundation of her home. But you know, you can be passive and destroy your home as well. How can you do it passively? Well you can fail to work. That slowly erodes a foundation of a home. Never disciplining ourselves, as Barbie Hughes would say. Just plain neglect, laziness, never getting around to it, too much time away from home, just never prioritizing it. So ladies, you need to think that your home is a place of refuge. God's our refuge, and we want our homes to reflect that. We want to give the sense to those who live there, you've heard this saying, if I can just get home, everything will be okay. Proverbs 18. 10. The name of the Lord is a strong tower. The righteous runs into it and is safe. 2 Samuel 22, 3, my God, my rock in whom I take refuge, my shield, and the horn of my salvation, my stronghold, and my refuge, my Savior, you saved me. From violence. We're safe in the Lord. We want to create that environment in our homes where our families are safe. We need to build a home where each person is strengthened. And I'm not talking perfection. None of us are going to have perfection this side of heaven. We wait for our glorified state to be with him. But there's much we can do to just continually be sanctified and bring Christ into our homes. So I met Liz George about 25 years ago and she used to have this expression, it's one of these things that's stuck in my head, and she would say, I am on assignment from God to And then fill in the blank. So she talks about that every time she was thinking about of our obedience to the Lord. And so she says the wise woman is aware that she's on assignment from God. and knows that building a home is a lifelong endeavor. So how can you do that? What's really in some ways kind of simple. I know it takes a lot of work for the application, but the first of first part is you have to make a decision to want to build your home. It has to be on your radar. You have to have that desire to say, I'm going to take my home and make it an oasis. And you have to decide and bring that before the Lord and say, I want to be obedient in this area. I want to build a home. Then after that, each day, just do one thing to build your home. Do you need to start having a daily time with the Lord? Is that where you need to start If you're already doing that, how about maybe greeting each family member with a smile when they come home from their outings to let them know, so glad to see you again, glad you're back safely. How about starting to prioritize time to listen to your family members? I remember once as a young mom, I wish I had learned this lesson right then and there, but sadly I didn't. But I'm, you know, busy doing something in the kitchen and Hannah's trying to talk to me. And I'm I'm I'm listening to you, honey, as I'm doing all my activity. And she said, No, mom, I want to see your eyes And I had to stop and I wish, like I said, I'm not happy that I didn't learn that lesson there and then. But let's look at each person in our family. Let's give them our time and attention and listen. How about letting things be less than perfect? I know sometimes that's a little hard for us to do, but let it be less than perfect. Praise their efforts and their accomplishments without saying, oh that was great, honey, you should have done this Just just thank them. Praise them for their effort and their accomplishment. How about just stopping complaining about the daily task? Oh, another load of laundry. You were outside playing and now I've got another load. Are you all hungry again? How about just having a thankful heart for the things that you have daily to do? Is your home a place of chaos and a mess? How about bringing a little order into your home and to your day? And good news, in January, Laura is going to be teaching on chapter four of our book on home management So if you need some help with that, she's going to be bringing that to us. We always hear the saying, Rome wasn't built in a day, neither was your house. It's brick by brick by brick. So I just encourage you to take a brick each day. Even if it's thankfulness for the whole year, even if you say my brick this year is going to be thankful for all the tasks in my home, all the people in my home, just each day build a brick. If you add a sign, some people have a sign outside their home, welcome home, or sometimes they have it in there for you or somewhere, does that reflect the heart of your home? Are your people in there happy to come and feel welcomed? Well we're going to move on now to, oh, and I have to say, what I'm sharing with you, and I'll share this a little bit more in personal testimony, but these are the precious treasures that make for contentment. Sometimes we think about our possessions and that's what we're just about to look at. Contentment, whatever my lot. But I can just tell you as an older woman What are the real treasures or all the things that are intangible, that are spiritual, that you bring into your home and into your life? So let's look at our actual earthly possessions and contentment. So we're going to look at contentment, whatever lot God has given you, in little or much. So that's point two in your outline. So Philippians four, ten through thirteen. Paul says, But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly, that now at last you have revived your concern for me. Indeed, you were concerned before, but you lacked opportunity. Not that I speak from want. For I have learned to be content in whatever circumstances I am. I know how to get along with humble means, and I know how to live in prosperity. In any and every circumstance, I have learned the secret of being filled and going hungry, both of having abundance and suffering need. I can do all things through him who strengthens me. Well let's start with the aspect of being content in little, as Paul experienced. Proverbs 15, 16. Better is a little with the fear of the Lord than great treasure and turmoil with it. In MacArthur's commentary on Philippians, he described Paul's living conditions at the time of writing Philippians. Paul was a prisoner in Rome. He was confined to a small apartment. He was guarded by a Roman soldier. He was no longer able to minister with freedom. He wasn't able to work, so he was in a dependent condition, and he probably was existing on a bare s subsistence level. The only contact with churches was through letters, occasional visitor, and looming ahead was his trial before the Emperor Nero. And later in this passage, in verse 15, Paul states that no church shared in giving and receiving but the Philippian church. So how could Paul possibly say that he was content? But he learned it. He learned to be content with humble means. So I said one of my resources was Charles Spurgeon and a sermon he preached on contentment. from Philippians 4. 11. He preached it in March of 1860, and I'm telling you it's just as relevant and 160 years later. So I'm going to share just a portion of that with you, I would encourage you to go on the website to read the whole sermon. It is so rich. But after you read Spurgeon, you're like, uh I can't put that any better. So I just quoted some of what he had. And I'd like you to think about, he's going to be, right now I'm going to be talking about the poor, and he had poor there in his congregation as a pastor. I know in America, we us sitting here and listening, we're not experiencing that same level of poverty, but if we're honest, we're all thinking about things all the time that, you know, I I don't have this, or that we're without, or we would like certain circumstances and things to change. So just think about this in mind, about things that you suffer, things that are difficult as we listen to what Spurgeon said to the poor in his congregation. If you are poor You should be well content with your position, because, depend upon it, it is the fittest for you. Unerring wisdom, cast your lot. If you were rich, you would not have so much grace as you have now. Perhaps God knew that He that did He not make you poor? you would never get he would never get you to heaven at all. So he has kept you where you are, that he may conduct you thither. Suppose there's a ship of large tonnage to be brought up a river, and in one part of the river there is a shallow Should someone ask, why does the captain steer his vessel through the deep part of the channel? His answer would be, because I should not get it into the harbor at all if I did not take it by this course So it may be, you would remain aground and suffer shipwreck if your divine captain did not always make you trace the deepest part of the water, and make you go where the current ran with the greatest speed Some plants die if they are too much exposed. It may be that you are planted in some sheltered part of the garden where you do not get so much sun as you would like. But you are put there as a plant of his own righteous planting, that you may bring forth fruit unto perfection. Remember this had any other condition been better for you than the one in which you are? God would have put you there. You are put by him in the most suitable place, and if you had had the picking of your lot half an hour afterwards, you would have come back and said, Lord, choose for me, for I have not chosen the best after all. Now Spurgeon tells of an Aesop's fable, which I guess it's lost. It's under six years. I couldn't locate it, but nonetheless, it serves as a good illustration of this point. Spurgeon says, You have heard perhaps the old fable in Aesoph of the men that complained to Jupiter of their burdens, and the god in anger bade them, every one of them, get rid of his burden, and take up the one that he would like best. They all came and proposed to do so. There was a man who had a lame leg, and he thought he could do better if he had a blind eye. The man who had a blind eye thought he could do better if he had to bear poverty and not blindness. While the man who was poor thought poverty the worst of ills. He would not mind taking the sickness of the rich man if he could but have his riches. So they all made a change, but the fable said that within an hour they were all back again, asking that they might have their own burdens. They found the original burden so much lighter than the one that was taken by their own selection. So you would find it. Then be content. You cannot better your lot. Take up your cross. You could not have a better trial than you have got. It is the best for you It shifts you the most. It will do you the most good and prove the most effective means of making you perfect in every good word and work to the glory of God. Tom and I have a pastor friend in New Jersey, Joe Bobby. So long as I've known him, he always tells us, God, Taylor makes your trials just for you. Well, let's look about having much. It seems kind of an odd thing to say to have contentment in much, but Paul learned that as well. I mean you could sign me up, right? Um doesn't sound so bad. But listen to what Ecclesiastes 5. 10 says. He who loves money will not be satisfied with money Nor he who loves abundance with its income. So Spurgeon also addresses the rich in his sermon on contentment. He says to the rich, the Apostle Paul says, I have learned in whatsoever state I am therewith to be content. Now some of you have, as far as your circumstances are concerned, all that the heart can wish for. God has placed you in such a position that you have not to toil with your hands, and in the sweat of your face gain a livelihood. You will perhaps think that any exhortation to you to be contented is needless. Alas, my brethren A man may be very discontented, though he be very rich. It is quite as possible for discontent to sit on a throne as it is to sit on a chair, a poor broken back chair in a hovel. Remember that a man's contentment is in his mind and not in the extent of his possessions. Alexander, with all the world at his feet, cries for another world to conquer. He is sorry because there are no other countries into which he may carry his victorious arms. And wait up to his loins in the blood of his fellow man to slake the thirst of his insatiable ambition. To you who are rich, it is necessary that we give the same exhortation as to the poor. Learn to be Content. Many a rich man who has an estate is not satisfied because there's a little corner piece of ground that belongs to his neighbor like Nabus Vineyard that the king of Israel needed, that he might make a garden of herbs hard by his palace. What matters that he says, though I have all these acres, unless I can have Nabus Vineyard Surely a king should have been ashamed to crave that paltry half acre of a poor man's patrimony. But yet so it is. Men with vast estates which are scarcely able to ride over, may have that old horse leech in their hearts which always cries, Give, give, more, more They thought when they had but little, that if they had ten thousand pounds it would be enough. They have it and they want 20,000 pounds. When they have that, they want still more. Yes, and if you had it, it would be a trifle more. And so it would continually be. As your possessions increased, so would the lust of acquiring property increase. We must then press upon the rich this exhortation, learn in your state, therewith to be content. Spurgeon also asks this question: if one has enough wealth, does one ever have enough honor? Look at the example of Haman in the book of Esther, though Haman was honored above all Save for the king, yet this was not enough as long as Mordecai did not bow down or pay homage. So Spurgeon says, Learn, brethren, in whatever state you are, therewith to be content There's other aspects of contentment as well. Listen to this one. And this is so true of our hearts, human hearts. When men have too much of God's mercies, Strange that we should have to say this, and yet it is a great fact. When men have much of God's providential mercies, it often happens that they have but little of God's grace and little gratitude for the bounties they have received. They are full, and they forget God. Satisfied on earth they are content to do without heaven. Rest assured, my dear hearers, it is harder to know how to be full than it is to know how to be hungry. To know how to be hungry is a sharp lesson But to know how to be full is the harder lesson, after all. So desperate is the tendency of human nature to pride and forgetfulness of God. As soon as ever we have a double stock of manna and begin to hoard it, it breeds worms and becomes a stench in the nostrils of God. Take care that you ask in your prayers that God would teach you to be full. Two examples that came to my mind. One just recently, I haven't been on Facebook much, but I opened it up recently and I stumbled on a post by a former member And I thought, oh, this is this really illustrates this well. She says, I remember so well feeling giddy over having a kitchen table. She had a picture of her kitchen table nicely decorated, and she said it was so giddy. And I thought, oh, that reflects my heart. I can remember getting certain position possessions and I'd be like, oh, that's just perfect. I'm so excited, whether it was a picture or the flower arrangement or a piece of furniture, whatever. So I remember ha I have those giddy feelings. But she goes on to say this. So many sweet memories were made at this kitchen table. Lots of games of cribbage, lots of coffee. But then this is what she put after that. A lot of growth happened at this table too Learning to live without a lot of things I thought I needed, seeing the Lord provide in ways I could never imagine. I just thought of this verse this morning as I was going over my lesson where Jesus said in Luke 12, Beware and be on your guard against every form of greed, for not even when one has an abundance Does his life consist of his possessions? And just um again, just taking my age a little bit, I don't mind sharing my age. I'm not worried about I'm fifty nine, been married thirty seven years. I have four adult kids. The baby is twenty one. It's hard to believe. I have two sons-in-laws. I have a grandson. We've moved um eight times. We've lived in eight different homes in those years. And I can tell you, and I have a very, very sick husband. And I think it would be great fun right now to not own a home, to not have the budget that we do. I think it would be grand to live in a little apartment that we rent. to be watching, which I've done before in the past, watching every line item of the budget And have a healthy husband. Ladies, a lot of our contentment has to do with our perspective. We think, you know, just like this gal said in her Learning to live without a lot of things I thought I needed. Sometimes we think we need this and we need that. Be content with your lot that God's given you. The Spurgeon said, unerring wisdom cast our lot. It's something learned. But remember, Paul stated in Philippians 4. 13, I can do all things. through him who strengthens me. I hear that verse used tons of different ways, but right here it's in the context of contentment. It's God who's going to give us the strength to be content, whatever lot He has given us. So let's go on to the third point: confidence in God. A. W. Tozer said, whatever comes into your mind when you think about God is the most important thing about you. True. Whatever comes into your mind when you think about God is the most important thing about you. So I'm gonna read Psalm 140 five. I kinda miss not all meeting in person. I love having different ladies read the scriptures, but with Zoom that's a little a little bit hard, but Just listen to this. This is magnificent. Psalm 145. I will extol you, my God, O King, and I will bless your name forever and ever. Every day I will bless you, and I will praise your name forever and ever. Great is the Lord, highly to be praised, and his greatness is unsearchable. One generation shall praise your works to another, and shall declare your mighty acts. On the glorious splendor of your majesty and on your wonderful works, I will meditate. Men shall speak of the power of your awesome acts, and I will tell of your greatness. They shall eagerly utter the memory of your abundant goodness, and will shout joyfully of your righteousness. The Lord is gracious and merciful, slow to anger and great in loving kindness. The Lord is good to all, and his mercies are over all his works. All your work shall give thanks to you, O Lord, and your godly ones shall bless you. They shall speak of the glory of your kingdom and talk of your power, to make known to the sons of men your mighty acts and the glory of the majesty. of your kingdom. Your kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and your dominion endures throughout all generations. The Lord sustains all who fall and raises up all who are bowed down. The eyes of all look to you, and you give them their food in due time. You open your hand and satisfy the desire of every living thing. The Lord is righteous in all his ways and kind in all his deeds. The Lord is near to all who call upon him, to all who call upon him in truth. He will fulfill the desire of those who fear him. He will also hear their cry and save them. The Lord keeps all who love him, but all the wicked he will destroy. My mouth will speak the praise of the Lord, and all flesh will bless his holy name forever and ever. This is your God. This is our God, ladies. I would encourage you, I'd love to be able to go through the whole passage, but I would encourage you to listen to Susan Heck. She taught from this passage on the sovereignty of God in our July 2019 women's conference. It's great. It's only about an hour Again, another resource for you to just fill in, the study of contentment. So I've given you lots of quiet time materials in this lesson. It takes about an hour to listen to it, but it's great. But I just had to read that because it just Um, as Susan Hex said, it's got sixteen qualities of our sovereign God and six ways that we are to respond to him. It's a great lesson. We can have confidence in God's sovereignty. Ephesians 1. 11. In Him also we have obtained an inheritance having been predestined according to his purpose, who worked all things after the counsel of his will. God is sovereign in our salvation. He saved us according to the kind intention of his will, Ephesians 1. 5. So here's another homework assignment. Just read Ephesians, read Ephesians 1, read Ephesians 2, and just Just soak in the magnificence and the marvel of our salvation. But God's not only sovereign in our salvation, He's sovereign in just our day-to-day life. God sovereignly ordained the blessings in your life. Health, marriage, home, various relationships, employment, travel. We can make a huge list of blessings But God has also sovereignly ordained the trials and disappointments of life, the difficult finances, losing a job. I know people who've lost their home, not getting certain things that you have longed for. But another writing from the 1860s, same decade as Spurgeon preached, in 1862, Joseph Gilmore wrote He leadeth me, and I forget the man who put it to music, but the hymn, He Leadeth Me. Here's a couple of the refrains Sometimes mid scenes of deepest gloom, sometimes where Eden's bowers bloom, By waters still or troubled sea, still tis his hand that leadeth me. Lord, I would place my hand in thine, nor ever murmur, nor repine. Repine is to express discontent. Content, whatever lot I see, since 'tis my God that leadeth me. We need to be confident in God's sovereign work in our lives. We need to be confident in God's goodness to us. Maybe you have a verse that anchors your soul, you have a life verse. Mine is, you've heard it, some of you have heard me say it a number of times, you are good and do good. Psalm 119, 68. And that anchors me because I know exactly who God is and I know exactly what he does. He is good. He does good. It's an anchor. So there can be storms and life not look the way I want it, but he holds me by who he is and what he does. I had a conversation with Susan Moraz, who's been with the Lord now almost four and a half years, a member of our church. Some of you, many of you know her. But um Tom was diagnosed with um pancreas cancer April 30th, 2015. We were close friends with Susan, so I called her the first couple days of May. She was already um in her battle with cancer. So when I shared with her that Tom had it, she said, So She said, you need to know that God's not only going to be with you, He is going to go ahead of you. And then and then I shared, yes, Susan, you know what else? We have God with us. We have God making the way ahead of us. But I said Psalm 23, 6 says, Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. And we just shared that wonderful time just talking about the word and God's care for us. And I don't I I really many times visualize, I turn around and I think, oh Right around the corner, right peeking through that doorway over there. Goodness and mercy are following me all the time. David in Psalm 34, 1 said, I will bless the Lord at all times. His praise shall continually be in my mouth. There's always evident displays of God's goodness even when we have di difficult circumstances. One way. That helps me when I'm discontent is to remember God's tender mercies. I know my mother-in-law would often say, I love it when God answers the big things when I've been praying and He answers those great big things and I'm so excited but she said, Sometimes what just touches me more is when God does the little things that only I would know, that only little things that would minister my heart that God knows and He does for me. I don't know about you, but sometimes when I have been at the worst, and the two worst times for me have been when Tom was diagnosed and the surgery and the chemotherapy that followed That didn't really shine a candle to what the last two years with metastatic disease has been like, but throughout it when you know God, you can continually see his tender mercies. It's quite evident. So look for that when you're discontent. Sit down and think about where's God showing his kindness to you? It's all it's all around you. And don't ever forget, we have to come back to this because sometimes we think once we're believers, you know, we deserve this or that. But we need to remember that all of us here deserve hell. But instead we're getting God's forgiveness and eternal life. Titus 2, 4 through 7 says But when the kindness of God, our Savior, and His love for mankind appeared, He saved us, not on the basis of deeds which we have done in righteousness. But what? According to His mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewing by the Holy Spirit, whom he poured out upon us richly through Jesus Christ our Savior, so that being justified by His grace We would be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life. Psalm 3119 says, How great is your goodness, which you have stored up for those who fear you. Which you have wrought for those who take refuge in you before the sons of men And lastly, confidence in God's work. We all know this verse, Philippians 1:6, for I'm confident of this very thing that he who began a good work in you will perfect it until the day of Christ Jesus God's working in each one of us to sanctify us, to conform us to the image of his son, to the glory of God. He's going to do that. He did it in the past. He's going to do it today. He's going to do it until he takes us to be with him. There's a, I'm not going to read this one, but there's a neat story again if you read the chapter three, the story of a teacup, which can talk about the refining process that God has in our life. I just thought I'd read a little poem that I think most people have heard, but I think it sums up God's work in our life. It's called The Tapestry. My life is but a weaving between my Lord and me. I cannot choose the colours. He worketh steadily. Oft times he weaveth sorrow, and I, in foolish pride, Forget he sees the upper, and I the underside. Not till the loom is silent and the shuttle cease to fly, shall God unroll the canvas and explain the reason why? The dark threads are as needful in the weaver's skillful hand, as the threads of gold and silver in the pattern he has planned. He knows. He loves. He cares. Nothing this truth can dim. He gives us his, he gives his very best to those who leave the choice with him It's God's choice. It's God's plan in our life. We have to let him do his work. Now have in your notes Another statement, another quote from Jeremiah Burroughs, and I have some blanks there for you to fill in. Because I think this statement is important because When we talk about a heart of contentment, you need to know that often we suffer And I'm not minimizing that suffering of discontent, of things that would we would like to be different in our lives. So let's just listen to this. It says our contentment is not opposed in the first blank to a due sense of affliction. If you want to write that in the blank, to a due sense of affliction. God gives his people leave to be sensible of what they suffer. So you can recognize I am suffering in some aspect in my life. It's okay to acknowledge that. Two, contentment is not opposed to, and here is the blank, making in an orderly manner. Making in an orderly manner our moan and complaint to God and to our friends. We can appeal to God. He's our Heavenly Father. We can share our hearts of discontent with Him. we can share with our small group, with people that we're close with. We can share what we're struggling with. Number three, contentment is not opposed to And this is fill in the blank here, all lawful seeking for help. All lawful seeking for help. So contentment is not opposed to all lawful seeking for help in difficult circumstances, nor to endeavoring simply to be delivered out of present afflictions by the use of lawful means Sometimes we can use sensible, lawful means to change some of the things that are going on in our life. In fact, even the fact that I'm bringing that I brought in um the aspect of the treasures that And the riches that we bring into our homes. You may have a bunch of garbage in your home right now. Trash that you have brought in. I gave a couple examples of anger or criticism. You can Work on taking those out and putting the other things in. And there are also maybe some lawful means, actual lawful means for things if you've lost a home or job or whatever. So contentment's not opposed to that. But here is what contentment is opposed to. Number one, write in the word murmuring. Murmuring. Contentment is opposed to murmuring at the hand of God. Like the part of the hymn that I quoted, Lord, I would place my hand in thine, nor ever murmur, nor repine. 2. Contentment as opposed to vexing and fretting. So write in your blind, vexing and fretting. A tumultuous spirit. And three, the two words to put in those blanks is unsettled and unstable. To an unsettled And unstable spirit whereby the heart is distracted from the present duty that God requires in our several relationships towards God, ourselves, and others. And I'll close with um one final quote from Spurgeon. And this really kind of really speaks to our hearts You should be contented because otherwise you will belie your own prayers. You kneel down in the morning and you say, Thy will be done. Suppose you get up and want your own will and rebel against the dispensation of your Heavenly Father. Have you not made yourself out to be a hypocrite? The language of your prayer is at variance with the feeling of your heart. Let it always be sufficient for you to think that you are where God put you He has ordered everything for our good. And can he be forgetful of us? Let us believe that whatever he appoints is best. Let us choose his will rather than our own. If there were two places, one a place of poverty and another a place of riches and honor. If I could have my choice, it should be my privilege to say, nevertheless, not as I will, but as thou wilt. And remember, Philippians 4. 13 says, I can do all things through him who strengthens me. All right, let me close this in prayer. Father, the hymn says, Whatever my lot now has taught me to say, it is well, it is well with my soul. I know all of us here, and here in person or listening and myself, we have areas that we're quite contented with how you are working and doing things in our life. And yet there are other areas where we are quite discontent. So we just want to thank you for how you have Chosen each of our paths, how you have set our lot for each one of us individually because you know us best. You know what's best going to bring you honor and glory and keep our feet walking in your ways. So Lord, teach us, help us to learn as Paul, help us to develop every day. A heart of contentment. And just thank you for us being together around the truth of your word. In your name. Amen. Thank you so much, Sue for that lesson on contentment. Um I don't I think every one of us was encouraged and and challenged by that. So I really thank you. I want to