All right, well, uh today we're on lesson 13, the last one in our our quarter. So we're wrapping up uh what we're calling theology one where we've studied bibliology and theology proper Next quarter, beginning next week, we're into what we're calling theology two, continuing the series. where we're going to be looking at, again, within the Godhead, we're looking next week, next quarter at God the Son and God the Holy Spirit. So we've laid the foundation for that here in this quarter, but we'll uh dig in deeper about the the uh the person of the Son of God, his works, and his role in the Trinity, and then likewise the Holy Spirit. Okay, so I'm on page ninety-three, where everything we've looked at so far in this Sequence of lessons on theology proper, that is the doctrine of God, is really it's all true of God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit. But it makes sense to highlight here today, building on all of that, what we understand about God the Father particularly. And then that will be a good intro to uh the next quarter. We talk about uh God the Son, God the Holy Spirit. Okay, so page 93. The Father is the first person of the Holy Trinity and has all the attributes, perfections, and powers of God. This gets back a little bit uh when we first started uh looking at the doctrine of God. Uh where we talked a fair amount about the Trinity, right? The Godhead, three and one And just I think by way of review, where it says here the Father is the first person of the Holy Trinity, in what sense is God a person? Or actually three persons, right? When we say God is the first person of the Trinity, in what sense is he a person? Yeah um character traits. Okay. Emotions. Okay. Very good. All those things. Intellect, emotion, will. And you remember, I I think I mentioned early on that when we when we think of a person, we're usually thinking in terms of a human being. Right? And so when we say God is or God the Father is a person, doesn't mean that he's a human being It means that actually the other way around, we are persons because we're made in God's image God has personality. And in the sense that God has intellect, emotion, and will, He has given us and created us to have intellect, emotion, and will. To the extent that God is spirit, he's given us a spiritual capacity to interact with him, a soul, a spirit. Very much unlike anything else in creation, even the animals You know, they they have attributes that are characteristic of their species and they they operate mostly on instinct. But humans are just in a different category completely, made in God's image. And so we are persons because God is eternally existent in three persons, God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. So that sounds real simple, but of course, as we looked before, the Holy Trinity is something we just can't get our minds completely around, and that shouldn't surprise us We can't put God in a box, so okay, I got you figured out. It's understandable that we being the created don't completely understand the creator. But he has revealed a whole lot about himself. And so we wanted to look specifically at God the Father. So let's begin. I think we'll look at really all of those verses here. Could someone read the very first one there from Luke 10? Who'd like to read that? Pastor Alexa. Sure. In that first sentence, when it says the father is the first person, can you comment on the first? Yeah, we're actually going to get to that in number two. Okay. And mostly number two. Number three is a is is building on it, but um We usually refer to the Father as the first person of the Trinity, the Son as the second person of the Trinity, and the Holy Spirit as the third person of the Trinity. But let me hold off on d uh describing how we I don't think there's any scripture reference that refers to them in that order. But uh I think we'll see when we get to number two that there is some distinctions there. Okay. So can someone read for us, Luke 10? Okay, well at that very time he rejoiced greatly in the Holy Spirit and said, I praise thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that thou didst hide these things from the wise and intelligent. And it revealed them to thee. Yes, Father, for thus it was well pleasing in thy sight. All things have been handed over to me by my Father, and no one knows who the Son of God And who the Father is except the Son, and anyone to whom the Son's will should reveal him So what are we seeing here? Jesus is praying to the Father, right? He addresses him as Father. In fact, he calls us to address him as Father. Right? Um when they asked Jesus to you know teach us to pray, what did he say? Pray along these lines. Our Father, right, who art in heaven. Um and so we see something of the relationship within the Godhead. Um Uh but we also see um The fat you do do you see anything in that passage that indicates some special role of the father as distinct from the son? Okay. So the Father handed things over to Christ. What else? is discrediting God the Father with uh hiding things from wives revealing those ways. And Yeah, revealing them. So hiding from some and revealing to others is something that Jesus is saying the Father has done and he thanks them for that, right? Um He's uh you'd have to look at the context here a little bit more broadly. Uh he's not specific in here which things are revealed and which ones are not, but it's pretty clear that um uh special revelation is given to specific people. And uh it's often intended, in fact pretty much always intended, that it be passed on to others who didn't get the original message. Um but It's interesting that Jesus said that that was sort of the prerogative of the Father, to reveal things, certain things to some people and to hide them from others. Okay. Let's go to the next passage from John 5. Can someone read that? But he answered them and my father is working until now. And were for this cause therefore the Jews were seeking all more to kill him because he had He not only was breaking the Sabbath but also was calling God his own father, making himself equal with God. Jesus therefore answered and was saying to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, the Son can't do nothing of himself unless it is something he sees. the Father doing. For whatever the Father does, these things the Son also does in like manner. For the Father loves the Son and shows him all things that he himself is doing, and greater works than those will greater work than these will he Show him that you may make marvel for just as the Father raised the dead and give them life, even so the Father also give life to whom he wishes for not even the Father judge anyone, but he has given you know all judgment To the Son, in order that all may honor the Son, even as they honor the Father. He who does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent him John five seventeen twenty three. Thank you. So um A variety of things here in this uh passage. Um Do you see some evidence that there's uh the the relationship between God the Father and God the Son? What are some things that are true of the Father uniquely here Okay. Right. Also the son can't do anything without the father's permission. Yeah, isn't that amazing? It is Yeah. And you see a a bit of a hint here of the concept of of uh Of God that the Jews had, who Jesus was speaking to. And It says the Jews were seeking all the more to kill him because not only was he breaking the Sabbath, but he was also calling God his own father, making himself equal with God. They would have had that problem with me. I refer to him as my father, right? Jesus taught us to refer to him as our father in the sense that he's our creator. But also in the sense that he is Father God, right? Now It is true that um the Jews th this was um uh It was pretty clear that Jesus was making himself equal to God, and the Jews were picking up on that. But just the fact that he was using the word Father. shouldn't have been all that strange to them. Um but yeah, you see multiple cases where where um the Jews realized that what Jesus was saying was that he was equal with God, you know, before Abraham was I am, right? And they picked up stones to sound him. Um they understood very clearly. Uh and this is just another another example of that. Okay, let's look at the third one here. John 5. Someone read that. 526. Yes. For just as the Father has life in himself, even so he gave to the Son. also to have life in himself. That's also amazing, isn't it? Just as the Father has life in himself, what's it speaking of? His self existence, right? He didn't derive life from any other source or being or whatever. Uh the Father has life in himself. Even so he gave to the Son also to have life in himself. That's the head scratcher. If Jesus would have said, so also the Son has life in himself, okay, yeah, that's because he's God. But the fact that the Father gave to the Son also to have life in himself. He's self-existent because the Father got me. It's hard to yeah. Reading these couple of passages, just have just as there is like an order in that God is above us, right? We worship God, you know, God is above us. There almost seems to be an order in terms of persons too in that you know, the father dictates orders to some also. Yeah. But uh the order here, and I'm sure this is how you mean it, the order is not sequence. But rather hierarchy. Yeah, right. Yeah. So there's there's uh and and which is getting back to the first, second, and third, we're gonna get there in a minute. But um um Yeah, so that's a key thing here. This seems to be talking not about sequence, but rather authority and position within the Godhead. Which in and of itself is hard to understand. Right. Right. But um uh Jesus is is very explicit in all these these uh conversations about The Father and the Son being one, but also distinct. and having a hierarchical relationship. And uh for what it's worth You know, he created man and woman in his image. There's a very real sense in which God's design for marriage is patterned after his his um his being in the Godhead. So in the Godhead we have three in one Father, Son, Holy Spirit, all equally God, sharing in all the attributes of God the uh Everything that's true about God is true about Father, Son, Holy Spirit, right? They're one. There's unity. And yet there's Distinctness within that unity, and there's hierarchy within that unity And when you get to marriage, God created marriage for the two to become one, and yet there's hierarchy within that unit. Now personally I'm glad that the marriage is two and not three, but um you kind of get the sense that that it's patterned after God's own being Right? Um yeah. Yes, I just wanted to add I I excuse me for many things, but that third one really got me. But uh had to add it I I I think when you think on the Bible, which I call the book of life, God starts off in Genesis telling us The Father, the Son, the Holy Spirit, giving us somewhat insight as to where we're going to be at As we go through the Bible, we're gonna run into it again so we won't be ignorant of the part Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit So yes, the father is over the son But as you can go to Genesis, they were all here working together at the same time. So like I said, this this book is Self explain the story and But there's still a lot a lot of mystery that that that is not by God's By God's choice isn't spelled out for us because we probably wouldn't understand it anyway. Right? But he's given us a whole lot. And you can rest assured it's it's what we needed to know, even though we may have questions. Um you know you you you've probably thought and you've heard other people thought, you know, I'm gonna ask God that question when I get to heaven My guess is that's not where our mind's gonna be at when we get to heaven. It's not gonna matter. Or it's gonna be painfully obvious. Yeah. Anyway, um that does show also though the the role of um faith, but faith that's grounded in truth. God has revealed his truth. Um Uh but we have to approach it in faith. And it's not a blind faith because he look at all he's revealed to us, right? Um but the very nature of God Um is patterned in his design for marriage. So there are two who become one, and um There's uniquenesses there, but there's complete equality in terms of standing before God, being image-bearers of God. But by God's design, he created order. which includes hierarchy. And we'll probably get to this when we get next quarter when we talk about uh man, but um I'm not sure if I mentioned it earlier, but you know where where scripture uh teaches that the the wife is to submit to her husband is a really hard pill for a lot of people to swallow, a lot of women particularly these days. And I can understand that. But the reason they have it have it it's a hard thing for them to swallow is they presume that that hierarchy of of submission and headship means that the wife is inferior to the husband. But that can't be true because we know that Jesus is not inferior to the father. That's heresy. They have different roles. There is a hierarchy. There's order even within the Godhead. And as we're seeing here, there's some things that the Father has done. out of his prerogative that God the Son and we'll see later God the Spirit uh cooperate with and fall in with and and it's all coordinated They're completely equal, but there are different roles. And likewise in marriage, completely equal, but they have different roles by God's design. And the fact that that marriage relationship was intended by God to be something of a testimony of his very nature. is mind boggling. But rather cool. Okay. Let's go to The next one. John five, thirty-six and thirty-seven. Diane? But the witness which I have is greater than the Sent me. And the Father who sent me, he has borne witness of me. You have neither heard his voice at any time, nor seen his Okay, so again, what are we seeing about the relationship between God the Father and God the Son here? What are some things Jesus is Is um pointing out. The father sent the son. The father sent the son. You remember John 3. 16, for God so loved the world that he won. He gave his only begotten son, right? And Jesus builds on that here. So he sent the Son. What else? He's given him work. Given him works to accomplish, which he was doing faithfully, obediently, right? Um Uh born witness of him as well. So you begin to see here um The hierarchy being discussed, right? Where there's God the Father who is sending Jesus. Jesus is submitting to the Father here in being sent and accomplishing those works and that purpose. Let's go to the next one. John 5 is is uh uh big on this. John five forty three, can someone read that? I have come in my father's name and you do not Jesus came in his Father's name, which means what Repres representing the Father, okay. He's sent by the Father, he's representing him, sure. Um also like in obedience to the father too. And then in John seventeen, he's praying. Someone read that? Okay. No, go ahead. These things Jesus spoke, lifting up his eyes to heaven. He said, Father, the hour has come. Glorify thy Son, that the Son may glorify thee, even as thou gavest him authority over all men. Mankind, that is to all whom thou hast given, he may give eternal life. And this is the eternal light, so that they may now be the only true God. Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent. I glorify thee on the earth, having accomplished the work which thou hast given me to do. And now glorify thou me together with thyself, Father Father, with the glory which I had with thee before the world was. Yeah, there's actually a lot there, but in terms of our context, relationship between the Father and the Son, any other Insights here. All work that Jesus did was to glorify his father. of in obedience. Okay. Definitely. God give um to those authorities Get him authority? Yeah. We see that elsewhere, like in Matthew twenty eight, all authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth, right? The son was with the father and were with the four weekend was. So they were um pre-existent, self-existent before anything was created. Good. Together, in glory. So you see both the unity here and the hierarchy, don't you? Yeah. Okay. So let's go to number two. He is designated as Father to show both his relationship in the Holy Trinity. And his relationship to mankind. The relationship he has within the Trinity of God is not one of superiority in essence Rather, he is father according to his role and function within the Godhead. And we've already seen some of that in these passages, right? the relationship of God the Father and God the Son. Neither is superior or inferior in essence, in Godhood deity, but there's hierarchy, there's um authority, there's order and cooperation, and so on. So it's interesting that a lot of these passages are coming from John, but let's look at John 10, 29-30. Can someone read that? Diane? So when he says them, who is it referring to? Believers? Believers. Right. Father has given them to me. And he is greater than all. Greater in what sense? Is he more gods than the sun? No, they're equal in deity, in all the attributes of deity. But greater in the sense of role. He's the one sending Christ. He's the one who's giving the um People who will be believers to Christ. That's what he's saying here. My Father who has given them to me is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. Um actually if if you read the previous verse it says that uh he's talking about his sheep and and and so on and that um He's holding does anyone have that actually open in the Bible? I'm not sure I can quote it. John ten twenty-eight. John says 28, I give them eternal life and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them up. Right. So he's referring to those who come to believe in Christ. They're his sheep. He gives eternal life to them. How long does eternal last? It's never long. Forever a long time, right? Uh and no one will stats him out of my hand, he says. And the Father who is greater than I Who has um given them to me, and no one will snatch them out of the Father's hand. So what you've got is is if we're in Christ's hand and then the Father's hand is there, um People have referred to that as a double hand clasp. Right? That uh we're in Jesus' hand, uh we're in the Father's hand It's not a picture of us holding on for dear life, but rather what? Them holding us on for eternal life. Right? Holding on to us. And then he says, I and the Father are one. Very explicit. It's not just one purpose. Um it's not just one activity, salvation, but it's one in every sense. There's complete unity Between the father and the son, and yet different roles. Um Okay, so the next one we already read. Let's go to the bold one on page 94. 2 Corinthians 1. 3. Someone read that? Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and God of all comfort. The God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, Father of mercies, and God of all comfort. So um What does it mean that God is the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ? Does that mean that Christ had a father and a mother and He was um came into being that way? Absolutely not, right? We know that from the breadth of scripture. Um But his his role as father, uh who no one has seen The Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who we have seen, or at least not we, but people did. And Jesus even said, he who has seen the Father, or he who has seen me has seen the Father. Right? And Jesus came to reveal the Father. We're going to learn more next quarter about Jesus' role as the promised prophet. Where uh he came to reveal the father. And uh that he did So it was the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and God of all comfort. So in the first part there, it's referring to the relationship within the Godhead. But the second part, what's that referring to? Deity. Deity, but his relationship with us, right? Father of mercies, God of all comfort. We come to him as our Abba Father, right? That relationship that we have with him. Um Okay. And um let's read the next one, Ephesians one three. Someone take that? Okay. I hope. Well let's get every spiritual blessing in the heavenly system Yeah. So the same term. Uh blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. You might think the same human author wrote those two verses, right? Turns out he did. But he has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. God our Father. Uh Ephesians three, fourteen, for this reason I bow my knees before the Father. So it's um it's it's legitimate for us to refer to him as our Father. Jesus taught us to, and of course, to worship him. Uh Colossians one three. Someone read that we give thanks to God Father, about Lord Jesus Christ, praying only for you. Colossians one three Right, so we bow our knees in worship, we give thanks to him, praying for others. 1 John 1. 2. And the light was manifested And we have seen and bear witness and proclaimed to you the eternal life, which was with the Father and was manifested to us. Right. So eternal life which was with the Father And was manifested to us. So back in John 17 in the high priestly prayer, Jesus said, and this is life that they what? That they know you, the Father, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent. So eternal life is knowing God. In an intimate relationship with God. Not just knowing about Him. It's having relationship. Just as God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit had eternally had that relationship. That's eternal life. That's life. And that life was manifest, it was made evident to us how. By Jesus coming and living among us, teaching us, making it possible for us to have relationship. Uh to restore man's relationship back to God, right? Um Okay, and then before we kind of tidy up this question about the order within the the hierarchy within the Trinity, let's go ahead and do number three here. In the Holy Trinity, the Father is of none, neither begotten nor proceeding. So it says the father is of none. What's that mean? But that's true also of the Father, uh the Son and the Holy Spirit, already pre-existent. Nobody made Jesus. Nobody made the Holy Spirit. Charity means all in one. All in one. Yeah, three in one. Um So it is true that both God the Son and God the Holy Spirit are of none also, in the sense that they weren't created, the self-existent Right? That's true of the Father. However, in his case, he's neither begotten nor proceeding. So by the proceedings are maybe well let's take a look at some of these passages here. Uh Luke eleven thirteen If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more shall your heavenly father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him? So the Holy Spirit is given by the Father. Right? John 5:19. Jesus therefore answered and was saying to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, The Son can do nothing of himself unless it is something he sees the Father doing. For whatever the Father does, these things the Son also does in like manner. So there's a uh again this hierarchy between the father and the son. We read John 10. 29 earlier, but look at in the bold there, 1 Corinthians 8. 6. Yet for us there is but one God, the Father, from whom are all things, and we exist for Him. And one Lord, Jesus Christ, by whom are all things, and we exist through Him. There's a lot that they share, the father and the son, but there's a nuance to their different roles. And particularly in their relationship to us and even with each other. Um I don't have a note here about the actual verse that Jesus I think it was Jesus who specifically said um Maybe it was Paul. That the Holy Spirit proceeds from the Father. What we do see, and we're going to get that when we study the Holy Spirit and and actually the Son next quarter Is that, as we've already touched on today, the Son was sent by the Father. Right? As we look at what Jesus said multiple places, particularly in the Gospel of John. The Holy Spirit would be, and he was speaking of the near future, Jesus was, the Holy Spirit will be sent. By the Father, but also Jesus at whom um forget how he how he actually worded it. But it's clear that he is sent also by the Son. Proceeds, Holy Spirit proceeds from, in other words, just sent from, both the Father and the Son. Uh there's no reference to Jesus being sent by the Father and the Holy Spirit. It's always from the Father. And so you begin to see in terms of the sending and the roles that um The Father who is always doing the sending, but in the case of the Holy Spirit, it's both the Father and the Son who were sending the Holy Spirit. And the Holy Spirit proceeding from them to do his role even amongst us and in us and so on. And so that Sending and going and proceeding, and those verses about who's doing the sending give us some insight as to the hierarchy It's not just God the Father and God the Son, God the Holy Spirit are sort of um of equal rank if if that's the right word to use, it's probably not. Um They're not certainly not interchangeable in respect to role. In fact Jesus said it's far better for you that I go that the Holy Spirit would come, right? Um For a number of reasons. But that's how we get this first person in the Trinity, he's the one who sends. And they s um submit uh to him. God the Son is sent by the Father. He submits to the Father God the Holy Spirit is sent by God the Father, God the Son. God the Holy Spirit, one of his roles here is to glorify the Son. Right. Uh so different roles but also in a hierarchy there they're um uh um they have just unique relationship and and um it doesn't mean that any is inferior or superior to the others in an uh in in uh in terms of their essence, their divinity, but just different roles. So that uh Let's see if I have the note here. Because on page 95, in our homework, the very first question is, what unique roles belong to God the Father as opposed to the Son and the Holy Spirit? Um and that's what we've been talking about. But there's some others as well. Did anybody have a chance to identify any of those unique roles? the scripture teaches belong to the Father? And bringing to their remembrance things that Christ had taught them and and so on, revealing right. Okay. It it's just a i it's I don't know, it's just amazing how he said no one would enter into the kingdom and let them come through him. So the Father gave him through him a lot of power too um to be able to enter uh to be able to say what he said. And um I understand the part that the son could do nothing without the poverty can't like be together in everything. But um I don't think I'm Yeah. And that brings to mind also what Jesus prayed in the Garden of Gethsemane before you know he went to his trial and death. Not my will, but thine be done. Which is a good example for us to follow, right? So are this um roles that belong to the Father according to scripture that we haven't touched on? Yeah. This is a bold but the knowledge of judgment day and judgment day. Do you remember a passage on that? Um revelation Yeah, I think Matthew 24, 36 is a good one there. And the parallel passage in Mark 13, 32. But not even Christ knows the time of his return. And um Uh the disciples in in Acts 1. 7 were asking them, you know, so is this the time? And Jesus corrects them and says, Well no, it's not for you to know the the the times. Um but in these other passages he says only the father knows. Anything else that uh is true only of the father? Yeah, you know, I think there are also passages that speak of it being um a work of the Holy Spirit. I think they were all it's kinda like creation, they were all in involved. But um I thought that was kind of what I was thinking after. Yeah, I'd have to look to find the actual verses, but um speaks r uh particularly of the the the power Um it's not that the Father doesn't uh that the Holy Spirit doesn't have power that the Father doesn't have, but the the the role of the Holy Spirit there is is um is evidence of God's power. Any other thoughts um that we haven't covered yet? He sets all the the ground rules of what we are to do or not. You know he established it and when the in in the Old Testament with the um the tablets of Moses. So um Yahweh Um that's included. I'm just trying to think of distinctions there that are that are um exactly. Yeah I know Jesus in in the Sermon on the Mount said you have heard it said, and sometimes he's quoting scripture, sometimes he's just quoting uh comment. Um teachings. But then he says, but I say to you, and it was clear to his hearers at the end of Matthew seven that he they marveled because he spoke as not like their scribes, but as one having authority in and of himself. Which of course he did. But didn't he also speak like that because his father gave him authority. Yeah, because elsewhere we're seeing that uh he doesn't say anything unless the father um or doesn't do anything either. Right. So um Yeah. It's all I I mean questions. It's all it's all together, right? Exactly. No, we got time. Go ahead, Melissa. I wanted to ask. When Moses went up there, I'm still trying to figure out why Moses told God he doesn't speak well When he told us what he did, but that's a whole another thing. But um he went up there of Moses, God summoned The problem is summoning Moses up there on that mountain when he wrote those ten commandments in stone with fire. So when Moses came down and broke it on the mountain, he had to Did he make Moses write the same command at this time? I didn't think so. Someone said that, but you know, I'm not a person that will offer God word. I say one thing then I believe it. But the thing is that God wrote that Ten Commandments all over again because he said down below with this many people. And I I just Are we I I feel sometimes we are like that because we're like that, including myself. I'm in the front of the line God do for us every day our heartbeat only because he allowed it. But but We we scat so much in the brain that don't connect sometimes and we think we doing everything ourselves and we not Um while we wait, he is the lifter of our head. And Psalm three says it. But the thing is that, um, you know, we see things happening in the world today That saddened us as as as walking with Christ Christians. But we got we we fail to understand that Jesus Christ, our Lord and Savior It's still, you know, the Father is still doing everything. It's still working in Invisible where we don't see what he's doing, but he's working it all out for his glory And um sometimes I wanna kick myself because even though I know these things, I have this downfall. I mean tears come to my eyes because I see But he bring me back knowing that I'm walk walking in faith and not by sight. It took me when I was very young a long time ago understand what he said we ought to walk by faith and not by sight because what we see would drive us up a wall. Crazy. It's it's amazing. We have amazing grace. And I see it every day. And that's why I say God been better to me than I've been to myself. Amen to that. All of us I didn't mean to take a student. No, no, you're you're you're right on, Diane. So this is loosely connected to what we've been talking about, but when people started bringing up the Ten Commandments It made me think of the third one, how we're not supposed to take the Lord's name in vain. And one of the things that people most often think about is like cursing or just you using the Lord's name pleasantly. But going back to John 5 3, I have come in my Father's name, meaning Jesus is representing the Father We as Christians are supposed to represent him as well. So when we are doing things that are contrary to his nature, when we are doing things that bring reproach on to Christians, We are in fact breaking that commandment because we're taking the thing in vain. We're not representing him because we should. And it's it's so easy to um Do what comes natural and then later realize that wasn't very God honoring, right? Um and that's an offense to God. Um it doesn't represent him. Correct me. Yeah. I was thinking of another distinct role. I I think often when we hear words like he chose as a predestination Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in our heavenly places, even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be wholly and blameless before him. In love he predestined us for adoption to himself as sons through Jesus Christ. So there seems to be a very distinct focus on the Father in that case Yeah, and that's consistent with John 10, where uh 29 and 30, where Jesus says, I think we looked at this, um No one can come to me unless the father draws him. Right. But then there's also in John five seventeen twenty-three, uh the son gives life to the thing he wishes. So there does seem to be some Yep. It's hard to to to um distinguish. Uh we think very sort of natural to us, I think, to think in categories. But complete equality and yet difference in roles Starts to challenge our ability to categorize. Yeah. Um It's pretty clear that the great white throne judgment in Revelation 20, that's the Father on his throne, judging the unsaved. Um last couple of weeks we've been talking about Providence and That's largely a role of God the Father, His providence, His His choices that accomplish His sovereign will. And his goodness toward us. All right, well, let's go to the application questions here on page 95. What is the significance in your life? of the truth that God is our Father. Not just the Father of Christ in the in the Godhead sense, but that we're able to call him Father. What's what's the significance of that in terms of a practical, everyday what's it mean to my life I can have a relationship with him and love him and trust him and then also obey him and um believe that he's ever happy. Yeah, there's a lot in that, right? I mean um What what is the mental image we have of God being our Father? Our our human father. We have something of a picture. So we derive our existence from our father. Uh that's something that's true of us, that's not true of Jesus. Um but he as a father, he you know, we can address him Abba, Daddy, father And he uh leads us, he comforts us, he chastises us when we need it. One of the passages I I really like is Hebrews twelve, four through eleven, where um The writer there says, y you're all familiar with how your own human father corrected you. Why? Because he loved you. Right? He wants the best for you. And how much more then ought we to see that that's what God does for us? um more generally, spiritually and and so on. And it's because he loves us. Yeah. I just kind of add to that point is that That not only do we have an ultimate purpose in life, to glorify God, right? I think when we say that you know our purpose is to glorify and to worship Him And to worship God. That can sometimes feel almost a little cold and far out because God is so far above us, you know. We just have to make sure we worship Him. But the fact that you add the fatherly aspect to it, it brings it a little closer to home in that that purpose is very close to us, not just some far-off being that we you know bow down to but use your father. Or even if it's not far off, you know you can picture like uh um an earthly king or someone Someone might bow down to them in in respect and maybe even fear, but there's no relationship there, right? But with God, yes, we have respect, we have uh awe, fear, but relationship. Love. That holy dimension. And he knows us, right? Like a father would know us even better. And he's inviting us to know him and and its relationship. So that's um That's huge. Now, a lot of people unfortunately don't have that kind of mental image of their own human father. Maybe he wasn't even there. Or maybe, you know, uh he died while they were young, or could be whatever. But on the one hand, coming to a relationship with God and having that relationship with the Heavenly Father. uh is is so much better. And it's kind of healing the fact that they didn't have a human father uh of that sort. Um those of us who have had human fathers throughout as we're growing up, um can see some parallels here and we can we can sort of relate to what Corinne was saying in terms of the relationship with the Father and his care for us Um but it also drives us it it's very clear to us that our heav our earthly father, our relationship with him kind of pales by comparison, right, with the relationship we have with our Heavenly Father. Um so both are true. Okay. How should we apply Romans 8. 15, where it says, you have not received the spirit of slavery slavery leading to fear again, but you have received a spirit of adoption as sons By which we cry out, Abba, Father. What's a good application of that? What Johnny was saying. He's not a god who's far off, he's a god who's near, so we can bring him every concern. We can tackle all our anxieties on him because it's So we can um every he cares about every detail, every hair in our head. When the sparrow falls, he knows about it. We can trust him So we can become extremely vulnerable to the smallest degree and know that he tenderly very Amen. It's not a relationship of Uh a slave the way we normally think of slavery Even though Scripture is very clear that we are owned by God, He's purchased us. We're His servants, His slaves. But not in the human sense. And primarily because in a human sense, what can be said of a human master? Well um it most of them who own slaves probably would be cruel. Probably not universally so, but most of them. Um and even if they're not outright cruel, they're also but they're self-interested. You know, you're here I've got you to do what I want you to do, kind of a thing. Property and all that And because they're human, because they're um not God They they're sinners like the rest of us, right? But with God, everything he does is good. Everything he does is right. Who wouldn't want to serve someone like that? Right? Um but it's it's not just as it's we're both slaves and sons. According to Scripture, sons and daughters, right? We're children of God. We have that relationship with Him. That's not a relationship of equals Right? He's our master. He's our God, our creator. We love him. We go to him with our cares and concerns. We serve him. We need to obey him. But fortunately everything he commands us is good and right. And um it's E not only for his glory, but even for our benefit. Even if we don't completely understand it while it's happening. Um yeah, no good. And it's so clear that he knows our up, our going, everything about us inside and outside. Right. From head to toe. And if anyone ever gets discaraged, go to that verse. Yep. So God can tell him what he knows. Yep. And that that if we didn't know God was good, that could be scary. Yeah. But since we know He is good, it's comforting. Very good. That's that's mine going right there. Who can we go to be sure that they only want what's best for us It might not be what we think we want and need, but it's what he knows we need. Well let's uh wrap up. Um let's uh close in prayer