So for lesson five, page thirty-nine, in the uh section on interpretation of scripture. So that first uh point there, the scriptures are to be interpreted By the diligent application of the literal, grammatical, historical method of interpretation. As the believer is enlightened by the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit does not give a hidden meaning to the scriptures, but rather helps the believer to apprehend the meaning of the scripture already in the inspired words. So there's several key things there. One is the literal grammatical historical method of interpretation What is that? Well, it's interpreting Scripture pretty much the same way you would interpret anything you read. You start from the the the perspective that um it means what it says. That's literal. Right Now does that mean that everything it says is what's the best way to describe this without giving an example Uh does it mean that everything is to be taken um uh strictly literal No, because even in daily speech we use um terms and expressions and things that indicate that we don't mean something literally. We're using it as a figure of speech, is what we call it, right? So when Jesus said, I am the door, does that mean he swings on hinges? You you know immediately what he means by that, right? That he's the passageway, the the the the um the avenue, the the the way of access, like a door would be from one room to another. There were some times when he used figures of speech and it really caused people to scratch their heads. Like he says, I am the bread of life come down from heaven. Uh a little bit easier when he says, I am the light of the world. You know he's not talking about the literal light, he's talking about a figure of speech which compares him with light to expose uh things and to sh um bring understanding and uh uh ability for people to see things. But if you understand figures of speech like that, which i in our context, when someone says something that's a figure of speech you understand immediately that it is a figure of speech, and then with that understanding, you take it literally. You take the meaning or the parallel literally, not the actual words of the figure of speech. And but we do that all the time. When we read something, when we hear someone say something. So that's that's still within the bounds of what it means to be literal and to interpret scripture literally. It means what it is intended to say and how how the the original hearers, particularly readers, uh would have understood it. They would have taken that any of these figures of speech literally in the sense that they um uh understand the meaning behind the figure of speech and that that meaning is to be taken literally. So that's literal. Oh good question. Yes. So um so when it comes under literal, um does it also hold that when we look at the book of Proverbs in comparison to let's say the book of John, for example. Proverbs is a book of wisdom, whereas John is more of a historical account. So when we read Proverbs, rather we're reading it in its literal, its literature content or I don't have to say this, but reading as a book of wisdom, not like oh this is a historical account versus John reread it as a historical account. Yes. So according to its literature context. And the literary form. Literary form, yeah. Yeah. Good point. Yeah. Of course the Bible has multiple literal forms. Uh including historical accounts, as you say, but also um um Uh like the epistles are not necessarily intended to be historical, although they're in a historical context. Um they're more what Um expositional, instructive, you know, that kind of thing. Um The psalms, for example, what kind of literary form are they? Poetry. Um Not poetry that you know when I think of poetry I think of you know the last words rhyme and uh you keep the kind of same kind of cadence and this sort of sort of thing. Uh poetry, the way we might think of poetry uh is probably a lot different from the way the Hebrews approached poetry. And in fact it is. But it's poetic nonetheless and has um certain elements of of um uh structure, but more so uh um just a a variety of of um topics including praise uh um uh various kinds of prayer, both Thanksgiving and and intercession and uh Just a a variety of themes that come across in the Psalms. The Proverbs What w what is a proverb? Similar to a parable, wisdom, a proverb, you can think of a proverb as a general truism. And so, for example, when Proverbs says train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old, he will not depart from it. Is that a formula? Uh is it a guarantee? Yeah. Yeah. It's a truism, it generally speaking, that when we invest in our children with godly values and um they they understand those things and uh live according to them. That's going to bear very good fruit. That's the general truism. Does is it a guarantee that the the parents can guarantee that their method of parenting is going to result in a godly child? No, there's no guarantee, but it's a general truism. It's it's something the parents should be guided by, but um it's a proverb, it's not a Promise. Wisdom. Exactly. So there's a lot of wisdom there. Um but even wisdom has exceptions. So God can sovereignly just choose to go some other route. And we can't control the behavior of other people. But We can abide by the wisdom God has given us, and that's why Proverbs was written, to give us the guidance, that uh those general truisms that are a Wise foundation for living. Song of Solomon? I want to get there in a minute. Yeah, let's let's talk about because that's a kind of a little bit different um style or form of of writing. Let's let's I want to get there in a minute. But so we that's so literal means you you you understand what was intended by the author pretty clearly and you take it literally. You don't say, well Scripture says love your neighbor as yourself and then you twist that to mean love them if they love you. Well that's actually violates other principles in scripture, right? We should love them um unconditionally. Um And so we take things literally and we don't kind of try to twist them to fit our own agenda is basically the approach. And that ought to be the approach we have when we read or listen to uh anything. You know, you read the newspaper. And you may grumble that maybe they get the facts wrong or something like that, or maybe they have an agenda. But you understand what they're trying to say and you take it literally, that's what they mean to say Um grammatical. You you all of course grammar is everybody's favorite subject, right, in in language. Um All those rules and this kind of thing. But they're they're there for a reason to help us understand the meaning, right? So examples of grammar would be, is it um Singular or plural. That has some some um connotations and implications. Um the English language is not very helpful to us there. You know, like the word you, is that singular or plural? Yes. Right? Um other languages are not that What? Uh limited. And they're very structured on singular versus plural or male versus female or um You know, prepositions matter in terms of the interpretation, right? All these components of the structure of a sentence, let alone a paragraph You you change one of them and you're likely to be changing the meaning. Now not always, but but you need to be alert to that, right? And so when we seek to interpret scripture, we need to pay attention to the grammar. And particularly the grammar in the original languages, For the most part, those are reflected in the good, better English translations. So it's not too hard, as long as we're paying attention. So grammar is important. And then historical, literal, grammatical, historical. What's meant there is there's there's a historical context in which what we're reading was written. And the the the participants, the uh readers of whatever it is we're reading, uh or what was written The original hearers, the original recipients of it. They were in a context so that the better we understand their context, the better we're going to understand the words that were written directly to them If we try to interpret it without that in mind and think of it in our context, a lot of times we'll get it right because it doesn't matter about the context. But we're probably going to miss some things if we don't understand the context uh in which it was originally written. So the historical context. And then of course with the literal and grammatical pieces of it, there is the the biblical context. And so you don't read a sentence or a verse in Scripture and take it out of context to mean something that You could argue it means, but if you read it in its own context, both the immediate context, the paragraph or the chapter or even the whole book it's written in, if you take it out of that context Th there's pretty good chance you're gonna miss maybe something or maybe everything about the meaning of that passage. But more than that, the context of all of Scripture, why is that important? All of Scripture is what? Inspired. Inspired. God's word. And so if if my interpretation of this verse seems to be consistent internally and even within the immediate context But my interpretation of it conflicts with very clear verses elsewhere in Scripture, than what? Your interpretation is messed up. Yeah. So we need to take the immediate context and the entire context of scripture into account. Scripture is the best interpreter of scripture The best commentary on scripture is other passages in Scripture. And that's the entire context that we need to take into account. Which suggests what what's an application of that for us? Be in the word. Be in the word. How do you know something is going to be consistent with the rest of scripture if we're not familiar with the rest of scripture? Right? So The literal grammatical historical approach to interpreting scripture, which is also the way you ought to interpret anything you read. Doesn't approach whatever you're reading with an agenda and Even if you don't approach it with an agenda trying to prove something from what was written there, you may jump to conclusions about what it says. If you don't test your interpretation against the immediate context and the broader context of all of Scripture, right? That's the point. Does it make sense? Okay. So the diligent application of the literal grammatical historical method uh Diligent. Sometimes it takes work to make sure that you're not missing something and observing what's there in the written word. and diligence in checking context in the broader context of scripture, right? Um What what are we uh prone to do? I mean, all of us basically are lazy. So what are we prone to do? Jump to conclusions, uh short circuit the diligence, the due diligence needed to interpret a particular passage, particularly if it's a tough passage and it's not uh could mean this, could mean that, whatever. Um The lazy thing to do is to just jump to conclusions, assume we're right and plow ahead. And all of us could be very guilty of that from time to time, and we need to be careful. So the due diligence is actually doing some work and study, not just read the passage, read your favorite commentary, and then move on. But do the study ourselves to understand what's being said, what God is trying to communicate to us, um and handle the word uh well. Left our own devices, we're probably more comfortable with the approach. Tell me what to believe. And rely on X, Y, or Z source rather than being diligent ourselves to handle the word well and to Take advantage of the insights of others, but I hope it doesn't surprise you to realize those insights are not inspired by God. God's Word is inspired. And even if we were to wrestle with it in Scripture and to do this the the study that's required to really fully understand And we come up with the same conclus. And then we read some of these commentaries and we realize, oh, they're smart people. They came up with the same conclusion I did. Well, that's not a waste of time. That builds in us the disciplines and the character to to to get it right, rather than to be swayed by anybody before we've actually done our homework Right? Okay. Diligent application of the literal, grammatical, historical method of interpretation as the believer is enlightened by the Holy Spirit. We've spoken briefly, maybe in our first or second lesson, about illumination that the Holy Spirit provides, one of the chains in that link. that one of the links in that chain is illumination. So the Holy Spirit just from time to time, you've probably experienced this, you're reading scripture and you've read it a thousand times, but now you're reading it and The light bulb goes off. And you see something you've never seen before there. Well, the Holy Spirit does that. He's not speaking to us in words, well, he's speaking to us in the words of Scripture. But the illumination of the Holy Spirit, um, since he indwells every believer, he um uh in his own sovereign way as we submit to him and as we're in his word, um he brings to light the the meaning that's actually there rather than us just guessing or m being very superficial. Um Our job there is just to be submissive as we study the scriptures. Um It's a good practice to begin with prayer, right? Lord, uh open my eyes to understand and and my heart to apply. I think God enjoys answering those kind of prayers. Right. Okay. So the Holy Spirit does not give a hidden meaning to the scriptures. But rather helps the believer to apprehend the meaning of the scripture already in the inspired words Okay, so let's look at the second passage there, John sixteen. Here's an example. Jesus said, I have many more things to say to you, but you cannot bear them now. But when He, the Spirit of Truth, comes, He will guide you into all the truth. For he will not speak on his own initiative, but whatever he hears, he will speak, and he will disclose to you what is to come He shall glorify me, for he shall take of mine, and shall disclose it to you. All things that the Father has are mine, therefore I said that he takes of mine and will disclose it to you. So Jesus was speaking there in the what's called the upper room discourse, right after the Last Supper. Who is he speaking to? The disciples. Yeah, it was a small small group there. He's speaking to them. Um So, in the most literal sense, he was speaking to them about what the Holy Spirit was going to do for them once he left. Right? Uh the Holy Spirit the Spirit of Truth comes, he will guide you into all the truth. Uh as they were the ones who were going to uh Many of them be the authors of the human authors of the New Testament The Holy Spirit would give them recollection of some of the things that Jesus had said, kind of putting all the pieces together. But just generally He will guide you. into all the truth. And Jesus didn't have to be there with them, but the Holy Spirit would make that possible. Now, is there some application of that to us today? It's not really speaking directly to our situation, but there may be some principles here, right? That in the same way the those who were were Jesus' disciples needed to rely on the Holy Spirit both to understand and to uh many of them be the human participants of writing down the scripture, in the same way we should be dependent. on the Holy Spirit. He's not speaking to us directly here, but indirectly, by principle, uh it's it's a good thing for for any believer to be reliant on the Holy Spirit to understand. Now the the advantage that we have is that God's word is there. It's written. We have it. And so the remaining piece is for us to understand it. Not to seek to add to it or to uh interpret it improperly, but rather properly. Yeah. Yes, it's it's um it's an indication that Jesus knew that that would be happening and that the Holy Spirit would be guiding um not all of them, but some of them, uh to be uh writing down the scriptures, the the the New Testament and so on But the the tricky thing is that not everything that even Peter or Paul or John or or whatever wrote was necessarily scripture, and so there still needed to be some understanding of what's in the can and what's not. But the fact that there would be writing that would be coming, and that the Holy Spirit would superintend that, is definitely what this is talking about. Yeah Okay, let's go down to the memory verse, Second Tim Timothy two fifteen. Be diligent to present yourself approved to God as a workman who does not need to be ashamed, handling accurately the word of truth. So when he says the word of truth, what's he referring to? Scripture. Handling it accurately as opposed to what? Sloppily. Sloppily, okay. That is a word, I guess. Um so the point is about accuracy, right? So the there there is an interpretation that God intends us to come to And if we're not careful, we may come to the wrong conclusion, the wrong interpretation. And so uh handling it accurately As a workman who does not need to be ashamed. So it it does take work and has a responsibility associated with it Now, who was Paul writing that to? Who was he giving that direction to? Timothy. Why Timothy? He was a pastor, one of the pastors that that Paul trained and appointed, in this case, to the church in Ephesus. Does that mean this doesn't apply to us? No. It has again a principle by way of principle it applies Really, to anyone who tries to handle the word of truth, that we should do so responsibly, that there is an accurate use of it as opposed to an inaccurate use of it, so we need to be careful It's generally applicable. Okay, so you see the point. Uh let's go to number two. There's only one true interpretation of any passage, but there may be several applications. And we've already talked given in the the two that we've looked at, the specific application was to the original hearers But there's, by way of principle, a very similar application for us as well, right? Um and so Sometimes direct commands are so narrowly spoken that there's really only one way to To apply that. Maybe one or two. Things that are principles, though, that are very clear teachings and wisdom and principles in Scripture may have thousands of applications. And that's all good, right? Um there is a nuance here And that is, I don't know if you've noticed a number of prophecies particularly in the Old Testament. Sometimes they have a two part um fulfillment. Which is not exactly an application, but sometimes the prophecies, particularly the long-term messianic prophecies in in the Old Testament, uh have an intermediate fulfillment, but the ultimate fulfillment may actually be in Christ. Sometimes they're they're um uh about the millennium period. And there may be some uh uh preliminary or or partial fulfillments um earlier, but then have an ultimate fulfillment later on. And Maybe a good example of that is the Jews in Jesus' time understood that the Messiah was coming. What was their conception of the Messiah's role? Well that the um the military uh yeah But but he was he would be coming as king, right. Essentially. And their their interpretation or their contextualization of that is well if he comes as king He's gonna overthrow Rome, we're gonna be golden, this is gonna be good, right? So thinking of him as king, and is do we see that picture in the Old Testament? We do, right? But what is that referring to? We see in hindsight it's referring to the millennial reign of Christ. But the the Old Testament has a another description of the role of the Messiah, like in Isaiah 53, it characterizes him as what? The suffering servant is going to be crucified. Um That wasn't on their radar all that much. And so, you know, taken in its in its entirety, the Old Testament painted two pictures of the Messiah and Given only the Old Testament, I can imagine it was very hard for people to put all the pieces of the puzzle together. We have the advantage of being able to look back and see how he fulfilled the first part of that as the suffering servant And interpret the rest of those promises as now being future and how it all fits together, we have a lot more information to go on than the Jews did, even by Jesus' time. And so those prophecies sometimes can be confusing as to how and when they're fulfilled. But that's one Uh still only one interpretation, possibly multiple fulfillments Uh but when there are commands and principles for us in Scripture, they could well have multiple applications. Okay. Yeah. Uh people have likened it to um the short term fulfillments are the the the little hills that we see near us. But the ultimate fulfillment may be a mountain far in the distance that isn't really our focus. Um and that's just kind of natural. But it also emphasizes that God's revelation, he didn't reveal all of Scripture to Adam. Right? He didn't reveal all of Scripture even to Noah or even to Abraham. Right? It was progressive, a little bit more. a little bit more and um uh the old testament was over um I don't know, what was it, a thousand, fifteen hundred years, something, maybe more than that, um just gradually revealed and recorded. And then there's a um hundreds of years between the Old Testament and even the time of Christ and the New Testament. And so that revelation is progressive. Well, it was progressive and now it's complete. We've we've got all of God's revelation. Okay. That's that's an obvious point, right? I mean if you come to an interpretation that's a bit wrong, what's what kind of quality of application are you likely to have? Probably a misapplication. Big ripples. Yeah. uh the same scripture was leading him to persecute the church and kill them and all that. After he was converted, the same word was leading him to um evangelize and and and bring preach and bring people. Exactly. Okay. Let's go to number three on page 40. It is the responsibility of believers to ascertain carefully the true intent and meaning of Scripture. Recognizing that proper application is binding on all generations. So, for example, look at Joshua 1. 8, the first passage there. This book of the law shall not depart from your mouth, but you shall meditate on it day and night, so that you may careful to do You may be careful to do according to all that is written in it, for then you will make your way prosperous, then you will have success. So This is the Lord's direct command to who Joshua as he was taking over the leadership that following in Moses' um footsteps. And so the command to him is to not allow yourself to depart from everything that God had revealed. So what had God revealed up to that point? Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy. The law. And so he's saying, keep the law, abide by it, follow it. How are we going to do that? You shall meditate on it day and night, so that you may be careful to do according to all that's written in it. What does it mean to meditate? Think about? Think deeply about. Dwell on. Dwell on, okay. Yeah. Implications. Yeah. Excellent. One way to do that is let's say you've got just a sentence. And I'm just even looking at this verse, Joshua 1. 8. It's probably longer than I need here, but Um this book of the law. So when you're meditating, you can say Why did he use that word rather than something else? Uh and what's the significance of him saying this book of the law? And then shall not depart from your mouth. What does he mean, depart from your mouth? And uh he's chosen this word rather than another word. There's probably a reason for that, right? Uh you can r think that through and contemplate it the implications. Someone used the word implications. Um I'm told that the word I think in in the Hebrew the word for meditate Is either very similar to or um um has as a good example the word rumination. You know what rumination is? Often we would say chewing the cud. Right? So uh animals like cows and Sheep also, other animals. Uh it it's kind of graphic, right? I mean they they they feed on whatever they're feeding, they chew on it. They swallow it, and for us, that's the end of the st well, not the end of the story, but that's that's a one uh a one way street, right? For them, they chew on it, they swallow it, and it comes back up and they chew on it some more. And swallow it. And some of them, you know, it comes up again, intentionally, by God's design, they chew on it some more. You see the picture? When we're meditating, we're chewing on it, ruminating on it, we swallow it. No, we continue thinking about it though. Yeah. So We're we're kind of wrestling with it, you know, so uh there are various figures of speech here, but um the point is that we don't just Read it, come to a quick conclusion, move on, and don't interact with the text at all. Right? So this meditating is interacting with the text. And we're more likely to be um coming to the right kind of conclusions and interpretations. the more we wrestle with it, the more we interact with the text. And question, okay, so why did he use this word or versus this word? Um what's the significance of the fact that it's plural instead of singular? Right? And just wrestling with it and thinking it through and um That's not a casual read. Now there's a value in just reading through to get the entire context and whatever. But interpreting a particular verse, uh, eventually you want to get to the point where you're you're um ruminating, chewing the cud. swallowing it, bringing it back up, chewing out of it again. And God uses that too. It it's it's good to to in our interpretation to observe everything we can. And then to come to, let's call it a tentative conclusion. I think it means this. Okay, then what should we do? Double check against the context The context of the rest of Scripture. And if our tentative conclusion or tentative interpretation is consistent with the rest of Scripture, then that's encouraging, right? Uh it may be that the more we dig into the passage we'll get some more nuances that didn't immediately come to us. But we may well be on the right track if the rest of scripture supports our interpretation. Okay. There's some other examples here on page 40 up to the top of page 41. For example, down at the bottom of page 40. Jesus said to them, These are my words which I spoke to you while I was still with you, that all the things which are written about me in the law of Moses and the prophets and Psalms must be fulfilled Then he opened their minds to understand the scriptures. So that's speaking of Jesus' resurrection appearances to his disciples. And he showed them how the scriptures were anticipating what he had just done. His uh crucifixion, his death on our behalf, his resurrection. Um man, that would have been a great conversation to be a part of, to hear him use the scriptures that way. And that trained them to be able to use the scriptures the same way with those they would be teaching. Okay, let's go to number four. There is a progression of revelation within Holy Scripture. We mentioned this. The New Testament completes the Old Testament. And anticipates no other revelation until the second coming of Christ. And you see various examples of this. In Romans 16, that first passage there. Now to him who is able to establish you according to my gospel and the preaching of Jesus Christ. according to the revelation of the mystery, which has been kept secret for long ages past, but now is manifested And by the scriptures of the prophets, according to the commandment of the eternal God, has been made known to all the nations leading to obedience of faith. So Paul's using the word here, mystery, which has long been kept secret for long ages past, but is now manifested. What was he referring to? Um yeah, past prophecies that were needed to be fulfilled, but um Uh that's that's a um an outcome of it, for sure. But what was what was mysterious up until the time of Christ? So, you know, those two roles of the Messiah, and kind of keeping them straight, right? The incarnation and the church. You know, what are you going to learn about the church in the Old Testament? Not a whole lot. Right? It was a bit of a mystery. And um when it became clear to the disciples by Jesus, I mean he just said, you know, this is how the scriptures were referring to me and what I um have done. Um it became clear that this is now a new uh a new age, uh a a new aspect of God's plan for the salvation of all. uh nations. And she body of Christ. So up until that time what was the focus? The nation of Israel. Right? The um the church as something distinct from the nation of Israel was a mystery Um they didn't understand that. And they didn't need to understand it because God's focus during that period of time was in and through the nation of Israel. The next passage, for example, Ephesians 3. 5. In other generations, was not made known to the sons of men, as it has now been revealed to his holy apostles and prophets in the Spirit, again referring to The specifics of the church of the salvation that's in Christ, it's not salvation is not through uh the sacrifice of animals and and this kind of thing, right? It's it's the perfect fulfillment of that in the Messiah and their f and their the establishing of the church and and so on. So that was all made clear, even though it was a bit of a mystery uh prior to that time. So anyway, there's there's um one of the benefits that we have is that we have a lot more uh history, a lot more revelation, in fact, all of God's revelation, so that for us it seems a lot clearer. than it would have ever been to even say David or Isaiah or the disciples in Jesus' time. You know, we've got a much fuller picture. We've seen the history, we see the scriptures, and um we have no excuse for The kind of confusion we can kind of understand that many of them had. Yeah. So it's progressive revelation. But it's completed revelation. He's not continuing to progress in that revelation. It's completed. Okay, so let's go to use on the bottom of page forty-one. It is the duty of every believer to be learning the Bible and meditating on its teachings daily. The scripture should be read, preached, studied, and carefully applied in every congregation. So that's why he gave us the scripture, right? You remember the those uh links in that chain? It goes uh let's see if I can get the page here. Page 18. Starts with the mind and will of God. And through revelation and inspiration and then the discovery uh of the canon the transmission of the scriptures over many years, even translation from one language to another And then as people read it and the Holy Spirit illumines their understanding to the meaning that's there in the scriptures, helping them then to interpret it. And what is the final link in the chain application. That application is why God revealed it to begin with. Right? And so if we have the Bible and it sits on our shelf And we're not understanding it and we're not applying it, then we're short circuiting what God actually intended. Right? It's meant to be understood but also applied. So it's not just our getting our heads aligned with Scripture, but our will and our obedience. Okay. Flip the page in the very top is that other memory passage from Psalm 1. How blessed is the man who does not walk in the counsel of the wicked, nor stand in the path of sinners, nor sit in the seat of scoffers, but his delight is in the law of the Lord. And in his law he meditates day and night. And he will be like a tree firmly planted by streams of water, which yields its fruit in season, and its leaf does not wither. And whatever he does, he prospers. The wicked are not so, but they are like the chaff which the wind drives away. You know, there are three Psalms that focus on the Word of God, the nature of the Word of God. This is one of them, Psalm 1. Uh meditating on the word. You know what the other two Psalms are? Nineteen? Very simple. 119. It's all about the word of God, right? So Psalm 1, Psalm 19, and Psalm 119 makes it easier to remember. Right? Psalm 1 just drives home the point. You're meditating on it, you're understanding it, you're interpreting it correctly. Why? Just so that you fill your head with factoids and knowledge? No. Why? So it influences your life, right? You apply it. And if you apply it, then you're going to be strong, like trees planted firmly by the water, always getting that nourishment and so on. Several verses down, the fourth one here from Acts 2, speaking of the disciples right after Pentecost They were continually devoting themselves to the apostles' teaching and to fellowship, to the breaking of bread and to prayer. So uh where is the scripture there? The apostles' teaching, right? God was right from the beginning having them teach others what Christ had taught them. And some of what he taught them was during his resurrection appearances, but over the the whole three, three and a half years of their time with him. They began by teaching the teaching of Christ. But then over time, God, the Holy Spirit, gave them More revelation, which ended up becoming the rest of the New Testament. But they were always immersed. in the Word of God. All the other aspects of fellowship in church. Okay, number two on page 42. Nothing is ever to be added to or taken away from Holy Scripture. Rather, the Scripture is to be guarded as a completed heavenly treasure. Look, for example, at 2 Timothy 1, the third one there, the second one. Retain the standard of sound words which you have heard from me. In the faith and love which are in Christ Jesus, guard through the Holy Spirit who dwells in you the treasure which has been entrusted to you So here Paul has been investing in Timothy, his trainee, as now a new young pastor in the church in Ephesus. And he says guard what you have learned from me, uh which would have been um a proper use and understanding of all the scriptures that they had at that point, um the teachings of Christ and the uh uh the teachings of other apostles like Paul and and others even during their lifetime. Okay. Uh we've got a couple of minutes we can look at the questions. Look at number two. On page 43. How can we know if a passage should be taken figuratively, allegorically, or as hyperbole? Do you know what hyperbole is? Exaggeration. That's a good word for it. Exaggeration. So it's Yeah. That influences how we would interpret something if it really is meant to be exaggeration, right? Can you think of any examples in scripture of of hyperbole I mean the one that I wrote down was um yeah Acts twenty thirty one on the other page. For th three years I did not cease to admonish you. Like I'm I'm pretty sure he slept. I'm pretty sure he ate. I don't think he like literally spent every single second admonishing them. So that's hyperbole. It's just like very light hyperbole. But you know what he means. He um at every opportunity he w he was doing that. Okay. The one I like is 1 Corinthians 13. You're all probably kind of familiar with it. Verses 1 through 3, let's see if I can bring it up here real quickly. If I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, but do not have love, I have become a noisygong or a clanging cymbal. So he's saying if if I if I knew pretty much every tongue you could imagine, both on earth and on heaven, um It's taking it to the extreme, right? But if I don't have love, I'm a noisy gone or clanging cymbal. And if I have the gifts of prophecy, and I know all mysteries and all knowledge, and I have all faith so as to remove mountains. But do not have love, I am nothing. So he's taking it to the extreme. Right? That's hyperbole. And if I give all my possessions to feed the poor, And if I surrender my body to be burned, but do not have love, it profits me nothing. So Yeah, there's an example where he's trying to make the point by going to the extreme and saying, even if that's true, but I don't have love, what's it worth? Right? That's the point. That's hyperbole. And so we need to understand hyperbole when we read it or hear it for what it is. It's making a point. And we need to get that point, not take it as so literal as to mean that some of these extreme things are required of us. That's not the point. That's that's a good example. Yeah, unless you hate your your family like your mother and father, you're not worthy of me. He's he's using the extreme there. between um our love for our f our our our good love for our family members As compared to the love and devotion we need to have for God. Right? So we need to get the point that He's making and not trip over the hyperbole. So what's an allegory? Comparison? So an allegory tends would tend to be a story, that's right. What's the most famous allegory you're aware of? Pilgrim's Progress. And why is that an allegory? It's kind of a blatant allegory. I mean the guy's name is Christian, right? And it's got all these different names and steps and things that are meant to have a meaning and a parallel um to a parallel truth about the Christian life. And the okay, that's an allegory. So if that's an allegory, what's a parable, right? That's the question. Isn't a parable doing the same thing? It's a story that has a parallel meaning in real life that it's trying to communicate, right? The difference between an allegory and a parable is that an allegory intentionally assigns this parallel meaning to a lot of different components in the the allegory Whereas a parable typically just has one meaning that's trying to convey by terms of a story uh that underlying meaning has a parallel in the you know spiritual counterpart But the components of the story don't necessarily have a one-to-one correspondence with the ultimate reality. Now, there are some sort of exceptions to that. When Scripture, well, in terms of parables of Scripture, sometimes Jesus in giving a parable does describe the corresponding meaning to some of the components. like the parable of the four soils, the parable of the sower. He he he explains what each of the four soils really has, what the parallel meaning is, and who the sower is and what the seed is And in that sense, that one is pretty close to an allegory, except it's very short. Parables tend to be pretty short. It's kind of like a shorter, simpler version of an allegory. Yeah. But the key thing with the parable is don't read into the components of it a one-to-one correspondence with the reality it's trying to point to. You might get bogged down d in in a parable. Whereas with an allegory, it's intentionally got that one-to-one correspondence with most of the events or the people or whatever That's the main difference. So um you asked earlier about the Song of Solomon. Yeah, he's right. A lot of people think the Song of Solomon is an allegory And it's trying to picture the relationship between Christ and his bride, the church. It's a stretch. It's a bit of a stretch. Um the Song of Solomon is an interesting book to interpret, but I think it is a stretch to say it's an allegory about Christ in the church, and it's particularly something that the Old Testament Jews should have understood better or something. I I I don't know. But um I think it's personally I think it's pretty fair to say that there are no allegories In Scripture. Parables, and some parables that have detailed one-for-one meanings, but they're short. The main point of those parables is what's the key. not um an allegorical correspondence. Um yeah. God was trying to illustrate To drive home a point about about the nation of Israel um worshiping false gods and basically going into um spiritual adultery, right? Um That's not really allegorical. Symbolic. Um w what he had Hosea do was symbolic to try to get people's attention. Um I'm not sure to what extent it got people's attention, but um yeah. Okay. Figurative, we've already talked about some things. Um when Jesus um At the Last Supper said, This is my body which is broken for you? Was he thinking it was literally his body, the the bread that he was breaking there? No, he said, This is my body my body's here He was using it as a figure of speech, as an illustration, so that we can understand uh the the meaning of not only the Last Supper but even the the um Pass Supper. Kind of a metaphor, yeah. Yeah. Which is a figure of speech, right? Right. Okay. Well we're gonna have to shut down this fun stuff, but let's close in fresh