All right, well we are on lesson 10 today in our ongoing study of pneumatology. That's not the study of pneumatics, right? That's the study of the Holy Spirit. And today focusing specifically on The Holy Spirit in relation to Christ. So we're on page 64. The Holy Spirit in relation to Christ. Remember last week? We talked about the Holy Spirit sort of generally, and now we're into some of his ministry. So first of all, the Holy Spirit performed a miraculous conception in the womb of Mary, resulting in the incarnation of the Son of God. Thus, God becoming man and the existence of the God-Man were the work of the Holy Spirit. So I'm sure you're familiar with the passages in Matthew and Luke, where Mary and then Joseph were were um given that rather strange news that Mary was going to uh conceive or in the case of Matthew or of um uh Joseph that she already had conceived, but conceived by the Holy Spirit. And so in Luke 1 The second one you have there, which is chronologically the first, the angel told her, The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you. And for that reason the holy offspring shall be called the Son of God. So that's not as much clarity perhaps as she would want or even that we would sometimes want. We have questions like, how in the world, but that's not for us to know. Other than the Holy Spirit superintended that the incarnation of the second person of the Trinity. And so the Holy Spirit was there. He was doing that. He was making that happen. And then he explained that to Joseph in Matthew 1. Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary as your wife, because he was already having questions, right? For that which has been conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit. She will bear a son, you shall call his name Jesus, for it is he who will save his people from their sins. So A, it's important for us to know that the Holy Spirit was active in the incarnation. But B, both Mary and Joseph were explained that this was a work of the Holy Spirit, and they didn't ask, who's that? I mean they hadn't understood enough to know that this was God at work, and they were being given the expl enough explanation to To be obedient and thankful. So a bit of a mystery, but it just gives an example of one of the many things that the Holy Spirit was involved with, particularly in relation to the life and ministry of Christ. And so the second one is Jesus Christ was anointed by the Holy Spirit in his preaching, miracle working, and healing ministry. And so the middle one there, taken from Luke 4. 1, Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit. returned from the Jordan and was led about by the Spirit in the wilderness. So right after his baptism, he went into the uh the wilderness area close to the Jordan and says very specifically he was full of the Holy Spirit. And we will talk about that as it applies to us. You know, we're commanded to be filled with the Spirit, right? Ephesians 5. 18. And one of the prime examples of that in Scripture is Christ. It says here specifically he was led about by the Spirit in the wilderness. So even Jesus was filled with the Holy Spirit, led by the Holy Spirit. active in uh cooperating with the ministry of the Holy Spirit. There's a lot more that can be said about that, even his miracles, and we're going to look at that at a couple of them here. He didn't go about Performing miracles willy-nilly, just as a show, right? Um, each time had a purpose And um even his ex uh exercise of other prerogatives of deity, um he didn't use again, willy-nilly Uh it was as the situation required it and as the Holy Spirit led him. Um He could do things like and and would do things like walk on water and um uh uh raise someone from the dead. And so the Holy Spirit was very active in the life of Christ. Okay. Could someone read for me? Uh Luke 418, which is a quote from Isaiah 61. Got that? Okay. Anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor. He has sent me to proclaim release to the captives and recovery of sight to the blind, to set free those who are downtrodden. So you remember the context here in Luke four, Jesus um was in the synagogue and he was asked to read from the scriptures and they were working their way through and uh in God's providence they were ready for this portion to be read And he was invited to come up and read it, and he read it, and then he said, you remember what he said? It's been fulfilled in your hearing. Yeah, today this this prophecy has been fulfilled in your hearing. And what's interesting is that he he he stopped the reading there. Had he continued, uh the prophecy was talk is good talks about uh things that would be fulfilled later. But he stopped where the things that he came in this in his first coming to fulfill. To preach the gospel to the poor, proclaim release to the captives, recovery of sight to the blind, set free those who are downtrodden. Just um The variety of things he was doing, but how does it say he was doing it? The Spirit of the Lord is upon me. And speaking, of course, of the Holy Spirit's role in working through Christ in his incarnate state. Okay, let's go to number three here. The Holy Spirit led Christ to the cross and raised Christ from the dead. And so could someone read our memory verse there? Romans eight eleven. Okay. From the dead dwells in you. He who raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through his Spirit who indwells you. Right, so when it says if the spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead, uh it's he's writing to uh believers here and that if really means since. It's the way we often use the word if you know if that's true, then this is also true. Well The spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you. We'll talk more about the indwelling of the Holy Spirit next week, but Paul's not asking or wondering if they're indwelt by the Holy Spirit. He says, because the Spirit of Him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you. He will also give life to your moral bodies through a spirit who involves you. So The main point in our context today is who did that? According to that passage. Yeah, the Holy Spirit was at least very active, right, in in the resurrection of Christ from the dead. So when you think of it as the very beginning of his His walk on earth in the incarnation, all the way to the resurrection from the dead, the Holy Spirit was active, very central. in the ministry of Christ. And then Hebrews nine fourteen, can someone read that? How much more will the blood of Christ who The eternal spirit offered himself without letters to God, cleanse your conscience from dead works to serve the living God. Do you see the reference to the Spirit there? What did the Spirit do? It was kind of the facilitator Christ offered himself through the spirit. Yeah, it's kind of facilitators. Right? Yeah. Through this eternal spirit offered himself without blemish. Yeah. So you see the whole Trinity at work here, don't you? And what often, as is the case in in Scripture, when it says God, sometimes from the constant from the context we know it's referring to specifically God the Father, like here Uh and it was through the Spirit, through the the m the because he's led by the Spirit, right? Um Through the ministry of the Holy Spirit, Christ was. He knew why he came In his humanity, of course, he struggled as you and I would toward the end, you know, great agony as he approached the possibility of being becoming sin on our behalf, experiencing the wrath of God for our sin, not his own. Being separated for a period from the Father with whom he'd had eternal fellowship. It wasn't so much the physical pain that was anguishing for him. It was the prospect of Being separate from the Father, bearing the sin of People who sinned, not him. So the Holy Spirit, and even God even sent angels to comfort him and and to strengthen him. uh when he was in that agony. But the Holy Spirit was very much a part of of just like he does us, he um gives us Reassurance, he's a comforter, right? Uh he leads us through um challenging times. uh strengthening us. He had a similar role with Christ, particularly in his humanity. Okay. Alright? Let's go to number four. The Holy Spirit always seeks to glorify the Lord Jesus Christ. The Spirit seeks to provoke interest in and devotion to Christ. And so can someone read the first But when he, the Spirit of Truth, comes, he will guide you into all the truth. For he will not speak on his own initiative, but whatever he hears, he will speak. And he will disclose to you what is to come. He shall glorify me, for he shall take of mine and shall disclose it to you. So one of the um one of the main ministries of the Holy Spirit these days that um you know post the Ascension of Christ that that um that we participate in is He prompts those who are saved to glorify Christ, as opposed to glorifying himself, the Holy Spirit. Not that he's not glorious and so on, but he's particularly focused on bringing glory to Christ. And so he prompts us to do that. Notice he's referred to here in several other places as the spirit of truth. And there are a number of e even in the upper room discourse here, uh there are a number of uh I believe even there, there are a number of titles like that, Spirit of Truth. I'm trying to remember what some of the other ones are, but uh a very diversified uh role and associated with things as key of course as truth. He's going to be revealing truth. He's going to be uh prompting us in the truth, bringing to memory the in the apostles' memory. after the resurrection of Christ or after the ascension of Christ, uh he will uh Remind them of things Christ said so that the the teaching of Christ would become the teaching of the apostles. the spirit of truth. Okay. Any other insights there? Questions? Yes. So it's so in that patch of passage that you read, it seemed like the Holy Spirit is like a translator It's almost like it's saying that he's passive, meaning he's not going to initiate conversation, but it's almost like he's listening to conversation, I guess, coming from the spiritual direction. You know, it is an interesting analogy, isn't it? Um Yeah, it says he will guide you into all the truth, for he will not speak on his own initiative, but whatever he hears, he will speak. So um What would the analogy of that be, at least in their experience, in Old Testament times, particularly? It's the role of a prophet, right, who would be a communicator of what God had revealed, and now he's going to be the mouthpiece for communicating this to others. And um that's something of of the the role here. Yeah. Uh if I'm not mistaken, Christ says the same thing where uh he only says and does what the father told him. That is true. Yeah. Yeah, he said that I think in um Also in John, I think in it to the Pharisees and his detractors. So it's a good uh at least in regard understanding the Trinity that there's a a hierarchy. Yeah. Yeah. And they each spirit glorifies Christ, Christ glorifies the Father. Yep. Yeah. Good point. Any other thoughts? Yeah. Yes. And Philip says the father will glorify the son. That his name will be above all names. Yep. Yeah, the Godhead, you know, there's interesting um the the the balance between Uniqueness, yet unity, yet inseparability, yet um hierarchy, distinctiveness. Yeah, Jesus went in his high priestly prayer in John seventeen. Um was reminded of the glory that they shared together from eternity past. And um So this passage and the implications of this passage are very critical When you consider uh religious practices, even denominations whose main focus seems to be glorifying the Holy Spirit. Right? Which is a shame because there's so much misunderstanding of the Holy Spirit and we need to not diminish his role, and yet Christ himself said that the role of the Holy Spirit is to glorify Christ. And we ought to stick with scripture rather than you know what may seem like a a good doctrine, a good practice, or anything like that, if it's not consistent with scripture. we should realign ourselves to Scripture. We're going to talk much about the ministry of the Holy Spirit, beginning next week. Um specific works of the Holy Spirit in our lives. And I think I may have mentioned a week or two ago when we started this that there's so much misunderstanding about the Holy Spirit. Even among um uh genuine believers and um uh we need to be sure not to just put him on a shelf and uh disregard his work that he's doing even in us and through us. We need to cooperate with that. Okay. Uh letter D here. I'm on page 65 The baptism of the Holy Spirit. So we're going to start talking a bit about his role in our lives here and then continue on in the next couple of weeks. So a unique work of the Holy Spirit in this age began at Pentecost. Remember what we're referring to here is the it was an annual feast. It was the Pentecost that where the church Began, right, after the ascension of Christ. The unique work of the Holy Spirit in this age began at Pentecost when he came from the Father as promised by Christ to initiate and complete the building of the body of Christ, the church. Right? So uh let's read that first one there in John 7. Could someone use in the, as the scripture said, Most things of living water, but this spoke of the Spirit whom those who believed in Him were to receive for the Holy Spirit has not yet given because Jesus was not yet worked on it. Right. So Jesus is giving them a heads up of what's to be. It's not yet time because Jesus had not yet gone to the cross, resurrected, ascended, those things were needed before the Holy Spirit would come. In John 14, that next passage, and I will ask the Father and he will give you another helper, that he may be with you forever. That is the Spirit of Truth. Again, that term. whom the world cannot receive because it does not behold him or know him, but you know him because he abides with you now, and he will be in you So again, future, the indwelling didn't happen until later. And then again, our memory verse here, John 15, 26. When the helper comes, whom I will send to you from the Father, that is the Spirit of Truth, who proceeds from the Father, he will bear witness of me. So again, here we are in the upper room. Jesus is referring to the helper. He gives them sort of a uh descriptive name. That word helper is is um uh Sometimes translated comforter, right? Paracletos, one who comes alongside to strengthen and encourage. And then he says, whom I will send to you from the Father. Again, you see the Trinity at work here? That is the spirit of truth who proceeds from the Father. I don't know if you remember when we first started talking about the Godhead and when we spoke about the Father. Now that was actually last quarter, I think, wasn't it? But The the statement we have says uh the father um Neither proceeds nor is sent. Jesus was sent, the Spirit proceeds. From the Father. And that gives you some insight into the sort of the inner relations within the Godhead, the hierarchy even. But anyway, Jesus here is speaking of something that still has not yet happened. He's been preparing them on several occasions. And then he will, particularly down in, well actually we don't have it here, but In Acts one, he's about to ascend into heaven and they They um the disciples are saying, well, is now the time you're going to establish your kingdom here on earth? And he says, no, you don't need to be worried about the timing of that, but here's what you do need to worry about, or not be worried about, but be obedient to. which is that um you're going to receive power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you. You know, I've been talking to you about this, Holy Spirit coming to you and equipping you and comforting you. And you will be my witnesses. both here in Jerusalem and so on. And so he's he's preparing them, telling them to hold their horses In so many words. Hold their horses until the Holy Spirit comes upon you. And then ten days later On the day of Pentecost, I think it's the last day of the feast, we read in Acts 2. Let's go down to Acts 2, 1 through 4. Can someone read that? When the day of Pentecost arrived, they were all together in one place, and suddenly there came from heaven a sound like a mighty rushing wind And it filled the entire house where they were sitting, and divided tongues as of fire appeared to them, and rested on each one of them. And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and began to speak in other tongues as the Spirit gave them So uh uh Jesus promised that the Holy Spirit would be coming. He would be indwelling them. He would be empowering them. And he didn't give them a lot of detail about Well even when, particularly, but how? Who what's how are we going to know and so on But do you think they had any doubt at this point? No, it was pretty clear that this was a work of God. And What's what's key here is that um Not only was it an experience for them, they they say, oh, this is God's work. He's he's Fulfilling what he promised. He's he's going to uh you know the Holy Spirit is going to um Help us remember everything Jesus taught us. He's going to continue to lead us and teach us, comfort us, and so on. That's all exciting, but immediately You know, they go out and Peter preaches this this sermon. Now the folks there weren't gathered for church. Folks there were gathered for the the the Jewish feast of tabernacles and or Pentecost, I'm sorry. And um Peter boldly gets up and gives that address and kind of reviews the the ministry and and and the the um The death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. And he doesn't pull any punches He um he he's he's addressing the people who gave Christ over to be to be uh crucified. And the Holy Spirit was very clearly speaking, working through him to bring conviction to a lot of people. And over 3,000 people got saved. And in pursuing or subsequent subsequent uh weeks Many thousands more were coming to Christ because of the Spirit working through people like Peter. but also working in the hearts of those who were listening to establish this church. And so in our context today The important event here is the coming of the Holy Spirit to indwell But more importantly, as we're going to see, um, to baptize believers into the body of Christ. We're going to look in our next section the theology of that, but the the chronology of it in Acts is such that here in Acts 2, it's the first Time when people were ushered into, baptized into the body of Christ. Okay. Now what's what's unique about that grip gathering of people? It was a visible work. Usually the Holy Spirit can't, like Jesus said, it's the rushing of the wind. You can't see it, but you can only see the effects. This time there were tons of fire. Sorta like fire. I mean that's the closest they could come to analogy, right? Um yeah, okay, so so the the event had some very unique characteristics There were uh what appeared to be tongues of fire on the on the heads of the um Not just the disciples, but all who were gathered in that upper room, which was quite a large number, actually, men and women. And the sound, of course, was clear to them. But then they also began each speaking in other languages languages they clearly didn't know, and when they were heard by the crowd assembled uh these people who were quite obviously not from all those areas where those languages were spoken And yet the hearers were. There were people from all over gathering in Jerusalem for that feast. And it says explicitly in Acts, all the places they're from and all the languages they were hearing, other people who were clearly not of those languages, uh speaking them, what's their immediate thought? Well their immediate thought was before they processed everything, oh these people were just drunk. Right. But when they heard these languages and the proclaiming of of the gospel, the truth of God, the the uh uh uh the con what the the convicting word of the spirit of god in their own language uh They they can only make one conclusion, rightly. This is a work of God. Right? Um And so Peter brought explanation about all that in his sermon. But what's key is all those people who were um ushered into the body of Christ on that day and filled with the Holy Spirit, baptized by the Holy Spirit into the body of Christ, they were all Jews. Right? The disciples, the close followers, they were all Jews. And It's pretty clear that most, if not all of them, assumed that salvation was through the Jews. And even to the point that in order to be a true believer, you first had to be a Jew. And you sort of tack this on to Judaism. I don't know how much many of them thought about it, but by the time you get to Acts 15, it's very clear that there's a huge debate. Is it necessary? for say Gentiles to become Jews in order to become Christians. And there's a great um council brought together in Jerusalem to To bring clarity to that question? And of course the answer is no. How do they know the answer is no? Well, let's continue reading in Acts 8. Someone read that's the last one on the page there. Okay. Now when the apostles in Jerusalem heard that Samaria had received the word of God. They sent them Peter and John, who came down and prayed for them that they might receive the Holy Spirit. For he had not yet fallen upon any of them. They had simply been baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus. Then they began laying their hands on them, and they were receiving the Holy Spirit So this is an interesting development in the early church. What was the relationship of Jews and Samaritans? So the Samaritans were sort of half breeds, half Jews. uh they had intermarried with non-Jews during the uh exile period and and so on and not only that but developed quite a um pagan worship system and and so on. And the the devout Jews looked at them with disgust and and uh didn't want any part to do with them Samaria was that province between Judea, where Jerusalem is, and Galilee up to the north. And so to go from Galilee to Judea, you would we would normally go through Samaria, but no, we're not going through Samaria, we're going around Samaria to get down to Jerusalem. So hated were the Samaritans. And yet, when we think of the word Samaritan today, what do we think of? The good Samaritan. Because Jesus made an example of what being a neighbor was. And strategically he used the Samaritan as an example of that. Well here In the very early church, we've got some Samaritans coming to Christ. Is that good news or bad news? It's good news But they didn't necessarily know how to handle this, but when they heard that people were receiving the Word of God, they were responding to the gospel message, these Samaritans. Um, they wanted to Be sure that it was a genuine salvation, I'm sure. They sent Peter and John, who came down and prayed for them that they might receive the Holy Spirit. For they had not yet, for he had not yet fallen on any of them. They had simply been baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus. So It's hard to know exactly what kind of uh events transpired there, uh why there was a baptism only in the name of Jesus rather than following Christ's command to baptize in the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit. Um but in any case Fortunately, several of the apostles went to check out the situation, make sure these people were genuinely saved, prayed for them. And when they did, they began Laying their hands on them it says, and they were receiving the Holy Spirit. Now, it doesn't specifically say here, how did they know? How did the apostles know at this point that they were receiving the Holy Spirit. Possibly, doesn't specifically say, but it wasn't just the apostles who knew In the context here, there is a, you remember Simon the sorcerer, who in the verses just before this um uh was also responding to the gospel and made a profession of faith. And he's present when all this is happening. He's watching. And the very next verse it says that um He saw that they had received the Spirit, and he wanted the ability to do that for other people. Right? And Peter, I think it was Peter, rebuked him because, you know, he thought that the gift of God could be bought and sold and so on. So it's not entirely clear whether he was genuinely saved or not, but the point is that he recognized even that that they were receiving the Holy Spirit, and he wanted he wanted in on this Um and so there had to be some manifestation for the onlookers, both the apostles and others, some manifestation that led them to be confident that the Holy Spirit indeed was now indwelling. these new believers. And before we explain how, let's move to the next page, page 66. And we're continuing in the book of Acts. Uh someone wanna read that first one from Acts 10? While Peter was still speaking these words, the Holy Spirit fell upon all those who were listening to the message. And all the circumcised believers who had come with Peter were amazed, because the gift of the Holy Spirit had been poured out upon the Gentiles also. For they were hearing them speaking with tongues and exalting God. And Peter answered, Surely no one can refuse the water for these to be baptized who have received the Holy Spirit just as we did. Can he? So uh back in Acts two, the Holy Spirit indwelt, baptized the Jewish believers. We're at the very beginning. They're all Jews. Then we saw in Acts, what was it, eight, that um now Samaritans also. were coming to Christ, also being baptized into the body of Christ. And now here, Gentiles. Well you think Samaritans are bad. What about Gentiles? Right? And of course, you remember how God prepared Peter? to um be ready for this. You know, he um saw in a vision God bringing down this this sheet or this blanket or whatever it was containing all these unclean animals and what did God say to him? Rise, Peter, kill and eat. And Peter says, no way. Are you kidding? I'm a faithful Jew. And um I I think it happened like three times or something like that. And Uh I don't I think he got the main message, but he was not sure. So what am I supposed to what's my takeaway here? Well right about the time he's thinking that get there's a knock on the door, right? And Cornelius's um, who who's a centurion, a gentile Roman soldier, um his servant who was told to go to Joppa and ask us this guy named Simon Peter And explain the story, and Peter's now putting two and two together. God is at work here to show me that what God has declared clean, I am not to treat as unclean. And the takeaway, the application of this is in terms of um who can be saved. So everybody, yeah. So it's not just Jews, it's not even just Samaritans, but even Gentiles. And so It was helpful to Peter to have that interaction with God beforehand to prepare him because where's his mind apart from that? It's basically the Jews, right? And he wasn't alone in this. But Peter being sort of the spokesperson and leader among equals here, God chose to give him a very personal um orientation to what's about to happen. And So Peter goes there in obedience. He thinks he's he sees it. But what does God do? He does the same thing with the Gentile believers. That he did, certainly with the Jews, and I would argue also with the Samaritans, it pretty much had to be, that there is a physical manifestation of a spiritual truth. a spiritual event that was happening right now. And Peter, being the great mathematician, put two and two together Right? And he says, surely no one can refuse the water for these to be baptized who have received the Holy Spirit just as we did. How did he know they have received the Holy Spirit? Well in this case it specifically says they were hearing them speaking with tongues and exalting God. So the same thing happened to these people has happened to the Jews in Acts 2 at Pentecost. In each of these cases, there's sort of a new frontier. First it was just the Jews, then it happened again with the Samaritans, and now very significantly with Gentiles, making it clear there's nobody left Everybody is now um open. Everyone is is um um Eligible, if you will, to receive salvation. It's not this us versus them kind of thing. It's this is for everybody. Yeah, reps. Yeah, and Acts chapter 1 verse 8, but you shall receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you. You shall be witnessed to me in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria and to the ends of the earth. So there's a progression. And and that's what the Holy Spirit followed that out by. And you see that happening here. Yes, sir. Right. Although um I think of Maryland as the remotest part of the earth now. No, there are a lot of remotest parts of the earth out there, uh even today. But yeah, you you read the book of Acts and that's what you see happening. Begins in Jerusalem, ends, well, at Rome. But But that's the progression of the work of the Holy Spirit. I'm guessing, I I don't remember any evidence of this in Scripture, but I'm guessing that God superintended that in stages to make it a bit more digestible for the Jews. If there had been some occasion where there was Jews, Samaritans, and Gentiles all together, and I can't imagine what occasion that would have been, they wouldn't be together. But even if there were It probably would have been a little bit harder for them to digest what's going on here than doing it in stages like this. And it was fairly uh short amount of time. I mean we're talking uh I don't know probably no more than a year uh if if that um But it really served to prepare people for the significance of what's happening here, I think. It's just my my presumption Anyway, yes. Did the Samaritans consider themselves to be Jews? No. No, you you read um Acts 4 with the woman at the well who is a Samaritan, right? Jesus uh pushing the envelope there. And she was very clear that, you know, you Jews and us Samaritans, you know, we worship in different ways and whatever. They understood that they were different and incompatible. Even antagonistic. Antagonistic. They know that that historically uh they're from the the the same um But Muslims today would say that they're from Abraham. But they know they're a lot different. So that wasn't enough. In fact, Jesus was scolding the Pharisees for saying, well, our father is Abraham. And Jesus said, well, no, you don't know what being a child of Abraham is all about at all. But If you count the concubines, a thousand Yeah. Wives. No. No. And that's the point. God God told the Israelites to not intermarry with these pagans out there because they're going to lead you astray. And what does Solomon do? That very thing. A thousand times over. So yeah, but that that was not the origin of the Samaritans, though. That came actually before Solomon was before the Samaritans began. But a similar problem. Yeah, intermarrying, um leaving genuine faith Yes, so he the Jesus when referring to the Holy Spirit as a helper says I will send you another helper. Yeah. So he um was kind of preparing them for the fact that um the ministry that he's been having with them in person is going to continue, except that he's going to not only be with you, he's going to be in you. And so that's going to make it possible to do far more. than just being with you. Um in that sense when Jesus ascended they don't right away go and preach the gospel So Jesus commanded them to stay there and wait for the Holy Spirit. So the Holy Spirit is the one that makes us equip for the The spread of the gospel and have the power of God in us, then we can maybe share with Jesus. Fortunately, it wasn't more than ten days. Um but when he came it became very clear This is God's doing. This is what he promised. Let's be active doing what he's commanded us to do. Very good. Well, let's read a couple more passages here. Because I want to get at the theology here. The second passage in Romans 6. 3. Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus have been baptized into his death. So that word baptism, baptized, what does that mean? Literally what the word means is to be immersed, to be dunked, to be dipped into. It's not a word that has its origins in Scripture. It was already a known word. You think of it as sort of when something is dyed, like you take a um uh a piece of fabric and you put it into a dye, you baptize it in the dye And it comes out looking like what? The color of the dye. Right? That was baptized into that dye. And it bears the mark of that die. You see the analogy? We're baptized into Christ, it says. So Before I ask that question, let's go to the next passage. 1 Corinthians 12, 13. Could someone read that? For by one spirit we were all baptized into one body, whether Jews or Greeks, whether slaves or free, and we were all made to drink of one spirit. Okay, again, baptized into one body. The body here is referring to what? The body of Christ, or the church. Right? For by one Spirit we were bapti all baptized into one body, whether Jews or Greeks. And by Greeks here it means what? Everybody's not a Jew, so it means everybody who is saved is baptized into Christ Jesus. All made to drink of one spirit. So When he commanded his disciples to um Go into all the world and baptize, make disciples, baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit. Is that the baptism it's talking about here? No. No. That the baptism in Matthew 28, the command is a water baptism. And we see the examples of that being fulfilled throughout the book of Acts and I guess elsewhere. as people would uh go into water and be baptized as an outward symbol of their inner Baptism, which is what's referred to here. It's the spiritual baptism. We're baptized into, not into water, but into Christ. We're baptized into the body of Christ, the church. We're placed into, fully identified with Christ. When does that happen? The moment of salvation, justification, right? Um we are placed into and in um Romans 6. 3, for example, or do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ? And then in 1 Corinthians 12. For by one spirit, we were all baptized into one body, whether Jews or Greeks. And so it's not an exclusive thing. In fact, we'll see next week when we talk more specifically about the indwelling of the Holy Spirit, that it's something that's true of every believer. He indwells inside of us. And that's an ongoing reality. This baptism is a one-time thing. We have been baptized into Christ. That spiritual baptism replaced into Christ. As you read particularly the the epistles of Paul, often he very often he uses this term those who are in Christ, those who are in Christ. That's shorthand for saying those who have been baptized into Christ. And it's equivalent to saying, all true believers, right? We're in Christ. When God looks at us, what does he see? Christ. His righteousness is on our account. Our sins have already been transferred to his account. We're in Christ. And what places us in Christ is the Holy Spirit's placing us, baptizing us, immersing us, identifying us completely with Christ. That die is on us. We are died, we are now. Well that's an interesting play of words. The other kind of die. You know, we have died to self. We've been dyed with the blood of Christ. We now come out looking like Christ. Yes. Yes. So so um And and places like uh Romans six, Paul is saying, since you have died with Christ, um uh and you've been uh baptized into Christ, you should live that way And then you say consider. Yes. Make sure that you understand. Yeah. Right, consider. Right. Good. And then Ephesians 1. I'll go ahead and read it. In him also, you also, after listening to the message of truth, the gospel of your salvation, having also believed You were sealed in him with the Holy Spirit of promise, who is given as a pledge of our inheritance, with a view to the redemption of God's own possession, to the praise of his glory. We're going to talk a little bit more about the sealing ministry of the Holy Spirit. In a couple of weeks. But anyway, that happens really at the same time. It's sort of a one when we're placed into Christ, we're giving The Holy Spirit himself serves as something of a seal, a promise. A down payment is sort of another way scripture makes reference to it. A pledge. This is the beginning of all that I've got in store for you, believer, God says. You now have the Holy Spirit in you And because he's never going to leave, you are sealed, you are secure in Christ. And all the promises of the inheritance in Christ that I promised are are yours, and they will be, they will culminate When you go to heaven to be with him forever. But in the meantime, the Holy Spirit is your seal. And when God puts that seal on, No one can take it off. We are sealed in Christ. It's a done deal. And that's encouraging. That's assuring. That's A ministry of the Holy Spirit. And it all happens at that, really at the same time, we're placed into Christ and He seals us there. No one can take us away. Okay, and any questions so far? No one is saying Including Satan. Nobody can t separate us from Christ. Okay, so I want to look at the application question number two. Real quick as we close. What's the significance of John 16, 13 through 16 for our worship? And this is, we read this, this is where Christ referred to the Holy Spirit coming. And um uh he will glorify me, Christ said. What's the significance of that for our worship? Well we need to end Okay. And also glorify um Christ and uh through the Spirit we uh glorify him in our worship. Yeah. And even even seeking the Holy Spirit's help to honor Christ appropriately and fully. Yeah. I was just gonna say it's also a warning. Um that if we are taught and it does not glorify Christ, then we know it's not from the spirit of truth. We know that it's not from God. Good. Yeah. So it's it's both what to do and what not to do. Okay. Good. Let's close the prayer.