So we are on lesson one, what we teach about the church. Maybe you caught it in the beginning title page. Uh we're talking we're looking at three doctrinal topics this quarter, the first one being ecclesiology. That's what the doctrine of the church, the study of the church is. Ecclesiology. That comes from the the Greek term eklesia Which means anybody know what that means? Called out assembly. Yes. A call called out ones assembly uh were called out from uh the world to the body of Christ. And so So today we're going to begin talking about some general things about the church, including the primarily the universal church. Next week we'll start looking at the local church. But I want starting on page 13 here. If you haven't been with us Before you can uh review the introductory pages there, just kind of some some uh uh exhortations about the uh the need for sound doctrine and and so on. But let's dig in here to the study of the church. All who place their faith in Jesus Christ are immediately placed by the Holy Spirit into one united spiritual body, the Church, the Bride of Christ. So um we refer to the universal church in contrast with the local church. Hope Bible Church is a local church And you see lots of references to local churches in Scripture, right? Paul writes a letter to the church at Corinth or the church at Philippi, right? So what would be the universal church? Okay. Yes, all of the above. So all true believers, not just today, but for all time. Right? All over the world. And sometimes that's called the invisible church, as opposed to the local church being called the visible church. Why would the universal church be th thought of as invisible? Well, we don't know who's truly a believer. Okay. So as we're going out and speaking We're supposed to be speaking the gospel to each other as encouragement as and as a reminder what Jesus did for us. But when we're going out, we don't know who God is calling to Himself or not. But there are ones out there. Yeah. God might use us to present the gospel. Yeah, so um we'll talk a bit more about this next week, or at least you will in my absence. That in the local church, it's possible that some members of the local church are not even believers uh but they're administratively members. But we can't see people's hearts. We as elders have a responsibility to protect the flock and uh discern as best we can whether someone is actually a a believer. But when it really comes down to it, only God knows. Right? And so everybody who's a member, everybody who's a member of the Universal Church is indeed saved because the God knows that. He's the one who maintains the roles, if you will. Um that's not unfortunately that's not always true in the local church, even though we might strive for that to be true. Okay, so all who place their faith in Jesus Christ are immediately placed by the Holy Spirit into one united spiritual body. The church, the bride of Christ, of which Christ is the head. And so Romans 12, for example. For just as we have many members, In one body, and again here he's he's speaking of even our physical body has many members, right? Arms, legs, feet, ears, eyes, right? For just as we have many members in one body, and all the members do not have the same function, so we who are many are one body in Christ. And individually members one of another. And of course, uh the next passage, 1 Corinthians 12 It's a chapter where Paul really elaborates on that illustration. He says, For even as the body is one, yet as many members, all the members of the body, all are members of the body. Though there are many, there's still just one body. So also is Christ. And then skip down to Ephesians five, next to the last one down in this section. For the husband is the head of the wife, as Christ also is the head of the church, he himself being the savior of the body. But as the church is subject to Christ, so also wives ought to be to their own husbands and everything. And so you see this parallel Between God's design for the church and God's design for the family, right? With Christ being the head of the church. Christ is the head of the universal church, and he is also head of the local church, or at least he should be, if it's really a church. Okay, picking up on that, number two, still on page 13. There is but one true universal church comprised of all believers. These believers are one spiritual brotherhood, having God as their father. And so look at the second passage there in Ephesians 4. I therefore the prisoner of the Lord entreat you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling with which you have been called With all humility and gentleness, with patience, showing forbearance to one another in love, being diligent to preserve the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. There is one body and one spirit, just as you also were called in one hope of your calling. So uh yes, there are many local churches, but there's only one universal church. The Bride of Christ. And some of these other passages you you see uh, for example, in Ephesians, later in Ephesians 4. And also in Ephesians five, Hebrews twelve, it's referring to uh the church in the singular. It's just it's not one church of many. Even though there are many denominations these days, um there's really only one. Church, one pride of Christ. Yes. So those um for the housebay is the head of the line And Ephesians chapter five. That was in his God's intention from the very beginning when he created Aaron Yes, that's God's design from the very get-go. And so as you read Genesis 1, 2, 3, you see lots of uh indicators that that's his design. So that Eve was created to be Adam's helper, for example, and Adam was accountable even for the very first sin. Yeah, yeah, so that's interesting, isn't it? So the whole notion of the church came much later. And so Paul refers to it in Ephesians 5 as what? A mystery. Until God made it clear that this is This is his plan, this is his design. And yes, he knew that from the very beginning. Before the very beginning. Yeah, it's kinda neat, isn't it? Now on page 14, number 3. The formation of the church, the body of Christ, began on the day of Pentecost, soon after Christ ascended into heaven and will be completed at the coming of Christ for his own at the rapture. We'll talk uh about the end time events later on in the quarter, but um notice in Matthew sixteen Jesus says, and I say to you that you are Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church, and the gates of Hades shall not overpower it. By the way, the rock he's referring to is Peter's answer to his questions, who do you say that I am? And Peter do you remember how Peter responded? You are the Christ, the Son of the Living God. That's the rock, the foundation of the church. And uh but what he's saying here is that That's future. I will build my church. Right? Uh he sa he doesn't say I am building it now, but I will build So at that point it was still future. Even in Acts 1, I've got an extensive quote here from Acts 1 and 2 Uh Jesus said uh the first numbers are not here, but Very early on here, it says he commanded them not to leave Jerusalem, but to wait for what the Father had promised, which he said, You heard from me For John baptized with water, but you shall be baptized with the Holy Spirit not many days from now. Yes. If you flip it to page 16, only because this verse I want to cross-reference to happens to be there. It's the one in bold, 1 Corinthians 12, 13. Where in this context of Paul speaking about the church as a body and the parallel with a human body and many members and so on, he says, for by one spirit We were all baptized into one body, whether Jews or Greeks, whether slaves or free, and we were all made to drink of one spirit So, the baptism he's speaking of here is not a baptism of water, but a baptism by the Holy Spirit. What is baptism? Baptizo means to to um place into to to immerse immerse, to dunk. And so the Holy Spirit is baptizing us into the body of Christ, into one body it says here Um and it doesn't it's not about Jews only, it's not about Greeks, it's it's whoever, right, comes to saving relationship with Christ is placed into the body of Christ at the moment of salvation. Yes. Good question. So um The statement here is that the church began at Pentecost. Does that mean that the Old Testament saints were not part of the church? And the answer is yes. That's what that means. Does it mean that they weren't saved? No, not at all. Salvation has always been by grace through faith. And a little bit later on we're going to talk about God's plan for Israel. But right now, Jews, Greeks, slave, free, everyone who comes to Christ is placed into the body of Christ. Um and um there will be others We'll talk about this more when we talk about end times, but uh others will come to salvation. Um And during the tribulation, for example, apart from the church, um there are many Jews from the Old Testament time and even during the the end times who come to salvation in Christ. Who are distinct from the church. Saved nonetheless, and we're going to talk a little bit later on today, how that all kind of fits together. But like Paul said, it's something of a mystery. It was not all that clear. In fact, there wasn't much hint of it at all in the Old Testament. But uh through the ministry and the teaching of Christ and then the um uh the revelation God gave through the apostles, it became clear what God was doing. Yeah. So anyway, the point here is that the the the baptism Spiritual baptism happens at the moment of salvation when we are placed into Christ. We're placed into the body of Christ, the church. And water baptism were placed into water, testifying that we had been baptized. into Christ. We are Christians. We are members of the body of Christ. And so there's a a parallel there. But two distinct things. So back to page fourteen. We're reading from Acts. But you shall be baptized with the Holy Spirit not many days from now. That's what he's referring to. So Jesus was speaking here in early Acts. Uh during bas it was his last resurrection appearance to his disciples. Um And of course, Axe records how he ascended um after giving them these final instructions. Um His ascension was forty days after the Passover Pentecost happens fifty days after the Passover. Hence the word penta is fifty days. So he says, not many days, but it was actually ten days later. As we read, and I've got the extensive quote I'm not going to read for you here from Acts 2 Um but you're probably familiar with those events, right, where where the uh the believers, it was not just disciples, there was the quite quite a large number of believers at that point who were obeying Christ by saying by um staying within Jerusalem And waiting for his um uh promised Holy Spirit to come And when he did, he gave them visible and audible signs that now um God was at work to um usher in a new well, a new dispensation, the church age. Um And there were people visiting. Uh I'm pretty sure, in hindsight, one of the reasons God chose to do it on Pentecost w w in Jerusalem was knowing that there was going to be a lot of people in Jerusalem for the feast uh from all over And as we see in the details here, people from lots of different countries speaking lots of different languages, and yet when they hear the gospel proclaimed in their own language by people who c clearly don't know that language. What's the conclusion they would come up with? Well some of them came up with you guys must be drunk. But other people realized that, wait a minute, I can hear them speaking in my language. Only God could do that. And so, like with most miracles, um The point was to get people's attention to say, guys at work here, listen to what they're saying. Right? Same with uh miracles of of healing and and whatever. Uh the point is to demonstrate God is at work, listen to the message. And as it turns out, a lot of people did and got saved that day. And so the church was beginning to grow. And you see On the bottom of page fifteen, starting in the bold here in Acts, in verse 42 of Acts 2. Well, beginning just before that. So then, those who had received his word were baptized, and there were added that day about 3,000 souls. And they were continually devoting themselves to the apostles' teaching and to fellowship in the breaking of bread and prayer. And everyone kept feeling a sense of awe. And wonders and signs were taking place through the apostles. And all those who had believed were together and had all things in common, and they began selling the property and possessions, were sharing them with all, as anyone might have need. And day by day, continuing with one line in the temple and breaking bread from house to house, they were taking their meals together with gladness and sincerity of heart, praising God, and having favor with all the people And the Lord was adding to their number, day by day, those who were being saved. So it started out with um 3,000 souls and it just kept growing. It was it was a strong movement. That was the beginning of the church. God still has had and has a plan for Israel. And we'll talk about that in a few minutes. But that was the beginning. of the church. Okay. Let's go to number four, page sixteen. The church is a unique spiritual organism You ever hear referred to as an organism before? What does organism suggest? Sorry? Parts. Parts. Okay. Living mere composed of a variety of organs Right. So there are organs within well, yeah. An organ so it they're living, growing parts. Yeah. So, you know, organisms can be pretty tiny, but they ca they're also typically growing if they're alive. Right? And of course in that sense, the spiritual sense, the church is alive, growing. Yes? And those parts rely on one another. And they were they're interdependent. Right. Yeah. Lots of good analogies there. Okay, so the church is a unique spiritual organism designed by Christ, made up of all born-again believers in this present age. What do we mean by in this present age? New Testament only. Yes. So it's not saying in this century or in this decade, but in this this As Rex put it, this church age, right? It's the dispensation where God is operating primarily through the church. to accomplish his his um plan of salvation and and so on. So in this present age, as opposed to say uh the age of the law under the Mosaic Law, right? Uh and so on. Okay, so all Bonagin believers in this present age, both in heaven and on earth. Some people in the church have already died, right? In fact, even during the writing of the New Testament time, people had already died who were believers in Christ. And Paul was addressing that very concern among the Thessalonian people in 1 Thessalonians 4. But um and I think we have a reference to that here somewhere. But anyway, um It's a unique spiritual organism. So go down to Ephesians 2, next to last one on the page. Even when we were dead in our transgressions He made us alive together with Christ, by grace we have been saved, and raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places, in Christ Jesus. In order that in the ages to come, he might show the surpassing riches of his grace in kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. So our position is in Christ. We've been baptized into Christ by the Holy Spirit. Our position is With him. Our current experience, of course, is down here. Which would you rather have? That's its own question. Which I would rather be up there, right? My so my experience is matching my position. But God's design is for us, at least for now, to be here and to exercise his design for the church Which includes the propagation of the gospel, the sanctification of believers and and that kind of thing. Okay So we were dead spiritually. He made us alive. And now we're part of the living organism, the church. And top of page seventeen, that last passage there from Revelation nineteen. Let us rejoice. This is in heaven, by the way, before Christ returns, just before Christ returns. Let us rejoice and be glad. And give the glory to him, for the marriage of the Lamb has come, and his bride has made herself ready. And it was given to her to clothe herself in fine linen, bright and clean, for the fine linen is the righteous acts of the saints. Who are the saints? We are true believers in Christ. We're called saints, which means what? Holy ones, because In saving us, all of our sins, past, present, and future, are taken by Christ, and all of His righteousness is given to us Our position in Christ is we're holy. God looks at us, he sees the holiness of Christ, the righteousness of Christ. So he can call us holy ones and he gives us the Holy Spirit to live in us as a down payment of that realizing that position we're already in. So what we see here in Revelation 19 is just before Christ returns to earth in his second coming. We see the uh at least a part of the marriage supper of the Lamb. And so this is the celebration of The uniting in heaven of the church with Christ as its head and likened to a marriage ceremony. Yes, this is after the rapture. So we were already the up there, you know what you're saying. Yeah, we're already there. Yeah. Um What I find interesting, and here we're going to be talking about these last days more extensively later in the quarter, but in Jewish tradition, at least, a marriage celebration lasted a whole week, seven days. And although we're not given specific details in Scripture, this is one of the more clear ones, but it's not all that specific about how long it lasts and when it's happening. But Um th the this is happening in the tribulation period down on earth, while we're up in heaven with Christ. That's a seven year period. The last week of Daniel nine. Um so that wedding ceremony could be happening the whole time up in heaven. Um It's all speculation, but it all fits with with uh Jewish practice Anyway, so you see sort of uh the beginning of the church, you see uh the sort of the culmination of God creating the church as his bride. And as we'll see when we get into Revelation in the last uh part of the quarter, we're going to be returning to earth with him. And reigning with him for a thousand years. And then uh being with him in the new heaven. And new earth forever. Really cool. So um the church had a beginning and its continuation is described in various places like this. Um but God has plans for uh the salvation of others as well. And we'll be talking about that in a few minutes Any other thoughts, questions at this point? No. Um so when when Christ returns, uh when you're talking about after the the tribulation Is that when he shows up on the horse or is that the first one? Yes. Yes. Revelation 19. Okay, good. Yeah. The white horse. Okay, number five, page seventeen. The church is distinct from Israel. A mystery not revealed until this age, that is, the New Testament age, the with the apostles. And so I alluded to that earlier, but let's go into some more detail here and also in the supplemental notes I have starting on the next page. Acts 1. 5. Jesus said during his last resurrection appearance to his disciples. John baptized with water, but you shall be baptized with the Holy Spirit not many days from now. Right? And then In Acts eleven, fifteen and sixteen, he uh the um This is now testimony describing what had happened earlier. And as I began to speak, the Holy Spirit fell upon them just as he did upon us at the beginning. And I remembered the word of the Lord, how he used to say, John baptized with water, but you shall be baptized with the Holy Spirit. And so um uh The mindset of the disciples very naturally presumed that, yes, this is a new The this this body of Christ, the church, um is new, but their presumption was that it was made up of Jews. Even though J Jesus had been clear about it being more than that, their presumption was since the Jews of God's chosen people Um it was just natural for them to assume that um uh at least primarily But possibly most of them were thinking exclusively salvation was for the Jews. And and you know, as you you've read through the book of Acts and you see them struggling with this this notion that Uh first Samaritans could become uh believers, and then later Gentiles And there were several things God had to do to convince them that this was legit. This was God's original plan altogether. Even though Jesus had said to them at this very occasion Um and you shall be my witnesses. And um you shall Um be my witnesses here in Jerusalem and all Judea, which is the province Jerusalem was in, and where next? Samaria Samaria of all places. And where else? The uttermost parts. The uttermost parts of the earth. So it's Jesus was prepping them for the idea that this was going to be universal, worldwide, having nothing to do with, or not exclusively to do with with the Jews. But that, like many th uh things Jesus said to his disciples, that wasn't immediately cooking. Right? And so um Remember the story of of Peter in Joppa and God had to give him a vision of of unclean animals and God saying, Rise, Peter, kill and eat. And Peter naturally thinking this is just a test, he wants to make sure that I can distinguish the clean from the unclean and said, Heaven forbid, Lord, I wouldn't do that. But God kept insisting on it, right? And um He finally got through to him, but he wasn't sure how this was going to play out until some people came from Cornelius. Who were sent, Cornelius being a Gentile centurion, a Roman soldier of all things. Um and were asking they they said that they were told to come to Joppa to find a man named Peter and take him back to Speak with Cornelius. And had Peter not been prepped by the Lord in that vision, he would have thought, get lost, right? But God was showing him that We need to change our mindset here, Peter. Um and so Peter goes with them. And you know how that unfolds. And Peter speaks with them, uh speaks of of uh the gospel of Christ, and They immediately embrace that. And they have the same manifestation of the coming of the Holy Spirit that the Jews did back on the day of Pentecost. And Peter's no rocket scientist, but he can put two and two together here and realize that Yeah. God is is saving them the same way He saved us the same manifestations of it. Um God was doing that as a way to press home to Peter, and then through Peter, the rest of the the the church, believers that salvation is open to anyone, including the Gentiles. And the same thing happened actually with the Samaritans as well. Yeah, Rex was up. Yeah, I was just gonna say the Holy Spirit actually came in three stages. Jews, Samaritans, and then the Gentiles. But the thing I find very interesting, because you got all these people saying that you have to be baptized to be saved In Acts 10 it says, Can any forbid water these that have already received the Holy Spirit? Right. The Gentiles. So they've already received the Holy Spirit, they have been baptized. Right. So they were baptized by the Holy Spirit into the church. Right. And then the next thing is to obey the command to be baptized by water as an outward demonstration of that, an outward testimony of that fact. That's right. So uh that's that's the church, it's universal in its scope All people anywhere who place their faith in Christ come to a saving knowledge of Christ or a part of the church. And right from the very beginning, God made it clear that it was not just the Jews. Um baptism connection. Uh when did the water baptism start you mean? John obviously baptized. I'm not exactly sure when it started, but I do know that at the time of Christ, long before the time of Christ. There was very much a an emphasis on uh symbolic cleansing uh with water And not just a symbolic, you know, washing your hands and and so on, but actually getting immersed in water in what was called a mikbah. And you see unearthed um uh um examples of mikvas or mikvot I guess is the plural uh in Israel. Um It was a very common practice and there were multiple mikvah at the pla at the uh temple, for example. And so people would would prepare themselves to worship the Lord by this cleansing which was w uh understood, I'm pretty sure, that it's symbolic We need to be clean clean in order to come before the Lord. The principle of that was certainly illustrated through all the cleansings that the priests had to do under the Old Testament law. Um but people were taking seriously the need to uh be cleansed. Uh not that the water itself did it, but it's it's symbolic and and having their heart right before uh worship That was something they would do themselves, as opposed to being baptized by someone else. How that you know the first reference we get to baptism is John's baptism. Um but it wasn't a big mystery to people. His was a baptism of repentance. But the It it fit right in sort of with the whole notion of of the need for cleansing. In John's case, in preparation for the Messiah's coming Yes, he was announcing it. But prior to John, just in preparation for their worship and and so on. Um I'm not sure of any history other than that, but that's some of the background. Who's use the bapt baptism? Like John gave, but then who else could give baptism? Um, Before Christ, I don't know of any record other than John the Baptist who baptized. And maybe his disciples helped him with that, depending on the number of people. I don't know Clearly Jesus' disciples did, as we've been seeing in the Gospel of John, right? Even contemporaneous with John the Baptist. But John's bapt John's ministry was decreasing while Jesus' ministry was increasing. Sorry, was there a hand in the back here? Yes. So was the baptism that Christ's disciples were doing that was being discussed in in John and in ch in the Gospel of John, was that also a baptism of repentance or was that kind of Because the disciples were going to that Pentecost baptized was fire. So was their baptism that they were doing in the water during Christ's time, was that also repentance similarly to John the Baptist? Yes Yeah, very similar to the baptism of John. So the first recorded mikveh built was in the first century BC So pretty recent. Fairly recently. Within a hundred years. Sort of recent in overall time. Yeah. Good. Uh now I've lost where we were. Oh we had the the example of Peter going to uh Cornelius and and the gospel coming first to the Samaritans and then to uh Gentiles. And that's what's being referenced here in Acts 11, referring back to that. And Peter, of course, explained all this, and then The other apostles and the church generally at that point realized, oh, now it makes sense. And the rest, as they say, is history. Alright, so I want to read the last two verses here on page seventeen as a segue. In Ephesians 3, and by referring to this, when you read, you can understand my insight into the mystery of Christ. Which in other generations has not was not made known to the sons of men as it has now been revealed to his holy apostles and prophets in the Spirit. To be specific, that the Gentiles are fellow heirs and fellow members of the body and fellow partakers of the promise in Christ Jesus through the gospel. And then Colossians one. Now I rejoice in my sufferings for your sake, and in my flesh I do uh my share on behalf of his body, which is the church, in filling up that which is lacking in Christ's afflictions. Of this church I was made a minister according to the steward the stewardship from God bestowed on me for your benefit, that I might fully carry out the preaching of the Word of God. That is The mystery which has been hidden from past ages and generations, but has now been manifested to his saints, to whom God will make known what is the riches of the glory of the of this mystery among the Gentiles, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory. So We haven't put a lot of detail into our doctrinal statement about this distinction of the church from Israel. So I I've starting on page 18, I've included these supplemental notes to kind of walk through the biblical um teaching on this. And Uh I guess it's not surprising that there's there is substantial confusion about this. Um Um you know, it at at one extreme there are a lot of genuine believers who are convinced that the church has replaced Israel in God's plan of things. And that has that's not not just a theoretical thing, but it has a lot of very practical implications, repercussions even. Um and so it's helpful to to see what scripture actually says here. Um and when I say that they think that the church has replaced Israel Uh after seventy AD, um when um Rome uh destroyed Jerusalem, overtook Israel, scattered into the the the whole known world, all the Jews. It was pretty natural for the church eventually to get to the conclusion that God is done with Israel. If they're not looking at scripture, it would be if they're only looking at current events and the events of the last hundred, two hundred, five hundred years in the early periods AD It would be fairly natural to conclude, well, God's given up on Israel because they forsake they forsook the Messiah. But if you look at Scripture, that's not what you see. And even after Israel returned to the land in the twentieth century Basically 1948, people were taking a second look at this doctrine of was is God uh done with the nation of Israel? And most of them would say, well, that's political, civil Israel, that's not that's not God's people in the sense that he's working through them at all these days. And to some extent that's true. But let's look at what scripture says. If we don't interpret if we don't base our doctrine on current events, but we base our interpretation of current events on scripture. Here's what we come up with. First of all, we start with God's covenant with Abraham. And one of the keys about really most of the covenants God made. You remember the covenants he made? He made one with with Noah? made one with Abraham, he made one with David, and he also uh speaks in the prophets of a new covenant that would happen And we'll talk about that in a minute. But like those covenants, unlike the Mosaic Covenant The one God introduced through the law, right? Unlike that covenant, the Abrahamic covenant is unconditional. God didn't tell Abraham, if you do this, I will do that. That is exactly what he told Moses. But what he told Abraham was, starting from Genesis 12, go forth from your country and from your relatives and from your father's house to the land which I will show you. And I will make you a great nation. I will bless you, and make your name great, so that you shall be a blessing. And I will bless those who bless you, and the one who curses you, I will curse, and in you all the families of the earth will be blessed. Did you see an if there? It's unconditional. Right? God repeated that and expanded on that multiple times to Abraham So we pick it up next in Genesis 15, where kind of look down toward the bottom here. God took him outside and said, Now look toward the heavens and count the stars if you are able to count them. Which of course he wouldn't be able to do. I certainly couldn't. And he said to them, So shall your descendants be. Uncountable. Then he, Abraham, believed in the Lord, that is, he took God at his word, and God reckoned it to him as righteousness. And God said to him, I am the Lord who brought you out of Ur the Chaldeans to give you this land to possess it. So the Abrahamic covenant includes three things. Do you remember what they are? We sort of spoke of them here already. One is many descendants, too many to count. Another is blessing. I'm going to bless the socks off you. And I'm going to bless those who bless you. And third is what? The land, the promised land. Here is the promise. And he got very specific as he goes on here what the confines of that land promise Were. Are. All unconditional. This is what I'm going to do. It's unilateral. It was God's decision, not negotiated. It's unconditional. No if here. God's saying, this is what I'm going to do. This is Plan A. There is no plan B. Whereas with Moses and the law God went to great lengths to illustrate to them, if you obey me, there are all these blessings. If you disobey me, what? All these curses. And he involved all twelve of those tribes. In illustrating those two extremes, or the the two realities, just to um force it into their minds, they're thinking that this is there are high stakes here If we obey God, there's blessing. If we disobey Him, there's curses. And God was very explicit about what those blessings and what those curses would be. Look at Deuteronomy 28. Um and that's not what's happening here with Abraham. There's no blessings and or curses. It's all blessings. There's no, I'll give you many descendants if you obey me. No, this is what I'm going to do I'm just giving you a heads up. Unconditional. And that's key. And you see this trace through through Genesis here. I've got the passages here for you already. He just keeps repeating it with Abraham. And then guess what? He repeats it again with Isaac. He repeats it again with Jacob. The exact same promise. Reinforced, repeated each time, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and each time it's unconditional. So yeah, question. Wasn't Abraham a Gentile at that point? That's an interesting question. Wasn't Abraham a Gentile at that point? Yeah, he was like everybody else. Um in fact, um what was the sign That God gave Abraham the uh perpetual sign that this would be his covenant with Abraham. Circumcision. Circumcision. That was instituted as a sign of the Abrahamic covenant, not the Mosaic Covenant. Um and of course, the name Jews comes from the tribe of Judah. There was no Judah at the time of Abraham. He was one of the sons of Jacob. But then Abraham's descendants and Moses Yeah, well actually Roman sign answers that question. Not all sons of Abraham are Israel. Abraham had other sons. But God chose Isaac, not Ishmael, and even in the next generation he chose uh Jacob instead of Esau. So physical lineage from Abraham is not the key. perpetual uh defining of the nation of Israel coming out of Abraham and the symbol of that uh covenant is circumcision. Uh but there are a lot of other descendants of Abraham who God well God told um Abraham, that even Ishmael would be a great uh a father of twelve nations, I think is what it was put. Uh God had plans for those people as well, but um Um yeah, so not not everybody who's descended from Abraham is part of that covenant. But everybody who is part of that covenant um is either a physical descendant of Abraham, or as Paul tells us in Galatians And and in Romans that um there are spiritual descendants. I mean we're sort of participating in the blessings God promised to Abraham because we're in Christ. So that that's the same blessing that we are getting also? We're we're sharing in it, that's right. That also applies to us too. Um to us as individuals, yeah I wouldn't read into it too much But we're participating in the how how did God bless the world through Abraham? Mostly it's through the Messiah. Right. So there are there are physical blessings that God's promising here, but there are also spiritual blessings. Um God making a way for people to come back into relationship with Him. And yes, He's going to be using The nation of Israel, starting with Abraham, but uh it's open for the whole world Oh. Oh I I was gonna say I think Paul uses that as an example of um how God has sovereignty and election later as Uh God chooses who is a blessed. Just like he didn't make everyone a j you know, through the line of Abraham. Right. Right. That's Romans nine. Yep. Yeah. Real quick, uh Abraham he mentions the Gentile. He was actu he was a Shemite, which at that time was a Gentile, but it's it's a particular type. He's from the Shemites. The the Lion Shem. Yes. What's interesting is that most of the Arabs now trace their lineage back to Shem. And so they wouldn't be anti-Semitic technically, because they are Semitic Anyway. Uh so first of all, God's covenant with Abraham was unconditional. So what are the implications of that? You can't do anything to change it. Yeah, it it is what it is. God says, I'm going to do it. And so If God makes that promise, and the New Testament refers to his promises as being, you know, then it's a covenant, um It's immutable. Yeah. Doesn't change. Um it doesn't mean that there would be uh other other things happening simultaneous with this covenant, but uh the idea that God would give up on the Jews because they were disobedient Well that's that's partly true. He punished them, he gave them all those curses because they didn't obey him under the law But that didn't have any impact on the Abrahamic covenant. And Paul makes that point in um We'll get to it in Galatians. It's part C and 19. But before we get to Part C, let's go to part B, page nineteen. All aspects of the fulfillment of this covenant with Abraham, including the geographic inheritance, will be fulfilled in the millennium. Ezekiel 47. Thus says the Lord God, this shall be the boundary by which you shall divide the land for an inheritance among the twelve tribes of Israel. And he's speaking here of not uh soon to be events. I mean he's he's speaking while they're in exile in Babylon, but he's it's very clear uh as you read Ezekiel forty seven, forty eight, that he's speaking of an even future time, future to us time. This should be the boundary by which you divide the land of inheritance among the twelve tribes of Israel. Joseph shall have two portions, and you shall divide it for inheritance, uh one equally with the other, for I swore to give it to your forefathers, and this land shall fall uh to you as an inheritance. And it gets very specific about the boundaries of that land. That is not A description of the current boundaries of the nation of Israel at all. In fact, it never has been the boundaries of the land of Israel. And interestingly, as you read through uh the the prophecies about this future time with Israel on the land and dividing up the land among the twelve tribes, um It it speaks of them being very uh equal in in size and and so on. But anyway. And it's very specifically Israel, it's very specifically uh on the land. But let's go to item C here. It, that is, the m the covenant with Abraham was not superseded By the Mosaic covenant, which was conditional and temporary. So Galatians 3, Paul says, Brethren, I speak in terms of human relations. Even though it is only a man's covenant, yet when it has been ratified, no one sets it aside or adds conditions to it. So that's that's the example from just our human experience. If you have a um uh a covenant with someone. uh a mortgage or uh whatever the contract is, right? Uh once it's been ratified, no one sets it aside or adds conditions to it. Now, the promises were spoken to Abraham and to his seed. He does not say, and to seeds, referring to many, but rather to one. And to your seed, that is Christ. What I'm saying is this: the law, which came 430 years later, after the Abrahamic covenant, Does not invalidate a covenant previously ratified by God so as to nullify the promise. For if the inheritance is based on law, it is no longer based on a promise. But God has granted it to Abraham by means of a promise, an unconditional promise. So yes, there were curses for disobeying God in the law, but that had no bearing on the continuity of the Abrahamic covenant. And we're running out of time here, but the point is that Israel didn't forfeit the blessings promised to Abraham because of their national disobedience The church is not Plan B, as if he discarded Israel. God is not done with Israel, and you will see that he's going to raise up a remnant to be saved. There are many, in fact this church began with salvation of Jews, right? And it continues today, although it expands to non-Jews as well. God made unconditional promises to Israel that are not yet fulfilled. If you look at the prophets of Jeremiah, Ezekiel, Daniel, and then fulfilling in Revelation Very specifically, there are things that God is going to do, he's already prophesied, going to do for ethnic Israel. And um and something of a of a mystery here, Paul, on page twenty-nine sorry, twenty-one. Um makes there are several references to God grafting Israel or the Church and Israel into one people of God. Um they're still distinct, but they're grafted together. And God has plans for the church, God has plans for Israel. And fortunately, in eternity, we're going to be sharing the same blessings. together. That and by Israel I'm referring to believing Israel, not not is that your question? Yeah. Um believing Israel, not political, cultural, civil Israel. But from each tribe. Revelation is clear there's going to be uh many from each tribe who are saved Heavy stuff, but very important. Read through the details, but we need to close the prayer