Okay, so we're on lesson eleven today, page one oh three in the notes. Sanctification. Sanctification. Um what does sanctification mean? To be declared holy? Mmm, that's interesting. Set apart. The process of becoming more Christ-like and being set apart Okay, these things are all connected, very much so. Um and they all have to do with holiness. The sanct in sanctification is from that um well we we have terms like sanctuary. Sanctity, uh sanctimonius, sanctum, inner sanctum And even Sanctus. And what? Sanctus. Sanctus. That's Latin, right? Yeah, it's all coming from the Latin word for what? Holy. And what does holy mean? Set apart, right? Um God is purely holy And he says, you shall be holy because I am holy, right? Completely set apart from sin, pure, holy, moral purity. The word saint has the same root. Um what does saint mean Holy one? Holy one. Yeah. So what we're talking about here is holiness, uh, at its root is God's holiness. Right? But and of course in our natural state, we are just the opposite. We're not holy. Um but upon salvation two things happen with regard to our holiness. One Is covered here in the first section. Every believer is sanctified, set apart unto God. By justification. We talked about justification, which is what? Being declared righteous, having right standing before God. It's a judicial declaration. And when does that happen? The moment of salvation, right? So every believer is sanctified, set apart unto God, by justification Is therefore declared to be holy, which is why we can be called saints, and is therefore identified as a saint. This sanctification is positional and instantaneous and should not be confused with progressive self-sanctification, which is what we normally think about when we think of Sanctification is a process, but positional sanctification is a process that's instantaneous at the moment of salvation. So it's not really a process. It's it's a it's a being uh placed into Christ into the body of Christ, and so our position is secure in Christ. As we'll see, several passages in the New Testament speak of this in the past tense, logically, because it's already happened at the moment of salvation. Most of the references to sanctification as a process, of course, the word sanctification implies process We are sanctified at the moment of salvation, but we're becoming sanctificated. We're in the process of sanctification. From then on. From the moment of salvation on. I have a question before you go any further. When you are instantly brought in through the through the Holy Spirit, isn't it done by Jesus Christ? races. I mean no one is born like that. You have to be you have to be brought into by the Holy Spirit. Yes. Yes, so yeah, so um When we're saved, right, at the moment of salvation, we're we're um uh trusting in Christ alone for our salvation and his payment of our sins on on our behalf. Um that moment of salvation, many things happened to us. One of which Of course, is we are justified. We are declared righteous by God through the blood of Christ But another thing that happens is several things the Holy Spirit does. One of them is He seals us. He places us into the body of Christ. He seals us. It's a done deal. But God also sanctifies us positionally at that point. at the point of salvation. And so let's read a couple of verses about that. The first one here. 1 Corinthians 1, 2. Where Paul is introducing his letter. He says it's to the church of God, which is at Corinth, to those who have been sanctified in Christ Jesus Saints by calling. All who were in every place call upon the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, their Lord and ours, and so on. So he's just affirming here. Here he's writing this letter of great correction to the church in Corinth. But he gets right off at the beginning. He calls them saints, sanctified. Done deal. They're placed in Christ. They are positionally holy, like every believer who comes to Christ. What's their problem? Their experience hasn't matched up to their position, and that's no different from us. Right? We're still a work in process. And that process is, we call it, scripture calls it sanctification. I kind of like to call it holyfication. We become more and more holy. Literally, that's what it means. Um but let's look at uh chapter six verse eleven, uh where he talks about a a long list of of um Very obvious heinous sins. And it says, such were some of you. You were like that. But you were washed. But you were sanctified. You were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and in the Spirit of our God. So um It's significant that these particular passages are in First Corinthians um being quite a letter of of In many cases rebuke, but certainly correction, all the the many uh errors and and so on that they were uh enmeshed in But he's very clear that they're sanctified. They are holy positionally. They're with Christ, and as any believer is And so their position is holy, and Paul's writing to help them in that process of becoming more and more holy in their experience. Okay. So that's important. So when we speak of the process of sanctification It's it's not a question of hoping that I will be sanctified, but we already have been sanctified. What you know God could have designed the whole salvation thing such that uh at the moment of salvation we're completely holy. Sanctified even in our experience. How many would have voted for that? But he didn't, right? It's true that positionally we're in Christ. Uh we're we're um we're completely holy, but there is this process that he has designed To make us progressively holy. And let's take a look at that here in number two. There's also, by the work of the Holy Spirit, a progressive sanctification By which the believer is brought into greater obedience to the Word of God and is characterized by growing empowerment by the Holy Spirit. The believer thus is able to live a life of increasing holiness in conformity to the will of God, becoming more and more like our Lord Jesus Christ. So you remember when we talked about the three aspects of salvation? The first part is what? Justification, which is what? Salvation from the penalty of sin. Here we're talking about sanctification, which is salvation from the power of sin over us And we'll eventually talk about glorification, which is salvation from the mere presence of sin. Looking forward to that? Amen. This is speaking very much of salvation. The salvation that God has wrought is happening It has happened, it is happening, and will happen. There are those three dimensions to it. This is the part where the implications of our salvation are worked out in our daily lives. Becoming more and more holy. You know? Yeah. Just thinking about the connection between the positional sanctification and progressive. I think it's hard for us m so many times to really accept that positional sanctification, knowing that in our experience And it's a slow trip, huh? It is. And I think It's important for us to again be reminded of the fact that as we are declared to be righteous, at the same time we were made to be holy And I think Second Corinthians five seventeen is such a critical verse to understand that because you know to be the to be uh made a new creature in Christ Gives us that promise that one day when glorification does take place, it won't be a shock to us. It'll be a natural outcome of what happens When a person who's been made holy is being made holier until the point where sin is no more. And I think we just we struggle with that. Um especially when we uh struggle with the day to day living situation of being in this world. um say, woe is me, I guess I'm just not good enough, or God isn't working fast enough, or there must be something that I've And uh and and sometimes there are times when we're um not cooperating with that sanctification process. And he has some work to do in us, right? To be more moldable, more to be made more holy. We're gonna talk about that. Um But we ought not to despair because our position is secure. It's in Christ, it's holy as God is holy. Um and that's actually one reason I believe that the Holy Spirit Can take up residence in the life of a believer because our position is holy. And that doesn't happen. Well, um Yeah, you can get into some of the temporary manifestations of the Holy Spirit, like in the Old Testament times, but among believers, He takes up residence. He indwells us. And we're going to talk about some of the implications of that in a few minutes too. Yeah, Clint. Um just to comment that in no way in our desire or our work or our um sanctification process does that make us any more desirable or lovable by god to God. But He loves us fully, He's given us our love, and that's where that's where that positional hope And because he's he's committed to our being holy. He doesn't give up on us. And that process is sovereignly uh arranged for each of us We're going to talk more about how the Holy Spirit is very much a part of the progress of that sanctification. But even though it's it's it's sovereignly um orchestrated and and moved along, we have to cooperate with it. And we've got we have commands to cooperate with that process. Good. So speaking of commands, look at Romans 6, the first passage there. Do not let sin reign in your mortal body, that you should obey its lusts. And do not go on presenting the members of your body to sin as instruments of unrighteousness But present yourselves to God as those alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness to God, for sin shall not be a master over you, for you are not under law, but under grace. And then later in chapter twelve, the next passage here, and do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your minds, that you may prove what the will of God is, that which is good and acceptable. And perfect. And then uh the next one down, Ephesians four. Could someone read that for us? That in reference to your former manner of life, you lay aside the old self, which is being corrupted in accordance with the lusts of deceit. and that you be renewed in the spirit of your mind and put on a new self, which is in the likeness of God, which in the likeness of God has been created in righteousness and holiness of the truth. So you can see from all of these passages that we have a role to play. It doesn't just happen to us. uh we have a role to play. We need to put off and put on, right? We need to um obey and and so on But the enabling power to do that comes not from ourselves, but from the Holy Spirit. That's one reason He indwells us to sanctify us. The next one's interesting, 2 Corinthians 3. Now the Lord is the Spirit, and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty. But we all, with unveiled face, beholding as in a mirror the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from glory to glory, just as from the Lord the Spirit Being transformed. That has a passive tone to it, doesn't it? We're being transformed. It's the work of God. And yet we're commanded to cooperate with that. We need to obey. We need to put off the old things and put on the new things. And yet this is a work of God in us, just like the work of justification was a work of God in us. The work of sanctification is as well. Galatians 5, 16. But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not carry out the desires of the flesh. That sounds pretty easy. Wha what does it mean to walk by the Spirit? Simple, doesn't it? Simple to understand. What does it mean to walk by the Spirit? Obey God. Being obedient, uh doing the the uh what scripture requires of us, yes. um the beat or um where you're go where the subject is going. uh walking in the light. It talks about a total lifestyle. So like probably it talks about the feet of those who are quick to shed blood. It's not like one time they went and shed blood. They were swift in that Is it lifestyle of shedding blood? So when he says walk by the spirit, your lifestyle should be that you're submitting to the spirit and all things like Grace said. So it's a uh process, a walk is a process, one step at a time, right? And likewise in our sanctification, it's one step at a time. It's not instantaneous. This aspect of sanctification. is not instantaneous. The process of becoming more holy in our experience is step by step by step. And each of those steps requires that obedience and that submission that we've talked about. Yeah. I don't think we feel like talking about things education and like step by step, walking in with the Holy Spirit. You can kind of compare it to like being in school, you know, from kindergarten to twelfth grade. Like you start with very simple stuff and slowly progressively gets harder. I think that's even similar with like right when you become a believer. You know, if God gives you kind of like more of the simpler stuff, can you do this, do this, and then progressively like you know, continues to sanctify us, but um you know, I think it kind of builds on itself as we walk through our life with Christ. So definitely a Yeah, there are references in scripture of that very process where um the the people are chided for not being mature enough to handle I mean you you should be at the point where you can handle meat and yet you're still on milk Yeah, it's a process. Just like just like uh the way we grow physically. And yeah. So what's the difference in being transformed And then First Corinthians says uh those two of us who are being saved It's the same thing, right? So salvation has a past aspect, justification. And at the same time, positional sanctification were made holy. But then there's a process of salvation, the outworking of that justification is becoming more and more holy. That's this process of sanctification. And that's a process of individually being saved from the power of sin over us. So that aspect of salvation is progressive. And then the future happens also at a point in time, that's glorification, when we're separated from sin completely and forever So I I would I would think that when it's he he's referring to being saved and being transformed, it's speaking of that same process of our our um um experience, our current reality conforming progressively to our position. I think too it's it's this is hard to understand, but I think it's understanding that as we work out our salvation with fear and trembling, we're at the same time recognizing that he that work within us both to will and to work his good pleasure. Right. Kind of like Paul in Galatians 2. 20, when I've been crucified with Christ, I no longer live The life I live in, I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. There's an aspect in there where at the same time I recognize that there's this spiritual transformation that has taken place and is taking place, at the same time I'm cooperating with that. I don't know how you explain that. It sounds oftentimes like Paul is being schizophrenic. You know, the way that he's explaining it is like, yeah, God's doing this, but I'm doing it. I think it's through recognizing that that is what's happening in a person's life because at the same time we we have been saved, we are being saved. And we will be six. So uh and and because of that, you know, as we understand the dynamics of justification And we've talked extensively about that, that um it's all of God. And yet we have a responsibility to respond, right? We can't respond on our own logic, our own initiative, our own um strength, he gives us the enablement the faith, the repentance. So that we can respond and will respond. Um so yes we have a role, it's all of God, but we have to respond appropriately. He gives us the enablement to respond. The exact same thing is happening in sanctification. It's all about God. He's making us more like Christ. Yet we need to cooperate with that. He gives us the enablement, the Holy Spirit, to cooperate with. Um so that's our role, but if we don't do that part, that goal, then what becomes of it? We are not trying to be sanctified, we're not trying to work out our salvation. What what's Okay. Think about the same question when it comes to justification. What happens if someone doesn't respond? to the gift of salvation. Well the reason they didn't respond Because they never were saved. God hasn't given them the faith and repentance to respond. And so they may understand some things in their head. But they're not responding in saving faith and repentance because God hasn't enabled them to. Same thing could be happening if they think they are saved. But they're really not. They're not going to be cooperating well with God's process to sanctify them. It's the same thing with the um the parable of the soils And when you see the last soil producing fruit, a harvest, thirty-four, thirty-sixty, hundredfold, you realize they've responded But the previous soils haven't responded. And why did the fourth soil respond so well? They were prepared by the farmer. This is the where I'm I want the seeds to produce fruit. Right? So we're going to use a different parable. He's going to use the parable of the talents, where you have the one guy with the five who like multiplies that by a lot and is raised for that. You have the one guy with two who doesn't do as much as the first guy, but he still does well. And But then you have the one who does nothing and just buries it in the ground, doesn't even like let it accrue interest. And he and He's clearly singled out as somebody who wasn't even trying. So I think that's like a little bit more towards your question, but that's the way he's not even trying to make any progress towards sanctification. He's just not responding to the call at all. And it's it's um it seems to be a good indication that that person never was saved to begin with. Where would you fit um seasons of uh wrestling with God or doubting or maybe angry at God within Good question. Good question. Um let's go to section three on page one oh four. There's several things we want to be sure to cover here. But it says every saved person is involved in a daily conflict. The new creation in Christ doing battle against the flesh, but adequate provision is made for victory through the power and indwelling Holy Spirit The struggle nevertheless stays with the believer all through this earthly life and it's never completely ended. So there's a struggle just by the very nature of Holyfication. Uh there's a struggle there. Why is there a struggle? We're still we are saved, but our our um Um our fleshly desires still crop up, don't they? Uh the temptations of of Satan still attack us. Um the the lure of the world out there lures us tries to lure us away. We've got all these things that are that are um doing battle against us. And you know you read Ephesians six and you see the armor we're supposed to be wearing Uh but sometimes we let down our guard. Um and sometimes those temptations, those those um uh lures, allurements of the world, whatever they are, they may for a season um trip us up. So what do we do about that? And what happens if we don't if we linger at dealing with that? Let's keep reading. We read earlier, but I say walk by the Spirit, and you will not carry out the desire of the flesh. For the flesh sets its desire against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh. Galatians 5. For these are in opposition to one another, so that you may not do the things that you please. So we walk by the Spirit. That involves Submitting to the Holy Spirit, His leading, His enablement, which gives rise to um Setting our desire against the flesh so that we won't do the things that we please. But how do we do that? Let's go back to Romans 8, the second one on your list here. So then, brethren, we are under obligation not to the flesh, to live according to the flesh. For if you are living according to the flesh, you must die. But if by the Spirit you are putting to death the deeds of the body, you will live. What is our role? By the Spirit, by His enablement, His leading, putting to death the deeds of the body, the whatever would be dishonoring to God. I want to continue building on that question though, but I want to also follow the outline uh somewhat here. Um That's funny? Yes. I think I think it's so important to recognize like it says that um there's power of the inwelling holy spirit because before Christ We're absolutely powerless. We're slaves to sin. There's nothing we can do to escape our sinful inclination. But when we're saved, we're giving the kids us power. I mean this is the Holy Spirit that has a Right. And so we're no longer slaves to sin. We have this battle and we can't forget that, but every day we're battling our flesh because our neural inclination is a slip away. Back into flesh. And so if we're struggling with God, with who he is, angry or something like that, we should logically know that the problem is ours because we know he's perfectly And so our mind is transforming. And so like Roman talked about, we we've got to be in this. Because this is the only way to renew and transform our minds and that's the way this is what the world will use in order to change that is to continue to give us free access to that power of Holy Spirit and not have it be blocked Right. Well, we're walking in our trying to walk in our own flesh. Right. And so you remember from the um the um the spiritual armor in Ephesians six. Um you you've got the helmet of salvation and the the What is the sword of the spirit? That's the word of God. Is that an offensive weapon or a defensive weapon? It's both. Yeah. Pretty much everything else there is armor that's defensive. Uh I guess you can maybe w sw whack at somebody with a shield, but mostly it's the it's the sword that's offensive, but it's also defensive against the attacks of of uh um the evil one. Um and he's powerful. And the same power that raised Christ from the dead is a working up. We need to cooperate with him. And we're gonna we're gonna talk in just a few minutes about what cooperating with him means. But Uh yeah, that's all good. Glad um I think I know the answer to the question. I believe I do, but It kind of makes me think, why didn't God just take us? And zap us. And as soon as He is sanctified us, take us to be with with him. Why didn't he do that? Okay, what's your answer? Well I believe that the the confuses of us a purpose. He purposed for for us to stay here in these bodies of death for his purposes, for for us to do good works, for us to follow him, for us to obey, because we've now given the ability to do so And also to be his ambassador so we would then instead of him having to use donkeys or goats or even uh uh rocks or whatever which he could do. Um he would he desired to to use us for his purposes. So And what does all that result in Yeah. He's more glorified b uh both um in our hearts and in the the lives of fellow believers, but it's a testimony to the the world out there when they see A transformation in life that can be explained no other way than but God is at work in that person. You remember Jesus said in the Sermon on the Mount, um, let your li w let your um Is it light or works? Shine. Light, I guess. Let your light shine among men that they may see your good works and what? Glorify your Father who's in heaven. Um so I Yeah, it would be so much easier from our perspective for him to just take us away immediately. I I say that just to give us sort of uh a great hope and a great a great um a joy in the purpose that he has for us, even in our struggle with sin. Right. But the joy is that we're struggling. Yeah. Well the the joy is that he's showing how he can overcome it. Right. And we can even look back and say, wow, you know, I he's done a lot of work in me, even in spite of my impatience and and and and and so on. But I can look back and see definitely he has made me more like Christ than I was when I got saved. Um I and You know, it's sort of like the Apostle Paul. Some people have noted that in his early epistles, he's defending his apostleship. And then later on he's saying he's the least of the apostles, and toward the end of his life, he's the foremost of all sinners. What's happening? Mature. It's maturing. The more mature the the the more you've overcome sin, the more of a sinner you realize you are still. There's still work to be done. Right? Um But that brings God's glory. As as lives are being transformed before our very eyes, and it can be explained in no other way than that God is at work in that person That's glorifying to God. And you know, a good example in the Bible is uh Job. God believed in testing you. And he does. And he is the one that comes forward that into how we want us to be through the Holy Spirit. God is perfect and holy in all its way. And that's why sin is his purpose. And if I can suggest to you read Jim, because it took Satan to come into Jesus Christ presence and accent could he do what he did to him If if we all can write a book of how we were before we became to learn about Jesus Christ we would have a best uh so I'm just saying read until if you have time, okay. Real good. Well, let's go to we're we're we're getting there. Um top of page one hundred five, number four. All claims to the eradication of sin. What do we mean by eradication of sin? It's possible to be sinless. So that would be to eradicate, to get rid of all sin. All claims to that in this life are unscriptural. Eratification of sin is not possible, but the Holy Spirit does provide for victory over sin. And so You're talking practically in this verse, is that correct? Uh yes, however Um let's see this first and then we're gonna flip to number five to see what the balance here is. Um So in Ecclesiastes 7, indeed there is not a righteous man on earth who continually does good and never sins. Just a general uh principle. But look down at Romans six. Here in in Romans, Paul has laid the foundation for our justification is by grace, not by works, and um God pronounces us um um the righteous to have right standing before him. And so he's asking the the natural question. So um are we to continue in sin that grace might increase? Wouldn't that be wouldn't that be great? God shedding all his grace on us. So let's sin some more so that he can show his grace on us. And Paul's saying, wait a minute, never may it never be How shall we who died to sin still live in it? Or do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ, Jesus, have been baptized into his death? Therefore, we have been buried with him through baptism into death, in order that as Christ was raised from the dead, through the glory of the Father, so we too might walk in ewness of life. For if we have become united with him in the likeness of his death, certainly we shall be also in the likeness of his resurrection, knowing this, that our old self was crucified with him, that our body of sin might be done away with That we should no longer be slaves of sin. So there are things that are true about us, We are positionally we're in Christ, we're positionally uh holy, and so we ought to have every motive in the world To live according to that. Now we can't do that in our own strength, but uh we should cooperate right with the Holy Spirit's efforts to make us more and more That little phrase that our body of sin might be done away with sounds like eradication But it's really progressive. We're becoming more and more holy. Right. Right. And we need to get our thinking straight, that we're no longer slaves to sin. We're freed from sin. And so it's not that we're not going to sin, it's that we it's not that we're sinless, but we're sinning less and less as we cooperate with the Holy Spirit's work in our lives. We're no longer enslaved. Enslaved. Where we have no choice. Correct. Yeah. Okay. Uh let's go down to um Philippians 3. A fourth from the bottom. Paul here in Philippians 3, one of my favorite passages. Um he you know, he starts out by saying um what his credentials are in in Judaism And but he says all that is just rubbish compared with knowing Christ. And then he says n and he he talks about um laying hold of that salvation. But he says, here in starting verse 12, not that I've already obtained it or have already become perfect. But I press on in order that I may lay hold of that for which also I was laid hold of by Christ Jesus. Brethren, I do not regard myself as having laid hold of it yet. That is fully fully uh experience that holiness. But one thing I do, forgetting what lies behind and reaching forward to what lies ahead So what lies behind was my life of sin. Reaching forward to what lies ahead, what's that? Ultimately our glorification, our the fulfillment of our salvation. So I press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. So, yes, we need to press on. Can we do that in our own strength and power and wisdom? No. That's why he's given us the Holy Spirit. And what's interesting here at the bottom of page one hundred five, first John one eight, if we say that we have no sin, we are deceiving ourselves, and the truth is not in us. And then in uh verse 10. If we say that we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us. And do you remember the verse between those two? Between verse eight and verse ten? Yeah, if we confess our sins, he is faithful and righteous to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness, right? So, sin is a reality, uh, and that's the segue to number five here on page 106. True believers can and do sin and act carnally. What what does carnal mean? Fleshly. You know, um If you know Spanish, Carne? What is carne? Meat. Meat, flesh. Um Yeah, and the incarnation, right? That's Christ taking on human flesh. Incarnation. That's a carn mess. Carnival, by the way. Flesh food That's where it comes from. Wow. Such sinful actions and attitudes do not indicate a lack of salvation, but rather the reality of indwelling sin remaining in the believer. True believers, however, due to the new birth, and that new birth comes with it, the indwelling of the Holy Spirit, the empowering of the Holy Spirit, the sovereign work of God to sanctify us. Therefore, the true believer will not continually as will not live continually as unbelievers. But will evidence the new birth by attitudes and actions of love and righteousness. So The wrong picture here is that God has saved me and I need to work out my salvation on my own. As we saw earlier, it's God who is at work in you. Therefore, work out your salvation with fear and trembling, right? So the right picture is He has saved us and he has empowered us with the Holy Spirit dwelling in us To overcome sin. Not that we're going to be perfect at it all the time, and particularly not at the beginning, as we mature, what's going to happen? things that we used to do without really thinking about it now we're avoiding because we're more mature. Uh we know where that goes and We've had victory there, but guess what? There are more battles we need to continue to fight. And we're able to have victory because God doesn't give up on that sanctification process. It's not that justification is a work entirely of God, and sanctification is a work entirely of man. Uh-uh. No way. Both are by grace through faith, both justification and sanctification. It's by God's grace and the enabling of the Holy Spirit and our obedience. And he even enables us to obey. You know, the last verse, well, the last two, Oh, wretched man that I am, oh who shall deliver me from the body of his death, and I thank God through Jesus Christ our Lord, so then with the mind I myself serve the law of God, but with the flesh the law of sin. Then 8. 1, the beautiful verse of 8. 1, that there is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ, he is to walk Not after the flesh, but after the stew. Amen. God doesn't save us just to watch us wallow in our misery Right? He's active in that process of sanctification. He doesn't just zap us with it. We have to cooperate. But it's not all on us. And the Holy Spirit has a central role and um we've got time. Let's just continue it through this section. We'll get there on that. Look at the second uh the third passage there, 1 Corinthians 3. Paul's writing and brethren, I and I made slight reference to this earlier. Um I brethren could not speak to you. These are people remember we read in the first second verse, chapter one, he's calling them uh saints, uh sanctified. Right? These are true, genuine believers that he recognizes them as that. But he says, I could not speak to you as to spiritual men And in the previous chapter, he makes it clear that there's this distinction between the natural and the spiritual people. And he says, this is not right. I should be speaking to you as spiritual people, but um uh but rather I have to speak to you as men of the flesh, as to bates in Christ. So what he's meaning is that you're you're acting no more mature than you were when you came to Christ. Whereas by this time, um you ought to be able to understand and apply uh things of the spirit better, but uh I need to address you just as if you were just fresh coming out of uh a life of of the flesh. I gave you milk to drink, not solid food, for you were not yet able to receive it. Indeed, even now you're not yet able. Is that a rebuke? You bet. For you are still fleshly carnal. For since there is jealousy and strife among you, He's kind of introducing some of the topics he's he's going to cover here. Are you not fleshly? Are you not walking like mere men? When one says, I am of Paul, and another says I am of Apollos, are you not mere men? You're not putting your spiritual Thinking cat on here. And so he's rebuking them because they haven't been cooperating with the Holy Spirit's work to mature them. And um that's a rebuke they needed to hear, for sure. If you look at top of the next page, 107, 1 Corinthians 11, same book. But in giving this instruction instruction, I do not praise you because you come together not for this is now the context is coming together for the Lord's Supper. And worship, I do not praise you because you come together not for the better, but for the worse. For in the first place, when you come together as a church, I hear that divisions exist among you And in part, I believe it. For there must also be factions among you, in order that those who are approved May have become evident among you. Therefore, when you meet together, it is not to eat the Lord's supper, for in your eating each one takes his own supper first. And one is hungry and another is drunk. What? Do you not have houses in which to eat and drink? Do you not or or do you despise the Church of God and shame those who have nothing? What shall I say to you? Shall I praise you? In this I will not praise you. So it's again another rebuke of their thinking in a very worldly, fleshly way when Um they ought to be cooperating with the Holy Spirit's work in them. And I'm pretty sure that his conviction wasn't the first conviction, his uh rebuke wasn't the first thing that convicted them The Holy Spirit was, they were genuinely Christians. The Holy Spirit was already convicting them, but they weren't cooperating. They weren't responding. And he's rebuking them for that. And then the next passage, the one that Pastor Mike mentioned earlier. Therefore, if any man is in Christ, he is a new creature. The old things passed away. Behold, new things have come. These passages are really good, but I wanted to um go to 1 John, page 108, the second passage down. If you know that he, God, is righteous, you know that everyone also who practices righteousness is born of him. And then the next passage, 1 John 3. No one who abides in him sins. Really? No one who sins has seen him or knows him. Little children, let no one deceive you. The one who practices righteousness is righteous. Just as he is righteous, Christ. The one who practices sin is of the devil For the devil has sinned from the beginning. The Son of God appeared for this purpose that he might destroy the works of the devil. No one who is born of God practices sin, because his seed Abides in him. And he cannot sin because he is born of God. By this, the children of God and the children of the devil are obvious. Anyone who does not practice righteousness is not of God, nor the one who does not love his brother. So, no one who abides in him sins. No one who sins has seen him or knows him. Doesn't that suggest that if we sin We're not saved. But read it in context. Um we read earlier, just a few chapter a couple of chapters earlier, where it says, um we all sin. Right? Uh and here he's saying that uh an if anyone who anyone who abides in him sins, no one who abides in him sins, no one who sins has seen him or knows him. So what does it mean? Look, continue down where it says, the one who practices sin is of the devil. The one who practices righteousness is righteous. What does practice mean? Over and over, continual. If you're unrepentant and you know that what you're doing is wrong and you're still doing it, that's the difference Yeah. So um you can think of practicing sin As being characterized by sin. What kind of person is characterized by sin? That's their life. An unbeliever. That's what he's saying. And if you as a believer are being characterized by sin, and people look at you and they say, Oh, that's a sinful person, um then they would have every right to question whether you're even saved. However, if the sin that is inevitable in all of us is not what characterizes us And we're not sinless, but we're sinning less and less and less. We're not practicing sin as a way of life We're practicing walking by the Spirit so that we He can overcome that sin. You know, it talks about a lifestyle, right? The practicing is lifestyle Yeah, so I agree. Yeah. So if our lifestyle is inconsistent with righteousness, I mean completely inconsistent with righteousness Then um you're probably not saved. But if our lifestyle is one of Submitting to the Lord, doing battle with sin under the power of the Holy Spirit, growing, maturing, those things that bring glory to God during the here and now Um yes, we're doing battle with sin. Uh we've got a lot of baggage that God has to work on. But we're not characterized. We're not practicing sin as a lifestyle. Let's say all the others attempt, like say stealing, murder, or uh covers in all the sin, we know that it's sin, so we want to shun from it. But then homosexuality of so called Christian homosexuals, they said even though this was sin, they're still practicing in this And that's why it's more specifically. Yeah, and and so when we practice sin, we m when we make sin a lifestyle choice, what are we doing? We're we're um uh rebelling against God. Right. Yeah. Uh I was just gonna make a point there because like then's also that they're denying God's word. They would say if you ask like a gay Christian, they would say that's not sensible. They would say that God the Bible is wrong So like that is kind of the root of the problem right there. But then there's also there is also a distinction to be made because there are people who live incredibly simple lives and then they get saved. And then they are genuinely saved, but people looking at stuff they did or said five years ago, ten years ago, and still saying you can't be redeemed from that. And like that's a different conversation. It's one it's one thing if they continue in that thin and still try to say they're saved. It's another thing if they repent Uh and then there are people who like are gay, they do have that sin and they reject it and they d they acknowledge that it's sin and they refuse to participate in it. And those are some of the people who are who argue the most about people like trying to be progressive Christians and saying that it's not a sin. Back in the same book book of First Corinthians, chapter six, and we just read the verse. Paul said that um Uh we didn't read all the sins that he listed there, but he said, Such were some of you, but now you've been washed. You're you're sanctified, right? You're new people So one of the things that, and this is maybe a good transition here, one of the things that all of us do from time to time Is we rationalize our sin. Everybody else is doing it, or Everyone's not things when they're young. Or w some excuse, right? Um or the Holy Spirit convicts us of a particular sin and and if our first response is You've never convicted me of that in the past. Well, that's the whole point. This is now when you need to deal with it. He's been patient with you so far. But um When we rationalize our sin, what are we doing? We're making excuses, we're pushing away God's uh the Holy Spirit's work. We're calling him a liar. Um it's ultimately disbelief. It's rebellion. Can any of us do that? Yeah, we probably do it a lot. But if we're submitted to Christ, if we're submitted to the Holy Spirit, we're submitted to the Word of God, What happens? He he doesn't give up on us. He is patient. He is um I don't know if we've talked about this yet, but you look at the various places in Scripture where someone sees the holiness of God, like Isaiah 6. Revelation 1. Even Peter in the boat, Depart from me, Lord, for I am a sinful man. Um the the natural response of anyone confronted with the pure holiness of God is to fall down a said man. Now why don't we do that right now? We're not as acutely aware of our sin. That's still there. If he were to come here in his glory right now, we would all fall down the deadband, not just because it's it's an abnormal vision and sight, but we're aware of our sinfulness. Because of his holiness. How does God make us more and more holy? He sovereignly, progressively Convicts us of sin. Who convicts us of sin? The Holy Spirit. That's one of his jobs. And Does he convict us of all that sin immediately? We couldn't handle it, right? So what does he do? He sovereignly says, okay, Alan, you need to See this, you know that's wrong, don't you? And he enables me to respond how? In faith and obedience. Putting off and putting on And to the extent that that is put behind me, that sin, what just happened, I'm getting progressively more like Christ. Right? Look at the supplemental notes here on page 108. The point here is being filled with the Holy Spirit. How many people are filled with the Holy Spirit? Every believer should be. Those who submit themselves as well, but sometimes we At least for a moment. Yeah. Look at the the passage from Ephesians five here. Therefore be careful how you walk not as unwise men, but as wise, making the most of your time because the days are evil. So then do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is. And do not get drunk with wine, for that is dissipation, but be filled with the Spirit. Speaking to one another in psalms, hymns, spiritual songs, singing, making melody in your heart to the Lord, always giving thanks for all things in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, even to God, even the Father. So, be filled with the Spirit. Is that a suggestion? It's a command. But it's an interesting command. Can we fill ourselves with the Holy Spirit? Who fills us with the Holy Spirit? God. If it's a command, um it must be that um It's something we need to obey, right? And so it's not, unlike the indwelling of the Holy Spirit, which is automatic, it's immediate at the moment of salvation, being filled with the Spirit Is a command to us, but it's interesting. We need to do it, and yet it needs to be done to us. It's a passive Experience. Be filled. Who fills us with the Holy Spirit? God does, as we yield to Him. As we submit to him. So if that moment comes when he convicts me of sin, what would mark someone who is filled with the Holy Spirit? A response of obedience. that. Um I feel like it's it's becoming more common to hear today just because of the nature of the world stress. People are distressed to the word and like And such and maybe as women or even as men we're told, you know, it's important to have self care, it's important to give time and take time for yourself. But it's uh I think it's more of like a worldly idea, would you say that that's um kind of counter to the point that's being made here about being filled with the Holy Spirit? Like those two things are not Yeah, it depends on how people define it. I mean th there is a place for good stewardship. Right. We need to be good stewards of everything God has given us, including our not just our possessions but even our bodies but ultimately stewardship is serving the owner, which is God, not us. Right. Um but yes there there's a lot of emphasis in our world for um uh building up self esteem and um all that sort of stuff. Yeah. Um as a general rule um They are connected. We can't, for example, if we're going to minister the word to other people and apply wisdom, biblical wisdom to them. We have to understand that wisdom ourselves and begin to apply it so that we can help them to apply it, right? So it's not like it's disconnected, but I I think where you're you're getting at is is the observation some people sort of use that as an excuse to say I need to take care of myself and they become so inwardly focused. that they're not helpful for other people. And so that's a misapplication of the underlying the underlying thing. We're gonna have to stop here pretty soon. Sorry. But the point is um Read through the content here under the what it means to be filled with the Spirit, because that is that is where the rubber meets the road in our sanctification He's going to convict us of sin. The question is, how do we respond? If we're submitted to him, submitted to Scripture, submitted to glorifying God We will respond in faith, seeking his help to obey, but not rationalizing, not ignoring Right? That just leads down a a bad path where eventually that that conviction of the Holy Spirit is going to be a two by four up the side of the head. He's not going to give up on us, he's going to get our attention And it's better to uh it's more glorifying to God when at the moment of that conviction we're immediately, Lord. I I want to forsake that. Give me the strength to do so. That is the mark of someone who's filled with the Spirit. And that verse, be filled with the Spirit, literally what it means, what it says is be continually filled, be being filled. with the Holy Spirit. It's a continual thing. And that that one process we respond to well We're forsaking sin, we're growing more like Christ. What's going to happen? He's going to convict us about something else. It may be very soon. And we need to be prepared for that one as well. But you know what? Unbelievers don't have that benefit. They do those sins and don't even think about it. When you get that conviction of the Holy Spirit, that's a mark of your salvation. And that's good news. Let's break.