Well walk welcome. We're on um lesson eleven of our series. We're down the home stretch here. This is literally last things, not only as a topic, but also we're we're toward the end of our quarter. Uh last week we continued in uh discussing some of the events leading up to uh the second coming of Christ, making the distinction between Christ's um uh taking the church, the rapture, taking the church uh to be with him in the air, it says in second in uh First Thessalonians uh distinction between that, because there he isn't actually coming to Earth, between that and his actual second coming. And we read through uh the end of Revelation 9 19, beginning of uh Revelation 20 last week, uh sort of as an introduction But today we're going to go into a little bit more detail about the second coming and the millennial reign. So I'm on page 90 in the notes. But as it turns out, I'm not going to start with the notes. I want us to go back to Genesis. If you have your Bibles and can turn to Genesis 12. It's a familiar passage, I think, to most of you. It's speaking of Abraham, although at this point he's still called Abram. God later would change his name to Abraham. And in Genesis twelve one It says, Now the Lord said to Abram, Go forth from your country and from your relatives and from your father's house to the land which I will show you, and I will make you a great nation. And will bless you and make your name great, and so you shall be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you, and the one who curses you I will curse, and in you all the families of the earth. Will be blessed. So as we continue reading in Genesis 12 and so on, uh Abraham obeys. And Then in the next chapter, Genesis thirteen Um, you've got Genesis thirteen begins with the um uh separation of uh Lot from Abraham, they had to kind of part ways because their flocks were competing for the same food, I guess. Uh but beginning in verse 14 It says the Lord said to Abram, after Lot had separated from him, Now lift up your eyes and look from the place where you are, northward and southward, eastward and westward. For all the land which you see see, I will give it to you and to your descendants forever. So he had already come into the land that God had told him to go to, and now he's giving him more details. So he says, I will all this land that you can see, I will give to you and your descendants forever. I will make your descendants as the dust of the earth. So that if anyone can number the dust of the earth, then your descendants also can be numbered. Arise, walk about the land, and through its length and breadth, I will give it to you And as you continue in the book of Genesis, uh God kept confirming, repeating, reminding of this promise. So if you go to Genesis 15, and I think we can start in verse 18 Here actually prior to verse eighteen we've got this this um covenant ceremony, essentially, that God sets out. And um Abraham is basically just an observer of this. But anyway, at the climax of that really, God says in verse eighteen On that day the Lord made a covenant with Abraham, saying, Abram, saying, To your descendants I have given this land. From the river of Egypt as far as the great river, the river Euphrates. The Kenite and the Kenesite and the Cadmonite and the Hittite and the Pharisee and the Rephaim And the Emirite and the Canaanite and the Kyrgyzite and the Jebusite. Um those were all the peoples who lived in the land at the time. He says, from the river of Egypt, what's that? The Nile. Turns out it's not. It's not the not. Every other place where this the the boundaries of this land are referred to, it uses the term the brook of Egypt. The Brook of Egypt is actually the border between what is now Israel and Egypt. Or at least it was at that time. Um so it would be kind of to the northeast of part of of uh Egypt. Anyway, uh, but all the way from the river Euphrates to the brook of Egypt. So, some observations about this. This is called the Abrahamic covenant, right? The covenant God made with Abraham. What are some characteristics of this? What's the substantive nature? What did he promise? Three things. You see them? What did God promise? Numerous descendants? Yes, and a too many to count descendants, right? What else? Land, the promised land. What else? I mean he's also implying that they'll have some level of ownership or superiority over the people that are already there. He's saying that he's gonna give them their land as in the Canaanites will no longer be in control of the area. Yeah, i i it's not all that specific about what's going to happen to those people at this point. Later that becomes clearer. Um but yes they they're going to displace The president but that has to do with the land. What uh what's the third major part of the covenant? Right? Well that's descendants. Yeah. Is it um protection? Close. Because a part of it um this is the Psalm of Three as well as I will bless those who bless you. Yes, and I will bless them to Blessing. So he's gonna be God is promising blessing to Abraham and he even says, I'm gonna bless those who bless you. Right? So the the covenant includes much blessing. Just by God's grace. Right? So blessing, um descendants, too many to count And the land, the promised land. Alright, now the three other qualities of this covenant that are important. First, God says, this is what I'm going to do. It's unilateral. It wasn't negotiated. It's a unilateral covenant. But perhaps even more importantly, it's unconditional. What does unconditional mean? No conditions. What's that? Well, yeah, it it's not conditioned on Abraham's works. It's not even conditioned on Abraham's faith. God just says, this is what I'm going to do. How is that different from God's covenant with Moses? The Mosaic covenant? And if you don't all these curses look at Deuteronomy twenty eight. Yeah. Um it's very much conditional for reasons. And um As Paul writes in Galatians, that Mosaic covenant didn't um uh make the Abrahamic covenant, which was unconditional, obsolete, it was layered or at least set in its own context. The Abrahamic covenant was unconditional, unilateral. God said, This is what I'm going to do. Um but the third characteristic of it, unilateral, unconditional, is three U's. The other U is unfulfilled. It hasn't been completely fulfilled. This is the Abrahamic covenant. This is the Abrahamic covenant. What parts of the The three components of the Abrahamic covenant have not yet been fulfilled. The blessing Is it would you say the land as well? Because at some point he it was kind of like that he got land and he didn't have land and he got land and Yeah that that's definitely the case. Um let me go back to Yeah, I think it's 13. So he tells Abraham to look north, east, south, and west. For all the land which you see, I will give it to you and your descendants. Forever. I will make your descendants of the dust of the earth and so on. Um Not only that, but in Genesis 15, the rather precise description of what the boundaries of that land are are given. Has Israel ever occupied all the way to the Euphrates River? No, not even under Solomon. And so has God been mistaken? You know, he probably didn't have you from that ground. Yeah, yeah. So the the point is God God said, This is what I'm gonna do He didn't put a timetable on it, but um because it was unconditional Abraham didn't blow it. The Jews didn't blow it. God hasn't gone to plan B because he said, this is what I'm going to do. Right? And so if it hasn't happened to its fullest extent, now there are periods of time like under Solomon where where it appeared that you know we were getting very close here. This is really good, but of course Um things kinda went downhill, even with Solomon and certainly afterwards. And in this case descendants is spiritual descendants, not physical descendants. Yes or no. Yes and no. And so for example we're going to get there. We're going to get there. I mean many of the prophets, including Ezekiel, talk about this future and even the division of the land. Um and it's different from the way God's told them in Joshua's time to divide the land. Covenant maybe the Lord said the morphes that they were ignorant because he needed it to see like the twelve trial that it's like you know, Jacob's kids and everything like that. that it might be in a passing away. So imagine, you know, with Sari Sarah, Sarah. She you know, I guess persuaded him to have sex with Hagar because she was so impatient and she couldn't wait and so it's like I mean obviously we wouldn't know that if if she would have just waited a little longer, maybe the more would have let him live to see it, but because she's out here creating a certain thing, but the Lord knows because we don't see that then, but in the dynamic of it it's just like he he he would not be able to see what the descendants were until the time until Revelation Yeah, it is interesting that when God told them that your descendants are going to be too many to count Uh one place he talks about the dust we talked about, another place he talked about just count the stars, you know, if you can, right? Um how many descendants did he have at that point? Zero. So when it says Abraham believed God and God counted it to him as righteousness, um That was definitely faith. Taking God at His word, even when what I see doesn't seem like it's compatible with what you're telling me. Right? And that's that's a uh characteristic of faith. I mean it basically is faith, taking God at his word. Right? Yeah, Glenn. Yes. Um Um and then also the faithfulness of God in that God told him to go sacrifice them and then the whole experience. Right. I I would have probably been rather well if I can do this Yeah. Yeah, it's an interesting, you know, there's a lot of insight into Abraham's um What shall we say? H his journey of faith. There's a lot of um uh periods like that where he's exercising great faith, other places where he's doing what you and I probably would do and kind of Uh making Yeah. All those kind of things. And um but he gets to the point where ultimately he is taking God at his word and the culminac uh climax of it I think you point to is God tells him to sacrifice Isaac. Well, Isaac, he's got two sons at this point. Ishmael from Hagar and Isaac. And God made a point at the birth of Isaac that Isaac is the one through whom these promises are going to be fulfilled. And and even before Isaac was born, and God's telling him Isaac's going to be born, Abraham tells God what? Oh, that it would be Ishmael because he's over here, this is this is all good. And God says no. It's gonna be Isaac, the son who's gonna be born about a year from now. I I like what um Abraham said to his son that God God will provide the land. And that was true not only in the immediate context, but also in the ultimate context. And how much of that ultimate context He understood is not clear, but what is clear is that he took God at his word and he believed God. So That's that's excellent point. Why are we talking about this when we're prime when our context is the second coming and the millennial reign? Glad you asked. That's a good segue. Let's go to Second Samuel seven. We're almost there. 2 Samuel 7. I think we can start in verse 12. In fact, it's in it's printed in your notes. It's the first passage in your notes here. When your days are this is uh by the way, the context here in 2 Samuel 7, God is speaking directly to King David. Okay. And he tells them a lot, but the the most important stuff, clearly in our context, are what he says right here. So God tells David, When your days are complete and you lie down with your fathers, i. e. , what? When he dies. I will raise up your descendant after you, who will come forth from you, meaning actually a physical descendant. And I will establish his kingdom. Now, what's interesting here is as is the case in multiple prophecies, particularly well I'm not sure about particularly, but certainly with um messianic prophecy, you get sort of short term fulfillments and long term fulfillments And uh short-term context and long-term context that often uh are just jumbled together. But anyway. What's the short-term context? Let's keep reading. He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish his throne and his kingdom forever. I will be a father to him and he will be a son to me. When he commits iniquity, I will correct him with the rod of men. and of the strokes of the sons of men. But my loving kindnesses my loving kindness shall not depart from him, as I took it away from Saul, whom I removed from before you And your house and your kingdom shall endure before me forever. Your throne shall be established forever. Okay, so there the the long-term aspect of this is when he's talking forever. And a descendant of his taking the throne and his kingdom being forever. Right, that's obviously a long-term thing. In the middle of it, there's reference to a descendant. Um where he says, I will be a father to him and he will be a son a son to me. When he commits iniquity I will correct him with a rod and so on. That's a short term thing. It's not speaking of the same king, as it turns out. Who's it speaking of? Solomon. Who's going to build the house, the temple, right? Um and so you got this long term um At the beginning, I will raise up your descendant after you, who will come forth from you, who will establish his kingdom. He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish his the throne of his kingdom forever. Was the throne of Solomon forever? No. No. Is it there now? No. Right? Um so the the short termness of this, if that's a word, is that yes See, one of David's obvious concerns, uh the concern of pretty much any king of those times, or pro probably any time. is how do I ensure that my descendants will follow in my kingdom authority As opposed to being overthrown by some other people who come through. And if you look at the history of various nations, you've got these battles for who's going to succeed And um you see that even in in Israel, uh not so much in Judah, but um It's a natural thing for a king to want some assurance that what he's established is going to continue to the next generation, his heirs. Right? And so God's giving David a little bit of assurance about that. That yes, I mean David wanted to build a temple, and God said, no, that's for your son to do, right And he's making some reference to that here. But in the midst of that, he's the main thing he's saying is that, yes, your throne, your kingdom is going to be forever. But it's not going to be this this temporal one that comes in the next generation. It's going to be, he doesn't give any detail about it here But the Jews definitely understood that the the throne of David um was to be eternal. Um not I mean think about it in Jesus' day. Um Was there anybody reigning on the throne of David? No. They were under subjection of Rome. And yet they all looked for the day when this promise, this covenant with David, is this conditional or unconditional? Unconditional. It is unconditional. But it's pointing to Jesus. It's what? It is. We can see that in hindsight. Uh-huh. Um but they somehow even this Samuel, there there's a prophecy again uh uh Jesus. Yes, that's the point. Uh-huh. Yeah. And so turn to Luke One. You're familiar with this passage. I think we can begin in verse thirty-one. Can I ask a quick question please? Yeah. The word forever is significant. Does it always refer to Christ? N not necessarily, but um uh you you know it's different from just a short term fulfillment. forever but more like if it's if it's speaking of a covenant between God and the person forever it's used exactly not alone then it might be connected to something Um not necessarily inherently because of the words they're used, but elsewhere in Scripture we see more flesh put on the bones and we see how these promises do in fact get fulfilled in Christ. Yeah. So it's not inherently in the initial prophecy. Um I I'm sure if I were receiving this prophecy, I would have said, Lord, give me more details, wouldn't you? Um but God just saw fit to give you what he did. Um Genesis seventeen seven. And I will establish my covenant between me and you and your offspring. Then that's Jesus after you throughout their generations for an everlasting covenant. Right. So this is already deep prophecy about Jesus Well we understand that looking back at it. Right. And other passages of scriptures affirm that. And we're about to read one in Luke One. Um and here Gabriel is announcing to uh Mary Let's go to actually verse 30. The angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God. And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son. And you shall name him Jesus. He will be great and will be called Son of the Most High. And the Lord God will give him the throne of his father, David. And he will reign over the house of Jacob forever. And his kingdom will have no end. So that's the announcement that Gabriel gave to Mary. I'm pretty sure Mary would have understood the Davidic Covenant and that they were longing for the fulfillment of it. And here Gabriel is saying We're putting the wheels in motion, you're actually going to be burying um the king. Who will reign on David's throne forever. And Mary, of course, was Uh like Abraham, taking God at his word. Um, there's a reference here also to the um House of Jacob. It seems to me refers to uh Abrahamic covenant fulfillment as well. Yes, yes, that's why we started with Genesis. So God made this promise to Abraham. It was unconditional. He made a promise to David, kind of building on the Abrahamic covenant. It was unconditional. Neither one of them has been fulfilled. Gabriel is telling Mary, we're starting to put the wheels in motion to fulfill those promises. Right? In the fullest extent. I mean, there was certainly plenty of descendants, plenty of blessing to Abraham and his descendants, but the specifics of it in terms of the geography and then later with the Davidic covenant to reign on the throne of David, which had not yet been fulfilled. And God revealed to Mary that, okay, now is the time. And so he's going to be on the throne of his father David forever. So that brings us to one Jew's question. Why are we talking about all those things when our context is the second coming? Well It's all about his reign on the throne of David. And uh in fulfillment of of certainly the Davidic covenant, the pro uh promised to David, but as it also turns out, it's connected with fulfillment of the Abrahamic covenant, including the land. So I've got several places I can go here, but let's um Let me just read the first item we have here. We haven't even gotten to that yet. After the tribulation period, Christ will come to earth. To occupy the throne of David and establish his messianic kingdom for a thousand years on earth. So you might be thinking, okay, a thousand years Revelation talks specifically about thousand years. I thought the promise was about forever. Right? Well, both are true. So it's going to be on this earth for a thousand years and then continue later forever. So there's going to be a new heaven, new earth. But on this earth, he will reign on the throne of David for the first thousand years of that forever. Right. So uh we read well being on the s reigning on the throne of David is something specific in the promise to David that wouldn't be necessary, as you're suggesting, it wouldn't be necessary in order to accomplish our salvation. But God promised it anyway. So what he's what he's um doing here is is um His salvation brings the elect into God's family, but Some of those elect will be physical descendants of Abraham, physical descendants of Israel. And um yes. Uh but there's also these very specific promises in multiple Prophecies, and we'll get to some, that talk about the restoration of Israel on the land in a way that's never been fulfilled yet. And with Christ reigning over them. Um and that's going to begin in this millennial reign. And then presumably continue um with the new heaven and the new earth um afterwards. Yeah. I was just gonna point out it seems like some of what we're running into that seems to be a running theme. through all biblical prophecy is that there's pretty much always, if not always, a partial fulfillment and a complete fulfillment. And so like talking about Solomon, that was partial fulfillment with Solomon, complete fulfillment with Christ, talking about descendants being more numerous than the stars in the sky, you have partial fulfillment just with the physical descendant, so you have complete fulfillment with spiritual descendants. So it seems like that's just kind of like always the way that it goes. So you can have both a short term and long term, like you were saying. Yes, that's very much the case. Uh but you remind me of something else as well, and that is uh it's important I think we covered this In an earlier quarter. If you weren't with us, you might have missed it. But a lot of people have believed Um a lot of Christians have believed that the church has replaced Israel. Um the uh the concept here is that Israel rejected her Messiah. God judged Israel because of it, and Israel ceased to exist eventually. And God went to plan B, essentially, the church Which included some Jews, and in fact it was almost entirely Jews at the beginning, but opened it up to everybody, Gentiles and so on. And that the promises, like the promise to Abraham, are going to be fulfilled by spiritual descendants of Abraham, not physical descendants of Abraham. The problem with that is that's not what God said. And it was unconditional. And there are lots of prophecies and maybe we should just go there. Let's go to um Well you have to almost read the entire book of Ezekiel, which has like fifty chapters. But um in Ezekiel Chapters 34 through 37 speak of Israel being restored, returned to the land. Now that was very important at the time that was written, because they were in exile and returning to the land was everybody's hope. But Um it becomes clear that this particular return has not completely been fulfilled yet. Ezekiel what? I'm sorry? Ezekiel thirty-four through thirty-seven talk about uh Israel returning to the land. Then chapter 38 and 39 speaks of Israel's enemies being defeated, conquered, and so on. And then more specifically in chapters 40 through 46 of Ezekiel, there's exquisite detail given of the temple that's going to be built. Which has a description that doesn't fit any temple that's been built. It's close, but it's got a lot of detail there about the size and and the orientation and whatever. And then chapters 47 through 48 Talk specifically about the redistribution of the land among the twelve tribes of Israel. And The description of that the bound the boundaries are given in Ezekiel Um they're the same boundaries that were promised to Abraham Very specific about where the northern border is, where the eastern border is, where the southern border is, and of course the western boundary is the Mediterranean Sea And then it gives very specific description of the allocation of that promised land to the twelve tribes. And it's a lot different from the way they were told to allot the land to the tribes at the time of Joshua when they first took the land. In fact, it's going to be a whole lot more equal. And the borders between them are going to be going from west to east, pretty much lined. Um not as much um based on geography, like from a river or a mountain or something like that. And the middle of it is at Jerusalem, and it's a very large district if you call it that, uh a portion of the land that's given to the temple, the worship and the Levites and and so on. Um And it's just a lot of detail that's never been fulfilled. When is that going to be fulfilled? Right here in the millennium. How was it of Paul when Paul was saying Romans nine or six through nine? about it's not the children of the flesh who are the children of God, but the children of the promise are counting as always. Israel like UN ASCII promise. Excellent. Yes, that's exactly right. Um what this is talking about is Israelites, descendants of of um Jacob, Israel, who are saved. And they're going to be divided by tribe. And we see in the book of Revelation that many of them come to Christ during the tribulation period. And uh there's at least, what, twelve thousand from each of the tribes. And so it will be physical descendants of Israel. uh who are included among God's people, and yes, those particular Israelites are saved by faith, by grace through faith. When most of them in the time of the tribulation. But but the I what I'm not understanding is that Jesus died for everyone Oh yeah. Including because he came here through first, right? Right. But then but how come they didn't receive it and then they have a second chance Well everybody had the same chance initially, but God's gonna actually draw to himself from among um what's the word? Um the physical descendants of of Israel, he's gonna draw from them Uh and he always has been, drawing people from the Jews to himself in Christ. But Toward the end, there are going to be people who are Jews who repent Come to Christ, and they're going to be participating in the millennium, and they're going to be identified by their tribes. They're saved. But my qu they're not the only safe people. You're gonna have to ask out that. I don't know. Um but God promised to Abraham, he promised to David, he's going to fulfill a lot of that Um well the the final fulfillment of these things is going to be starting with the millennium and then eventually for eternity. Um We, as non-Jews, I think most of us are probably non-Jews, we have the blessing. To participate in the salvation that God set in motion all the way back in the garden, but even through through Abraham. And uh we are not Israel, we're not God speaks very specifically of those of Israeli descent who are going to participate in this Latter time, that's not us. We are actually there with them, but because we're also saved, but we're we're not um uh part of those tribes. In fact Jesus said that um um w in fact it's here. Um It brings us to point two. During this time, the resurrected saints will reign with him over Israel and all the nations of the earth. First Corinthians six, for example. Or do you not know that the saints will judge the world? And if the world is judged by you, are you not confident to constitute the smallest law courts? Do you not know that we shall judge angels? How much more matters of this life And Revelation five, which is in heaven So they sang a new song saying, Worthy art thou to take the book and to break its seals, for you were slain. And did purchase for God with your blood men from every tribe and tongue and people and nation, and you made them to be a kingdom and priests to our God, and they will reign upon the earth. So um actually that brings us to Revelation twenty, where we're sort of at, uh on the top of page ninety-one. So after Jesus returns, he defeats um the um um Yeah, the Antichrist and and Satan and whatever at the Battle of Armageddon. Um and then in chapter twenty He throws Satan into uh the lake of fire and so on. But in verse six, starting in verse six, uh verse four, and I saw thrones, and they sat upon them, and judgment was given to them. And I saw the souls of those who have been beheaded because of the testimony of Jesus, that's during the tribulation, and because of the Word of God, and those who had not acknowledged the beast or his image And had not received the mark upon their foreheads or upon their hand, and they came to life and reigned with Christ for a thousand years. And the rest of the dead did not come to life until the thousand years were completed. This is the first resurrection, that is the resurrection of believers. Then it says, Blessed and holy is the one who is part of the first resurrection. Over these, the second death has no power. But they will be priests of God and of Christ, and will reign with him for a thousand years. So there's an interesting uh mix of things going on, a mix of people during the the millennial reign of Christ. Satan is out of the picture. We saw in the early part of Genesis or of Revelation 20. God put him in in um the lake of or they put him in the bottomless pit, the abyss for a thousand years. Um and we've got People who died because of their faith in Christ, particularly during the the tribulation period. They come to life. They're they're this is uh uh the resurrection of believers. Um And we saw last week from 1 Thessalonians 4 that the same thing happened to uh people at the time of the rapture, people who were in Christ and dead. came to life. And those who were alive at the time have also met Christ in the air. And then these who are actually murdered for their faith in Christ come to life and presumably have um glorified bodies like Christ, just as those who are were part of the rapture. Um You've got a mix of those people and people who um were the sheep as opposed to the goats who Christ um uh foretold about his second coming that he would separate the nations and the sheep and the goats would be separated. There would be sheep here people who apparently survived the the tribulation period, a lot of them Would be Jews who have came to faith in Christ and were not martyred. And so you've got people who continue in their human state, you get people who are in their glorified st bodies. All mixed together at the same time. Uh it's hard to imagine. Yeah, sure. So assuming and this I say this as a conservative by the way, and there's some who who loves Israel, who loves the Christian people and Jewish people. I look back at history though and I look at what the Jews have gone through and obviously they're an incredible people, absolutely incredible people considering what they've gone through and everything from you know Enslavement in Egypt going all the way up to the nineteen thirties, forties, the horrors of the Holocaust, all the way to you know, October seventh. And I guess my question is, is you know, in you look at the rise of anti-Semitism on college campuses and all that. So I guess the question would be, you know, where is God in all this? Like, why is God allowing for the anti-Semitism? Why did He allow for the Holocaust? I know these are tough like philosophical questions, but it seems to be that every time there's been there've been evil people, there have been a lot of good people I think involved in pretty work. I think about the idea of Massad, all that. It seems like so often there was when evil people have stepped up, good people have have risen up. Many of them Christians, many of them And so I guess the question is, you know, where is God and when can we expect there to be a ultimate writing of the wrongs so to speak. Yeah. I know it's a lot, but I ask myself when I watch the news, like, where is God in all of this assuming that's the thing? Yeah. Well I'm glad you asked that because that's really what this is all about. None of that took God by surprise, right? He had revealed from long ago what the the basic outlines of the the the uh his plan for the world, uh including this promise to Abraham, including the promise to David. And um just like The people of Jesus' day were longing for the fulfillment of these prophecies so that they could be out from under the bondage of Rome. The same thing has basically been true um throughout all of history. Uh you've also got the the um um the exiles of first Israel and then judah in the Old Testament, why were they exiled? Why were they defeated? Because of their sin, their disobedience. And God said, if you obey, I'll bless you. If you disobey, here's what's going to happen. And God was faithful to that promise about what was going to happen. Um and people like Daniel understood that. And he identified with him, yes, we have blown it. And and uh um So anyway, God uses these events to um Continue to teach both Israel and the world um the lessons they need to be kind of kind of it's something like molding and shaping. people. It's y yeah. Um but actually where I was mostly gonna go is That's going to that's always been happening, like you've been describing, and that's sort of filled in a few other examples, but that's going to come to a head in the end times. And like uh in Gabriel's promise to or um Promise prophecy to Daniel. Um there is going to be a time of of um um Relative peace followed by a time of of great tribulation. which is going to happen in this these latter days, this last time, the tribulation period. Um We believe from what we see in Scripture and Daniel and elsewhere that the primary purpose of that tribulation period, that seven-year period, the primary purpose of it Is to pour out his wrath on unbelieving Israel. But out of that, he's saving some from Israel. And you you see that outlined in in Revelation. Um and So there's judgment on those who are unbelieving, and there's salvation for those who are believing. As sort of as Paul would always say, to the Jew first and then everybody else. Um so it it's affecting others, but the primary purpose there is to judge, to pour out his wrath on Unbelieving Israel. Not that he's giving up on Israel because there are some, a remnant, who are going to be saved. And so what we've seen so far is peanuts compared to what's going to happen. But God has an ultimate plan in it. And um many will be saved because of it. Hope that helps. Yes, of course. Uh you already brought up the Babylonian captivity, which is one thing that I was gonna mention like as the potential answer, but just looking at everything that Israel Israel and Jews had gone through for when after Israel was the sovereign nation Um but looking at everything they've gone through, uh the Babylonian captivity was because of Israel's disobedience to God's uh post-Mosaic covenant. Pre-Mosaic covenant you also have captivity in Egypt when they started out as very prosperous, they were protected By Joseph and then probably kept on being prosperous for a few decades after he died and then went horrific slavery for centuries and to the point that like whether or not regardless of how many babies were murdered, the order was given that Hebrew babies be murdered. Right. And it still took until the the time that it was appropriate for everything to be complete before God saved them out of that and then he established Israel as a nation. That it was gonna happen. Even how long it was gonna happen. Yeah, go ahead. I'm sorry. God where is God when Israel is going through this? He's in the same place that he was during the Egyptian captivity and did slavery in Egypt, during the Babylonian captivity. He is still in control of things and he's waiting until the appropriate time to Change the course of things. And we have to understand that there's there's good and evil and behind this good and evil is human beings. And I feel like a lot of times people whether they believe in God or not, they only believe in God when it's someone to blame rather than the the human being, the blessed person that's doing these things I mean it it's easy 'cause imagine this, like if every time someone did people the people we dropped in any time the people accepting every single moment. And one where it's kind of all joy as you go through trial is to to build you up to spiritually mature you as you go through trial. So like this is an opportunity to come to Christ or for those that are in Christ to grow in Christ, knowing like you know, I know God is here in the midst of it, like what they went to back in the day. So But it it takes a lot of faith to to be patient Yeah, patient for sure. Yeah, let's go. And kind of like tagging onto both those points, because God also holds back instead of striking us down the moment we do something evil to work his well. Because like my favorite example is His name just fell on the out of my head, but he wrote Amazing Grace, I'm sure you know who I'm talking about. But he was a slave trader. He literally sold human beings and then was convicted completely rejected all of that, turned his back on all of that, turned to a life in Christ pipeline, but he was a major influence on uh Will Wilberforce, who was basically the man responsible for ending the slave trade in England. So even John John says that Newton. Newton. Thank you. But even John Newton being so sinful, God used that to bring an end to greater evil. So even when there is evil going on, it's still part of Yeah, God um God can do that. And another example of course is Saul of Charsis. Um this is uh Second Peter three, uh verse nine, it says the Lord is not lacked concerning his spy As some count flatness, but is long suffering towards us, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. And so verse eight it says that, but we love do not forget this one thing that with the Lord one day it does a thousand years, and a thousand years it does one day. Yeah, well the p the point is he's not constrained by time, we are. Yeah hundred percent. Yeah. Microwave generation. Yeah. He's very specific about a thousand years. Yeah. At the end of a thousand years, Satan will be released temporarily and what's he gonna do? We read it I think we read it last week in Revelation twenty. He's gonna go around and deceive the nations one last time to get an insurrection to uh rebel against Christ who's on the throne in Jerusalem. So what is Jesus doing and Waiting for them to come. And so by his word, there's that. So read um Let's go ahead and read Revelation twenty. I think we introduced it last week, but this is a good place to pull the pieces together. Okay, verse 7. Revelation 20, verse 7. When the thousand years are completed Satan will be released from his prison, the abyss he was put in earlier in chapter 20, and will come out to deceive the nations which are in the four corners of the earth. Gog and Magog, and to gather them together for the war. The number of them is like the sand of the seashore. And they came up on the broad plain of the earth and surrounded the camp of the saints and the beloved city, and fire came down from heaven and devoured them. Pretty simple solution to a uh what's it say? The number of them is like the sand of the seashore, too many to count, and they're zapped. So who are these people who are zapped? People at the end of the millennial period. Who were unbelievers, or at least, yeah, unbelievers, and they were able to be deceived by Satan into rebelling against Christ. and it's a perfect millennium kingdom and there's still people And there's no Satan during the whole thousand period. Yep. What's that tell you about human nature? Oh, he is? Doesn't mean everybody's obedient. But what's it tell you about human nature? We can't blame our sin on Satan. God gives us free will. It's not exactly free. Even Adam and Eve. So what what was the purpose of Second Coming and millennially because of the just because to fulfill the Abrahamic covenant. Because he still he he couldn't really save all these people. They are still perishing Well he saved he saved as many as were appointed to be saved. Because it's all according to his wealth. Yeah, I think the bottom line is most of us when we look at the details would say, Lord, if I were writing this, I would have done it differently. Well that doesn't carry a lot of weight. Right? Um why does God do what it does? Sometimes we have some insight. Not always. But God is God and who are we to question something? It seems strange that God would create somebody like Lucifer knowing how many problems he would cause for him and and God. Yeah, that's a good question to ask. Why why evil at all? Right? I think The thing that makes the most sense to me is if there weren't evil, if there wasn't God's wrath against evil We wouldn't understand his grace. We wouldn't even experience his grace. If nobody ever sinned You know, um we wouldn't understand God's grace and so or his justice. Aspects of his character that um need to be on display. Essentially. But we already know them. We do because of events of history and what we see in scripture. But uh apart from Sin, God's judgment of sin. Um we wouldn't have a lot of appreciation for his holiness either. But certainly his grace is something that would be completely unknown to us. So during millennium saints came back with Jesus, we don't get deceived This there's no indication that any d saints, any saved people will be saved. But you've got a thousand years of of people not in glorified bodies. Among those who are glorified. But yet people who are just naturally getting married, having children over generations in those thousands of years And by the end of that thousand years there are going to be enough people around the world who are not saved. Some of them probably will have been saved. But um some not, and enough to rise up in rebellion against Christ. for the Millennium Kingdom. So we are not un we are not going to be part of that resurrec uh the insurrection. Yeah. Right. Oh the the aspect of why is there evil kinda goes to the heart of why we exist at all. Why gotta create a brand He wasn't obligated to you desire to demonstrate the quality of the point. Well we better wrap up. We should yeah That one gives me one more minute than that one does. Let's try.