Uh lesson three, page twenty-nine. So we're we're talking about the church and Mostly what we're going to be talking about from here on is about the local church, but today there's actually some relevance to the universal church as well. You know it's important that uh any church would uh set its priorities, its practices, its uh plans. I don't know, are there other Ps there? Um All by scripture rather than by uh human logic by tradition, whatever that might be. Logic and tradition are good, but um if they conflict with scriptures, then we got problems, right? So that's why we're looking at the biblical uh teaching on the nature of the church, the the structure of the church. And activities of the church. And so today we're looking at authority. The one supreme authority of the church is Christ. Christ is the sole head of the church, and as we'll see, that has implications as we continue here. So um you're familiar with the Great Commission passage in Matthew twenty-eight, where Christ told his disciples shortly before Uh during one of his resurrec resurrection appearances before he ascended, all authority has been given to me, he said. And that's that's not just talking about his authority in the church, but it certainly includes his authority in the church. Um could someone read for me the second passage there from Ephesians one? Who can read that? And you put all things in subjection unto under his feet and gave him as head over all things to the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills all in all. You you you grab it out of its context, and there are a lot of he's and his's in there. Uh when it says he put all things, who's the he? God the Father. Put all things in subjection under whose feet? Christ's feet. That's the context here. And gave him Christ as head over all things to the church, which is his Christ's body, the fullness of him, Christ, who fills all in all. Multiple places, and we're going to see here, multiple places in Scripture, Christ is referred to as the head of the church. What does that suggest? What's the the meaning there? The what? Guides and directs, okay, the church? What else? He's the boss. He's the boss. He's in charge. Sure. Um and You know, it would be tempting in a in a say a local church to think of the human leaders as heads. Or even if there's only one to think of him as the head, but in in all cases Christ is the the head. Um the the the human Shepherds in a church are more correctly referred to as under-shepherds. They're under the chief shepherd, Jesus Christ, according to 1 Peter 5. And I think we'll take a look at that in a minute. Number two. Well actually look at the last one here, Colossians 1. 18. He is also head of the body, the church. And he is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, so that he himself might come to have first place in everything. So speaking of his preeminence, firstborn. Um doesn't mean he was the first person born, but what does firstborn mean? It means the preeminent one, the one who has um greater Standing. And it's in in keeping with his being the head of the body. Okay. Number two, all church leadership, gifts, order, discipline, and worship. are appointed through God's sovereignty as found in the Apostles' teaching, which are found solely in the Scriptures. Could someone read for me this the first one there, Acts two, four two? And they were continually devoting themselves to the apostles' teaching and the fellowship to the So you remember the context here, right? This is um right at the very beginning. Uh where um in Acts two we read of the the the coming of the Holy Spirit the preaching of the gospel, thousands coming to faith in Christ. And uh toward the end there it says the they, the believers, this brand new church were uh uh devoting themselves to the apostles' teaching. Where do the apostles get this teaching from? from Christ. So it's the teaching of Christ that they were they were passing on. Um And of course the other essential elements of body life, the fellowship and the um prayer and worship and so on. 1 Corinthians 12, 11. But one and the same Spirit works all these things. Distributing to each one individually just as he wills. So the reference there is primarily about spiritual gifts that God gives to each believer. And these are all uh expressions and results of the Spirit, the Holy Spirit's work uh in each individual, but also With the body as a whole in mind. Right? And so he doesn't give everyone the gift of mercy. Some have the gift of mercy. And it's all God appointed by the Holy Spirit. Okay, number three, the local church is autonomous. What does autonomous mean? Self-guided, okay. And it actually goes on here to explain uh free from any external human authority or control. With the right of self-government and freedom from the interference of any hierarchy of individuals or organizations. So each local church reports to who? Jesus Christ. Exactly. Jesus Christ. Accountable directly to Christ. Um that doesn't mean that uh local churches wouldn't uh cooperate with each other. Indeed we see that in scripture and it's very uh uh important. But ultimately each one um uh reports directly at Jesus is led directly by his word, the Holy Spirit, and so on. So the first passage here, Acts 20, 28. We'll see this maybe a few times here today. But the context here is that Paul is basically at the end of his last missionary journey. On his way back to Jerusalem and traveling through the uh Mediterranean, they put in to uh what is now uh the southern coast of Turkey. And he gets word to the uh the elders at Ephesus, which is a bit further to the north, um that he'd like to see them because he's not going to be able to get back to them. He knows he's not going to be able to visit there. And having spent much time with them and um uh particularly with uh Timothy, uh one of their pastors there, he called them to himself to urge them to uh be faithful and so on. But here particularly in verse 28, he says, be on guard for yourselves And for all the flock, among which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers, to shepherd the church of God, which he purchased with his own blood. So he's he's emphasizing that the Holy Spirit has uh put them in that role of under-shepherds for the church that is in Ephesus. And they need to shepherd the flock well, they need to protect it. And It's uh the kind of advice uh all church leaders should heed, for sure. In Titus I, Paul is giving Titus another of his uh disciples, whom he Appointed to serve a local church. He says, For this reason I left you in Crete. That you might set in order what remains, I'm sure they talked about what remains, and appoint elders in every city as I directed you. So each city, that is, each well, each city would have a local congregation, a local church And in each of those there would be elders, a plural notice, uh who would provide that role of of shepherd. and and care for the flock. And um Titus was not going to be superintendent or whatever title you might give him over all those churches, but rather all those churches were to have elders that would um lead the flock, shepherd the flock well. And then can someone read Hebrews thirteen seventeen for me. Okay, Diane. So um our shepherds, shepherding the flock. uh are going to give an account. Does that mean they're going to give account to someone here on earth? No. No, they're they're to Jesus, right? Um and um yeah. Also that the the account that they're given they have to give an account account for their actions. They're not giving an account like, well so and so did this. So and so did that. They're not But their role is to keep watch over their souls, and the question is how good a steward are you of that? Right. Any questions so far? Yes ma'am. Also, it's very important that we pray for our leaders because they are human too. And sometimes we forget that we must pray family. Even though they are a lick God to do the right thing, you still have to play for them Amen. And you know it's it's interesting, today being Father's Day, it's very similar. Anybody here have a perfect father? Right? So we need to pray for all those in authority so that they will um conduct themselves as God has ordained. Uh even though they're fallible, um mere humans, and um and yet Who gets the glory when they end up doing well? God does, because God's the one at work, right? We're all a work in process. But God, as we're going to see, God has has established a uh a design such that um The shepherds of the flock would have certain qualifications, they would have a a um uh a solid track record of maturity, ministry, and and so on, so that they can responsibly fulfill those those duties. But like like Mildred says, um they're a work in process too. They're fallible. They're weak. And so Um we should be praying for our our leaders in the church. We're commanded to be praying for our leaders in the country. Right? Um very similar thing. Okay. Page thirty. So we talk about authority sort of generally So next is leadership. The biblically designated officers serving under Christ and over the assembly are elders. Who are also called overseers, pastors, and teachers. These terms do not describe different offices in the church, but referred to the same elders revealing their different r roles in the body of Christ So we read just now from Acts 20, where it says, the Holy Spirit has made you overseers to shepherd. And earlier in that passage, and I think we'll look at it with in the uh supplemental notes, that Um those words and scriptures are just used interchangeably, sometimes um usually in the same passage. Um here in in Acts twenty They're called elders, overseers, to shepherd. Usually the word shepherd is used as a verb rather than a noun. It's used as a noun once. But they're all res all referring to the same role within the church Could someone read for me the last passage there? First Peter five, one through five. Therefore I exhort the elders among you as your fellow fellow elder and women of the sufferings of Christ, and the partaker also of the glory of the Christ. Shepherd the flock of God among you, exercising overtight, not under compulsion, but voluntarily, according to the will of God, and not for And when the chief shepherd appears, you will receive the unfading crown of glory You younger men likewise, be subject to your elders, and all of you clothe yourselves with humility toward one another, for God is opposed to the proud There's a lot there, but you see that they're referred to as elders also uh by way of uh their verbs that are used about their activity to exercise oversight, like the word overseer, and also to shepherd The flock. It's all speaking of one role there. Under the chief shepherd, who is Christ. Okay, number two. All elder past in other words, pastors, they're just synonymous terms, must meet biblical qualifications. including the ability to teach sound doctrine and refute those who contradict. They must be blameless. They must be one woman man whose children believe and are under control. They must be characterized as uncontentious free from the love of money and under self-control. They must desire the work of an elder and hold its position in high honor. So um not only has God designed it such that there would be under-shepherds who would care for the flock, but he's made it clear um what the qualifications are. And so here in uh the second passage, 1 Timothy 3, and we read a little bit from Titus 1, we can look at the in a minute at the full list there. But let's start with the second one we have here, 1 Timothy 3. His trustworthy statement, if any man aspires to the office of overseer By the way, that word overseer in the Greek is episcopos. What does that sound like? Yeah, you kinda hear the word episcopal, they get the word from episcopals. Um by the way, the word elder Yeah, the Greek word for elder is presbuderos. What does that remind you of? Presbyterians, right? They get their name from from that His trustworthy statement, if any man aspires to the office of overseer, it is the fine work he desires to do. So It's actually a good thing to aspire to it if it's for the right reason. You know, it's not out of uh um a power grab or um uh pride or something like that, but a desire just to be useful of God to serve his church. Um I don't think well w I think what he's saying here is w what we don't want is someone who is put into that role kicking and screaming. Not me, right? But someone who is humble and yet willing to trust God and has a track record of actually trusting God in ministry so that um While still not perfect, can be used of God in that role. and and uh not you know take over someone else or something like that. It also before elder is put in position Your home has to be in order also. Uh because they can be uh distracted from what they're doing to serve God. So that's why that is so important too Right. Right. Good point. Let's go ahead and read the qualifications that are here in First Timothy and then the in Titus, and then we'll talk about them. So it's a trustworthy statement if a man aspires to the office of overseer It is a fine work he desires to do. An overseer then must be above reproach. The husband of one wife Temperate, prudent, respectable, hospitable, able to teach, not addicted to wine or pugnacious, but gentle, uncontentious, free from the love of money He must be one who manages his own household well, keeping his children under control with all dignity. But if a man does not know how to manage his own household, how will he take care of the Church of God? So there are multiple things going on there, one of which is if he can't shepherd his family, do you want him to be a shepherd of a larger family? He's not ready yet, right? And not a new convert, lest he become conceited and fall into the condemnation incurred by the devil. And he must have a good reputation with those outside the church, so that they may not fall, so that he may not fall into reproach and the snare of the devil. First and second Timothy are two of the pastoral epistles. Paul is speaking to Pastor Timothy to um uh lay out what this role of shepherd is, uh how to handle various things in in the church The third of the three pastoral epistles is Titus. He's having a similar role in teaching Titus and Titus I Paul says, and uh continuing from what we read earlier, for this reason I left you in Crete that you might set in order what remains and appoint elders in every city as I directed you, namely If any man is above reproach, the husband of one wife, having children who believe, not accused of dissipation or rebellion, For the overseer must be above reproach, as God's steward, not self-willed, not quick tempered, not addicted to wine, not pugnacious, not fond of sordid gain, but hospitable, loving what is good. Sensible, just, devout, self-controlled, holding fast the faithful word which is in accordance with the teaching That he may be able both to exhort in sound doctrine and to refute those who contradict. You see a lot of overlap between the two passages. There are a few uniquenesses, and sometimes the same thing is phrased in a little bit different way, but The point is, what you're looking for somebody is what God is looking for, of course, is someone who uh is mature, uh spiritually mature, can lead others. He's got a proven track record of of shepherding, of uh strong character. And um a lot of that track record is going to be evident in the home. Right, as Mildred was saying. Yeah. Could we um could you maybe elaborate on the um the statement children believe and kind of how that plays out? Yeah, the question is here in Titus I it says husband of one wife, having children who believe. And you'll notice that we even said in uh we quoted that really in item two on page thirty. The word there for believe can be translated several ways. It's usually translated faithful. And the translation that we're reading from here is Numeric Standard, and that's being quoted essentially in our doctrinal statement. Um the ESV translate that the same way. King James Yeah. And the LSB, anybody familiar with the Legacy Standard Bible? The Legacy Standard Bible uh is the product of a project that Grace Community Church in California um undertook under the the blessing of um the Lochman Foundation, so that it would be basically New America standard, but made even more accurate to the scriptures. And as you read the two, uh it's it's like eighty-five percent using the same words and and structure as New American Standard But it um is an attempt to make it even more faithful to the original languages and so on. And so, for example, just to give you a couple of quick examples people give, particularly throughout the Old Testament. Um you know when you read Nasby the word Lord, capital L O R D, is um The the Hebrew there is Yahweh. And so the LSB uses Yahweh, that's his name, rather than Lord, which has a um a history as to why it became uh translated that way, which is fine, but uh the name God gave to Moses was Yahweh. And so LSB uses that name. Wherever it's Yahweh in the Hebrew, it translates it as Yahweh. Another big example is that very often, now in the New Testament, particularly, you see terms like bondservant. Uh servant generally. Those terms in the Greek are the word doulos, which means slave. And so LSB translates that slave. That's what the word means. And so there's a there's an attempt to within reason, I mean, to just make it still clear to understand, but more f as faithful as possible to the original words and their meaning. So I get all that introduction to say Which way does LSB translate Titus one and it uses faithful? Yeah. Partly because that same word is usually translated faithful, and partly because, I'm sure, the context here. I want to come back to this later if we've got time. I'm hoping we'll have time. But it has implications even for 1 Timothy 3. And I'll point that out in a minute. There's also the qualifying clause right after that describes what uh what he means by that castos faithful. um by saying not dissipated or rebellious. Right. So it's kind of qualifying clause there. Why would he Not only why would he clarify that, but but why would that be important as a qualification for elder, that his children not be rebellious and and so on He's gonna be teaching the church. He's gonna be an example of the church. It's like he's an example and he's teaching his own kids. So it goes to his leadership. It goes to his leadership, his his ability as a uh shepherd. But If there's any um any rebelliousness on the part of the children and and uh what can that do to his ministry as an elder? It can undermine it. Right? So it makes a lot of sense that that uh his children would need to be held Well, he would need to be a held to a standard such that his children are going to be cooperative and not not undermining his his ministry. that um if his children aren't faithful or at least are troublemakers that can also not necessarily always but can also speak to the sincerity of his faith. If he's not acting at home in private with his family, the way that he presents himself to the church, the kids are gonna pick up on that and the kids are not gonna hide it as well as maybe his wife would. Right. So that's gonna be an indicator Right. Now, having that is true. Having said all that, um nobody can guarantee that his children are gonna get saved. Right? That's part of the context here in interpreting in translating the the the passage. Um however, even though that's true Um someone who has been faithful to the Lord is more likely than not to have children who are going to follow his example. And so this is a an indicator that there's maturity here and there's an ability to pass that on to others. Yeah. Titus one basically saying that this particular passage is referring to uh children of saving faith. Um, and it says that since Timothy three four refers requires children to be in submission, it's possible that Titus is actually referring to um elders who have grown children versus and then Timothy is talking about young virtues. Yeah, I'm not sure when he wrote that. But he was supervising the translation of the LSB. And it now says believing, which I find to be very helpful. Anyway, it's going to be even more helpful in a minute once we get there, but we're not there yet. Good question though. Good question. Uh oh also, uh I don't know if you remember those of you who are here last quarter. Um but the elders are uh planning at some point to do a fair amount of work To uh make sure that our doctrinal statements are clear, not confusing And if there's any outright errors or whatever, we want to study those and make sure we make corrections. There's a process that's happening that may take years to to uh Um finish. Anyway, this is one of the ones that I think will probably change that word. Yeah. Um Just to bring up one of the most famous preachers in the 19th century was Billy Sunday, who spent his life preaching against alcohol, his kids became alcoholics. Mm-hmm. Yeah, there are lots of examples, aren't there? Um, like father, like son. But that's true on the good side too. Very important lesson here on Father's Day, right? I I I I like what she said uh about examples in the home is very important. And um In Proverbs, it's a whole lot of stuff. I mean a whole lot of good stuff in there. True stuff. That God speaks to the parents. You know And um and he tells you don't cause your child to stumble. You know, don't you be acting out that you don't want your kids to do. Don't do anything you don't want your kids to do It is. So therefore you have to be within the step of God. Right. And not all the time your kids gonna turn not the way you walk truthful with God, but at least you did that by God. Right. And then once you give them the message, God passes in the Lord. Right. Yep. Um We read back on page thirty from First Peter five. where he says one of the the one of the charges he gives to these under-shepherds um is that they prove to be examples to the flock And that would come very naturally if they've already demonstrated that they've been examples to their flock at home. Right. And so one is a preparation for the other. Okay. Uh let's move to number three. Elder pastors have God-given authority to lead and rule the church as servants of Christ, directing the church. They are not to lord their position over the flock. But are to shepherd them with eagerness and humility. The congregation is to submit to their leadership. And we read Uh no, I didn't think we did. Let's look at the second one there. 1 Timothy 5, 17. Someone read that? Okay. Diane, you had one. Anyone else want to read? Okay, Linda. Let the others who rule well be considered worthy of double honor, especially those who work hard at pre teaching. Yeah, it uses the word rule. There is authority there, right? But um I I liken liken it to um the roles God established in the family. You know, the family is not a a social um uh design. It's not designed by custom or or tradition or uh logic or anything like that. It's designed by God And God designed that there be authority in the family, and even a hierarchy of authority in the family Um and God designed the church in a very similar way um to have authority under the in in all cases, all authority is ultimately under the lordship of God. Um all authority comes from God, whether it's civil authority or or family authority or church authority, whatever. And like the family, the church has a design by God so that that authority is exercised uh well in a constructive helpful way. You know, in a human family, a father, for example, could be very abusive, right? Could be very um uh authoritarian. It's my way or the highway. And be uh even abusive. That's a misuse of the author the the God given authority. It's a misuse, right? Well the same thing would be true in the church. It's a God-given authority that's there for a purpose, accountable to God. Um but uh in uh um it's God's design. The church is not something that man fought up. And the way we conduct ourselves as a church ought not to be the way man just thinks it up. God's given us very specific guidelines in Scripture, one of which is very importantly authority within the church. And it's very important that most of those qualifications, I don't know if you noticed here, but most of the qualifications have to do with what? Character. Character, right? A proven track record of character. Character particularly important for the guiding of the sheep. Right? And that's God's design. And if we if we deviate from that design You can legitimately question whether that's even a church. But even if it is a church, they're erring, just like a a a a father could um err and depart from his legitimate authority and responsibility and exercise it in a poor way, often church leaders do the same thing, unfortunately. Yeah. With that authority comes uh it's a sacrificial authority, so to speak. But I I look at it like he's a point man He's the he's the guy that leads, he's the guy that is up front, but that's also the guy that gets blown up first and can try that first. So he's you know it's that kind of sacrifice that you're signing up for as a man becoming a husband, becoming a father. And that's true. And What's the um what's the supreme example of that? Who is the head of the church? Right? Christ And yeah, I mean we're we're called to suffer as he suffered, right? Stand firm as he stood firm. And uh Fortunately he's given us that example and he's continuing to lead even now. So good. Okay. Number four. The main duties of elder pastors are to minister the word through preaching and teaching. To pray for the church, to oversee the church's spiritual health, to set an example to the flock of godly living, and to equip the congregation for ministry. Elders must not let themselves become distracted with the everyday business of the church. By everyday business, we're talking about um it a lot of the administration and and routine things can be delegated to other people, but oversight is still happening uh from the pastors, the elders So, um, 1 Thessalonians 5:12, for example, but we request of you, brethren, that you appreciate those who diligently labor among you And have charge over you in the Lord and give you instruction. And you can tell from the qualifications particularly in Titus where it says um being able to teach sound doctrine and to refute those who contradict uh That's getting at the core and particularly as you continue reading in in Titus one, you see w where a lot of that challenge is coming from, false teachers and and that kind of thing. And that was on Paul's heart when he spoke with the Ephesians elders in Acts 20. He called them to himself and he said, Be on guard for yourselves and for all the flock. There are savage wolves out there who are teaching false teaching. We're going to come back to that point in a little bit when we talk about deacons. But let's go to number five Elders should strive to be of one mind in their decision-making in order to preserve the unity of the faith. 1 Corinthians 1 10. Now I exhort you, brethren, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you all agree that there be no divisions among you. But you'd be made complete in the same mind and are in the same judgment. There's some principles here that apply to everybody. Um but how much more they should apply to those who provide oversight and example to the flock. Ephesians 4. 3. Being diligent to preserve the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace. Philippians 2, 2, make my joy complete by being of the same mind, maintaining the same love, united in spirit, intent on one purpose. These are admonitions, principles for all of us, but so much more for those who are shepherding the church as examples. So that's an interesting uh the application of that's interesting because God's design is that there would be multiple um pastors in a local church. We'll get to that in a minute. And they're all a work in process. They all have different backgrounds and different uh uh gifting, hopefully. And They may have different perspectives on something. Ideally, they would all search the scriptures as applicable and their own collective wisdom and arrive at a decision that They all agree on unanimous. And that is our goal. Um there are times when Maybe the perspective or the weight given to different character or aspects of the situation may differ across the elders. If if it's a a matter that's secondary or tertiary in importance Um it's and it's not really a biblical issue then The spirit of this is that um those who may have a different view could easily defer to those the the majority who have um a different view. It's not like doctrines at stake, it's not like important things are at stake. Where doctrine is at stake and there's not uh complete agreement The ideal would be that they continue to study it. Search the scriptures. Make sure they're clear in their communication about positions and what we're thinking and Here's what I'm concerned about and so on. And that takes time. That takes time. And it's just as well it takes time. Um and not to rush into important things in a uh a a non uv uh or a disunited way, right? So That's one reason to pray for your elders. Because they need wisdom, they need discernment, they need to communicate well and make sure that they're searching the scriptures when important topics like this come up. Okay. Okay. Number six. Deacons Serve under the elders, assisting the elders in the ministry of the local church, and likewise must meet biblical qualifications. It's not necessary for deacons to be in a position of teaching or ruling. And so 1 Timothy 3 begins by laying out the qualifications for elder, and then moves directly in, verse 8, directly into uh deacons. He says, Deacons likewise must be men of dignity, not double-tongued or addicted to much wine or fond of sordid game But holding to the mystery of the faith with a clear conscience. And let these also first be tested, and let them serve as deacons if they are beyond reproach. Women must likewise be dignified, not malicious gossips, but temperate, tasteful in all things. Let the deacons be husbands of only one wife, and good managers of their children in their own households, for those who have served well as deacons obtain for themselves a high standing. And great confidence in the faith that is in Christ Jesus. So the word deacon means servant. And of course God has called all of us to be servants. Deacons are servants who, by their example, have shown that they're faithful servants. And can assist in a variety of ways in the conduct of a church's ministry. Did you notice any overlap between the qualifications for deacons and elders? A lot of overlap. Which means what? I mean I was gonna say like most of the most overall the qualifications for elders are things that all Christians should be striving for. It's not a requirement to be a Christian, but we should all be working towards it. So if things are similarly required, just yeah Okay. I was just just a thought. Um just if there's a track record of can consistent character then that shows maturity, it shows a length of time that they've been walking faithfully. We all at the beginning of our walk especially just stumble and struggle and You know, it's to me that God has sanctified them in such a way that this character is now consistent as part of their fabric. Yeah. So um that's true of both elders and deacons who are officially uh recognized in in leadership roles in the church. That overlap is because in both cases the qualifications speak to uh character, maturity, as Karina has mentioned. Um uh proven track record, I like that terminology. Um The main difference between them is that there's no requirement that deacons be able to teach, as there is a very specific requirement in that regard for albums. Um it doesn't mean that deacons can't teach, but it's not a requirement for the role. You see the difference? Stand. I'm curious, in the case of elders who have been caught in sin and have had had to step down from your leadership position. Is there an opportunity once they repent to be restored to that position or does that disqualify them here? Very good question. What about disqualification and reappointment, I guess? Um Uh 1 Timothy five talks about um uh I think we have it. No we don't have it here. Um It talks about not um receiving an accusation against an elder um unless there's multiple witnesses, right? And then the facts need to be clear. It doesn't specifically address the question of if if one becomes uh unqualified And needs to step down or be stepped down um by others I'm not aware of any guidelines about the possibility of reinstatement. However The passages we read in First Timothy three and Titus one, giving the qualifications for elders specifically are speaking in the present tense. Someone who has this character, this experience, this track record. So even if someone were to be reappointed after some time, that track record would still need to be in fact it would be probably harder to be um proven over time that that's history. Th there's no reference to what kind of history someone would have prior to becoming a Christian. Other than not a new convert, there needs to be a track record of faithfulness before the Lord and service and so on. And so at the very least, if there's going to be any reinstatement, that would have to be true as well. And it would have to be clear to everyone that he he now has shown over some period of time a faithfulness in track record and and so on. I I don't see any guarantee of that, but I I don't see it being disallowed in Scripture. It would be hard for everybody probably, but it may be a good thing. Yeah. I was gonna point out it also uh in the same part where it it's talking about may not fall into approach, but it also s does say that like he must have a good reputation with those outside the church So depending on the reason for stepping down, if it's something that caused a big stink, him being reinstated would be a problem, according to Staff Burst. If it's something where it's like it was a stupid mistake, your appendix he's been working on it for years and things can go back to normal, that's one thing. But depending on what it is, that could affect whether or not he can Yeah. It's it's hard to uh s have a one size fits all. Right. It's gonna depend on the situation, whatever. But the principles still need to apply. That's the point. I thought John MacArthur's note was very interesting on 1 Timothy 1 4. He was referencing it here in terms of divorce And he says, if there has been a biblical permitted divorce, it must have been so far in the past as to have been overcome by a long pattern of solid family leadership and the rearing of godly children. So MacArthur, in his notes, I don't know if he's tanks or anything, but when he when he requit this, says yes, there is rehabilitation It's it's possible, it's not strictly forbidden, but it does depend on that track record. Right? The principles still need to apply. Yeah. Good. Okay. Um we have only ten minutes and but that's why I kind of spelt out these supplemental notes in more detail than we can cover today, but I would encourage you to read through them. They're supplemental in the sense that they're just my take on things for the most part. But think through the biblical data. Here. I think we covered number one pretty well, and number two, you've got the various qualifications from these three primary passages for elders. Number four on page thirty-five, how many elders should there be in a church? Uh as you look at the scripture, every time it speaks of um elders in a local congregation, it speaks of them in the plural. At that location, each location plural. How Somewhere in here, I think I have a note about how they're recognized. Um there's a great temptation, many churches nominate people who would be elders and then the congregation votes on that? That sounds very American. Doesn't sound very biblical. What scripture says is every time that elders would be appointed. Appointed by who? Well, in the early church, it was appointed by the apostles, and then the instructions to Titus, Titus, appoint elders. In these various cities, right? So someone who meets the qualifications can be appointed by those who are already in leadership There's no voting going on. But by the same token, if someone does become disqualified, then they could be removed by those who are in authority, for sure. So how many? There's no particular number, except it's always in the plural. We call it a plurality of elders. Pastors. How long should an elder serve? A lot of churches have bylaws that say, well, they they should rotate in and out and whatever. I I can understand the the uh intent perhaps of that. But there's no indication of that in Scripture. And um so we understand it to be indefinite Now they could move away, they could uh retire of their own uh choice, perhaps they're They're um maybe infirm or whatever, for whatever reason. But there's nothing that says you have outlived your usefulness in this role. We're always accountable to Christ. And um uh there's no particular uh ending point there. Number six, can women be pastors? No. Number seven. Um Why do we say no? That's what a one word says no. Yeah, because the Bible says no. I mean it's right there in front and and this passage, 1 Timothy 2, 9 through 14, is immediately followed by what? The qualifications for elders. In First Timothy three. Um and yeah. Yeah Just as we're these days we're confused about in the family About the distinction between male and female, different roles within the family, which scripture is very clear about. Churches have become unclear in their thinking about um roles in the church as well. And they dance around 1 Timothy 2, but scripture is clear. And it's clear that the reasoning goes back to the created order and original sin. So it's serious stuff. Now, that doesn't mean that women can't hold leadership roles and serve in in in biblically faithful roles in the church. But they are limited. And the limits here in 1 Timothy 2 are teaching or exercising authority in the assembled church. Now we see examples of women serving alongside their husbands even in the book of Acts. Priscilla and Aquila. Priscilla and Aquila. But that's not the assembled church. That was discipling somebody, evangelizing, and and so on. And they're serving together anyway. Yes. Um but beyond me. I think it's Lydia is described is mentioned as like Louis Strong's like woman in the church and she was commended, yes. She was commended which is like she don't have her, there's Uh but like when they're still able to serve in ways that are other than being an L. Absolutely. Absolutely. Yeah. I was gonna say this is really in the news right now all of a sudden. Baptist for the last couple of weeks. And that goes back to number one that we talked about authority and autonomy. That I mean I've never been a Southern Baptist, but um this whole idea of You have autonomy in your church to do what you feel under the scriptures, right? But you know, it to me, I I mean I'm not I'm not sure I'm not you're on understanding But a lot of it just boils down to the name that you assign to people because you can have the pastor of uh uh I've heard women that the pastor of uh Ministry to children. Well, you know, we recall them the s the super tender Sunday school. You know what I mean? But they make this a big this is I think they use the term minister, which is a little bit vague. But yeah, you're right. I mean it's um it really boils down to whether um The church is conforming to the world or is uh conforming to Scripture. And we shouldn't use our experience in the world to interpret scripture. We should use scripture to interpret what we see in the world. Right? And that's just one example. Um let's go to number eight, since we're on a um Omet Tarantin, can women serve as deaconesses? Now, here You'll notice that the the uh initial answer is not like the other one, which just said no. This one is biblically faithful churches answer this question differently There is a diversity of opinions. And to some extent you can expect that because The duties of a Dakon are not really spelled out in Scripture, other than the name, a servant, an example of a servant. Um I've got one minute. But you have all the time in the world to read through this. I want to point out one thing though. Remember earlier from Titus we talked about whether it's children who believe or children who are faithful? That same word faithful is used in 1 Timothy 3, referring to those Women sandwiched in verse eleven between the deacon passages. Women who are faithful in all things Not women who are believers in all things, but it's the exact same words, same kind of context. And um So one possibility to answer this question is the way we at Hope Bible Church have have historically interpreted this and applied it, in that we were thinking of these women leaders as women leaders, not deaconesses. Um and partly because if you call them deaconesses, in everybody's mind they're thinking deacons, deaconesses, they're interchangeable But scripture is saying no, that's not really right. They have different qualifications here in 1 Timothy 311. Um and the word for for women in first Timothy three eleven. Um It can be used as w women or wives. And I think I I try to make a pretty strong case actually here. that while we can think of that principle as dealing uh as a uh guidance for women leaders in the church Another possibility is that what he's referring to there are the wives of both the deacons and the elders who need to be not undermining the ministry of their husband any more than those children in Titus wants. But instead they need to be faithful. So that's the sneak peek. You can read the details. But again, this is my take on the possibilities, and I hope it's helpful. Let's pray