Well, we are now entering our last section in our doctrinal statement, what we teach about last things. The study of last things is called eschatology, again after another Greek word meaning last things. And before we do, I wanted to uh go back to uh discussion we had last week. where uh I was making the observation that although pretty much everybody uh assumes that Satan was a fallen angel, angel specifically, uh was making the point that um That's an inference. That's uh that's uh uh it's not explicitly said anywhere I could find in scripture that he's an angel. He may be another ki I mean he is another kind of created. uh heavenly being who has fallen. But my point there was not the substance of that. And I think I I didn't make that clear. That doesn't have a whole lot of bearing on our lives, right? My point was hermeneutics, Bible interpretation. And it's so easy for us to make assumptions from what we're reading in Scripture and eventually to treat those assumptions as facts. And often the eventually is very soon. And I mention that now because uh it's important In this last section that we're going to be studying about eschatology, where there are lots of interpretations out there. And strong Bible-believing Christians. Have different views of such things. That we we emphasize the need for scripture to teach us As opposed to tradition or assumptions, what makes sense to us Uh those things are not trivial, but what's what's important is what God's Word says. And where it's clear, uh That should be clear to us. Where it's silent or not completely clear, we ought not to be dogmatic about it. Right. Um so this is an interesting topic. Um and and maybe Maybe more so, the question, what impact should this have on my life here and now? Um often gets lost. And an understanding of what God has revealed to us about the future is very important to us about how we live our lives now. What our priorities should be, right? Um uh whether we are fearful about the future or even the present. Um uh having a a a good grounding in what God has revealed to us. He could have revealed more to us about the future. He could have been From my perspective, a lot more direct, saying bang, bang, bang, bang, bang. But he chose to reveal what he did in the manner in which he did Uh to give us some grounding But not to overburden us with things that we're not going to be able to understand anyway. And so anyway, as we get into this last uh section, I wanted to be sure that we're thinking, we're continuing to think application. What impact does it have on my life today? Okay? Okay, so I'm on page 79. Everybody has a copy of the notes. We start with the topic of death. Because that that sort of feeds into the rest of what we're going to talk about. And in terms of our life on Earth, that is our last thing, right, on Earth. So, physical death involves no loss of our immaterial consciousness. You remember, if you're with us way back when we studied the doctrine of man, that God created us with two parts. A material part, our body that we can touch, and our immaterial part, the real us on the inside, which scripture refers to in multiple ways. Our soul. Our spirit, our heart, all this is inside, right? And And so at death, continuing the point number one here, the soul of the redeemed Is separated from the body, so the immaterial separates from the material part of us and passes immediately into the presence of Christ. Quick question? Yes, sir. Um if your your your words, uh the redeemed but also the unredeemed, do they separate from physical bodies? Yes, we're gonna get there. Okay. We're gonna get there. So let's look first of all in section one here at several passages, but what I want to do here is you've got four passages listed here. I want to work from the bottom up. Okay? So at the very bottom, James two. For just as the body without the spirit is dead So faith without works is dead. So his point is all about faith, the relationship between faith and works, but he's using as an illustration that the body without the spirit, those two parts of us, once the spirit leaves the body, it leaves because the body is dead. Right? Physically dead. And then in Philippians 1, moving up those passages, of course, uh uh Paul here saying, uh but I'm hard pressed from both directions. having the desire to depart and be with Christ, for that is very much better. And then he says what the other alternative is to remain here and be of service and and so on, right? But the point here for our context is When we depart, that is, our our our soul, our immaterial part of us, the eternal part of us, If we're believers, we depart to go with Christ. To be with Christ. And of course That's a very welcome prospect, right? So particularly somebody who's suffering, uh even persecuted or whatever, said Lord, um Uh either come quickly or take me home. Might be our our natural motivation, right? And Paul was clearly hard pressed. But he knew that um Uh God had him here for a little longer to continue ministering. Okay, then moving up to uh Second Corinthians five. Uh I'll go ahead and read the whole thing. For we know that if the earthly tent, which is our house, is torn down, here he's speaking of our body. Right? If it's torn down, we have a building from God, a house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens For indeed in this house we groan, longing to be clothed with our dwelling from heaven, inasmuch as we having put it on, shall not be found naked. For indeed, while we are in this tent, we groan, being murder burdened, because we do not want to be unclothed, but to be clothed, in order that what is mortal What's mortal? Able to die. Able to die. Yeah. Maybe swallowed up by life. Now, he who prepared us for this very purpose is God, who gave to us the Spirit, the Holy Spirit, as a pledge, a down payment of that future Life. And then here's the point. Therefore, being always of good courage and knowing that while we are at home in the body That is, we're alive here on earth. If we're alive in the body, we're absent from the Lord. And so the converse is also true. If we're absent from the body, we go to be with the Lord. And then in Luke 23, the first one at the top there, Jesus said, Truly, truly I say to you Today you shall be with me in paradise. Jesus said that to who? The thief on the cross. The thief on the cross. And so it was it was an immediate destination Once they die physically. Okay. Number two, all mankind will have a bodily resurrection. The saved to eternal life and the unsaved to judgment and everlasting punishment. So We've got these two parts, our physical part, our body, and our immaterial part, our soul, our spirit. And when our when we as believers die, our spirit, our soul, goes immediately to be with Christ What happens to our body? Stanty. It it gets buried or whatever and and it it um decays. What happens eventually to that body of the believer? It gets raised, right? So that's what we're talking about here. Um John five, twenty eight twenty nine. And Jesus said, Do not marvel at this, for an hour is coming in which all who are in the tombs shall hear his voice and shall come forth. Those who did good deeds to a resurrection of life, those who committed the evil deeds to a resurrection of judgment. So Everybody is going to have a resurrection of their body. Right? But there are two kinds of resurrections. In fact, there are two different times of resurrections, as we're going to see later. There's a resurrection to life, and there's a resurrection to eternal punishment, judgment. And we're going to look at it a little bit later, but this second passage here from Revelation 20 speaks of the great white throne judgment where the final sentence is given to the lost. And that that uh eternal destination is where they go at that point Okay. Now we're beginning to get into the question that was raised earlier here in section three. The souls of the unsaved at death are kept under punishment Until the second resurrection, when the soul and the resurrection body will be united. So everybody has a soul, everybody has a body, everybody's physical body. Um doesn't go anywhere at the point of death other than where people might bury it or whatever But the w it it will be raised, as we saw, whether it's to judgment or to eternal life. And that's true of both the unsaved and the saved. The only difference is what? The destination. Right? So the first passage here is that that Explanation that Jesus gave about a man named Lazarus, not the one who he raised from the dead, but Lazarus and the rich man. And Jesus painted that picture of um the the souls of both of them after they died went to um A another place of person. Um the Old Testament calls it Sheol. And uh and yet there's a separation between the righteous and the unrighteous, right? And um Jesus was giving that illustration, uh, and and when Jesus was giving that illustration, I'm pretty sure that his listeners understood completely what he was talking about. And um one of the points of his illustration was um Where we end up is decided at the time or if uh by the time we die. So once we die, um there's no more there's no more choice. Um Okay, well anyway, in John 8, this second verse here, I'm on page 80, Jesus said, I say therefore say to you That you shall die in your sins, for unless you believe that I am He, you shall die in your sins. What's his point? Well if you die and you haven't repented, if you're not in Christ, then there's no choice, I mean your your fate is sealed at that point There's there's only death awaiting you, spiritual death as well. So you say that there's no loss of immaterial consciousness And I'm assuming that memories belong to the realm of the immaterial consciousness. So I'm thinking that memories is sort of like a hard drive. And then that gets stored up in our actual brain material entity. So if that goes away, I imagine memory could go away as well Well, if you're anything like me, my memory's already going away. Um Yeah, I um there is very obviously a a uh connection between our physical and our immaterial. Scripture often refers to the heart. Well, it's not talking about the physical heart, right? It's talking about the heart of us, the real us on the inside. How do we know that that soul, that spirit doesn't house memories. I mean the conscience is part of that, right? The the the capability of of reasoning is a part of our immaterial self. Yeah, it's it's it's a useful hypothesis maybe to look at the gray cells to be uh the sum total of what we know, what we remember, and so on. Um Our local cash of what that our soul keeps. Yeah, and there could be lots of problems with that Uh there's a connectedness, but I don't know that anybody knows how much of that is physical and how much of it is immaterial. Well I was just gonna say, wouldn't this very uh story about Lazarus And the the poor man gives credibility to the fact that there's still memory. She's talking about I have five brothers with somebody there. And in Revelation when The slain cry out, How long, O Lord, until you avenge us. They they remember what happened. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Whether we'll remember everything, I don't know. I don't necessarily want to remember Everything from the first year of my life. I don't remember it at the moment, right? So um yeah, please. I was just gonna point out the we see an example of that the gen do have their own memories When uh Saul consults the seer and like the actual ghost shows up and everybody is very shocked at this. But he still you know speaks as himself. God sent like the actual person to speak to Saul. Very unusually. But then also I would say that like uh my answer to that would basically be like it seems like because of the interplay between physical and spiritual, that our physical bodies are what allow our spirit to change to a certain degree and it's once the physical body is gone because like physical bodies our cells are constantly multiplying, constantly constantly mutating, constantly dying. There's a lot of change that's inherent in that. So it could be that that's why God built us this way, so that it's the physical body that allows us to change and allows us to repent. But then once that's gone, that's why it's sealed. But that's a hypothesis. Yeah. Yeah. Interesting stuff. now, that kind of thinking, that that realization that those memories and those experiences or so follow us into eternity is very comforting, very powerful for what we are maybe suffering for, m enduring now. That that those things are shaping us and molding us into into in the for his purposes for eternity. going through that. Yeah. Yeah, another uh example perhaps is our worshiping the Lord in heaven. We're going to have a very real, even more so than now, I'm sure, a very real um appreciation for the depth of our sin, the the depth of his grace. prompting us to worship all the more. Right? Um Yeah, it doesn't take a physical body, although we will have a body at that point, a glorified body. Um between the time when we die physically and we go to be with the Lord And the time that our physical body is raised to join our spirit again I don't know that we know much about our our uh our makeup, if you will. Uh it's our soul, but without our body. And so um Uh we do know that once our body rejoins our our glorified body rejoins our soul will be able to, in fact will, dwell on the earth again, just like Jesus did after his resurrection. But it won't be the same kind of body. So it's just a a a sampling that we know a few things, but there's a lot of questions we don't know the absolute answers to. That's okay. God has revealed to us all that we really need. Okay. Uh so I'm on page eighty number four. So unbelievers Shall then appear at the great white throne judgment, and shall be cast into hell, the lake of fire. Cut off from the life of God forever. They shall not be annihilated. What does annihilated mean? Cease to exist. Yeah. They will exist, but shall suffer everlasting conscious punishment in hell. Um Matthew twenty five forty six, for example, Jesus said uh when he's describing um these eternal destinations. He says, and and these, the the um uh the unrighteous will go away to eternal punishment, but the righteous into eternal life. In both cases it's eternal because our soul is eternal At least going forward. But going forward it's eternal. And uh the only question is destination. Right, yeah. So in verse uh ch I'm sorry, Second Corinthians chapter five, verse nine it says that For we I'm sorry, verse 10. So we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. So it doesn't say unbelievers, it says all. So Yes. That's uh good question What we're talking about here from Revelation 20 is the great white throne judgment. There's a different judgment for believers. It's called the judgment seat of Christ. The judgment seat of Christ is not a judgment of um where are you going for eternity? But it's a judgment like well the Olympics are happening now, right? It's a judgment as to rewards. Is it a gold medal? Is it a silver medal? Is it a bronze or is it also Rand? That's the judgment seat of Christ. Yeah. The award implies good only, but then there's an evil also associated with Well, yeah, look at um uh First Corinthians three. I'll bring it up here. Yeah, let's start at 10. For according to the grace of God, which was given to me like a wise master builder, I laid a foundation. And another is building on it, but each man must be careful how he builds upon it. And the context here he's talking about um building the church. For no one can lay a foundation other than the one which is laid, which is Jesus Christ. Now, if anyone builds on the foundation with gold, silver, and precious stones, wood, hay, and straw, Each man's work will become evident, for the day will in the day will indicate it because it is revealed with fire. And the fire itself will test the quality of each man's work. If any man's work which he has built on it remains, that is, it has eternal value, he will receive a reward If any man's work is burned up, wood, hay, and straw, things that don't have eternal value, he will suffer loss, but he himself will be saved, yet so as through fire. So the judgment seat of Christ, uh my understanding of the judgment seat of Christ is that it's yes, it's a it's um Giving out rewards, but also it's purging even any remaining sin that we have. Not in judgment, but because to be with Christ in his presence for eternity, we need to be holy. And so a lot of that ho becoming more holy happens while we're here on earth. We call that sanctification, right? But On getting to heaven, he's going to purge away what's left so that what remains is holy. But he also gives out rewards to those who have been faithful, more faithful, and so on. So um yeah the wood hay and straw would be has no eternal value. It's burned up. That's evil. That's a waste of time, waste of effort. Uh gold, silver, and precious stones eternal value. That's the we're not talking physical here, but but it's representative of things that are Revealed as to their value when the fire of judgment hits them. They're not burned up. Yeah. So what you just said about like purging the last remnants of our sin before we can be in God's presence forever, that's one of the same arguments that's made for the presence of purgatory in Catholic doctrine. How would you address people who try to use that as a justification? I don't see any evidence of purgatory in scripture. No, but like people would try to use like that same passage as saying, well, God's gonna destroy everything, so that's him purging our sins, which he does in purgatory So how would you address that? Um Bob, do you have a related point? Well I was just thinking that this seems like it's a very quick thing, whereas purgatory in my understanding is a long term thing. Yeah. That would be one difference. Right, and th the the fundamental difference between the two is the presumption of purgatory is that salvation is by our works. The presumption here and the the scriptural fact is that salvation is by grace alone and yet we're still encumbered by sin that needs to be dealt with before we enter into eternity with Christ. And also that our works There's a reward. The reward isn't salvation. Yes. Yes. It's the works that are the result of salvation, not the works to attain or gain salvation. That's right. Right. Okay. Uh so the Great White Throne Judgment, uh we're gonna Probably next week. Spend a lot more time in Revelation 19, 20, maybe touch on 21. But that Great White Thrones Great White Throne judgment is a lot different uh from the judgment seat of Christ. Which is reserved for Christians, Great White Throne judgment is not Okay. Uh number five. We kind of touched on this already, but in the present age That is here now, the attitude of either reconciliation or enmity toward God is eternally fixed at death. There is no hope for salvation. Subsequent to that, if you're not already saved at the time of death. And so prayers for the dead are unscriptural and go unrecognized by God. Uh the last passage in this section on page eighty one from Hebrews nine says, and inasmuch as it is appointed for men to die once, and after this comes judgment, and then he makes his point, but the the context for our contacts The point is that there's death and then there's judgment and there's no opportunity for repentance between the two. So Okay, so the key points here then are we're talking about the the um what happens at death, whether we're saved or unsaved, uh, and what happens to the body, what happens to the soul. When there's references to resurrection, we're going to be getting into that. That's always referring to a res a physical resurrection of the body. Our soul goes immediately to uh one place or another, either to be with Christ or um or in a a holding pattern, which is also not fun as the the uh Story Jesus gave of Lazarus and the rich man. But the final destination is is sealed. I mean there's no there's no question about the destination of these people, but it's there's going to come a final time after all people who have ever lived uh are subject to the Great White Throne if they're unsaved. Damn. So we all know that once someone is dead that's it. If they were unbelievers, there's an Nothing we can do to change that. What is your thought, or is there any sort of biblical support for praying that God would have mercy on someone because many believe that there are different degrees of punishment. What is your thought on that? Yeah, there's there's evidence um even from Christ that there are uh degrees of of punishment. You know, he would say to uh unbelieving cities who saw his miracles, for example, that that s the judgment of Sodom and Gomorrah is going to be lighter than what you're gonna get. But I'm I don't know of any evidence that God's wisdom and application of his judgment there is dependent on anything other than what happened in their life. Um What we can be praying for is that perhaps they had a deathbed um conviction and and repentance that is known only between them and the Lord And also be praying for those who are left behind that this would sensitize them to their own mortality. Okay. By the way, one application of this You know, there are a variety of ways of of dealing with the body, the dead body of someone who has just died. These days it's it's becoming increasingly popular here even in the US to cremate. someone. It seems more efficient. Um takes less space in the ground. Um And even if someone is cremated, it doesn't mean that God can't still resurrect the body and and do what only God can do. But why do we bury somebody instead of cremating them? It's a testimony that The body itself will also be raised. And so um Personally, I think it's far better to use a physical burial as a testimony to others of our certainty of being raised to life. Which is hard to picture if We sprinkle ashes over the ocean or whatever. Those are touching things, but uh it's all about testimony. Giving testimony that we are certain that this is not the end that um and you know you can read on a lot of tombstones some excellent testimonies about that. And some of them are quoting scripture verses about Christ being the resurrection and the life and looking forward to that resurrection. Um that's referring to the resurrection of the body, what's actually laid in the in the tomb So that's not a dogmatic thing, but it's just a challenge to be thinking through implications. What is our testimony? Okay. Okay. Dispensationalism. It sounds like sensationalism, doesn't it? What's a dispensation? It's a period of time. That's all it means. A period of time. Sometimes we hear words, we use words like uh era or epoch or eon, right? Well, you can think in those terms when we speak of dispensations. So all the scriptures interpreted in their natural, literal sense. Which, by the way, is the way we should approach Scripture. Um we shouldn't read into them ideas that are not there. And particularly when they're inconsistent with what is there in the breads of Scripture. Anyway, Scriptures interpreted in their natural, literal sense, Reveal divinely determined dispensations or administrations that define man's responsibility for that age, for that epoch. Examples include the age of the law, the church age, and the millennium. Just to quote a few. The first passage we have here is of Genesis 2, where it speaks of Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden. That was a different time. Right? This is before sin. Everything is as God designed it. Everything was very good. Then of course when sin came, lots of things changed. And we see that starting in Genesis 3. Um and that's just one example of how uh God um It's partly bec well largely, I think, because of sin and God's provision for sin, that time, as we understand time Can be categorized in in these periods of time. And so um The next, well not the next, but the the major period of time that's of significance in Scripture is the period of the law. with Israel under the the kingship of Yahweh, uh with the law being given through Moses for their their worship of God, their their uh carrying about carrying out their regular lives and and so on. Um and What was the purpose of the law in that age? Keep us out of trouble. To make them set apart and what? Oh, to point them to gossip. And show that they're really sinful. They didn't really think they were sinful. Yeah. So lots of things were illustrated by God through the law and the practices that they had to to uh obey. One was the absolute holiness of God The unapproachable holiness of God, and the converse of that, the pervasiveness of our sin. The fact that our sin needs to be paid for, right? Um, and that the payment for that sin Is either we pay for it or we get a substitute to pay for it. And The picture of that substitute under the law was the sacrifice of animals, particularly lambs and goats. That were spotless. Pure. Symbolizing what? the the need for the ultimate sacrifice to be without spot or blemish, without sin. Right How much of that the regular people understood is not all that clear, but they should have had driven home to them that God has a provision for sin. And we need to place our faith in his provision because it's important because he's holy and we're not. Um And many many under the law got at least that much. And had they obeyed out of faith rather than just Yes. It was necessary for something to die. Exactly. Right. And that was pictured right back at the first sin in Genesis 3. So there was a substitute, a blood substitute for sin. That literally clothed and uh covered their shame. Yeah. Um so all along here, God is even from the Garden of Eden God is picturing, he has a solution for sin. He's not specific about his timetable, but uh he's given pictures of the important things that people should grasp. And the law was was largely to to do that and to bring people to an understanding of their need to um uh cooperate with God's provision for their sin. Now of course the natural thing, most of them um um as we would have, I'm sure, were thinking that the actual doing of these things was what would cause us to be saved. rather than understanding the bigger picture that God has an ultimate provision, that this complete r uh repetitive year after year, day after day kind of sacrifice for sins uh couldn't be the ultimate solution. I mean Hebrews goes into this a lot. Um But the the the the purpose of the law was to continue the unfolding of God's redemptive plan. And it was not just for the nation of Israel. It was to be an example to the whole world through Israel. So that's the dispensation, the law. And so we have a reference here to Exodus. which is just a snippet of all the various examples of how the law uh came to us. So let's go to uh 80 page 83 And look at Acts one. So here Jesus has um uh been raised from the dead, he's appearing to his disciples, and this is just before he ascends into heaven. And we read, uh, and so when they had come together, they were asking him, saying, Lord, is this the time you're restoring the kingdom to Israel? And he said to them, It is not for you to know the times or epochs which the Father has fixed by his own authority And we're talking here about these different periods of time where God is unveiling his redemptive plan. We shouldn't get hung up about God's timetable. It's not for you to know, he says. But And now he brings it down to the present. You shall receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you shall be my witnesses both in Jerusalem, Judea, and all Samaria, even to the remotest part of the earth. So what's important, he says, is what's next in that overall plan of redemption, and that is to spread the good news. Right? Uh yeah. So at the beginning of the class you said something that just kind of reminded me of it again. Um So before the foundations of the earth, God has chosen who will be with him in heaven and who will be in hell. for everyone. We don't know. Right. So based on this, out of obedience, we're simply supposed to go out and present the gospel. Right. Every opportunity. So just keep doing that and you're obeying what God wants you to do as believers in Him and let God do His sovereign work. Right. Which He decided before foundation. Right. Yep. Exactly. Let's go to Galatians three, the next one here. where Paul is is talking about where he's answering the question, well, if salvation is by grace and not by works, well what was the purpose of the law? And so he says, but before faith came, we were kept in custody under the law, being shut up to the faith which was later to be revealed. Therefore, the law has become our tutor to lead us to Christ that we may be justified by faith. But now the faith has come, we are no longer under a tutor. So, uh like Jesus said, um Matthew 5. 17, just a couple of passages above in your notes there, do not think that I came to abolish the law of the prophets. I did not come to abolish, but to fulfill. And once having fulfilled them, by fulfilling that redemptive plan of God, we're no longer under a tutor, but under Does that mean we're just on our own? No, we don't have a tutor to lead us to Christ. We're now in Christ. And so we have the teachings of Christ and his apostles and all of Scripture to give us a very good idea of what we should be doing now. What our motives should be now, what our hope is in now, all of that. And the Holy Spirit. And the Holy Spirit, who enables us to do that. Exactly. Okay. Let's go to number two. These dispensations do not involve different ways of being saved. And they do not negate some continuity from one dispensation to another. And so salvation has always been by grace through faith. Whether that's Adam and Eve, or Noah, or Abraham, or us. Salvation is always by grace through faith. It's not by works. Um And Jesus is pointing to this this continuity and this fulfillment thing in the very next verse in Matthew five, Matthew five eighteen. For truly I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not the smallest letter or stroke shall pass away from the law, until all is accomplished. So there is continuity. God's moral requirements are the same, right? And and that's because God is God and our are becoming more like Him uh is is not Changed. It's all the same. But the way he operates in these different periods of time does change a little bit. It because of progressive revelation Because of looking forward to Christ versus looking back on what Christ has done, things change. And so it is Okay. Um I want to introduce if you've got still got your Bibles open. If you can go to the book of Daniel, chapter nine. See if we can at least introduce this today. We'll probably pick up on it next time. In the first year of Darius, the son of Ahasuerus, from the seed of Medes, who was made king over the kingdoms of the Chaldeans, In the first year of his reign, I, Daniel, discerned in the books the number of years concerning which the word of the of the Lord came to Jeremiah the prophet for the fulfillment of the laying waste of Jerusalem, namely seventy years. And so where is Daniel at this point? He's in exile in Babylon. And here he is, he's reading the prophecy of Jeremiah, which is pretty recent in his time. And he's he understands it to be God's word to Israel, and he's reading through it and he sees very specific uh um Pronouncement that this Babylonian exile is going to last specifically 70 years. It's twice in Jeremiah. And so he's reading that and he looks at his calendar and he's thinking, oh, right. So I gave my face to the Lord to seek him by prayer and supplication with fasting, sackcloth and ashes. And I prayed to the Lord my God and confessed and said, Alas, O Lord, the great and awesome God, who keeps his covenant and loving kindness for those who love him and keep his commandments, we have sinned We have committed iniquity and acted wickedly and rebelled, even turning aside from your commandments and judgments. Moreover, we have not listened to your slaves, the prophets, who spoke in your name our kings, your our princes, our fathers, and all the people of the land. You notice he's using the first person plural here? We. We. He's identifying, he's not separating himself from all those who led to the need to be held captive in Babylon. And then it's just pure worship. To you, O Lord, belongs righteousness. But to us, open chain, as it is this day. To the men of Judah, the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and all Israel, those who are nearby and those who are far away, and all the countries to which you have banished them because of their unfaithful deeds which they have committed against you. O Lord, to us belongs open shame, to our kings, our princes, and so on. And so Read through that prayer. It's a good model for us in terms of worship, acknowledging God's God's character. Acknowledging his promises, but also confessing our sins. And you read through that And get to verse 20. Now, while I was speaking and praying and confessing my sin, the sin of my people Israel, and presenting my supplication before the Lord my God. In behalf of the holy mountain of my God, and he referred to that earlier. I didn't read it. What is the holy mountain he's referring to? Sina? Sorry? Sina? Temple. Yeah, it's it's um um Uh basically he's referring to the temple, Mount Moriah. Although I've got issues with that name. Anyway, and while I was speaking in prayer, then the man Gabriel, whom I had seen in the vision previously. It says man here, but he's referring to Gabriel the angel, right? Whom I'd seen in the vision previously touched me in my extreme weariness about the time of the evening offering Then he made me understand and spoke with me and said, O Daniel, I have now come forth to give you insight and understanding. At the beginning of your supplications, the word was issued, so I have come to tell you, for you are highly esteemed. So understand the message and gain understanding in what has appeared. And so if you're Daniel, you're thinking, what? This is a good thing. God's answering my prayer. He's come, he sent an angel to give me encouragement And he says to Daniel, 70 weeks have been determined for your people and for your holy city. Who are your people? The Jews. Who what is your holy city? Jerusalem. Jerusalem. That's what he's been praying for. Seventy weeks have been determined for your people and for your holy city to finish the transgression, to make an end of sin, to make atonement for iniquity. to bring in everlasting righteousness, to seal up vision and prophecy, and to anoint the Holy of Holies. And so if you're Daniel, you're probably thinking, okay, I think that's good news. So you are to know, Daniel, and have insight that from the going out of a word to restore and rebuild Jerusalem until Messiah the Prince. There will be seven weeks and sixty-two weeks. Any math whizzes there? How many weeks is that? 69. 69. Uh yeah. It will be restored and rebuilt with plaza and mode even in times of distress. So, again, if you're Daniel, what are you thinking? Yeah, it's gonna be rebuilt. God's got this plan. Uh it's an answer to my prayer. Uh everything sounds good. Verse 26. Then after the 62 weeks, the Messiah will be cut off and have nothing. And the people of the prince who is to come will destroy the city and the sanctuary. Oh no. What are you thinking if you're Daniel at this point? This is not what I had in mind, right? It's going to be rebuilt and then destroyed And its end will come like a flood. Even to the end there will be war, desolations, and de are decrees. And he, that is this prince who is to come, will make a firm covenant for the many with the many for one week. That's the 70th of these seventy weeks. But in the middle of that week, he will make sacrifice of grain offering, he will make those sacrifices cease. And on the wing of abominations will come who makes desolate, even a complete destruction, one that is decreed, is poured out on the one who makes desolate. Okay, so Daniel got what probably he was thinking was a mixed message, some good news, some bad news. The good news is, yes, our our cap Babylonian captivity is going to end as God has revealed. There will be a rebuilding of the temple and restoration of the sacrifices and so on, but at some point it's later going to be destroyed yet again. And it won't be pretty. Okay. So what's interesting here is that God gave some clues as to the timing. He said, seventy weeks have been determined for your people. Now that word weeks, in I think it's actually Aramaic, not Hebrew here. The word weeks is really the word seventh. Which makes sense. I mean it's it's sevens um how many days there are in a week. But if seventy sevens have been determined for you people And he's not specific about the length of each of those sevens. But and and I'm not sure that Daniel had Much insight into that either. We have insight into it looking back in time. So the time The key event here is sixty-nine weeks, sixty-nine sevens, which is four hundred and eighty-three years. From the time um from the time the I'm trying to see which verse it's in Verse 25. From the going out of a word to restore and rebuild Jerusalem until Messiah the Prince, there will be seven weeks and sixty-three weeks. So the time between the pronouncement which was actually given by by um uh Cyrus Uh from the time that decree went out till the time of the mess the messiah being cut off, what's that a reference to? the crucifixion. Daniel probably didn't have a lot of insight about that. We look back on it and we say, ah, now I see what what was happening. Um But you've got 483 years between the two. And then he says there is one more, the last of the sevens, the last of the seven um years, the last week, if you will, there's going to be some other events happening and things happening in the middle of that three that the seven year period. We're going to talk more about those things coming up, but just to kind of lay the foundation for our future discussions, As you read through Daniel nine, God's message to Daniel about what's happening for his people. Doesn't say anything about what happens between week sixty nine and week seventy. And it would have been natural for him to assume that they were just contiguous. We look back in time and we see that Um with the rest of prophecy that there is a church age now. And if you flip the page you see a little chart that kind of shows those dispensations, those periods of time. where the church age is in parentheses. I forget who it was, but um that's been often the church age not having been spelled out in Daniel nine is something of a parentheses in this whole timeline for the nation of Israel. And we'll talk more about that in coming weeks. But we better wrap up now. Let's pray.