Okay, as we as I showed you a couple weeks ago, write this order of salvation. I I love this as a framework Again, because we often think of our salvation as kind of a binary event, don't we? We were not saved, we were in bondage to sin, and then we were converted, and we are now saved, which is all true. Right? And it's a glorious, miraculous event. But as we work through the order of salvation, what does it do? It really gives us a better understanding, a high view of who God is. As we think about all these different um steps, if you will. Think of them as logical, not temporal. Okay? So really, really need to get a better understanding of who God is and who we are We talked about that. So we've already covered this idea of foreknowledge or election. Pastor Allen covered that last week. The week before we talked about regeneration, right? We need that new birth. Everything is impossible until that happens. The new birth, the transformation of our heart by the Holy Spirit. So today we are going to talk about these three items. Conversion, we often call it, faith and repentance. And we'll talk about the fact that these are really two sides of the same coin. You cannot have one without the other. Faith and repentance Which allows us to now be reconciled to God, to have a right standing before God, justification. And we'll talk about that. And then this beautiful idea of what happens then: adoption. Alright, so I love talking about this stuff. Pray that you guys would be blessed by our conversation today. I wanted to share Again, this idea of having a high view of God and, as I've said, a correct view of man. And I say correct versus a low view of man. And we sang the song last week, My worth is not in what I own. And I love this verse because I feel like it captures The paradox or the dilemma we work through as believers, right? Two wonders here that I confess, my worth and my unworthiness. My value fixed, my ransom paid at the cross. Does that resonate at all? Right? As believers Understanding our new worth before a holy God, that we are justified, that we are declared righteous That's the word. But what happens through our sanctification as we learn more and more about God, as we spend more time in the scriptures? What happens? We learn more about our sin or unworthiness. Absolutely. Right? It it becomes just so profound. And yet, what should that cause us to do if we are believers? To rejoice. To praise God as our understanding of our unworthiness expands, right? We should be praising God for the worth we now have as His children. And that's what we're going to talk about. But I thought I I just love that verse and I love that song because of this verse. Those are the two things that we work through. And again, it's important, I said this, sometimes we focus on our unworthiness as believers. Right? We have a low view of who we are. We need to have a high view of who we are as as Christians, as believers. Okay? Yesterday at the Hope for the Sojourner event, very familiar song to all of you. It is well with my soul, but I love this particular verse. My sin, O the bliss of this glorious thought, my sin not in part. But the whole is nailed to the cross and I bear it no more. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, O my soul. Is that not a glorious, glorious truth? And again, we're going to talk about that's the truth as we talk about justification, as we talk about adoption. That is true. Our sin in whole has been nailed to the cross. No longer condemnation. Alright, so I'm going to leave this up as uh we talk. Okay, any questions so far? Good? Alright, we are in page 89 in your binder. But we're not going to start at page 89. We're going to go in reverse order. So I want you to turn actually to the supplemental on page 93. And again, I do this as I have this list here. Again, I don't want you to think of it as a temporal process, but more of just logic, a sequence. And so in in in my view, this makes a little bit more sense to put it in this sequence. So that's how we're going to do it. So I'm at the top of page 93. Supplemental notes, faith and repentance. We're going to learn inseparable graces. And as I mentioned, really two sides of the same coin. You cannot have one without the other. Saving faith causes someone to trust in Jesus Christ alone for salvation, that his perfect life, substitutionary death And resurrection are the only basis for salvation. Let me pause there. A couple weeks ago, right? We talked about this idea of atonement And we have a a different view on how that's used in the Old Testament. The key though was what? Was the work of Jesus Christ, which I just described here. His perfect life with no sin His substitutionary death and his resurrection. All of that combined is how he earned our salvation. It's the basis for our salvation. This trust in Christ is full reliance, realizing that the only alternative for us is the eternal hell we deserve. This reliance is revealed by complete surrender to the Lordship of Christ. So again, you see some key elements there. Full reliance And then after the fact, right, a complete surrender. You can't have it both ways. You can't have one foot in the world and one foot you think with Jesus Christ. It's full surrender He has to become your Lord. But let me pause for a second. When we talk about faith, there's often an acronym that is used. Cat. Anyone heard that before? Cat. Knowledge, affirmation, and trust. All three are needed. So think about this. It is possible for someone to read Scripture and have knowledge that Jesus Christ is the only way for salvation. It's possible. We're going to read about it It's also possible that they affirm, they attest to the fact that that's true. But the key element is the trust factor. They have to trust. They have to have full reliance on Jesus Christ as their salvation. They have to completely surrender. Right? So I thought this is a helpful way to understand faith. Cat. Okay? Alright, so let's go to your Bible to Acts 26. And let me give you an example that we see here. In Acts 26, let me start at the very beginning. This is Paul Giving his defense before King Agrippa. And I'll start in verse one and then we'll we'll jump. And Agrippa said to Paul, You are permitted to speak for yourself. Then Paul stretched out his hand and proceeded to make his defense. In regard to all the things of which I am accused by the Jews, I consider myself fortunate, King Agrippa, that I am about to make my defense before you today Especially because you are an expert in all customs and questions among the Jews. Therefore I beg you to listen to me patiently. So then Paul goes through kind of the history of of you know the the Old Testament, his conversion, you know, on the road to Damascus. And then jump down to 24. Verse 24. Now Festus was uh, I think, uh, a providential leader there at the time. And so, and while Paul was saying this in his defense, Festus said in a loud voice Paul, you are out of your mind. Your great learning is driving you mad. But Paul said, I am not out of my mind, most excellent Festus. But I utter words of sober truth. For the king knows, talking about King Agrippa, the king knows about these matters, and I speak to him also with confidence. since I am persuaded that none of these things escape his notice, for this has not been done in a corner. King Agrippa, do you believe the prophets? I know that you do And Agrippa replied to Paul, In a short time you will persuade me to become a Christian. Right? So he knew that King Agrippa knew. He had the knowledge. He meet he might have even had the affirmation But it's it seems clear here that he did not have the trust. Alright, so you can see how important that trust piece is. Does that make sense All right, so I think that's a good example of that play now. You could probably say the uh you know the Pharisees, the religious leaders at the time, Saint Predicament, right? They understood the law, they knew it They knew it cold, and yet they didn't trust in Jesus Christ as their Savior. Alright, let's cover a couple of these verses. Lewis, can you read Romans 3. 27 for me, top of page 93? Where then is boasting? It is excluded. By what kind of law? Of works? No, but by a law of faith. For we maintain that a man is justified by faith apart from works of the law. Or is God the God of Jews only? Is He not the God of Gentiles also? Yes, of Gentiles also. Since indeed God who will justify the circumcised by faith, and the uncircumcised through faith, is one Do we then nullify the law through faith? May it never be. On the contrary, we establish the law. Alright, good. So both the Jew and the Greek, right? The circumcised and the uncircumcised. How? By faith. Through faith Good, Romans 4. What then shall we say that Abraham, our forefather, according to the flesh, is found? For if Abraham was justified by works, he has something to boast about, but not before God. For what does the scripture say? Abraham believed God, and it was credited to him as righteousness. Now to the one who works, his wage is not credited as a favor but as what is due. But to the one who does not work, but believes in him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is credited as righteousness. Alright, we'll test that statement there. Abraham believed God and it was credited to him as righteousness. What what was the circumstances? What was the context there? What happened? Cale, you can't answer Alex. Wasn't it uh when God took him out the tent and showed him the stars and descendants would be as many as the sands? So he got the promise in Genesis twelve, right, of of his descendants would be as many as the sands of the seashore, if you will. And there were many years where he wasn't given an air, right? That promise wasn't being fulfilled. And crying out to God, and God said, go outside. And look up and look at the stars. And that's when he believed. That's when it was credited to him as righteousness. Romans ten That if you confess with your mouth Jesus as Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. For with the heart a person believes, resulting in righteousness. And with the mouth he confesses, resulting in salvation. For the scripture says, whoever believes in him will not be disappointed. Again, understand what's happening here. It's flowing out of the heart. It's not just what was said. Right? A lot of folks can say based on knowledge, but trust starts in the heart. Right? It has to flow. So what is confessed verbally has to come from the heart. And really only God knows what's in a person's heart. Alright, let's jump down to Hebrews 11. Alex, can you read that one for me? The other Alex And without faith it is impossible to please him, for he who comes to God must believe that he is and that he is a rewarder of those who seek Alright, good. Without faith, it is impossible. Right, we've talked about this. No works ever suffice of our own human um effort, if you will. It has to come through faith. And faith is believing or trusting, as we talked about. James 6, for just as the body without the spirit is dead, so also faith without works is dead. We talked about that a couple weeks ago too, didn't we? What's James saying here? Right. You'll see the evidence of your faith through works. That's what he was trying to uh point there. Good. All right, so that's faith. Again, the other side of the coin is repentance. Don't look at your notes. What's the Greek word for repentance? Good, metanoia, good. We're making progress, Pastor. Metanoia literally means a change of mind. It basically means to commit yourself to forsake sin. This begins in our mind, our heart. But genuine repentance is revealed by corresponding changes in our life, the fruit of repentance. So repentance is usually described as turning away from sin. Again, you should see those fruits if you have truly repented, if you truly have faith. Therefore, bear fruit in keeping with repentance. Those are commands. And Jesus answered and said to them, It is not those who are well who need a physician, but those who are sick. I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. And again, the passage in Luke, this was uh the two gentlemen on the road to Emmaus. Then he opened their minds to understand the scriptures, and he said to them, Thus it is written that the Christ would suffer and rise again from the dead the third day. And that repentance for forgiveness of sins would be proclaimed in his name to all the nations, beginning from Jerusalem. And then finally in Acts, this is uh when Peter is addressing uh the crowds after after the time of Pentecost, right, where they they saw that or they heard them speaking in tongues, which was actually just their their native languages Now, when they heard this, they were pierced to the heart. Right, this is after Peter's explanation, and said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, Brethren, what shall we do? Peter said to them, Repent, and each of you be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. That is the power of Scripture, of the gospel message. It pierces the heart. What shall we do? Repent. Okay, top of the next page. I'm going to jump down to 1 Thessalonians Was there a question? Yes, Wanzhu. So Wan Zhu is asking what kind of fruit would you would be evidence of that? Okay, absolutely. What else? Actually I believe Galatians was the second book written. It would have it would have been um I think it absolutely would have been uh preached by the apostles, right? That fruit. Cream. Um turning away from your sins. Yeah. So even John the Baptist when they They would come to him for baptism would say, you know, turn away from your sins. So that's the fruit of repentance is What was um often in the New Testament, one second, um an issue that was often addressed in the churches, to your point of youthful lusts Sexual immorality, right? It was addressed often to flee youthful lust. So that would have been a fruit of repentance is to flee youthful lust So is it connecting with um faith without work is that so it's like work and faith so like So that's a part of it Wanju exactly right? If you're not seeing that evidence, what does that say about a person's faith? Dead. Dead. Exactly. Exactly. Alex? I was just going to say in addition to what Kareem was saying is is also a hatred for sin. And I think um Uh what comes with that is a brokenness. And I think of the accountant and the Pharisee, the Pharisees praying and for all it's it's essentially praying to himself and the accountant wouldn't even look to heaven and he'd beat his breast pleading for mercy. Yeah. It's two very different approaches. And one is fruit of self righteousness and the other is fruit of ethical. Which is really an evidence of regeneration, right? You desire to please God now, and and it grieves you when when you don't. Both faith and repentance are things that we face So the the um the little title here says um saving faith. People exercise faith all the time. Faith in um the dependability of other people or you know you get on a plane you have faith that it's to hold you up and get you there, right? Um Mrs. Boeing. Well um The Pharisees had faith. They had words. But it wasn't genuine saving faith. It wasn't genuine from the heart words. And essentially, I think you're gonna know that the work someone does is a fruit of genuine repentance If you can't explain it other way any other way then that God is working through this person. It's like a complete change of heart. So we need to be careful of this. We don't think of repentance as just doing things. Doing things that are consistent with the gospel. They need to be done Uh because God is doing that through us. Yeah. that passage right? Because that these people are b doing all kinds of incredible work. Mm-hmm. And to them you're saying like, you know, bear fruit So what does he say? Like what are you not doing? So issue? No, so I think that's fair. They they were producing fruit. But but okay, but he understood the contacts, he understood their hearts, he saw the weight that they were putting on the Jews Right? Not in line with with what true repentance was meant to mean. Right? My burden is right, is what should be happening. So he uh Jesus understood the contrast between what the Pharisees were doing and the fruit they were producing and the true fruit of repentance. And that's why he condemned them, you brood of vipers. You're supposed to be the leaders Right, displaying by example what true repentance is, and that's not what they were doing. three eight this is John Baptist speaking to the Sadducees and Pharisees. So they didn't have like as we would given the context of the New Testament, they didn't necessarily have like great works as we would necessarily What they had was they looked good and they obeyed earthly laws and they you know cracked a lot and they had good reputation. and everything, but all they had were appearances, they which is why Jesus called them Whitewash students. So that like also plays into it where you know they were donating to the temple so that they didn't have to get money. Their family. They were uh criticizing people who were only giving two coins even though that's all they were able to give. There was no actual genuine faith there, all they had were the official Alright, so we talk about saving faith and repentance, but what is the source? The source of faith and repentance. God graciously gives both faith and repentance as gifts. Not because of any merit on our part or in response to anything we do. If he didn't take the initiative in doing so, we'd be helplessly lost In that sense, both repentance and faith are graces, gifts from God. And they are inseparable because saving faith is always accompanied by genuine repentance. And genuine repentance is always accomplished by saving faith. So again, this idea that they are gracious gifts from God, you know, pointing back to our chart here, if you will, faith and repentance, that comes from the Lord. Right? That should give us a very that should elevate our view of God as we understand that. That had to come from God and God alone. It was no work of man. Let me read Acts 11. When they heard this, they quieted down and glorified God, saying, Well then, God has granted to the Gentiles also the repentance that leads to life. Again, God doing the work here. Acts 16. A woman named Lydia from the city of Thyatria, a seller of purple fabrics, a worshipper of God, was listening, and the Lord opened her heart to respond to the things spoken by Paul. Again, a work of God. Romans nine. Miss Cream, can you read that for me, please? For he says to Moses, I will have mercy on whom I have mercy, and I will I will have compassion, on whom I have compassion. So that does not depend on the man who wills or the man who runs, but on God who has mercy For the scripture says to Pharaoh, For this very purpose I raised you up to demonstrate my power in you, and that my name might be proclaimed throughout the whole earth. So then he has mercy on whom he desires And he hardens to desire to be a good thing. Okay, good. We talked a little bit about this passage, I believe, last week when we talked about election, right? God God chooses the elect. But again, it's the work, it's the work of God to provide faith and repentance. Let me jump down to Ephesians. Right, that everyone should have underlined in their Bible. For by grace you have been saved through faith, and that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God. Not as a result of work, so that no one may boast. What if we had the smallest iota of responsibility in our salvation? What would we do We would boast. Right? And even if it was as small as a mustard seed, what would we do? We'd grow it into a big oak tree. Right? Look at what I did. Not any iota do we play in our salvation. And that's critical. What does that do? That should give us a really high view of God. Alex. I think a really good point So what you're saying is we have no part in our salvation and we still do those things. Yeah. Right. Yeah But it doesn't end there. Let's continue the note at the bottom. If faith or repentance were generated by man, then they would be works, what we do to deserve salvation. And salvation would then be by our works. Salvation by faith alone means it is apart from any work by the person who is saved. Nonetheless, when God grants us faith to believe and softens our heart to repent, We do need to and will respond to him with that faith and repentance. We're going to talk a little bit more about this next week, but here's what that's saying. We are supposed to do something in this process. We are supposed to respond, right? When we have that effectual call, that regeneration, we are to respond with what Faith and repentance. But where does that come from? It's a gift of God. So yes, we need to respond. If we have that effectual call, we will respond. But it is the gift of God that enables us to respond through faith and repentance. Does that make sense? Sometimes that can be a a bit of a paradox, but Yes, we have a responsibility to respond, but it's because of the gift God gives us to respond. Faith and repentance. Okay? Alright, let's continue moving backwards. And we'll continue to cover this idea of faith and repentance. I'm on the top of page 91 And again, there's going to be two parts. So we're going to cover some aspects of faith and repentance this week, and then we'll follow up next week. Faith and repentance. Repentance and faith are sacred duties and inseparable graces brought about in our souls by the regenerating Spirit of God. So again, you have to be regenerated, right? You were dead, you have to be born again. Your heart has to be transformed, it has to become malleable, and then you receive faith and repentance. The first passage there in Luke, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan has demanded permission to sift you like wheat. But I have prayed for you that your faith may not fail. And you, and once you have turned again, strengthen your brothers. So what's going on here? I think I'd be screwed. Yeah. Does Satan get what he demands? No. No, not without permission. Not without permission. So he was given permission by the Lord for a reason, for his providential sovereign reason. Could Peter have lost his faith? Jesus says that your faith may not fail. So is God holding a must? He's not going to allow it to fail. When you become a believer, right? When you become adopted, we'll talk about this. You can never be separated again from the Lord. All right? Never, ever, ever So he is going to through go through a severe time of trial and tribulation, right? But once you have turned again, that you would strengthen your brothers. This will be his testimony, right? His his encouragement to his brothers and sisters in the faith. Good. Let's go third one down, John three. Um Glenn, could you read that for me, please? He who believes in the Son has eternal life, but he who does not believe the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abides on him Alright, good. So you see he who believes, and we talked about this, right? He who has faith, what should happen then? Repentance as well. You should see the evidence of that. So by not obeying Right? There is eternal damnation. He who believes eternal life, but if you don't see or he's not producing the evidence of that, he doesn't really have true faith in repentance. Does not obey. You'll see the wrath of God. No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him, and I will raise him up on the last day. Again, reverting back to our discussion last week about election. The Father must draw. And two down from that. Acts 13. And when the Gentiles heard this They began rejoicing and glorifying the word of the Lord. And as many as had been appointed to eternal life believed. It has to be a choice, it has to be a work of God and the Holy Spirit Uh let's go down to the bold, Acts 17. Diana, can you read that one for me, please? Therefore, having overlooked the times of ignorance, God is now declaring to men that all everywhere should be Good. So obviously he's talking about Jesus Christ there. Therefore, having overlooked the times of ignorance, God is now declaring to men that all everywhere should repent. Right? That is part of the equation Alright, let's jump down the second from the bottom, 2 Timothy 225. Let me have you open your Bibles again I'm going to start in verse 22. 2 Timothy 2, starting in verse 22. And we talked about this earlier, right? Now flee from youthful lust and pursue righteousness So there's a put off and a put on. Pursue righteousness, faith, love, and peace with those who call on the Lord from a pure heart. But refuse foolish and ignorant speculations, knowing that they produce quarrels. And the Lord's bondservant must not be quarrelsome, but be kind to all, able to teach, patient when wrong with gentleness correcting those who are in opposition, if perhaps God may grant them repentance leading to the knowledge of the truth And they may come to their senses and escape from the snare of the devil, having been held captive by him to do his will. So what do we see here about you know we've been talking about the evidences and it's It's very natural to look at somebody and examine what they're doing. We have to be very careful not to judge their heart because we truly don't know. Only God knows. What's the prescription there, though, in in 2 Timothy? How is he to respond to the opposition? With gentleness? And if he's a free The understanding that we were once there. Mm-hmm. Right, right, Millie. All are made in the image of God and we were all dead in our sins at one point. Alright, so remembering that. What else though? What what's the heart of why he is to act in this way with gentleness, right, and to be a peacemaker? Back to this issue of the heart. We don't know what's going on in their heart. We don't know that God might bring them to repentance. And and we are that testimony to them. Okay? So I think very, very important because it it can you can fall into the trap of starting to judge people. Right? We don't know their hearts and you don't know what the Lord's gonna do. you continue to pursue, you continue to pursue with gentleness and grace and in the piercing word of God. Good. Alright, let's flip over to page 92. Repentance and faith mean that one is convinced of his guilt. Um let me go back to This idea here, right, is what? Our unworthiness. Convinced of his guilt, our unworthiness before a holy God. And what's the danger? Because of our unworthiness, where do we end up? In hell, right? That's our eternal damnation. That's the danger. In our helplessness, we are unable to see God in our sinful nature. We've talked about that. Right? So repentance and faith mean that one is convinced of his guilt, his unworthiness, his danger where he will end up in hell, in his helplessness, unable to seek God. And the way of salvation in Christ, and therefore turns to God for mercy, while at the same time heartily receiving the Lord Jesus Christ as his King. Again, this is the idea that Jesus Christ becomes your Lord in all of your life. in all of your endeavors. Many are the sorrows of the wicked, but he who trusts in the Lord, loving kindness shall surround him. So you see this contrast, right, between not trusting in the Lord And your life can be miserable to she who trusts in the Lord, surrounded by loving kindness. The Lord favors those who fear him, those who wait for his loving kindness. Right? Fear is the beginning of wisdom, fear in God. And that's a reverent fear. That's not a scared or anxious fear. Um Heather, can you read Matthew three for me, the third one down? But when he saw many of the Pharisees he said, he's coming for that He said to them, You brood of vipers, who warned you to flee from the wrath to come, therefore bring forth fruit in keeping with him. So Wanju, back to the point you were making earlier. Here's where he's confronting them. He's condemning them. And what's the contrast there? He says, therefore bring forth fruit in keeping with repentance. Right? He was trying to drive at the fact that true repentance should uh be evidenced by a particular type of fruit that we've talked about And in this case, you know, back to the CAT acronym, did they trust? Did they trust in Jesus? Were they convinced of their guilt, of the danger, of the helplessness? I don't think they were Right? That's why Jesus was confronting them. Alright, Matthew 11, come to me all who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and humble in heart, and you shall find rest for your souls, for my yoke is easy and my load is light. We live in a fallen world. Life is tough while we stay in this world. But what you hear here is the believer's rest in Jesus Christ. Right, that should give us a different demeanor, if you will. That should give us a joy. What does it say? My yoke is easy and my load is light. That's not what the Pharisees were doing. They were making the load extremely heavy. That's not Jesus Christ. John 16, Lewis, can you read that one for me, please? Yes But I tell you the truth, it is to your advantage that I go away, for if I do not go away, the helper shall not come to you. But if I go, I will send him to you, and he, when he comes, will convict the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment Concerning sin, because they do not believe in me, and concerning righteousness, because I go to the Father, and you no longer behold me, and concerning judgment, because the ruler of this world has been judged Okay, good. Thank you. He convicts. We talked about that word, right? It's to lay out all the evidence and condemn actually is what's happening there. And that's what he does to the world. So that we are without excuse. You know, Chester brought up that question last week. We will be without excuse Because the Holy Spirit will make it very clear to everyone their guilt, their danger, their helplessness. Now what do we do though? What does it say in Romans 1? What do we do to the truth? We suppress it. We suppress the truth. And what does God do? He gives us over to our sin. We will be without excuse. Alright, let's jump down to Acts sixteen. Miss Grace, can you read that one for me, please? And he called for lights and rushed in, and trembling with fear, he fell down before Paul and Silas. And after he brought them out, he said, Sirs, what must I do to be safe? And they said, believe in the Lord Jesus, and you shall be saved, you and your household. Alright, this is the jailer, right? And he rushed in. What what must I do? And you shall be saved, you and your household. Now was Paul saying that his household is going to be saved? Was that the promise? That's right. Right. The the believe the believe is what is required for all, even your household. Right? It wasn't a guarantee that the household was going to be saved. We know that from the rest of Scripture. We know that from last week, election. But to believe is is the avenue that must happen for you and your household. Miss Kayla, can you read Romans one, the one just below that? First and also to the Greek. I'm not ashamed of the gospel, for it is power of God for salvation to everyone who believes. We covered some of those passages, right? When it pierced their hearts, what did they do? What must we do? What do we need to do to become saved? That's the power of the word. But the righteous man shall live by faith. And the last passage I'll cover here, Romans 10. That if you confess with your mouth Jesus as Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you shall be saved. Again, it flows out of the heart. For with the heart man believes, resulting in righteousness, and with the mouth he confesses, resulting in salvation. For the scripture says, whoever believes in him will not be disappointed For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek, for the same Lord is Lord of all, abounding in riches for all who come upon him. For whoever will call upon the name of the Lord will be saved. Praise the Lord is for Jew and Greek or Gentile, right? Praise the Lord. Again, this idea of confessing with your mouth, it's not just an act. It has to flow from true repentance, true faith from the heart. Good. Any questions on faith and repentance? Okay, so again, we we talk about this idea of election. We talk about the Holy Spirit needing to regenerate your heart, we respond how? In faith and repentance. And then it gets better. Right? It gets better. Justification. Bottom of page 89. Justification before God is an act of God by which, again, who does it? God. So once again, we see God is the one doing the action. Based on the death of Christ and motivated from his own love. It's not because of us. He's not doing it for us. He's doing it for him Because he is a holy, holy God, and he will never give away any of his glory. Right? We have to remember his plan of redemption, his entire providential plan is all about God He declares righteousness. Those who through faith in Christ repent of their sins and confess him as sovereign Lord. So, this idea of justification is a it's a declaration, right? It's a legal term. You are declared righteous. That relationship has been stored. We have been reconciled to God. That was the problem, wasn't it? We were not reconciled. We were torn apart from God. We were separated from a holy God. Nothing could bring us back together again. And now we see that we are justified. We are declared righteous. Let me read that first passage and then the notes on the side. There is no fear of God before their eyes. This was in uh Yeah, Romans 3, right? That was the issue. They did not fear God. Now we know that whatever the law says, it speaks to those who are under the law, that every mouth may be closed and all the world may become accountable to God Because by the works of the law no flesh will be justified in his sight. There is nothing that we could do to get that right standing. For through the law comes the knowledge of sin. But now apart from the law, the righteousness of God has been manifested, being witnessed by the law and the prophets, even the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ. for all those who believe, for there is no distinction. And then the note back on page 89. Remember that righteousness and justice both mean doing the right thing. To be justified, declared just, righteous, is to be given right Standing before God. Now, again, what that means is we are positionally righteous before God. Does it mean that we are infused with righteousness? Absolutely not. Right? Not until we get the full glorification. We are positionally righteous. When he looks at us, we are declared righteous. And so part of that is this idea of imputation. In order for that to happen, our sins are imputed to Christ's account. That's what he bore on the cross. And it has to be his righteousness that is then imputed to our account. That's how God can now look at us And see that we are righteous. We are in a right standing with God. That is a beautiful, beautiful thing. Right? Does that make sense? Any questions there? Okay. Let's flip over then to page 90. For we maintain that a man is justified by faith. Again, that right standing happens because of our response, faith and repentance. And again, those are gracious gifts from the Lord. But to the one who does not work but believes in him, who justifies the ungodly, his faith is reckoned as righteousness. Why must God see us as righteous? Not just good enough. Because he's holy. Because he's holy. He's holy, holy, holy He can have nothing to do with sin. Alright, that's the issue. That's the problem. We must be justified. We must be declared righteous before him. Again, elevating our view of who God is You know, and again that can be an important part of your evangelism, your outreach. You get it all the time. I was there. I was good enough. Certainly better than that dude over there, back to the tax collector, right? And that's a false perception of what is needed before a holy, holy, holy God. Romans 5. But God demonstrates his own love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Much more then having now been justified by his blood, we shall be saved from the wrath of God through him. For if while we were enemies we were reconciled to God through the death of his son, much more having been Reconciled, we shall be saved by his life. Again, an incredible demonstration of God's love. Right? He he didn't have to do this, but he chose to send his son. Incredible, incredible. So now you can have that conversation that You talk about God is love. Let me let me show you how God is love. But you got to bring in the aspect of he's holy, holy, holy. And because of that, he is just and he is righteous And yet in the midst of that, God as well, he sent his own son to die for us, to be that propitiation, right? That substitute Galatians 2. Nevertheless, knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law, but through faith in Christ Jesus, even we have believed in Christ Jesus, that we may be justified by faith in Christ, and not by the works of the law, since by the works of the law no flesh shall be justified. Okay? Again, a work of God. Item two there, justification, and here's a good distinction. Justification is not a process. Like what? Sanctification, right? Justification is an instantaneous act of God whereby He declares the sinner to be righteous. Based upon what? The righteousness of Christ. Justification does not happen to a believer after he dies, but at the moment he believes in Christ. Alright? Instantaneous. It's not something you need again and again and again. That would default everything that Christ did on the cross. Right? It is an instantaneous declared act. Again, these are promises we have to hang our hat on that we need to be encouraged by. We need to underline in Scripture Because life is hard, right? And doubt can can creep in. We need to be encouraged by God's truth, piercing the heart. Being justified is a gift by his grave through the redemption which is in Christ Jesus. Let me go down to the bold, Romans 5. Therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace with God to our Lord Jesus Christ. We talked a little bit about this, right, when Jesus said the my yoke is easy, my burden is light, but there's this peace now. We didn't have that peace when we were separated from God. That's the beauty now, though, of being justified. The peace we have. What does it say in Philippians 4? That surpasses understanding. That's a beautiful, beautiful place to be, especially in this current life. Peace with God. And Romans 8, you guys know my favorite chapter, starting with verse 1. There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. For the law of spirit of life in Christ Jesus has set you free from the law of sin and death. And part of this we're going to touch on as we get into sanctification and perseverance. Next week we're going to talk about assurance and security. That all plays into this fact that we are now justified once and for all, and that we are no longer condemned, as we read in Romans 8. For since in the wisdom of God the world through its wisdom did not come to know God, God was well pleased through the foolishness of the message preached to save those who believe. And then item three there, the last item. From the moment of justification there is no condemnation for the believer, because all the believer's guilt has been removed. Justification brings the believer into a permanent state of most blessed peace and favor with God. And I just read the passage on Romans 8. Let me go Romans 4 Just as David also speaks of the blessing upon the man to whom God reckons righteousness apart from works, blessed are those whose lawless deeds have been forgiven. And whose sins have been covered. Blessed is the man whose sin the Lord will not take into account. So again, any questions on justification? Again, I hope what I'm impressing on you again is this wonderful sequence of events, up to this point, all done by God. All the works of God. To be an encouragement of our standing, our worth before a holy God. But it doesn't end there. Top of page 89. What is our place now? Adoption. God's gracious act of salvation results in the believer being immediately adopted into the family of God and his child forever. It's a Greek word. I I'm gonna mess it up. Uh huathesia. It means placing as a son. Paul uses it five times in the New Testament, that word adoption. We'll see that there are some other references similar to being adopted, but that actual word adopted is used by Paul five times. And it is a permanent thing, isn't it? You can't lose your adoption once you are adopted as a child of God. I wanted to read from a a commentary I thought this was um encouraging In addition to justification, there is another amazing privilege that God gives us at the time we become Christians, the privilege of adoption. We may define the adoption as follows. Adoption is an act of God whereby he makes us members of his family, as we just discussed. Although adoption is a privilege that comes to us at the time we become Christians, it is nevertheless a privilege that is distinct from justification and distinct from regeneration. For example, God could have given us justification without the privileges of adoption into his family. For he could have forgiven our sins and given us right legal standing before him without making us his children. Similarly, he could have made us spiritually alive through regeneration and yet not members of his family with the special privileges of family members. Angels, for example, apparently fall into this that category. You don't hear of angels being adopted, do you? The biblical teaching on adoption focuses much more on the personal relationships that salvation gives us with God and with his people. Right? When we think of one of the attributes of God, he's an He's an intimate God. He's a personal God. Isn't that glorious? Right? He could have saved us and then put us over here and said, good luck. But no, he he wants a personal relationship. That's who God is. That's how he made us. When we're made into the image of God, right? We're made with that desire for a personal relationship. And this beautiful idea of adoption now allows us to have that personal relationship. Let's look at some of these verses. But as many as received him, to them he gave the right, the privilege, to become children of God, even to those who believe in his name. who were born not of blood, nor of the will of flesh, nor the will of man, but of God. Again, this is all done by God, but this beautiful picture of now being a child, that God is now our Father And not for the nation only, but that he might also gather together into one the children of God who are scattered abroad. This is part of the reason, you know, during our our our church membership class we we emphasize The importance of being part of a local body, right? You are adopted into his kingdom, into the universal church And it's important those relationships and using your skills and talents, right, within the local body of believers. That's why it's so important, because you are part of an adopted family Romans 8, let's go back to Romans 8 in your Bible. Yes, it's my favorite chapter. Romans 8. The passage is 15, but I want to start in 12, actually. Romans 8, 12. So then, brethren, we are under obligation not to the flesh to live according to the flesh. For if you are living according to the flesh, you must die. But if by the Spirit you are putting to death the deeds of the body, you will live. For all who are being led by the Spirit of God, these are sons of God. For you have not received a spirit of slavery leading to fear again, but you have received a spirit of adoption as sons by which we cry out, Abba Father, this this term of endearment, right? Abba Father. And then go on though. Verse 16, the Spirit Himself bear witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. And if children, heirs also, heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, if indeed we suffer with Him, in order that we may also be glorified with Him. So you get this picture, right, of adoption. We are heirs And in glorification we will receive the full benefit of being an heir. But also this idea that the Spirit testifies with our Spirit. What does that look like? You know, if you're crying out, Abba Father, that is evidence of the Spirit testifying with your Spirit. If you cry out, Abba Father, I'm so tired of doing that sin again and again Do you remember before you were saved, that probably wasn't your heart's cry. It was, oh goodness, don't let me get caught again. Lord, if I promise I won't do that again if I don't get caught again, right? It was guilt, it was shame Now you're crying out, ah the Father, I'm so tired of this sin. Help me overcome it. Right? That's a testimony of the Spirit testifying with your spirit. Be encouraged by that. Again, we'll talk a bit more next week about the assurance and security. Many of those promises we hear right here in Romans 8. Let me jump down to Galatians 4. Again, we hear this term, Abba Father. In order that he might redeem those who were under the law. that we might receive the adoption as sons. And because you are sons, God has sent forth his the Spirit of His Son into our hearts crying Abba Father. Again, um evidence or a testimony of the Spirit testifying with our Spirit, that we are his children, because we cry out, Abba Father. Therefore you are no longer a slave but a son. And if a son, then an heir through God. And as a son or a daughter, what does that mean? How does God treat you now? Nothing tricky here. Just same as you treat Christ. Okay. What does a father do to their children? He loves them. He disciplines them because he loves them. Right? He encourages them, he admonishes them, brings them gifts, good gifts, wonderful gifts. He gives us what what do you do to children? Um, right? You give them security. You give them assurance of that love. The Lord does the same for us. Again, we'll talk a bit more about that next week. Ms. Diane. I'm sorry, I have a question because I've been I've been thinking about this as we've been talking about our position His children being his image bearers. Um we know that gives us a special place. Now I'm thinking about the angels Right, who are not God's children, but certainly his creation, and they have a very specific and unique purpose How would we describe his relationship with Angel? Could we say that's personal or is it completely different because of the fact that there isn't that father child down there Yeah, that's a great question. You have to wait till the angelogy uh not season. I I will give you my view and and Pastor Allen, please jump in You know, they are they um they are uh beings that were made by God, I believe personal beings, obviously a very different relationship from what we are given evidence of in Scripture Like you said, they they have a very specific purpose. And a lot of it is pointing back to Christ, right? And ministering on his behalf Um and so w we have a little bit of insight into that relationship, but it's very different. We we know it doesn't talk about the angels being adopted, right, as heirs. And so yeah, very different relationship. Would you add anything there? Oh only that um well we don't know a whole lot. Yep. But um I I think the picture here in adoption and uh the family relationship is like with a human parent with a human you know his own child um there's uh there's a picture of of uh responsibility for the child, uh love and as as Christopher said discipline. The the child is needing to grow in wisdom and understanding and become uh things it should be. That's not really what angels are like. That that's not a need that they have. They're created for a purpose. Yeah, right. And we don't understand all those purposes, we have a glimpse, but it's not like that. It's not like he's discipling them, he's growing them. Okay. Can I say something? Can I add to that question? Yes, please. And this is what I get from it. Like uh every king has soldiers He doesn't exactly love them as his children. So that's how God is with you know, when he went into the um into the desert. His father sent down angels to aid him. Mm-hmm. So they're like Protected soldiers is guardians. I mean you know those things. Is that's what I get from me. I you know I'm not a No no no. You're you are a student of the word. All good. But that's what I take it as. They are his And that's certainly like Pastor Allen said that's one glimpse we get of of one of their specific roles for sure. Glenn, did you have a or I think Grace has something. I was gonna give basically the same analogy. In the Bible constantly you see people's households are being referred to. So you have the head of the household obviously and you have family, but you also have so many servants. You have people working in the yards, people working in the kitchen, you have people everywhere who are not the family. That's usually me, but go ahead. And I I think it's the word personal that I'm kinda stuck on. And it It's probably how you define the word personal because someone working in the household might not have that intimacy, but they could still have a relationship that Sure. Yeah. So so again, Diane, I think that's a great point, and kind of tying it to that analogy, we only know what we know from scripture, and and it certainly seems like there is a difference in that that level of intimacy between angels and uh believers, the children of God for sure. Let me let me get one zou and then I'll come back to you, Alex. Glenn, did you have something? I I just wanted to remind us that we are being groomed to be the bride of Christ. Forever. Yeah. Angels are not. Yep. That's another great great fact and picture. Yeah, I love it. I mean it's like Psalm ninety one, for he will command his angels concerning you. I mean I just love it. Yeah, and back to that role that Millie was kinda highlighting there for sure. Uh Alex. Uh Hebrews 1 fourteen says, are they not talking about the angels? Are they not all ministering spirits sent forth to minister to those who angel inherit salvation. And so I think back to what Pastor Tonley was saying, we don't know en entirely what that all details is if you look at like the passage she's talking about where they're an army um you can look at how they wage war with the demons over I think there was a prince and Daniel. But in here how they minister to us. And so we don't know like the breadth of what their capacity is, but I think a good contrast between us and them is like Christ calls us brothers and God calls us sons and daughters and here they're only called minister like they're only ever called ministering spirits You know. So it is I think a really good example like Grace used is in the household you have sons and daughters and then you have servants. I think especially Hebrews, what the author was was addressing there was an over-reliance on angels, right? Worshiping the angels. And that's the that's the danger. And I think the Lord by design um gives us a very limited understanding for that very purpose. Right? They they point to Jesus Christ. We should not be we should not be worship worshiping angels for sure. So that's what Hebrews is addressing up front. There's a better way, he says, Jesus Christ. Right? All right, let's turn um to the questions and applications page. We've got a couple minutes left on page ninety-six Alright, so the question is uh what do these following terms mean? We'll get to that in a second. Why are these expect ac aspects of salvation necessary and when do they happen? So when does adoption justification happen? Say again? The moment of salvation, right? And you can you can lump a lot of uh again that's why I say be careful of the timing. Don't think of this as temporal. From regeneration to adoption right can happen in an instant. Right? But the idea of adoption and justification has to come after you have to be reborn. You have to be regenerated You have to respond in faith and repentance. And then you are justified. Now you have a right standing before God. Now you are adopted into his family. Okay? And real quick, adoption, what does it mean? Right, right. You're brought into God's family. How about justification? Declared righteous, right? And also you can bring in this idea of imputation. Right? We are declared righteous because sins are imputed right to Jesus' account and his righteousness imputed to our account. Let's look at Go ahead. You um cause me to remember that uh Roman Catholic theology says that we that justification It's a process. Your works are necessary to write standing before God. And the word that's often used is not imputation, but infused. Infused. Infused grace. Yeah. And that's why I brought that up earlier. You know, we are not infused with righteousness. We are we are positionally declared righteous. Right? And that occurs not necessarily that we know it. In other words, we may learn of it later, of our justification. In other words, it happens, God has justified us, but we may not understand it. Because we're new Christians, we don't understand. Yeah. Glenn, so I I think what you're saying, this is a good point, you know, as as new Kate new Christians we we use a lot of terminology here, right? Don't we? Justification. What's that? At the point of salvation you may not understand it, but through the maturing sanctifying process. That's why I get so fired up about this because it's so exciting. As you learn these truths, right? You look back now and say, wow Lord. Look what she did at that point. I was now I was separated from you and now I'm your child. That's incredible. Right? So you're you're exactly right. We learn as we as we grow, as we are sanctified which should only elevate our our view of God. Right? So we're back to that. Wanju, did you have something? No. All right. Let me ask you this this question. What are the benefits of justification in your daily life? Now that we understand that truth That that we are righteous before a holy God, what what should that do to our daily life? How should that impact us? Miss Caleb. Yeah. So Kayla, to your point, after forty days in the desert Right? Satan comes to tempt Jesus. And and what does Jesus do? Scripture. What are we supposed to do against Satan? Stand firm. And we stand firm with the word, with truth. So that's that's why I often emphasize, underline those passages, memorize those passages, so when you are being tempted by the enemy, bam, right? The sword of the spirit. You're ready to go. Good. It just divides. Yeah, it divides. Absolutely. Good. Anything else? Tell me your name real quick. Gabriel. Gabrielle, sorry. Uh we have direct access Amen. And second of all, we have the Holy Spirit to be able to dwell within us and then both those work together to allow God to continue to sanctify us and make us Yeah. Gabriel, really important point. Again, Romans eight, we are more than conquerors. Right? We have to h have a high view of ourselves as children of God because of the Holy Spirit, because of the tr the truth that we wield. Right? We need to fight the good fight. Good. How about in our outreach or evangelism? Well the Holy Spirit just like Moses whenever he said, Oh I can't speak all myself and thank God allow him to speak same with us, you know, even sometimes when we feel that in inadequate um or maybe you don't have the breadth of knowledge. Um don't forget the Holy Spirit is leading your and guiding your Yeah, we should be bold and courageous. What's the saying Joshua? Be strong and courageous. Right? The Holy Spirit will give you those words. You have the truth. Right? Alex. I think uh I don't remember who said it earlier. I think you did about remembering that it's all of God. You're justified only by God. And so when you're I think for me when I witness uh for try to build like relations with people who are just hard people. Um I I tend to get more hopeful for those hard people. Because I know well that's how I was. Yeah. And I know that it is a split second difference of when and if God wants to show his mercy and his grace, they will be justified in that moment Yeah. And uh that for me that makes it easier. Yeah, yeah. Um and and the simple idea of prayer, right? We need to be praying for these individuals Like I said, we had a wonderful, blessed time at the Hope for the Sojourner event yesterday. And these people are in some really difficult situations. Some of them are not don't yet know the Lord. And so, you know, we gave them a message of hope through Jesus Christ. Many of them are trusting in the Lord, though. So it's a hope of perseverance. Right? A hope of encouragement. Um and I hope some of them are here today. I'd I'd love for us to be able to come alongside them. But good, great points. Anything else you guys want to follow up on Alright, so we talked about faith in repentance, justification, adoption, all wonderful, wonderful truths again of who we are as children of God. Next week, um Pastor Allen will cover In the context of that, what does that mean for our perseverance, our security, our assurance? Again, wonderful, wonderful truths. So let me pray.