Alright, so as I mentioned, we're on lesson three of the doctrine of anthropology, the study of man. And I kind of gave you a hint in my prayer, but why why do we need to study man? Absolutely. We need to have a correct view of ourselves in different situations, right? Of How man was created and the value that we have. We talked about that the last couple weeks, and we're going to talk about it some more today. Also, a correct view of our sinful and our fallen nature Right? So that all needs to work together. What is often the case when we when we do think of man? What do we do to ourselves? We elevate. We have a very high view of ourselves and often a low view of God. We need to reverse that. So that's why I I love the study of theology and doctrines So that we can reverse that. We need a really high view of who God is. And that's why I love studying the attributes of God. But we also need to have a very correct view. of ourselves. Okay? So if you turn to your binders, we are on page 34. We're going to be talking about the family and the value of man. So let me do this first. Define a family for me. Um it doesn't include children? It doesn't have to. Family starts with the man and the woman. Okay? It can include children, and we'll get to that in a second, right? You gotta understand that priority. A family is when a man and a woman come together We're going to talk about that today. That's the way God designed it. That's a family. That's when the family starts. All right, let me ask you this. What are the three major institutions that the Lord has designed and created? Just mention one, the family. What are the other two? The church? Government? Government. Right? Those are from the Lord. By his design for his purposes, right? And they all work together in various ways. But the family is one of those three major institutions that the Lord created. So I think that's pretty special. Alright, let's dive in here. Top of page 34. God instituted marriage to be between one man and one woman for one lifetime. So this one lifetime you and we're going to talk about this later, but this idea of a covenant, right? It's a legal agreement or a legal bond between one man and one woman. Not one man and two women Right? Not one woman and three men. Right. One man, one woman. That's the design. So let's dive into some of these verses. And the first one's going to be really critical, especially that bold part, that really is going to be the foundation for what we talk about today. Genesis 2. Then the Lord God said, It is not good for the man to be alone. I will make him a helper suitable for him. And out of the ground the Lord God formed every beast of the field and every bird of the sky, and brought them to the man to see what he would call them. And whatever the man and whatever the man called a living creature, that was its name. And the man gave names to all the cattle and to the birds of the sky and to every beast of the field, but for Adam there was not found a helper suitable for him. Let me pause there. We talked a little bit about this last week. What was um some of the benefit or purposes of what just happened, right? The animals coming before Adam and him naming all of them. Do you remember? Ms. Heather? Um so that we could recognize it. Exactly. Right. There's an awareness now that none of these fit how God has designed me. Right? And and it's stated there there was not a a helper suitable And Pastor Allen talked um last week about that term, right? A helpmeet or a helpmate, a helper suitable. So the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall upon the man, and he slept Then he took one of his ribs and closed up the flesh at that place. And the Lord God fashioned into a woman the rib which she had taken from the man and brought her to the man, and the man said, This is now bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman because she was taken out of man. Now this sounds very, very formal, doesn't it? This is woman, bone of my bone, flesh of my flesh. But as Pastor Allen noted last week, That's not how Adam perceived it. When he saw Eve, he was like, wow. Wow. Right? He recognized that this was someone created as a helper for him. Right? Yes, why don't you? So was Adam he knew animals already he knew that it was a male and female Yeah, most likely. Great point. She shall be called woman because she was taken out of man. Alright, and then this bold verse for or the bold passage here. For this cause a man shall leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave to his wife, and they shall become one flesh. A reference back to this verse happens four other times. So actually there's five times where you see this passage being referenced. This is the first one or the foundational one. We're going to cover all four of those. The fifth one is actually uh it's a Matthew Mark, so it's the same kind of story, so we'll just cover that once. But I I think it's very interesting that we're going to see a tie back to this particular verse several times throughout the Old and the New Testament scriptures. So this idea for this cause in the ESV, it's therefore, therefore tells us what? We have to go back to what was just written. And again, it's this idea that Adam saw that that none of the animals were suitable for him. He needed a helper that was made in his likeness, right? In the image of God. And when it talks about God making one man, one woman, you know, therefore the two shall come together as one. That's the unity that God designed before the fall Right, before the fall, very special. And this idea of one. We're gonna talk about it some more, but it has a a a couple uh aspects to it. Certainly there is a oneness physically, right? There's an intimacy. And it's not just physical, there's there's a relational aspect to that intimacy But it's also a completeness, completing man through the helpmate. They complete one another in unity. We talked a little bit about this, I think, in the last couple weeks, but what does that represent? In the Godhead? The Trinity. Right? This separate persons coming together as one. The Trinity, three persons coming together, one God. Right? The same image here. We're going to talk a little bit more about that. Man and woman, two people coming together as one. In that covenant, that legal bond All right, very, very important. So just this beautiful, beautiful picture of all of creation, only man and woman made in the image of God for one another Right? In this idea of coming together as one. Foundational. Any questions on that? Comments? Good? Alright, so we're gonna come back to that a couple times. Alright, let's go to Malachi 2. Can I have someone read that for me? Lewis, can you read that for us, please? Yeah. And this is another thing you do. You cover the altar of the Lord with tears, with weeping and with groaning, because he no longer regards the offering or accepts it with favor from your hand. Yet you say For what reason? Because the Lord has been a witness between you and the wife of your youth, against whom you have dealt treacherously. Though she is your companion and your wife by covenant, but not one But not one has done so who has a remnant of the spirit. And what did that one do while he was seeking a godly offspring? Take heed then to your spirit, and let no one deal treacherously against the wife of your youth For I will for I hate divorce, says the Lord, the God of Israel, and him who covers uh his garment with wrong, says the Lord of hosts. So take heed to your spirit that you do not uh deal preciously. Thank you. So so Malachi the last prophet in the Old Testament um speaking to the nation of Israel and what was happening here? Right, they were marrying foreign gods, um They were divorcing for any reason whatsoever, and they and as we read in the passage here, they were dealing treacherously with their wife. Right, we just talked about the this special union between God and man, this covenant, right, this legal agreement, and here they are dealing treacherously. And so we see the consequences of what happens when you distort God's perfect plan. Right? Where else um can you guys think of a reference in the New Testament of um for the man, how your prayers are hindered? Yeah, I'd like I'd look that up so that I could find the act actual wording. But yeah, first Peter three, uh likewise husband, live with your wives in an understanding way, showing honor to the woman as leaker best Since they are heirs with you of the grace of life, so that your prayers should not be hindered. Yes, thank you. So 1 Peter 3 7, I I love that passage. It's a great reminder to me as a husband that You know, in God's design, how we are to treat women, and we'll get to this, the roles and responsibility, we are to treat them in an understanding way, which means as this this beautiful fragile uh China vase if you will that needs to be protected and respected and cared for. We are to honor our wives. And if we don't, there's consequences. Our prayers can be hindered, right, for not following God's design. Good. And then we also see, you don't see this very often in Scripture, where it talks about God hating something. Where else does it talk about hate? I think it's hate. I think it's in Proverbs where God says I hate so many things and I I didn't look up the reference there, but bottom line, you won't see that very often. But here you see, God says, I hate divorce. I mean, let that sink in. I hate divorce. Why? Because it's something that he has brought together, that he has designed for his purposes and for our blessing, honestly. So he hates that when that is torn apart, especially here where you're seeing it they're doing it for any reason. Right? She didn't cook me a nice meal last night. Boom! Divorce She didn't get my slippers, divorce. Right? It was the silliest reasons. And we're going to come back to that when we look at some some references in the New Testament. Again, back to this verse about oneness and and coming together. Good. Okay. Let's go on to Matthew five. Again, some consequences. Alex, can you read that one for me please? And there was said, whoever sends his wife away, let him give her a certificate of divorce. But I say to you that everyone who divorces his wife, except for the cause of unchaste, Makes her commit adultery, and whoever marries a divorced woman commits adultery. Good, thank you. So this is um in Matthew here, Jesus was actually walking through several different categories. Um lust. Divorce and there were some others, but this is a reference to um you know the certificate that Moses allowed. We'll get that in the next verse. But you can see Um they were doing it for for any reason. And Jesus said, no, that's not the standard. The standard is you stay together forever. Right, this lifetime, there is one exception here. And this word actually means sexual immorality, which is broader than just adultery. Right? It can be um just intense, unrepentant pornography. It can manifest manifest itself in other ways, sexual abuse. Right? But any kind of sexual immorality is what's driven here. Again, because it is breaking that bond, that covenant that is made, that oneness between a man and a woman. And we'll get to more about that, right? The holy temple that we have. So let's go see in Matthew 19 again back to the reference of what Moses allowed them to do and the testing that the Pharisees did. And again, we have a reference back to uh that bold verse up front. And great multitudes followed him, and he healed them there. And some Pharisees came to him, testing him, and saying, Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife for any cause at all? And he answered and said, Have you not read that he who created them from the beginning made them male and female? And said For this cause a man shall leave his father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. Again, Jesus takes them back to Scripture, to the original design. This is the model. This is how you're supposed to behave. Consequently, they are no longer two, but one flesh. You can't see them as two different entities. You need to see them as one. What therefore God has joined together, let no man separate. They said to him, Why then did Moses command to give her a certificate of divorce and send her away? He said to them, Because of your hardness of heart. Moses permitted you to divorce your wives, but from the beginning it was it has not been this way. And I say to you, whoever divorces his wife, except for immorality, and marries another woman, commits adultery. Right? Sin is going to happen if that that covenant is broken The other parallel to that is in Mark 10 for your reference, but it it goes over the same story. But again, a reference back to the Genesis 2 passage, that oneness. Yes. Um so the significance of that passage where it says, you know, a man will be his father and mother. Is that just in the traditional way that we think about it, like typically like leaving the home, or does it mean something else? You know how it's modern day there's an idea of, okay, like a couple gets married, you eat a new back in with their parents for a period of time and then they go out on their own and back going against it or does it mean more in uh they're just they're just no longer dependent on their parents or like saying Yeah, I'll give you I'll give you my perspective. Um you know there's the command obviously to honor and obey your parents, right? So there's this relationship that That really never ends. We're always to honor our parents. But when it is time to create this new covenant, right, you are stepping out of that family and you are creating a new family. Right, that is now one. And so now you have the delicate balance of continuing to honor your mother and father, but now the primary relationship is the family that has just been created And sometimes that can create some dynamics, but that needs to be the primary uh relationship and focus. Does that make sense? Yes. Okay. Pastor Allen. Yeah, and that's just the relationship of authority. Yep So the marriage vows, the marriage ceremony creates a new family. And so uh you know, all sorts of troubles come in and either the the newlyweds um still see themselves under the authority and protection and guidance and and uh command even of their parents Or the other way around the the the the parents are um uh expecting to maintain that same authority but the both marriage vows, uh create a new family and new Does that make sense, Elise? It does. Um do you think that that is still possible and maybe every situation is a little bit different, but like Like if a couple is living with say a parent for a period of time and that obviously can vary and desituational, does that kind of go against what God's word is saying Yeah, I would I would say it this way, you know, every situation is different. You know, I don't think this is a mandate that says you can't ever live with your parents, right? But it it requires um a level of discernment and wisdom to establish those authorities, even though you're in your parents' home. Now You're in your parents' home, so they have some authority too. So it just it's communication. You gotta talk through it. But you you can't abdicate that authority that Pastor Allen just talked about. That is so critical. And of course it can create some very challenging dynamics. And that's why I think establishing maybe some ground rules up front, you might even go back to Scripture and say, I'm trying to fulfill this role. right to lead my family, but it just it requires communication. Does that make sense? Yeah. So it can make things um complicated, but you might have to do that for a time. That happens all the time um as you're working through different situ life situations, maybe you're waiting for a house to be built or what have you. It just good communication But you can't abdicate, you know, the the authority, but you also need to honor and respect the fact that you're in your parents' home. So it's delicate, but it can be done. Yeah. Any other comments? I mean the calls are on the phone The problem is it's very fuzzy boundaries. Because like parents still give them money and You know, it's like the pin demon. They are buy them house and since I bought your house you have to listen to me. Yeah. Yeah. I'm glad you brought that up. Culturally, a lot of cultures do that where the the families all live together, right? And it just it creates different dynamics, but you gotta go back to the basics in scripture And again, you just gotta work through some of those dynamics. And if you're finding yourself in a situation where they're trying to exert that authority on you, you might have to change your circumstances Right to to maintain that authority. That's what you gotta you gotta stay solid on. Miss Grace. part of this verse is that there's also a bonus on parents to not keep acting like Amen or daughter is still a child. Like they're they're married man or woman now and they should be treated like that even while you are still their parents. and still guiding them. That's a great point. Yeah. Yeah. We had our our first wedding last year in in April, one of my daughters got married and I was I was grateful to take her hand and and give it to her spouse, right? That was a huge blessing for me Good riddance. No, I'm Jesus. I'm Jesus. It it was a real blessing, right? And that was very s I purposely that was significant to me to symbolize taking her hand and giving it um to her husband. That was special for me. So Miss Lauren. So I I think it was a really interesting to see how you know sin has affected this God given mandate that you have cultures where um instead of the man leaving the his family and cleaving into his wife, the woman is brought into his family's household and is controlled by the by the architect. And you see this breakdown of what was supposed to be beautiful. Yeah. And and that's kind of what I think is really interesting that like the the the beauty of it was supposed to be there's supposed to be this balance. There's supposed to be You know, the man is supposed to protect his wife and you know but yet still be respectful to his parents. And now there's this whole like control dynamic that you know kind of seems like Yeah. Lauren, you bring up a great point. You know, anything we do that distorts God's original plan is gonna have consequences, it's gonna cause problems. And we see it manifest itself, like you just said, in so many different ways But I you know I put the onus on the men, the husband, they gotta lead. And when that's happening, they gotta change the circumstances Right? So but we see that happen over and over and over. And so breakup and you you really have to go to the scriptures with that person to let them know that um this is not how God saved. it's supposed to be. But also there's another thing in the mix. If the two parties are not in agreement and one choose to go another way, that's another thing. You know, um I think the look we learn is the young people learning about what the rule is about man status in marriage to the woman And and and it should be very clear that God says treat the wife like his treat. Yeah. Amen. We're gonna we're gonna get to that. We're gonna get to that Millie. One more comment. This is a great discussion, but we got a lot of material but so I have a question about something I'm thinking back into Genesis Right, when God presented Eve to Adam. Should we say then that that is our pattern for how it could be Because we had some conversations in our family where someone has wanted their brother to give them away instead of dad or mom and dad. Yeah You're trying to get me in the middle of your family feud. Let me say it this way. You know, it it's You know, every family gets to make that decision. Could you could you use that as a pattern? Absolutely. Right? And there's some significant symbolism for the dad. And it's a blessing, it's an honor to be able to do that. Um you guys gotta work that out. I think it could be used as a pattern for sure though. All right, last one, Millie. Okay. Now Mike, and we had a wedding. My granddaughter got married to her child who was uh a school uh person and her father was never in the picture. So her oldest brother So there's different circumstances. Absolutely. Yeah, yeah All right, let's keep going guys. We can come back to this if we have time at the end. This is a really good discussion, obviously touching some points here. You can see the complexity of it, but let's keep going. So item two on page 35. And we talked about this Marriage is a covenant of companionship between one man and one woman, in which the two become one. Supplementary purposes for marriage include the procreation and training of children, the completion of the man, and the picturing of the relationship God has with his people. Sometimes we can focus on this covenant, this legal, well I'm married to this woman. Right? But when you look at these three supplementary reasons, I want you to circle that. This is really, really important, right? These are the purposes for that union. Procreation. And it's a beautiful thing. It's not just to have children, it's the relationship in that intimacy. Right? That that really ties into the second piece of this, the completion of the man and the woman. Completion in the sense of the sanctification. Right, I've I've often said jokingly, but I mean it, the great sanctifiers, marriage and children, and I say that as a blessing Right? I am the man I am today because of my wife and my children and the sanctifying work of the Holy Spirit through that oneness, through the family. Right? It's special. And then we're gonna see it is to demonstrate. The relationship between God and his people, Christ and the church. That's powerful. That's what our marriages are supposed to display and represent. According to God's design. That's what we need to be working towards. We're fallen people, two sinful people coming together. What could go wrong? Right? But that's what we have to be striving for each and every day All right, so let's jump into some of those verses. Uh Genesis one. Cream, can you read that for me? Sure. Then God says, Let us make man in our image. According to our lovers, and let them rule over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the sky and over the cattle and over all the earth and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. And God created them in his own image. In the image of God, He created him. Male and female, he created them. And God blessed them and God said To them, be fruitful and multiply, and fill the earth, and subdue it, and rule over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the sky, and over every living thing. that lives on the earth. Good, thank you. So you see the be fruitful and multiply, right? The the procreation. If we go on to the next verse, I'm not going to read all of that. Then the Lord God said, it is not good for the man to be alone. I will make him a helper suitable for him. What did God say after each day of creation? It is good. It is good. It is good. He gets here and he says, it is not good Right? The man needs a helper. Why? To complete himself. So you get after the completing aspect of this in that verse, with a helper who is suitable. And again at the bottom of that verse, and shall cleave to his wife, and they shall become one flesh. Again, we talked about that. The oneness is both the completeness and the intimacy part of it, right? The relation, the physical aspect of becoming one. Good. And also to demonstrate, again, the relationship of God and with his people. So you get all three in that aspect of of oneness. Yet you say for what reason? Because the Lord has been a witness between you and the wife of your youth, against whom you have dealt treacherously. though she is your companion and your wife by covenant. So we we covered that verse, but again, she is supposed to be your companion as part of the covenant, and yet you are dealing treacherously And there are going to be implications for that. So how does this completeness happen, right? The next verse, Ephesians 5. In fact, let's go to your Bibles, Ephesians 5. This is obviously the chapter that talks about the roles and responsibility of husbands and wives. Again, in the context of God's design. Ephesians 5. 22, and you can read it out of your binder there if you like. Wise, be subject to your own husbands as to the Lord. For the husband is the head of the wife, as Christ also is the head of the church, he himself being the Savior of the body But as the church is subject to Christ, so also the wives ought to be to their husbands in everything. Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ also loved the church and gave himself up for her. So you see these roles and responsibilities and also this image, right, of submission, the relationship between Christ and the church. And if The wives and the husbands are submitting to their roles, right? The wives submitting how? As to the Lord. Husbands, love your wives, how? As Christ also loved the church. Think of how beautiful that would be if we were all practicing that, right, with excellence. There'd be no marriage counseling, right? We wouldn't have any issues. But again, we are fallen people, so that's what we are striving for. But that's the how of completeness. That's the sanctification process is striving towards those views. I mentioned before Karina and I do some um counseling and it's often counseling couples and and often they're there because they have veered away from these God designed roles and responsibilities And it's our job to try and bring them back to Scripture and give them hope, right, in the authority and the sufficiency of Scripture. So that's all it is. is to bring them back to here's God's design. Now you gotta build back in those disciplines of fulfilling those roles. Okay? Miss Diane. Is it fair to say that it is not husbands will demand the submission, but a wife should be lovingly offering that submission because of her love for Christ and willingness to do what it is he's telling us So ideally, absolutely. If if the man is loving the wife as Christ loved the church, right, there there's no demanding going on. And vice versa, right? What's important I think is especially again in some of the counseling sessions often what will happen is you see couples come in and it's I need you to fix that and I need you to fix that. And what we try to do is, no, we're going to focus on you. How are you fulfilling your role before the Lord? Right? Wives submit as to the Lord, not based on anything your husband has done, good or bad. Um husbands love your wives as Christ loved the church. That's the model, right? You do that unconditionally. It doesn't matter what your wife does. So, yeah, absolutely. Good Alright, let's go on. You're still in Ephesians. Let's keep going. I'm going to start in verse 28. So husbands ought also to love their own wives as their own bodies. He who loves his own wife loves himself. Right, men, we have no problems loving ourselves, right? So the same way we love ourselves, we're supposed to love with the same passion our wives. For no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes just as Christ also does the church. Isn't that a beautiful picture of how Christ loves loves the church, continually nourishing and cherishing, that's how we're supposed to treat our wives. Because we are members of his body. Verse 31. For this cause a man shall leave his father and mother and shall cleave to his wife And the two shall become one flesh. Again, that reference back to Genesis 2. But Paul goes on, this mystery is great, but I'm speaking with reference to Christ and the church Right? This beautiful picture of the relationship between Christ and the church. That what that's what we are supposed to model in our marriages And it talks about, right, as a church, we are separate members but part of one body. And Christ is the head of that body. That's the same image in marriage. Right? Two persons coming together in unity as one. This becomes critical in parenting, and we'll touch on that in a second. Alright? So I love that passage in Ephesians. And again, we've just covered several times going back to that passage in Genesis that is so foundational. Alright, let's move on to item number three. God created sex to be enjoyed in the marriage bond to promote the companionship between a man and his wife and to provide for the multiplying of mankind on the face of the earth. And the we read this, and the man and his wife were both naked and were not ashamed. Right? They were naked and they were not ashamed. It was very natural for them to be in that state before sin had entered the world. Right? Stop depriving one another, except by agreement for a time, that you may devote yourselves for prayer and come together against lest Satan tempt you because of your lack of self-control. We could really dig deep on that passage. We're not going to, other than to say, right, you belong to each other. And to be separated, you allow the enemy to come in and tempt. Right? So you have to be very careful about those circumstances. And uh there's a lot wrapped into that guys, right? We could re really dig into that. We're not going to, other than to say you have to be very careful during times of separation for whatever reason. Let me just give you one cause where there's friction Maybe there's sin. Maybe there's unrepentant sin. You need to quickly seek forgiveness. Karina and I have had a rule, we heard it from somebody. Don't go to bed angry. With unrepentant sin. It doesn't mean you might resolve the conflict, but you should not leave sin unresolved. You know, you need to ask for forgiveness. Why? Because the enemy will come in The enemy will come in. You've got to guard against that. For this is the will of God, your sanctification. That is, that you abstain from sexual immorality that each of you know how to possess his own vessel in sanctification and honor. Again, the marriage relationship, that great sanctifier protecting, and outside of that, the distortion of that, is usually sin. And it usually finds its way in the form of sexual immorality. That's why the Bible talks so much about it Let marriage be held in honor among all, and let the marriage bed be undefiled. For fornicators and adulterers, God will judge. We have a society that has so distorted the sanctity of marriage and the marriage bed We must fight against that. Right? As husbands and wives, we must fight against that. You know, it it's a gift. God designed this intimacy specifically for the marriage relationship, right? To be a blessing for the marriage relationship So we're going to talk now a little bit about what are the the consequences of distorting that. So any sex outside of this bond of marriage between one man and one woman is a perversion of the Creator's original intent. and is therefore both sinful and harmful to man. This is really pointed in Romans 1. For this reason God gave them over to degrading passions For their women exchanged the natural function that which is for that which is unnatural. And in the same way also men abandoned the natural function of the woman and burned in their desire toward one another, men with men committing indecent acts and receiving in their own passions the due penalty of their error And just as they did not see fit to acknowledge God any longer, God gave them over to a depraved mind to do those things which are not proper. Being filled with all unrighteousness, wickedness, greed, evil, full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, malice, their gossips Slanderers, haters of God, insolent, arrogant, boastful, inventors of evil, disobedient to parents, without understanding, untrustworthy, unloving, unmerciful And although they know the ordinance of God that those who practice such things are worthy of death, they not only do the same, but also give hearty approval to those who practice them. Obviously we see that abundantly in our society today, right? The whole LGBQT movement is a is a direct slap in the face of what God had designed from the beginning. And you see why. Right? It's it's their sinful nature, their hard hearts, and what does the Lord do? He gives them over to their passions. Right? And they will be held accountable. They will be held accountable for their actions But you know, these these as a description of some very severe, I'll call it sexual immorality, we all have that sinful nature, as unregenerate people though. So don't think you fall outside of that category. Yeah stories with fornication to begin with. I mean you know, affects us out of God. That was the beginning of it. Mm-hmm. And then you get perverted more. Yeah. Right, what does it say in Romans one? They they exchange the truth. for a lie, basically, and and God gave them over. That's the the um the depravity that we have in our sinful nature. And we all have it Right, it came f uh flowed down from Adam. Sather, did you have a comment? Oh no, Grace, sorry. I was just gonna say um that like not specif not necessarily specifically with this stuff, but I have seen there are studies in other areas where stuff It's really weird and people are weird. Uh but knowing that something is wrong, it makes it more pleasurable to you. So the fact that people know like people know you get people know. Especially men and women. Yep. And especially in marriage. The fact that people are deliberately breaking those, that escalates things even more. This one thing if you're like you're fooling around with somebody who's not your husband, the other perversions and stuff, people know that this is wrong. Right. And that makes it more tempting then makes it probably makes it more hedonistic for them. Yeah, that's the desire of the sinful nature to stay in. I completely agree with all of that How do we square the influence Jacob who had more than one wife? Yeah, y you know all I can say is that was not God's design from the beginning. And and we see um some of the implications. Look at Solomon Right? And and um at the time before the kingdom was divided, I mean Israel was at its epoch. I I mean as far as in in glory and prestige and and he was marrying what was it, the thousand wives and concubines. And um his heart became divided and you saw the nation become divided. So it wasn't his original design. Lauren and then Pastor Allen. Do you also see this this breakdown of the consequences? We also see David's problem with Bathsheba. And of course, because David didn't set a better example for Solomon, Solomon really fell down that hill. So, you know, we we do see the consequences of these actions. Yeah wrong. And so that's the part it's like for our children who want to look at that and say, Well there's a you know A present makes sense, that's nice. There's a discrepancy or whatever and they're questioning that that aspect of God You know, you I think often you can see the the Lord um delays his punishment and yet you can go back to the standard in Genesis two that we just talked about. Pastor Ellen As you're reading through particularly the Old Testament, um there's a lot of dirty laundry trying to hear it out there Um even among and maybe even especially among those God has chosen. But this particular um Sin, this departure from God's um created order, one man, one woman for life. As Jesus said, it's always been that way from the beginning. And so why did God allow, I mean he allowed divorce because of the hardness of their heart. Right Um why did he allow polygamy? Um I think like in in most of his judgments against Israel, that's sort of all that dirty laundry. He allowed things to as a warning. As a as a uh a judgment. Okay, if you're gonna depart from that original uh design, there are gonna be ramifications, like Lauren said. And uh it's a warning to us. We read that and we start pointing fingers at them look but they're but we would be doing the same thing if it weren't for the warning we get from them and more subsequent direct teaching in the New Testament, particularly for those who are in leadership is Right. And God also never expressly said don't beat your wife, but in the Bible it it shows the consequences of the of these things. So just because in scripture it shows these things, it's not necessarily a contradiction. It's it's showing you what are the consequences of your actually deviating from the ordained man, woman, God, manage. Yeah, good. Nicholas, did you have a comment or a question? Uh uh I guess uh I feel like I feel like Jenis is what, like how God created Adam and Eve is pretty clear that polygamy is simple. But also it it's impossible to read the old J just because it if it was okay, there would not be those bad consequences, right? Like good things don't be to uh to bad uh consequences. Only only sin and and and uh turning away from God's pre-designed results is uh kind of breaking Right, right. And I think to your point, Nicholas, you you know you need to make sure you get the full context of versus just a particular passage or verse, right? To show that that here's what happens when when you allow all that to happen. Alright, I gotta keep going guys. Sorry, lots of material here. Yeah, sorry. So I agree with those But we need to understand that sometimes the spiritual thing is worse. I mean when you disobey God or you're gonna love God, so sometimes you see it saying what But sometimes what God is asking us is for a part that we can defend, that is humble to him And after that, all of that is going to go in their place. So for example, when David sings and the prophet came to him And what God is speaking to us is rebel. Right. able to refer to him, to recognize him. So sometimes we have the change look at the people he can do that. But we need to have this vision. Um I don't know like be merciful when the people repent and are able to get guidelines and tend to God and be handled to Yeah, Lola, great point. Right. It it's not we don't cover this to say this is a standard now we judge, right? The intent is to try and restore people back to God's original design. And we do that in truth, in love. Sometimes we do that through church discipline. Again, our goal is to restore them. So great, great point. All right, last comment, Grace. Yeah, I was just going to say it's also as an example for us of God's forgiveness. and gospel Providence. Uh like right now there's a whole big online thing going on and the OnlyFans model got saved. She's deleted her account. She shares the gospel through the platforms that she has because she has she had a lot of very perverted men very interested in her So she's using that now. But there's a lot of people online, Christians online, who are saying, no, she all all of this is wrong. She's a she's a harlot and that's all shallow Burby and there should be no forgiveness for that God includes all of these Rahab was prostitute. But uh Ruth was a Ruth was a widow. God includes these examples and includes all the polygamy and includes And David and Bathsheba partially as examples not only for ourselves to be able to say, even though I have made these mistakes, God for God has forgiven me and I can still be in the church, but also as examples of us to be able to say, okay, this person has done a lot of mess up things. Now they're a child of God and we need to judge them based on that and trust God to be working in them rather than saying that I'm the arbiter of Yep, very good. And we go back to Romans 1 that we just read. What does that do? It establishes what we set up front, a correct understanding of man and our fallen nature. And we were all there And praise God that He's a patient God, right? That he waited 23 years for me to be saved. So we have to always remember that, right? But let's look at the next passage about who we are as regenerate in 1 Corinthians. Do you not know that your bodies are members of Christ? Shall I then take away the members of Christ and make them members of a harlot? May it never be. Or do you not know that the one who joins himself to a harlot is one body with her For he says the two will become one flesh. Again, you see that reference back to the Genesis passage. But the one who joins himself to the Lord is one spirit with him. Flee immorality Remember we talked about that. Pastor Alan talked about it, I think, in the last um the last quarter, right? What do we do with our our sinful lust? Do we stand firm or do we flee? We flee immorality. Run. Every other sin that a man commits is outside the body, but the immoral man sins against his own body. Or do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit who is in you, whom you have from God, and that you are not your own, for you have bought you have been bought with a price. Let that sink in As a believer, as regenerate, having a transformed heart, your body has the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. Right? You are a temple of the Holy Spirit, given to you by God, bought with a price. Let that be your guard, your armor, if you will, the flea immorality. You don't want to give that temple over to the ungodly. You don't want to join as one with the harlot. All right, good. But is marriage a requirement? Must you get married? Of course not. Right? Item five. Marriage is not required of every man and woman Some men and women are gifted by God to live a single life to God's glory. However, marriage is a desirable position. So let me just read, let me go down to Matthew 19, 10 and 12. We read earlier Matthew 19, 1 through 9, and this is where the Pharisees were testing. Jesus, right, about the Moses um decree, if you will. And then we'll carry on here in verse 10. The disciples said to him, If the relationship of the man with his wife is like this, it is better not to marry. These are the disciples talking to Jesus. But he said to them, Not all men can accept this statement, but only those to whom it has been given For there are eunuchs who were born that way from their mother's womb, and there are eunuchs who were made eunuchs by men, and there are also eunuchs who made themselves eunuchs for the sake of the kingdom of heaven He is able to accept this, let him accept it. So the disciples were saying, you know, they had this culture of the standard that was driven by what Moses did in the Old Testament Right? Because their hearts were hard, he allowed them to give a d uh a decree of divorce for anything. That kind of became the standard. Excuse me. And what Jesus was saying is, no, you've got to go back to the beginning. This was the original design. And the discipl disciples now are saying, well if that's the standard, how can anybody why would anyone get married? That's hard. Right? And and Jesus responds and said, Well, some some are blessed or given that gift for singleness. Right? It happens. However, that's usually not the norm. Right? That's usually not the norm. We usually have the desire or passion to get married. You don't mean anything. Um there's lots of passages that dictate um what has to happen there. Why did you get divorced has to be explored. Um and then there are implications on how you answer that to whether you can get married or not. Right, so that's a whole nother topic we can get into. We don't have time for today. But according to Jesus said, like unless you have a sexual morality you leave Yeah. Then you commit adultery, right? And I think there's some passages that will go on to explain that. But yeah, right? The Bible's pretty clear about that. All right, let me just cover um the top of page thirty-seven, the the verse at the very bottom there. An overseer then must be above reproach, the husband of one wife, temperate, prudent, respectable. hospitable, able to teach. What are these? Requirements of an elder? Qualities, requirements for an elder. And you can see the importance there. The husband of one wife That what that means is he is a a a one-woman minded, if you will. Right? So you gotta be careful about um And there's lots of discussions about well has he ever been married before? Lots of debate. But what this is getting at is even as a married man, his focus is on one woman He's not out flirting, he's not out sc uh scanning the internet, he's not on dating sites, he's not on you know what I mean, he is solely focused on his wife. That's what that means, a one-woman man. And it's significant, right, to be qualified to be an elder, that's the mindset you have to have. Right? That's the qualification. And it's a high standard. And it should be. And guess what? It's a standard for all of us. All the qualification for elders is what we should all be striving for. Can that tell you about woman elder, woman faster? Because it's a husband of one wife, not wife of one wife. Correct. And and all of these talks specifically to the man. These are qualities for a man. Yep. All right, let's go on. So let me pause here though. I want to give maybe a pause or a message for our single people, right? I have seven children, six daughters And I know how hard of a struggle it can be. Right? I think all of my children, some are in different stages, but they all desire to be married And and they struggle with God, this is a passion you have given me. And yet they they struggle with waiting, of course Right? They struggle with God's time, and all I can do is encourage you, and how I encourage them, is just stay focused on serving the Lord. And trust his perfect timing. When you go back and you look at the standard and the importance of that oneness and what it's supposed to represent, you want to make sure you get that right. And you want to make sure you have the gift of God providing that person. So I just wanted to pause there and say, I want to encourage you And and I see a lot of our young people in the church just serving their hearts out, and I love that, and I encourage you to keep doing that. All right? Really, really important. Keep serving, take the focus off of yourself, and trust the Lord. Have faith in his perfect, perfect timing. All right, let's move on. So another purpose, right? Procreation Children are a gift from the Lord. Those little bundles of depravity, they're a gift. Trust me They are a gift. They are given to bless the family and to extend the family's influence for good. Um Wan Zhu, can you read Psalm 127, that first passage there? Behold children. Are a gift of the Lord, the fruit of the womb, is reward. Like arrows in the hand of warrior, so are the children of one to you. How blessed is the man whose favor is full of them. They shall not be ashamed when they speak with their enemies in debate. Alright, good, thank you. So again, children are a gift of the Lord. I'm not advocating that everyone have seven children. That's not what I'm saying. But you know, it has been such a huge blessing over the years to serve as a family. And it's been great to have that many arms and legs and and mouths to um show hospitality, to serve in different functions It's been a huge, huge blessing, right? So whether it's husband and wife or you have one, two, seven, ten children, it doesn't matter. You can really emphasize and train them up serving together in in many different um ways. So just wanted to encourage you there. Alright, I am quickly running out of time, so let's jump down to number seven. Any other questions on the the gift in this part? They truly are a gift. You will go through seasons where it may not feel that way, but I want to encourage you to be steadfast, right? As you get to the other end, it is precious, precious, precious. Nicholas. I just want to say that part of the reason why some of these sins happen is because the needs of children get ignored. Right. And so children end up being born outside of marriage or their parents end up splitting And and like it's important for us to you know children have are in the image of God too, they have value too. It's important for us to not put our passions or desires above other than Yeah. Yeah. So Nicholas great great comment, right? Some of the consequences we see of distorting this this oneness view of marriage is um it rolls down to the children and and we see the enormous consequences of that. I could say the the converse of that is um you also see consequences when we elevate the children in priority in that family or marriage relationship, right? Um that is not the intent. Right? It starts with with mom and dad. It actually starts individually with our relationship with God, but then that oneness between man and woman. Pastor Allen. One of the fun things um I think that this is referring to is the sanctification sanctification that you refer to. When those kids look at us and they're copying our sin Where did they get that from? Oh, that came from me. Yeah. That's convicted. By God's Saddam. And That's part of the blessing. Yeah, absolutely. Right? Um the Lord knew that I was a really rough case, that's why he gave us seven children, right? Lots of sanctification. It really is though, right? Daily you are dying to self. Not only to your wife but but to your children. And it's a blessing at the end of the day. So let's talk a little bit about that, about raising our children. Item seven God has given parents the charge and the privilege to disciple, to raise, to train, to educate, and motivate their own children. Godly families should be encouraged to support each other, cooperating with each other and with the church to give proper training to their children. Let me read one verse here I love Deuteronomy 6, right? Referred to as the Shema, meaning to hear. Hear, O Israel, the Lord is our God, the Lord is one, and you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your might. And these words which I am commanding you today shall be on your heart, and you shall teach them diligently to your sons, and that means sons and daughters, of course, and shall talk of them when you sit in your house And when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise up, and you shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontals on your forehead, and you shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates. So when do we when do we share the Lord with our kids? Just fellowship time around the the dinner table All the time. Right? All the time. So uh a couple key things here, right? The Lord is one, our focus needs to be the Lord, but we need to pass on from generation to generation We see again and again in the Old Testament what happens when that doesn't happen. Even within one generation, right, they forget the blessings of the Lord. So it is our mandate to do that. I wanted to highlight, you know, we we take this very seriously at Hope and have various ministries at Hope Bible Church to help parents out So we have a couple parenting classes, um, an infants and a toddlers to teens. Really goes through all a lot of the material we discussed today, but also some very practical application. It's hard Parenting is hard and we need help. So we're there to help you. So those are a couple things. You know, Hope Academy, small groups. Small groups is another great way to partner with other families in raising up your children. Alright, so if you're not part of a small group, I would highly, highly encourage it. Okay, let's flip over to the next page, page 38. Let me cover one verse there right in the middle at the very top. Children, we talked about it earlier. Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. Honor your father and mother, which is the first commandment with a promise. that it may be well with you, and that you may live long on the earth. And fathers, do not provoke your children to anger, but bring them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord. I used to joke with my kids all the time. I said, you got it really simple. You got one command. Honor your father and your mother. And guess what? You get a promise with it. You don't see that all the time, right? So But we brought it up earlier. That never stops. We are always to honor our mother and father. But the relationship changes, the authorities change, right? We have to keep that in mind. Alright, any other questions on that? We're going to kind of end the segment on the family. We have a few minutes, we'll talk about the value of man. So lots of this great discussion about the family, and we're going to shift gears to talk about the value of the family of man. Again, trying to get a correct view of man. Good? Okay. The image of God stamped on man gives all human life sacred value. We talked about that two weeks ago when we talked about being created in the image of God. This value is derived from God and is not self-originating. All human life therefore is sacred Both the born and the unborn, the healthy and the infirm. And this is even in our fallen nature, isn't it? Right? We all have that value. So obviously we we often talk about the born and the unborn, right? Lots of discussion around that. But I wonder how often we really talk about people with disabilities Right? How easy is it to just let them fall by the wayside? Chronic illnesses. Right? Do we have opportunities that here to make sure we're getting out to those people? I love the fact we stood up Hopeability, right, which is focused on that. Um ethnicity, color. How about the guy that installs a dishwasher? It's a joke back to Right? He is made in the image of God. He has value as a human being, and I need to treat him with the same respect Okay. Let me hit the bold statement there. We covered that a couple weeks ago and see if you remember. Whoever sheds man's blood, by man his blood shall be shed, for in the image of God he made man. W what occurred here? Do you remember? Cain and Abel, no. Genesis nine. It's right after the flood, where God is now allowing man uh capital punishment. Right? He's he's giving that responsibility and authority into their hands. Why? Because man has value. He was created in His image. Okay? Item two, man is distinct from the animals because only man was made in the image of God and was given life by the breath of God. Let me read Psalm 8. O Lord our Lord, how majestic is thy name in all the earth, who has displayed thy splendor above the heavens. From the mouth of infants and nursing babes thou hast established strength because of thine adversaries, to make the enemy and the revengeful cease. When I consider thy heavens, the work of thy fingers, the moon and the stars which thou hast ordained, what is man that thou dost take thought of him, and the son of man that thou dost care for him? Yet Thou hast made him a little lower than God, and dost crown him with glory and majesty. Thou dost make him to rule over the works of thy hands. Thou hast put all things under his feet, all sheep and oxen, and also the beasts of the field, the birds of the heavens, and the fish of the sea Whatever passes through the pat the pass of the sea. O Lord our Lord, how majestic is thy name in all the earth. W what's he talking about? First of all, this is Um David, this is David's psalm or prayer, and it was written after he defeated Goliath. So that's the context. But who's he talking about here? Made a little lower than God. Us. Us, right? Man. And that's for everybody. Believer, unbeliever That's the value, again, trying to get a correct view of who we are. Yes, we have that sinful nature, but the value we have, right, at creation, you can see here. It's magnificent All right, pop up to page 39, the top, item three. The image of God in man does not mean that man is God. There are certain attributes of God that man can never have, including self-existence, omnipresence, omnipotence, immutability, never-changing. Eternality, sovereignty, and omniscience. Those are qualities that God does not pass on. So we are not God. What does it mean to be made in the image? A likeness Like God, and we are to be a representative of God, but we are not God. Alright, let me jump down to number four. Man in his sinful condition is neither pleasing nor useful to God. In his sinful condition, man's value to God is greatly reduced, putting him in an unfavorable position before Almighty God. Again, in that time of sin, that relationship was broken. Right, and it needs to be restored. God had every right at that point to wipe us all off the face of the earth. And he almost did that at the flood, right? But he preserved eight people to continue on his plan of redemption Right? That's beautiful. But that is the the wrath and the the judgment we all deserve Therefore the Lord God of Israel declares, I did indeed say that your house and the house of your father should walk before me forever But now the Lord declares, Far be it from me, for those who honor me I will honor, and those who despise me will be lightly esteemed. So again, understanding our position and our fallen nature, we need to be restored back to a holy God. And there's only one way that happens, and that's through Jesus Christ. Understanding our view really jumps out Romans 3, so let me read that. As it is written, there is none righteous, not even one. There is none who understands. There is none who seeks for God. All have turned aside. Together they have become useless. There is none who does good. There is not even one. Their throat is an open grave, with their tongues they keep deceiving, the poison of asps is under their lips, whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness. Their feet are swift to shed blood. Destruction and misery are in their path, and the path of peace have they not known. There is no fear of God before their eyes. We are decrepit, sinful, ugly Dirty rags, folks. That's who we are in our broken relationship before the Lord. Last verse there. And without faith, it is impossible to please him. For he who comes to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of those who seek him. The Holy Spirit must regenerate our heart And we respond in faith and repentance. That too a gift from God. All right, last last page. God did not send Jesus to redeem sinful man because man had great value to God. Rather, God sent Jesus to redeem man in order to impart great lasting value to man. Again, God did not need to create us. He is transcendent. He is independent. He does not need us for anything to satisfy his glory, his holiness. He created us because it gave him joy. That's it. And we have to keep that in perspective. For you are a holy people to the Lord your God. The Lord your God has chosen you to be a people for his own possession. Out of all the peoples who are on the face of the earth The Lord did not set his love on nor choose you because you were more in number than any of the peoples. Obviously talking to the nation of Israel here For you were the fewest of all peoples, but because the Lord loved you and kept the oath which he swore to your forefathers, the Lord brought you out by a mighty hand and redeemed you from the house of slavery From the hand of Pharaoh, king of Egypt. The Lord selected Israel, the Lord selected you for salvation, for sanctification, for glorification. Next verse down, just the bottom portion of that. For if while we were enemies, we were reconciled to God through the death of his son, much more having been reconciled, we shall be saved by his life. Alright, we were dead in our sins and the Lord chose us. Beautiful, beautiful. Last segment there. Regenerate man, right, regenerate meaning a transformed heart through the Holy Spirit has great value to God because he is now in Christ. Who has great value to God? This value of man is based upon the infinite value of Christ. It's not based on our works, it's based on the value of Christ, not on the value of man from creation. For I am the least of the apostles, this is Paul talking, who am not fit to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God. But by the grace of God I am what I am, and his grace toward me did not prove vain. But I labored even more than all of them, yet not I, but the grace of God with me. And then let me jump down to the last one on the bottom of the page there, forty. See how great a love the Father has bestowed upon us. That we should be called children of God. And such we are. For this reason the world does not know us because it did not know him. Beloved, now we are children of God, and it has not appeared as yet what we shall be. We know that when he appears we shall be like him, because we shall see him just as he is. So quick summary again as we look at a correct view of God. We've talked about a couple different aspects. Who we are in our fallen nature, in its ugly It is ugly, and we are in need of a savior. But as a child of God, right, your relationship has changed. And I encourage you to go back to Romans 8 and read all the promises of what it means to be a child of God. No condemnation. The Holy Spirit testifying with our spirit we are a child of God. Nothing can separate us from His love. And that's how we need to respond in boldness and encouragement as a child of God. Back to Lola's comment, right? Ministering to the fallen Ministering to those who who've not heard of Jesus, ministering to broken marriages in truth, in love, with grace and patience. Alright, great discussion today. Any other last alibis or comments? Alright, we are right on time. Let me pray.