Well, we are on our last lesson for the quarter. Lesson thirteen. I'm on page one fifteen So we're on lesson thirteen wrapping up our study of salvation. And We're at the topic of separation. It might not seem all that obvious what that's referring to, but it'll become very clear here. I'll read the first statement. Out of deep gratitude for the undeserved grace of God granted to us. And because our glorious God is so worthy of our total consecration, all the saved All of us who are saved, should live in such a manner as to demonstrate our adoring love to God And so as not to bring any reproach upon our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. So um The fact that God has saved us by His grace has implications for the way we live. We've already talked about sanctification. uh progressive san sanctification particularly we're we're we're um growing in our holiness, our uh Christlikeness and so on. And part of that is um our mindset, our mindset of being devoted to Him rather than uh beings um d do you think it's easy for the world's values to creep in on our thinking? It's real easy, right? So we need to have a mindset that um is grounded in truth, the truth of God's Word. And uh allows us to uh uh respond rightly. to the values that are bombarding us around the world or from the world. So let's take a look here at some of the basic texts. John fourteen twenty-three. Could someone read that for us? Jesus answered and said to him, If anyone loves me. He will keep my word. And my father will love him. And we will come to him and make our abidance with him. Right, so there are logical consequences uh uh Repercussions of our salvation. Right? If if we truly love Christ, uh it'll show up. in our lives, right? Our priorities, our decisions, uh our what we say and what we do, of course. If anyone loves me, he will keep my word What do you think he means by his word? Well, scripture. Okay, that's an easy question. But um uh Do you think that's how his disciples who have heard him say that took it? How these commands? Commands, even specifically, right? His direction to them. Now, fortunately for us Um that's recorded in scripture. Right. Um wrote that you know he was a The word, the word became flesh. He looked at Jesus as the word, the the the one that had the answers, the one that you know so anything he said or anything he said, anything, any way in which he communicated was about what God would want us to know. So I w I think they might take it that way. If you love me, you'll obey me, you know, you'll follow me So it's it's not just obeying what he said, it's also following his example. Sure. Yeah. Uh Romans twelve, one through two. Um someone read that, Dan. I urge you therefore brethren, by the mercies of God to present your body for listening And holy sacrifice, acceptable to God, which is your spiritual service of worship. And do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. That you may prove what the will of God is, that which is good and accessible and perfect. Behavior, what we do, ought to reflect what we understand to be true. And if we're transformed by the grace of God, and if what God has revealed to us in His Word is indeed true then our life will show that. It'll show up in our our decisions, our priorities, uh, even our Bodies, present your bodies of living and holy sacrifice acceptable to God, which is your spiritual service of worship We don't usually think of worship as including stewardship and care and use of our bodies, but everything that we do is It's for God. It's for his pleasure. It's for his He owns us. He's bought us. He's created us. And our lives are not about us. They're about Him. Or at least they should be. And so as Paul's elaborating here, that has implications on on what we do, what we say, how we think, right? James 4, 4. You adulteresses, do you not know that friendship with the world is hostility toward God? Therefore, whoever wishes to be a friend with the world makes himself what? An enemy of God. Now speaking of the world here, what's what's he have in mind? The system, world system, philosophies of the world, values World leadingness, we call it sometimes, right? Um has a lot to do not only with what people do, but why they do it, what they esteem as important, um, and underlying pretty much all of that is me It's all about me, right? Rather than all about God. And um Whoever wishes to be a friend of the world, how would you characterize someone who wants to be a friend of the world? What do we usually say? Um giving in to peer pressure, wanting to be like you know, like the the Israelites saying, we want a king like all the other nations. And that's a very powerful thing out in the world, and it can even ensnare us, so we need to be alert. We need to be grounded in God's word. and uh not falling for the the motives and the means of the world We should stand out to the world. Hey, what makes you tick? You're different. I think I was planning to actually mention it later, but um There's a real sense in which I think God wants each of us, when people encounter us, God wants us to be a fork in the road. If we were like the world, the world would love us, would accept us. That's fine. But if we're not like the world and we're demonstrating godliness, God's righteousness the reality that God has created us and holds us accountable to Him, and that for us personally God has saved us by His grace, if we're living out these things People will either be drawn to that, if God's gracious toward them, or they'll be repulsed by it. We're a fork in the road. And if we're not being a fork in the road, then we're being conformed to the world and we're the same as everybody else And when we do things against God's will, we cause him to grieve. And um that's not a good thing. That's not a good thing. He can also he can use that that grief in our hearts to convict us. And cause us to grieve about it as well. And that can lead to greater godliness if we're if we're seeking to please him. But if we could avoid it, that would be even better, right? Yeah. Diane, did you have a hand up? No, okay. Okay, let's go down to the memory verse, First John two. Do not love the world, nor the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the boastful pride of life, is not from the Father, but is from the world. This is this world system, this world uh this fallen uh world value system, worldliness And the world is passing away, and also its lusts. But the one who does the will of God abides forever. So everyone who is saved has eternal life. Right? And so why would someone with eternal life pursue things that are not eternal? That are that are just um Gonna burn up. Um things that are of high importance to the world, if we're motivated by that We're motivated by things that aren't going to last. Um what things will last? The word of God will never pass away. What else? Other people. The souls of people are eternal, whether they're lost or saved. The Word of God and people's souls have eternal value. And we should be laying up treasures in heaven, doing and impacting things of eternal value Rather than things that are destined for the fire burning up. Pretty easy to do, right? No, it's hard. It's hard. But we've got plenty of Admonition here in Scripture that we need to get our head screwed on straight. We need to have our head well grounded in the truth, thinking eternally, not temporally. Thinking about God and others rather than ourselves. And so it all starts with our heart, with our mind. And God will use that. Okay, let's go to the second one. Separation from any association with religious apostasy And worldly sinful practices is commanded of us by God. And so, for example Romans 16. Now I urge you, brethren, keep your eye on those who cause dissensions and hindrances contrary to the teachings which you have learned, and turn away from them. For such men are slaves not of our Lord Christ, but of their own appetites. And by their smooth and flattering speech, they deceive the heart of the unsuspecting. So what's Paul admonishing us to do? Not be unsuspecting, not be naive about this. Sometimes those enticements come from the world, our relationships with other people around us, and just the worldliness that bombards us. Sometimes it may come from um people within the church, whether they're saved or not. And um if they if they are promoting something that's clearly not biblical, uh our loyalties need to be to what? Scripture and to God So there's there's a need for discernment, um wisdom rather than naivete. There's a need for a commitment to what is right and true rather than um Well, in other words, being a God pleaser rather than a man pleaser. Right? If it's religious apostasy, if it's some Organization or a person who is uh claiming to be speaking for God But something doesn't quite add up in your mind because you know scripture and it doesn't seem to fit. A good preliminary test at least is to gauge um that person or that organization's um Description of the gospel. If it's a If it's a false gospel, like it's Christ plus works, uh it's pretty easy, but there's some deceiving uh teachings out there that we really need to be clear on what is biblical versus not. Even in terms of the gospel, how people get saved. And some of those things are crucial um non uh negotiable, if you will. Others of those things Solid Bible-believing Christians might have some disagreements on it. So you need discernment. Is this foundational to the gospel? The core of the gospel? And if it's not, that tends to lead to other kinds of teachings, other kinds of practices, and so on. So we need to be careful. Uh go to the next page, Second Corinthians six. Could someone read that for us? Right. Do not be bound together with unbelievers, for what partnership have righteousness and lawlessness, for what fellowship has lies with darkness Or what harmony has Christ with Eliol? Or what has a believer in common with an unbeliever? Or what agreement has the temple of God with idols? For we are the temple of the living God Just as God said, I will dwell in them and walk among them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Therefore come out from their midst and be separate says the Lord, and do not touch what is unclean, and I will welcome you. And I will be a father to you, and you shall be sons and daughters to me, says the Lord Almighty. Therefore, having these promises, the Beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all defilement of flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of God. Right, so you see example here in Old Testament Israel where God was very particular. about their being separate from the nations around them. There would be set apart, a holy nation, right? Um and that has application for us as well. Um to be set apart from evil, set apart from um Ungodliness of all shapes and sizes. And um not partaking and um uh approving of things that would be displeasing to God. You know, Jeff, rather than taking a chair, if you could bring the people here. Okay. Uh good. Can uh someone read the next one there. Galatians one. Um I am amazed that you are so quickly deserting him who Called you by the grace of Christ for a different gospel, which is really not another, only there are some who are disturbing you and want to distort the gospel of Christ. But even though we were an angel from heaven Should preach to you a gospel contrary to that which we have preached to you, let him be accursed. As we have said before, so now I say again, if any man is preaching to you a gospel contrary to that which you receive, let him be accursed Does that sound like strong language? Paul is um uh very concerned here in Galatians that uh the Galatian believers would be led astray uh on some very fundamental points about the gospel. So he uses very strong language here to get their attention. Let's move to number three here. Separation from sin does not mean that the believer is restricted from interacting with unbelievers in the normal course of life. So this first passage here, John 2, is just an example of Jesus at the wedding in Cana. um interacting with probably a mixed group of people. Certainly they're all Jews, but probably some of them are God-fearing and maybe some of them aren't. Who knows? Later in Acts 28, we see starting at the bottom of the page the example of Paul, who on one of his missionary journeys, um had extensive interaction with the community and uh was a blessing to them. But um uh was making a clear stand for the gospel and not just seeking to have fellowship with any kind of people. So there's a balance there. But I want to read the verse in between here, John 17, Christ in his prayer, his high priestly prayer before he went to the cross Told the Father, I do not ask you to take them out of the world, but to keep them from the evil one. Isn't it reassuring that Christ prayed for us right there and continues to pray for us? So that um this would be fulfilled. Uh we're not taking he he's not taking us out of the world. Would wouldn't you have loved that Yeah, we come to Christ and and we're immediately in heaven, that would have been uh fantastic from our perspective, from kind of a selfish perspective maybe But what's God's plan? To lead us here, why? To work through us. Yeah. To reach other people. Part of that is as others around us see the change in our life that he's bringing about. God often uses that to draw them to Him as well. But even if not, it's still glorifying to God. Jesus told us to let our uh light shine in such a way that others would see our good works and glorify our Father in heaven. Um so he's left us here for a purpose. Uh we might not have chosen that approach if he if he consulted us. But we know that everything he does is right and good. And so our responsibility while we are here is to glorify him. And that has um uh very direct implications for what we do, what we say, uh the choices we make uh how we interact with people and uh God's design, God's plan is to use those things to bring glory to himself and often to bring other people to himself. So um He's praying that while we're doing that, he would uh keep us from the evil one, evil one being. Satan, right? Uh what do you think he meant by keep us from him? Deceived by him or mastered by him. Yeah, he's the deceiver. And he's praying that that God would enable us to see through the deceptions of Satan and not fall for them. Good. And then in uh 1 Corinthians 5, Cont as is the last one in this section on page 117. The context here is Paul writing very sternly to the Corinthian church about a sinful uh in an openly sinful situation where a um one of the members of the church Um was being um sexually immoral with his mother Paul says you should have long since dealt with this. And so he says you need to remove that person. He's obviously unrepentant and And uh it's it's public, it's it's not a mystery to people. And you just need to separate there. Um He even calls him the so-called brother. It's not even clear that he is a Christian in Paul's mind. In fact, probably wasn't. And so there needs to be a separation there. But in the context of him saying that, he says in verse 9 and 10, I wrote you in my letter, a previous letter Not to associate with immoral people. I did not at all mean with the immoral people of this world or with the covetous and swindlers and idolaters, for then you would have to go out of the world I mean you can't escape the fact that the world is filled with immoral people, right? His concern in 1 Corinthians 5 was the church. Don't let that immorality, that ungodliness of the world creep in and form sort of a status quo acceptability within the church If the church well Christ is jealous for the purity of his bride, the church. And if we allow um open sin in terms of just ungodliness, worldliness anti God thinking and behavior into the church, uh that brings shame to Christ. And not only that, it would be like a plague because once something entered into the church that is not God's uh saying in the scripture, then It it's just like you whisper something to someone and and they may not say to the next person what you say it and that's how it spreads. It's like a play Yeah, and if if if um someone is uh challenged about something they say or do or whatever It's easy for them to rationalize and say, well, everybody else is doing it. And so it spreads because the standard drops. And so Paul is is saying, yes, you're going to be interacting with the ungodly out there in the world. Um But be sure that it doesn't creep into the church. Be real jealous for the purity of God's bride. So the church. So you can definitely I shouldn't move the Lancaster, grow my beard out, and go in the alumni. That wasn't exactly what I was saying. Um but the the the um The reality that that Paul's even acknowledging here is and it's really God's design that He's left us here amongst all the ungodly people. To be a testimony to them, to be an opportunity to trust Him to transform us so that we don't become like them Um but he is jealous for the purity of his church, so don't let that mindset those those patterns of behavior and so on creep into the church um as if they're normal because they're not. They're ungodly. Not that I practice this, but I But having an eternal view should help us through all the trials that we have, even the small ones during the day of interacting with people that aren't Christians and don't believe what we believe in Christians. so forth and maybe the you know that interaction can be difficult and at times. But um uh as you said, a fork in the road. Um but if we have an eternal view then we can Yeah, we we read one of the verses that um Paul was saying considers the the trials of this world to be nothing compared to the witches of eternity. So you know Yeah, that eternal mindset, the the sharp clarity about what is right and what is wrong, what is um godly versus ungodly, but certainly what is of eternal value ought to shape our thinking, our priorities, for sure And and can I just say one thing that um I won't take long. Uh when we give God word, he tells us in scripture that we're not the augurism. Because if we give the word, God does rest. And um his word is like concrete. It doesn't disappear. It's eternal And um Actually even concrete gives up eventually, right? Yeah, it does, yeah. But I got your point. It's often con compared to a rock. That doesn't move? A large rock. Yeah. Yeah. What things are eternal. Okay, so there's there's a question in the application section. How can you be in the world but not of it? What are some applications of what we've just been talking about? Okay. So activities are pretty easy to see and and participate in or not. That's sort of a good place to start. What else? When we're thinking of worldly values That are not as easy to not as concrete. Using concrete again. Determine whether or not we start engaging in fact. Yes. Yeah. Any other thoughts? Uh even if you don't like do anything concrete, if you're still being disrespectful, if you're uh Um honestly being disrespectful to parents is like the first thing that comes to mind, but that 'cause that might not be any concrete rebellions, but it it might just be the way that you're talking to them, the way that you talk about them and that kind of I would say keep in mind of created things versus the creator. So what creative things, i. e. other people say versus what God, the Creator, says. So not putting creative things over the creator For sure. So being in the world but not of the world The easy part is being in the world. I mean, that's God's design. We're in the world. It's all around us. And with uh Uh technology and um broadcasting and the internet, it bombards us, right? Um how can we make sure the even though we're in the world, the world is not in us? Check our heart. Check our heart. Keep grounded in scripture. Keep reminding ourselves. Having the word remind ourselves about what is true, what is right. Taking that uh way of escape that God provides, I think about when I'm on the job. And if it's a particular challenging day. Kind of go into the lounge, everybody's there complaining about what's going on, and I feel that urge to join in and have to walk away. But I know that if I stay in there, eventually I may start So it take takes some self-control, doesn't it? And why um what is it that allows you to make that decision? Well the Holy Spirit is working on me for sure. Prompting you about the implications of of keeping on that path versus just walking away and Um there may be a time when he would want you to be a voice of of righteousness in a situation like that. But if you're discerning that this the risk is too high that I would just fall to their level, then it's better just to walk away. Sorry, Lauren. I think Christ was a perfect example of being in the world, but not off the world. Um because he did speak with senators and tax collected He did the exact opposite of what the Pharisees and the Sadducees and the Jewish leaders did at that age and kept themselves separate. And then we even see that example in the Good Samaritan the sound on the area the roads of broken and and engaging with people in challenging situations and being able to demonstrate the wisdom and of God in those moments not necessarily not necessarily condoning sin, because you don't do that. But you can be there with that person and ask questions that can lead them to potentially do the situation from a different lens if you believe that you have the strength to withstand and sin that's there. And you're praying for that he would give you that strength. Yeah. Yes. So okay thanks. And I think sometimes we forget that sinners are not always sinning. And sometimes you can have a conversation with somebody and it's not putting you at risk. There's this I I don't know how I'm going to say it, but we need to see people as God's image bearers and not always thinking about the fact that they are sinners because I think at times it puts a barrier up and somehow we think that I hate to say it, but sometimes we think that we're better than others. Holier than us. Exactly. And they figured out that. So I think what I hear you saying, which is really good, all of you, is that um Our interaction with the world ought to result in us having more impact on them for Christ than the impact they have on us for the world. And we need to be wise about I think Lauren mentioned it, we need to be wise about whether on balance I'm gonna have a stronger testimony with them. the way my my convictions are and my preparations are at the moment versus the impact they're likely to have on me. Whether right now or over time. Um by the way, you could be thinking about that with your children. Are you putting them in situations in the world out there where the world is almost certainly going to be having more impact on them than your children are having on the world Um it's hard enough for us as adults to be prepared to have that kind of impact. Evangelistic Uh even just pre-evangelistic, challenging people's assumptions, um forcing them to ask us, what makes you tick? You're different. Well that's that's a good conversation to have, right? Yeah. Okay. Let's go to freedom. I'm on page one seventeen. Believers are in Christ. And are thus set free from the requirements of the law. And here it's speaking of the ceremonial Old Testament law. They are not, therefore, required to be subject to dietary laws, Sabbath laws, observances of days, or other restrictions on their freedom. And so let's go particularly to the second one there, Romans 8. For the law of the Spirit of Life in Christ Jesus has set you free from the law of sin and death. For what the law could not do, weak as it was through the flesh, in other words, it was all about works, God did. Sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh and as an offering for sin, he condemned sin in the flesh. And Galatians has a lot to say about this freedom. Go down to the third from the bottom, Galatians 5. 1. It was for freedom that Christ set us free. Therefore, keep standing firm and do not be subject again to a yoke of slavery. And Galatians 5. 13. For you are called to freedom, brethren, only do not turn your freedom into an opportunity for the flesh, but through love, serve one another. So we need to put this freedom in context. You know, when we're speaking of our freedom And as these verses are speaking of our freedom, it's um referring to our No longer being slaves to sin by God's grace. He has saved us out of that. But that doesn't mean we're no longer slaves. Instead of being slaves to sin, now we are slaves to to Christ, to God. And Willing slaves of God, knowing that everything He does is good and right. Uh he created us, he owns us. Uh we exist for his glory. Um That's the kind of slavery we should long for. He protects us, he provides for us, um he um directs us, instructs us. Um he's already done all all that we need and he's provided his word We are accountable to Him. We're in Christ. Our eternal destiny is secure. We talked about that last week, right? Um but that doesn't mean that we're free To do whatever we want. It's again, it's not about us. It's not about us, it's about God. Um And so we're freed up from sin and the penalty of sin, and he's continuing to save us from the power of sin over us. But we're not free to displease God because that's sin. And it's falling back into sin. Right? And so He's equipping us, He's maturing us. to be able to live a life that would glorify him. I look at that verse and I underline a couple of things and it and it seems to me it's Saying that we're free to love another that we our progress should now be on another, someone else, not ourselves. Because of what God is because of the love that God has allowed us upon us. Right. And so primarily that's loving God, but secondarily because of that we're also loving other people. Right? As opposed to what's our normal what's everybody's normal love Me, myself, and I. The other Trinity. Yeah, the other Trinity. So God is is uh has transformed us and is continuing to make our experience Match our position in Christ. That takes cooperation on our part. He doesn't just zap us. He does zap us with some things like placing us into Christ and giving us positional holiness before him that won't change. But our continuing progressive sanctification is something that we cooperate with Him. He convicts us of something that that is sin, we turn from it, we forsake it, and in the process become more and more like price. It takes our cooperation. But he even gives us the um the the ability and desire to forsake the sin, to put off and put on So one way to think of it is whereas we used to be slaves of sin, we're now free not to sin. That wasn't true before coming to Christ. We were slaves to sin, but now we're freed up from that. Sometimes we fall back into it, and you see all these examples from particularly Romans and Galatians and places like that where we're admonished not to fall back into something that's not true of us. All right. Uh we'll pick up a few more of those here. So this has implications about what we do, what is acceptable versus not. And so let me give you A way of thinking about this. Scripture includes a lot of commands. A lot of those commands are still demanded of us. Um Some of them, like the Old Testament law, the ceremonial law, those are no longer active. They were fulfilled in Christ, and they're not binding on us. But the moral law of God has never changed and never revoked. It's just that He's giving us the ability to live it. But there are commands. Commands like um the Great Commission, that's a command. commands like the ordinances God has given the church to to practice baptism and the Lord's Supper. Um Very specific commands like not being unequally yoked, which has um Relevance both in marriage and in other um aspects of life, unequally yoked with unbelievers Commands to structure and operate the local church the way God has designed it to be. That's not just flying by the seat of your pants, it's it's being directed by Scripture about what God has ordained. But in addition to commands, there are lots of principles. Right? Principles like um Being good stewards has lots of applications. You know, we're not the ultimate owners of our things or even ourselves, and so we need to be good stewards. uh toward the one who is the owner, God. Right? Principles of Whatever you do, do all for the glory of Christ. That's not a specific XYZ, it's the general principle is it's not about us, it's about Christ. God glorifying Him. Principles like being others-oriented. Treat others as more important than yourself. Lots of applications. That's just a general principle. There are lots of wisdom principles. Probably just full of them. That helped to guide us in our decision making because we see the underlying truth and the wisdom of it, and we can apply that in lots of different ways, right? Freedom is one of those principles. Now, if someone thinks of an application of a principle, That violates a clear command of Scripture, what would you say to that? If if someone thinks thinks of a an application of a biblical principle That violates a clear command of Scripture, what would you say to that? No, but it's not a good idea. That's the point. The command takes precedence over the application of a principle. It doesn't mean the principle's wrong, but you're you're applying it wrong if you're violating a command of God. Right? But but how we both test those things. Sure. Yeah, when you test it against the Word of God, sometimes the principles themselves can be the uh the test But if there's any question, if there's any violation of a clear command of scripture, then uh you need to think again about that application. Right. So and so it is with any area of freedom. If there's no d if it doesn't violate any command of scripture And you don't see any violation of any of the clear principles of scripture that have lots of applications. Then there's there's freedom to do that The Christian life is not like the Old Testament law where there's a long list of do's and don'ts. God's put his Word on our hearts. He's put his spirit within us to give us discernment so that we can properly apply and obey the commands apply his principles uh without and our salvation is not based on Are what we do anyway, right? Um The reason I put it that way is because what is legalism? It's uh it's kinda hard to define what that is. Okay. But I I I suppose one man's legalism is Commands not legally, but in some cases. But uh I think there's this desire to gain God's approval through your adherence to his command Yes, yes, that's key So it's a man-made law. We're talking about legalism, a man-made law that's imposed on others as if it were imposed by God. And if it's not imposed by God, um that's not a good thing, right? Can you think of Any instances where Jesus dealt with that? Healing of Sabbath. Pretty much every time he interacted with the Pharisees? Yeah, pretty much every time he interacted with the Pharisees. Okay. Uh where man made laws, man made traditions, if they become something that is imposed on people in order for them to be saved or to have right standing in the church or whatever, if that's a man-made law And it actually um violates scripture, both the commands and uh principles um it's counterproductive and scripture is saying that um we need to not do that. And you can probably think of lots of examples. Maybe you've experienced some of them growing up or in other churches. where there are expectations of do's and don'ts that may have originally been um uh instituted with good intentions, maybe. But when you start applying those things and layering them on top of each other and they're not biblical, they're not uh a basis for salvation. Um uh they actually violate the principle of freedom in Christ. It's unhealthy And it can actually lead people astray and think that as long as they keep these outward signs, this checklist of do's and don'ts, that they have right standing with God. And that's exactly what the Pharisees were thinking Right? Um and they missed the whole point. Not only the the the point of of what God has really commanded in the principles, but where's the heart? They completely missed any um yes, we need to do the right thing, but they missed the fact that we need to do the right thing for the right reason. It's not about us. It's about God. One of the things that fame and pride that that generates. It does. Um and you know the unfortunate thing. Is I think one of the motives, even if it's not explicit, but one of the motives of having this checklist of man-made do's and don'ts Is that it gives us the false sense that um we've made it. We've kept all the rules. Um And I'm sure that's where the Pharisees were. That's where Paul was in his thinking before salvation. Um And the irony of it though is if you're depending on you're keeping a checklist and doing all the things that man has prescribed, sometimes as a substitute for what God has prescribed, um, there can be no assurance that you've done it Perfectly. There can be no assurance of salvation. Um but we turn that upside down, or right side up actually. And because we are sure of our salvation, it's in Christ, it's secure, it's eternal. Um We want to do the right things. And we're seeking his his help to direct us and and to convict us when we're off uh straying away and and we're seeking to please him in a in a growing way. Um so the assurance is sort of a foundation of right living, not the result of right living. You can never be assured if you're operating on a salvation of works. You'll never know. Okay, that leads us to um Well, before we go to section two, let me let me uh finish up with this uh last verse, top of page one eighteen. If you have died with Christ to the elementary principles of the world Why, as if you were living in the world, do you submit yourself to decrees such as do not handle, do not taste, do not touch, legalism. Withal referred to things destined to perish with the using, in accordance with the commandments and teachings of men These are matters which have, to be sure, the appearance of wisdom in self-made religion and self-abasement and severe treatment of the body, but are of no value against fleshly indulgence All we're doing is we're just checking off boxes that give us the false assurance that we're we're we're good. Or maybe we're giving other people the idea that we're good because we've checked all the boxes. And that goes nowhere. Right? I was just going to point out that the the the description here kind of does touch on the fact that like legalism is basically a form of superstition. Like people who think like, you know, as long as I knock three times on wood every time I say something bad, then nothing bad will happen to me. That's pretty similar to somebody who says, All right, as long as I wear these exact c articles of clothing every single day, I will go to heaven. And it's very similar to Very yeah. It's it's um not according to the truth, but according to man-made thinking, philosophy, or rules I you know, I was thinking about like a lot of people wear crosses and I know it's for their reason that they wear it, but it doesn't make them Walking. You know, you know what I'm trying to say? Maybe even explain it more. I for myself don't wear a cross. To me This is my way of thinking. I'm not worthy of wearing a cross. You know what I'm saying? But you see some people I have ran into and maybe not everybody in this room ever did that, but and their mouth is something else You know, and you have to cut them off and you see that big old cross lane up there and you just Where the appearance doesn't keep match up with their behavior and and so on. That can be a a stumbling block to some people. It can be misleading to the person. On the other hand If someone's wearing a cross or they have a very clear bumper sticker that says, I'm a Christian, ask me about it, you know, something like that. And their lifestyle is consistent with it, it can be a good thing. Right? But making a rule out of it is is wrong. Right? You could you could say that we all need to Yeah. Right. Take up our cross and follow him. Okay. Yes. Um yeah. I I I like to look at legalism as as man's way of saying that God creates and gives and didn't No, no, no. We have to add to it because it's you know, without us doing our part, you know, it's just it's not enough. And uh just a little side note on the little cross thing. I I like the word across because it's my way of not just reminding myself of who I'm supposed to represent, but it also lets other people know like, oh, you're wearing a cross. Oh, I'm like this. Very good. Let me real quick read number two here. Christian freedom is not an excuse to engage in sin. So we're not freed to sin, we're freed up from sin. That's the whole point. Christians were set free from the law to take to take on the law of Christ. Christians are required to love God with the whole being and to love their neighbor as themselves. Since the point of Christian liberty is to set us free from the power of sin, the believer should never let himself be mastered by sin. lots of good passages here. Uh Romans is real good on this. Look at um Romans 6, the third one down. Therefore, do not let sin reign in your mortal body, that you should obey its lusts, and do not go on presenting the members of your body to sin as instruments of unrighteousness. But present yourselves to God as those alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness to God. For sin shall not be master over you, for you are not under the law, but under grace. Okay, I'll let you read the rest of those. I think you get the point. And there's some supplemental notes here on what legalism is and what it is not. I think we covered what legalism assumes and what freedom in Christ is, but I wanted to wrap up with this third part on page 120. What freedom in Christ does not mean This salvation that we're talking about is a free gift. It's all of God. There is nothing we can do Or need to do to get that salvation or to keep it. Often legalism is imposed, well, if you don't do this, you're going to lose your salvation. Well that's just nonsense. It's not biblical This applies to all aspects of our salvation, our justification, our sanctification, and our glorification. Just as God sovereignly works in us to draw us to Himself and to justify us, He also sovereignly works in us to make us more and more like Christ. progressively sanctifying us in this lifetime and to complete that process when he calls us home. Glorification. However, he has prepared us for good works, which will be the overflow of our relationship with him and a testimony to the world of his grace. These works are not a requirement for salvation, but are the God-induced result of our salvation. Having been given such a perfect and complete release from the bondage to sin, we should be eager to obey our Lord, not to earn anything, but as an expression of our love for Him. Our thanks to Him, and our understanding of how our obedience to Him will benefit both us and others, and importantly, to bring glory to Christ. That's the mindset. It is helpful to um sharpen one another. According to God's commands and his principles found in Scripture But let's not think that our sharpening of people with man-made regulations is going to help them at all. Maybe what we need to do is to help them think through what's in their heart that would have led them to a certain decision or lifestyle or whatever, using scripture. Um but imposing man-made rules on them isn't going to accomplish anything. Okay. Let's close it for