And so absolutely this this freedom that Alan talked about and and a weight that is not heavy, right? Where we are now working with the Lord. And I give eternal life to them, and they shall never perish, and no one shall snatch them out of my hand. They produced foliage, but not fruit, and even their foliage was temporary. So to work it out with fear and trembling is getting after the aspect that we do have a role to play in our sanctification. And if children, heirs also, heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, if indeed we suffer with him, in order that we may also be glorified with him, you see that the path to glorification is through what? Is Paul saying here that if indeed you continue in the faith, that you can lose that faith? When he had made purification of sins, he sat down at the right hand of the majesty on high. And the Holy Spirit is causing us to cry out, Abba Father. God, I promise. True believers, however, due to the new birth, will not live continuously as unbelievers, but will evidence the new birth by attitudes and actions of love and righteousness And um we just got to stay prayed up because yeah, we're gonna think things fast. And if he were to ask me why he should let me into heaven, would I begin to think of my good deeds and depend on them? He tells his readers to add to their faith virtue, knowledge, self-control, steadfastness, godliness, brotherly affection, love. And it was mentioned earlier, right? The second group addressed were Jewish unbelievers who were convinced of the basic truths of the gospel, but who had not placed their faith in Jesus Christ as their own Savior and Lord. So you see up front he's talking to those believers saying we need to move on, but the later half of that section is what? if if you're able to lose your salvation, you have to essentially work to keep it. In order to strengthen our faith and also uh continuing the sanctification process, that continual sanctification is uh over time that God will let us uh But people are still there, right? Nothing can separate you from the love of God, is that what she said? Alright, so we are the second to last class. And think that or do that and everything. That's only going to enable the acceleration, if you will, of our sanctification. While I was with them, I was keeping them in thy name, which thou hast given me, and I guarded them, and not one of them perished, but the son of perdition, that the scripture might be uh fulfilled. Right? Right, and we're going to see that and hear that. And whom he called, these he also justified, and whom he justifies, these he also glorifies Alright, so we've talked, we started this section, if you will, all about the order of salvation, right? And after that comes adoption, sanctification, right? Where your body is reunited with your spirit in heaven, right in that glorified state, where the presence of sin is is gone, totally gone But in all these things we overwhelmingly conquer through him who loved us. And digging in deep on those attributes of God gives you that that better understanding, right, so you can apply it to doctrines like this of assurance. That's absolutely excellent. That's the danger of that. And it's in Romans 8, I believe, that it talks about God interceding for us. the parable. Right, so keep that parable in mind uh as we cover some of these other scriptures, and you'll see the evidence of of some of those um instances where Yeah. and they will face those consequences. New Testament where like degrees of obedience are addressed, where like salvation is never never in doubt. It comes from God. trembling, for it is God who works in you both to will and to work for his good pleasure. And Christian doctrine is the mark that distinguishes them from those who merely profess Christianity. Strengthen your brothers. Right? Destroy these things when you cannot touch his body. And we're going to talk a little bit more about being an heir of God. Right? Right? And then here's the second part. Right, secured in him with the Holy Spirit of promise, who is given as a pledge of our inheritance with a view to the redemption of God's own possession to the praise of his glory. Perseverance is guaranteed by God's provision of new life in Christ, the indwelling of the Holy Spirit in the intercessory work of Christ at the right hand of the Father. I thought it might be helpful to add a definition, and this was from Brutum, Systematic Theology, and let me just read this to you. Right? Right? Jesus and even the demons knew who Jesus was. For they are thine, and all things that are mine are thine, and thine are mine, and I have been glorified in them. Holy Father, keep them in thy name. While I was this with them, I was keeping them in thy name, which thou hast given me, and I guarded them, and not one of them perished, but the son of perdition. The next one, Hebrews 1-3. Which, however, clearly forbids the use of Christian security and liberty as an occasion for sinful living. It simply means that there are some that were were sneaky, if you will. So who's who's crying Abba Father in Galatians 4? Ah the Father. Right? seem to make headway and fighting every day, that's discouraging and that caused in the past a time when it caused In your own faith, they can bring bitterness and frustration. Uh yeah, good. our surroundings, back to our circumstances, right, versus keeping our mind on Christ, the things above. Do I see a long-term pattern of growth in my Christian life? And yet I feel like he was very encouraged because he didn't see it in himself. He went away. and eternal judgment. It's under the heading of interpretive challenges. and the person of Christ, but who had reached no final convincing convict conviction about him, failure to acknowledge these groups leads to interpretation inconsistent with the rest. The letter was written to give them encouragement and confidence in Christ, their Messiah and High Priest. Right, that's exactly who he's talking about. Explain how we know that a true believer cannot lose his salvation. Right? And the Lord says you're not worried, oh am I saved? And this continue to try and strive and earn, that's a heavy, heavy burden. this topic and these documents. A wonderful, wonderful truth. Whom he predestined, called, elected, these he also called, right? Right? Nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor any other creative thing shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. That will not separate you from the love of Christ. people who think salvation by works one doubts the effectiveness of Christ's sacrifice, which is the works, and then the other one doubts the uh right or our understanding or feeling. then he must have made all this bad stuff happen to me. God is not just one attribute, right? a little bit more as we go through this. All right, we talked about the the role of of Jesus before, if you remember that, right? Right? It's quite apparent that the hard soil by the road represents those who are so hardened that they ignore God's word completely, and that the good soil represents those who respond with genuine faith and repentance. However, it may not be as clear that the two soils in the middle are just as lost as the hard soil. We know from the rest of Scripture that those who are genuinely saved will not fall away. they they were part of, they seemed to outwardly confess Jesus and and demonstrate Christianity, but in reality they were never saved. It's it's the other point though is that if you could if you could be justified and you could lose it, then um That's the case is you can lose it because you sinned, you did something wrong, and now you gotta strive to get it back. Spirit, right? It's kinda funny word, but you know, we didn't have to work at it. we are working. So what he's saying is he's using press or like Paul uses strong language and what used to work out the subject something because we do have these emotions of fear And these warnings that God gives are to instill a fear in us, not that we can lose our salvation, but that we can stray and we can wander and we can become Philippians chapter 2 verse 12 it says, Therefore, my beloved, as ye have always obeyed, so now not only in my presence, but much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and come to um I was agree that he had that you were taking your head for that. But it's an encouragement to do it while on accident and an encouragement to let them know that God is empowering them to do the work that Paul is telling them and encouraging them. So it's all from God, but we have a role that He enables us to do. Um and so it's it's the natural outworking of our justification is a sanctification that he brings. Simon Simon, behold, Satan has demanded permission to sift you like wheat. Experience those things with a purpose. No, you were just drawing. And although you were formerly alienated and hostile in mind, engaged in evil deeds, yet he has now reconciled you in his fleshly body through death, in order to present you before him holy and blameless and beyond reproach. If indeed you continue in the faith firmly established and steadfast, and not moved away from the hope of the gospel that you have heard, which was proclaimed in all creation under heaven, and of which I, Paul, was made a minister. Children, it is the last hour, and just as you heard that Antichrist is coming, even now many Antichrists have arisen. For if they have been of us, they would have remained with us, but they went out in order that it might be shown that all are not of us. Which is why we work so hard to protect the church, right? just as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world. Right? according to the kind intention of his will. Now go over to verse 13. They fell away at some point when then when Christ we continued to teach and so forth, it was oh this is a hard teaching, I'm not I'm going somewhere else. then then they're gonna follow it until you get to a point where they're gonna be challenged or it's gonna cause them to give up something that they enjoy in their life. Alright, so we we covered the first one, Luke twenty-two. Since then, we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God. uh to represent this idea of of persevering in the faith. The truth of that will happen at the end, right? Well the time came God sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law, in order that he might redeem those who were under the law, that we might receive the adoption as sons. Right? as sons by which we cry out, Ah the Father. Right, he who started it, he will perfect it. The one who says, I have come to know him and does not keep his commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him. So what does that mean? Such sinful actions and attitudes do not indicate a lack of salvation, but rather the reality of indwelling sin remaining in the believer. But we demonstrate the evidence again is our desire to be obedient. think that that is one of the things that um in my own life that um I've struggled with is that when I can't Right? I would save would be complete victory over something versus a lifelong journey. And he's frustrated and he's um maybe in despair even because of his own trying and not like, why don't I get those rewards? to forgive my sins and take me without blame into heaven forever. But we don't get this lightning bolt, we don't feel this electric shock that, ooh, that's the Holy Spirit, right? Do others, especially those closest to me, see the traits exhibited in my life? There's no suggestion in the New Testament that any non-Christian, any unregenerate person can convincently fake these characteristic traits, especially for those who know the person most closely. Hopefully though over time you see that minimize less and less and less. And we will do this if God permits. Alright, we got a couple minutes left. One of the questions on page 114, it says, how do you interpret Hebrews 6, 1 through 8? of Scripture. of Judaism. So John ten is always good because it says I'm holding you. They are saved because they have the power of the Holy Spirit. perseverance and assurance. Well if our faith if we are saved by faith alone and indeed that faith is given to us by God, then it's not something we can lose. And to have this understanding of security, perseverance, and assurance is going to do what to our sanctification, to that walk? All the redeemed, once saved, are kept by God's power and are thus secure in Christ forever. Right? Judas, right? Just as it is written, For thy sake we are being put to death all day long, we were considered as sheep to be slaughtered and faithful to and powerful enough to keep. Um and I'll get to the get to the quick of it. Their continuance in the Christian walk and Christian doctrine is the mark that distinguishes them from those who merely profess Christianity. What we fail to realize is that we can't because we're just we we we can never be good enough. But we we know, like Freen said, it's going to happen. falling away. fear giving into it. by the power of the spirit, but to create a reaction and you say you do what you should. Because the the threat is real for them because if they are not saved and they will not be saved, they will walk away, they will prophesy useless. you can still fall short of what we are commanded to do. Do that much more in my absence. like our knowledge, but the same way with our faith in God, He lets us um some of it's a mixture of just living in a sinful world and then some of it is God allows us to go through certain trials and tribulations and Right? Part of that purpose is Peter. And and I think again this just ties in the omnipotence. But to confirm what he has already put inside of us. Let me start in verse 3. see these people who are not of us and to make sure they don't come in. Alright, I want you to turn your Bibles to Ephesians 1 and this idea of security. in our um our s our selection, if you will, our election, our salvation, all the way to glorification. Right, that we will be preserved until that point of of glorification. Um curiosity that says we have now to be fully um chosen or predestined The perseverance of the saints means that all those who are truly born again will be kept by God's power and will persevere as Christians until the end of their lives. And that only those who persevere until the end have been truly born again. Good. The perseverance of the saints means that all those who are truly born again will be kept by God's power and will persevere as Christians until the end of their lives. All right, I want to spend a little bit of time on this idea of assurance, because I think that's one that sometimes we can have doubts about. It is the privilege of believers to rejoice in the assurance of their salvation through the testimony of God's Word and the internal testimony of the Holy Spirit. He does not differ at all from a slave, although he is owner of everything, but he is under guardians and managers until the date set by the father. So also we, while we were children, were held in bondage under the elemental things of the world. God has sent forth the Spirit of His Son into our hearts, crying, Abba Father. Romans 8. Alright, Philippians 1. So obviously what you want to see in our sanctification is a growing more and more into the image of Christ. Good. That might steal our assurance. Sin. But I mean you can see that being confronted with evil being rewarded in the world can be something that could be a stembling block Do I have a present trust in Christ Jesus? That he is a sufficient Savior. The Holy Spirit bears witness with our spirit that we are children of God. The question is not do I perfectly exemplify all these characteristics in my life talking about the fruit, but rather are these things a general characteristic of my life? Alright? Right? And at the end, um I mentioned to one of the guys, I said, you are really growing. And it is just clear that he is in the Word, that he is studying the Word, he is struggling through it with other men, he's sharing the gospel boldly, he's bringing people to church But hopefully he walked away very encouraged that there is evidence, right? faith. This is because, to their own harm, they are re-crucifying the Son of God and holding him up to contempt. and that produces vegetation useful to those for whom it is cultivated, receives a blessing from God. right now. the word of God. One, believers, two unbelievers who were intellectually convinced of the gospel, and we've talked about that repetitively today. The third group addressed were Jewish unbelievers who were not convinced of the gospel's truth, but had experienced some exposure to it. You wanna make? uh a deeper understanding that is revealed pro like personally when you depending on your understanding of security insurance Well we were doing a a counseling round table. My little children, I am writing these things to you that you may not sin, and if anyone sins, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. You know, sometimes we could kind of forget that it it is valuable and it was earned and and and given to us. If we we know like you are very aware of a certain sin you have that you're very prone to and you are fighting it and wrestling it with Jesus One church is chastised for still needing milk and not moving on solid food yet, even though they definitely should have. Alright, and and this imagery of that happening and then the cock crowing, right, and and Peter just overwhelmed with with probably shame and guilt and sorrow. I know it, I see his hand. Suffering. Cool, I'd hope you put it on. And then let me jump down to 1 John 5. Keeping, guarding, upholding, holding fast, right? Okay? No, of course not. Another aspect of this category is results of one's life in ministry. Hebrews six one through eight. salvation, if you will, let us press on to maturity, not laying again a foundation of repentance from dead works and of faith toward God, of instruction about washings and laying on of hands and the resurrection of the dead They were intellectually persuaded, but spiritually uncommitted. Right, so again, we have to be very careful and understand when we're studying the word to make sure we we do a a good hermeneutic, if you will, and understand the audience. They fell away and they're they're not coming back because they were never of us. the omnipotence of God that he can keep you despite your sin. guaranteed sanctification and guaranteed glorification as all of Hackersfield and um you can't lose that. Diligent or thankless or ungrateful. Because you, like the song says, prone to wander. He told part of my thumbs up. And that is the um justification is vibrating through faith. It's all of God, but he gives us the ability to cooperate with him, even desire to be. Can we resist it? And the reading cooperative. It's through the power of the Holy Spirit. And really gives a a good glimpse of this idea of of security. Even to the unsaved. So there is still an appeal. And I want you to start first in Galatians. But as a Christian, as an heir now, as a child, we cry out, Ah, the Father, Daddy. We're going to study uh we're gonna go to Hebrews in a little bit here. And so circumstances sometimes, the building up of circumstances, can cause us to maybe question sometimes, you know, am I truly a Christian? Things that can build confidence in our assurance. Alright, so you should be seeing evidence of fruit in your life, and through sanctification, you should be see you should see yourself growing in those traits. Hebrews can be tricky because the number of audiences that are potentially being addressed here. At the point of your conversion, you are promised eternal life with God the Father, with Jesus Christ. And that he would betray Jesus at the end. So it talks about that, and we'll talk about this term later, the sealing, until that end time. When we become adopted as children, we are promised eternal life. Or do we play a part in that? lazy, very apathetic about their obedience to God when they should be eager with it. Can slice verses and then get an interpretation of that verse wasn't really intended. So just allow this for free to tell you where to really pass down. Um Satan came and asked for permission the first time and God said you can you know So it's it's again this idea of working out your salvation. But they don't get to that point of fully trusting in Jesus Christ as their Savior. It's not some obscure, you know, oh God, I'm crying out to God. We're working through that, but this sin that goes unrepentant, that just hides in there, right, can can cause us to doubt. Then he says that these are things, things are to belong to its readers and to continually abound in their lives. It's a journey where we are being conformed into the image of Christ. Alan talked about it up front. is the omnipotence of God and the efficaciousness of Christ's sacrifice. I'm in that table with God. All right, let's jump down to Ephesians 1. And you may think that salvation is by grace through faith, that's justification. positive aspect to it. Couple pieces um Alice, did you have a quick comment? The the meaning of these these fear and tremblings and threats of Hebrews is to create that reaction. It gives you that impression though that there is a part we play, and it's work, right? That we would be holy and blameless before him. Let's jump down to again Romans 8. Right? Okay? You feel that um you're not putting God enough in your life and prayers and what have you. Also we gotta remember that Satan is not fully conscious and he's gonna bring disrup disruption any and everywhere that he can. But we gotta remember that God said those that are here, not even the angels can do anything to us. And holy. But then he understands people he knows that they're gonna stand before God one day and be held accountable and turn to accountable Is there evidence of a regenerating work of the Holy Spirit in my heart? This implies that our assurance of salvation could be something that increases over time in our lives. Early on, when you become a new believer, it is easy sometimes when we talk about the things that would steal our assurance, right? Alright, good, thank you. Are these apostate? Do Christians persevere in their faith to the end because they are saved, or are they saved because they persevere? Alright, I'm testing them, Alan. Saying that all my salvation is only my justification, which is at a point in time. We are indwelt, we need to be filled or controlled by the Spirit, but we absolutely play a role in obeying God, making willful choices to obey. So, like like Christopher said, it's we're cooperating with God to accomplish what He's going to do But what's going on here? And he accuses us before our Heavenly Father. What's what's Paul saying there? First Peter, who are protected by the power of God through faith for salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time. He was a preacher with um with Billy Graham. And so it keeps us from working. No one can snatch you from eternal life. Another wonderful, wonderful truth. You remember the parable of the soils, right? And let me just read the paragraph at the top there of page 100. Yes. So let me let me ask you this. What what is the context of what's happening here? Thank you. Oh, what's the word I'm looking for? So much gonna come upon us as we just in the beginning because we in a dying world and corruption is all around us We think in a way because the human things are not supposed to happen. So we talked about this in Romans 8 16. The fruit. Um a couple of questions there, let me just ask you. This is uh um think of the God the Father selecting us before eternity, before creation That's it. And that only those who persevere until the end have been truly born again. Top of page 113. And continuing present relationship with Jesus Christ, right? He lists several things here, but what's the intent? What you are doubting is that God has the authority to say this is how it is. Sure. I mean I'm not saying that we work by safe, but still we have under cooperation is very unfortunate. Yes, if you're addressing this question. Deny the Lord, right? Alright, I want to kind of cover this topic of um assurance. Sin. So I just say that to um encourage all of us, we need to be encouraging the saints. Therefore, let us leave the elementary teaching about Christ and go on to maturity, not laying again a foundation of repentance from dead works. Faith in God, teaching about ritual washings, laying on of hands, the resurrection of the dead, and eternal judgment Yeah, thanks Pastor, and I had a note down here something to the effect of counter to every workspace religion is what you're getting at. There's they're at least as far as I remember, their their salvation is never in doubt, but they're not obeying God as they should. So any questions about the persevering? And we do that. 1 John 3, just below that. But you know it's uh it will happen. So the evidence of the Holy Spirit, Him testifying with our Spirit, and seeing the evidence of the fruit And this isn't about a checklist of being involved in a ton of ministries. But how do I interpret that if I go to verse one? Yeah, thank you, Alan. Right, good. We have a role to play. It's an encouragement. Permission of the Lord. Which the Lord, the righteous judge, will award to me on that day, and not only to me, but also to all who have loved persecution. Through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses. Yeah. In all of the study of doctrines and theology is again cultivating a very high view of God and his attributes. Alright, let's go on to point two. Kind of bring back to like a simpler thing, like you know, in school we get like problems but they progressively get harder. You may be get a verdict on a chronic illness that you have, cancer, children are not obeying. I mean who is he talking to there? So that was the author's admonition to let's move on, right, from the the elementary things And so let's make this point clear though. So here we see where Judas was included in the twelve disciples, but on purpose. Good, 1 John 5, 13. They list a couple other continuing to believe and accept the sound teaching of the church. Yeah, right at our at our conversion when we become saved. Yes, Wanju. What's going on here? So I wanted to highlight this uh this idea of as adopted children, we now can cry out Abba Father, you cannot do that if you do not have the Lord Jesus Christ. Ms. The primary group addressed were Hebrew Christians who suffered rejection and persecution by fellow Jews, although none as yet had been martyred. So very good. Okay. So this is Paul. What do we hear in Romans one? I mean I guess that um Judas is the perfect example that he even though he was remorseful at the end, but he didn't Like, you know, for instance with Judas and people in church. And let me start in verse 15. The fruit. So let's jump in. And pick up on some of these verbs as we go through this, right? Alright, my favorite chapter, Romans eight. We have a a little bit of ability to resist it, but he ups the ante when we do and brings that stronger conviction to us. Yep. That's it. And because you are sons, God has sent forth the Spirit of His Son into our hearts. I promise, if you just help me at this one time, right? Let me take you back. Okay. Also, that can't be taken away from you when you go back to scripture because it'll put you back on track. But he was somebody who would say, Well that's a fine man to God. They might even be deacons, they could even be pastors, but people who have been involved and then they fall away. And then the efficacy, right? I agree. You will suffer. Right. Part of that confidence we can have in our assurance is the fact that we cry out, Ahama Father. Keep going though. 6, for I am confident of this very thing that he who began a good work in you will perfect it until the day of Christ Jesus. I think for for most people when they think that you can lose your salvation, what they're talking about is losing your justification Alex, were you gonna add something or was it the Job tie? Green. The Holy Spirit is working through us to sanctify us. And why do they connect? Was he snatched away? Why? You know what it means, right? So I think about Romans eight thirty eight, I think it is I w any questions on that on those categories? And that's uh we'll cover question two and then wrap things up. Some of those are our circumstances. But if you're truly saved, you cannot fall away. So what are some key elements there? You remember he said, You're gonna deny me not once, not twice, but three times before the cockrows. Yes, yes. Peter was an absolute pillar in the church, early church, right? Item three there at the top. As the Lord is. And we'll talk a little bit later about some of those doubts and and some of those things that might counter um this this truth of of security and assurance. If we if we value it so much, this aspect of eternal life living with God that we desire to work for it, we desire to earn it Globally, sometimes your flesh deceives you and you don't realize it, that's a great fear to sin against the Lord. Exactly. Right? So where would you go? Alright, who's he talking to here? And why do you think why do you think that's such an important doctrine? And so that gets to and begs the question of how can we be sure of our assurance? So God puts the emotion of fear, the response of fear in us and uses it for our own good. Second Timothy four. In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace, which he lavished upon us in all wisdom and insight. And it's it's always I can say this with confidence, it's always self-serving. I'm sorry Alex had to leave because I think he was hinting at some of this. Right, let us close in prayer Any other thoughts on that? Why? Yep. Okay, good. Well I'm on page uh 110 and we'll start with security. Yeah. Good. You know, we just have to stick to that his word. He is the full scope of the attributes of God. It's a great question, Wanju. We need to exercise that faith. Yeah. Right. For it is impossible to renew to repentance those who were once enlightened, who tasted the heavenly gift, who shared in the Holy Spirit, who tasted God's good word and the powers of the coming age, and who have fallen away. Roman Christians. Because we are we are sons and daughters. Seed that was thrown amongst the thistles, right, and didn't produce any fruit. There are times when you will have doubt. I thought we just said you couldn't be snatched away. And the points you guys are bringing up, the Lord will use that not to test our faith, but to confirm it. What do you think? Working out your salvation? Great way to tie that back to the parables. Pastor Allen covered it. See how great a love the Father has bestowed upon us, that we should be called children of God, and such we are. Right? What's that, Grace? 17. It's not like an imperative of hey, I need you to to do this task. Let me go to John seventeen. So so if I understand you that led to doubt, right? Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Before we do that, oh let me read that first, and then I want to reference something that uh Pastor Allen talked to you about. Good. And then Satan went back. You look at creation and you know there's a God. You remember we talked about faith. Encourage the saints. He's saying we we need to move beyond this discussion of the basics of salvation to maturity in Christ. All right, good. Right? And that's why my understanding of those things. He basically had just studied the attributes of God and and he talked about the sovereignty of God. Right? So I love your tie back to Job. Unrepentant sin. The counselors get together and do and watch videos and what have you. And he is the radiance of his glory and the exact representation of his nature, and upholds all things by the word of his power These things I have written to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, in order that you may know that you have eternal life. So it starts with that faith. They have the assurance of that. And what I what I read on the definition, let me go back to that. One of the ways that we demonstrate the evidence of this assurance that we have is what? A proper interpretation of this epistle requires the recognition that it addresses three distinct groups of Jews. He took one attribute and and misused it, if you will. Because you fear the Lord. Was was Satan's demand well what does that mean Satan demanded? Good discussion. Yes. Again, this is all about God, not us. Mm-hmm. No one can snatch you from being adopted as a child. This is a wonderful, wonderful truth. But um just the the implication of that, and I think I mentioned this last week I have fought the good fight. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ. The inspired word of God. The name which thou hast given me, that they may be one even as we are And if children, heirs also, heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ. But having the assurance of salvation gives you the peace to be able to grow in Christ and then If they truly didn't persevere, then they were never of us. 16. You will persevere. We talked about one of them earlier, right? Yeah. These things I have written to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, in order that you may know that you have eternal life. Alright? Um let me jump down to uh the second one from the bottom, 1 John 2. So who's doing the crying out here? Yep. Could I have Lewis, would you mind reading that for me? Well in Hebrews, there's four threats, if you will, that the author writes. Yeah. What what are we given? So we'll talk about this later, but he was part of them, but he wasn't fully of them, right? So it doesn't change your standing or that. What what is Peter going to do? So And then let me jump down to 1 John, and by this we know that we have come to know him. In first there is a subjective testimony of the Holy Spirit within our hearts, bearing witness, right, that Therefore leaving the elementary teaching about the Christ. And working for it. Right? We know it's going to happen, right? Wait, no. And these reminders, these warnings, these threats, if you want to call them that, are to instill that fear in us, like Paul is saying, have fear in some You know, whatever does happen either here to Peter or to Job or to us, whatever bad happens is happy Alright? Yeah. He predestined us to adoption as sons through Jesus Christ to himself according to the kind intention of his will. Can I have someone read 1 John 2 1 for me? This is very applicable to what we're talking about right now. We are prone to wander. Miss Kareem, can you read that one for me please? Good, good. Okay. We we covered a number of passages today that you can go back to um to to proof that if you will Alright, let's keep moving on. But we are warned that they're they're gonna sneak in, right? To shout 'em out. The Spirit Himself bears witness with our spirit that we are children of God. Okay. Miss Millie? Right? And the Father's holding us. And whom he justified, these he also glorified. Or in like Romans 8 here, circumstance. Often when we go back to works, we're downgrading the efficacy of what Jesus did on the cross, right? Let me ask you this. Yeah, that we are all in that category, right? Um Satan demanded to to sift Peter and the Lord just said, Okay, is that what happened? You will suffer though. Immediately. I don't know if he ever understood that. Lord why all this is happening to me right now. Yeah, yeah. All of these verbs being used to present this idea of persevering. We talked about that. Page 106. Question God's sovereignty. Any of the passages today that that jumped out at you? And if we have these truths that we are we are holding fast to, Um Wanju, can you read that for me? Um and people who you know struggle with life, people who think you can lose your salvation. I don't know if you guys heard Wanju was referencing, you know, work out your salvation with fear and trembling. In love, he predestined us to adoption as sons. In him, you also, after listening to the message of truth, the gospel of your salvation, having also believed, you were sealed. It always comes back to trusting in your salvation. The last part of that. Again, today we'll be talking about this really, really important topic of security. Am I saved? Good discussion. Um if I can pull that thread a little bit, Grace. Chester, were you gonna It can also be communal. Well of course he's still faithful. Because he's in it day to day and and what you might focus on is how you're falling short, the sin in your life. Is that helpful? Sanctification. Yeah, exactly. What are the components of that? Sin sin that continues on. So we're still tuned for it for another day of the day as long as it's possible, so we'll not be hardened by the deceased on the suspense. Does that make sense? That effectual call. For I am convinced that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities We need to be repentant. So we'll get that in a second. It's the the sanctification process to continue strong in the faith Now faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen. I would say the objective evidence is that we cry out, Ah the Father Those unbelievers are addressed in such passages, and then he gives several there. Having fellowship with Jesus Christ daily, being in his word, praying, right? Say again? Um Lewis, can I have you read John ten for me, the bold one there? Okay. Romans 8, 15. He was actually a better preacher they said than Billy Graham. Do Christians persevere in their faith to the end because they are saved, or are they saved because they persevere? There are times when you will have fear. But he's writing to saints. They why would they come? I ask on their behalf, I do not ask on behalf of the world, but of those whom thou hast given me Do I have confidence in my heart that He has saved me? So you can't get to the second one without the first one. Yeah. These are people who fall away because their initial interest in God's Word is superficial, not arising from genuine faith in repentance. So that's part of what consists that with uh recognizing in yourself that even if you're not living instead even if you are saved I have finished the course. Alright, I want to read some of these verses rather quickly. Galatians 4. Right? Oh, on the application. Mm-hmm. Alex. So that's just an encouragement to make sure when you're thinking of God, the totality, you think of the totality of God. So that's not a We have work Let me read uh point two again. To be grounded in God's word so we can we can um see It's Jesus Christ. They were of us, but they they were they were among us, but they were not really of us. That's not the Godful sorrow that we're looking for in true repentance Yeah, sometimes um we can uh like the things that you named like maybe children that doing right or um Galatians five, right? So it's a really, really important doctrine as we now are in that period of life where I mean I think it's appealing, right? Have I been growing in them over a period of years? Yeah. Yes, Grace. There are three main responses to the gospel. Kind of tie back to Joe of where God allowed Joke to be uh tested. Um just a little bit, like with the Job thing So here you see this idea of election, predestination. We've talked about this before as as unregenerate. But that's something we will struggle with as long as we're on this earth, right? Now everybody who's truly genuinely saved will have a moments where they doubt. Is sanctification solely a work of the Holy Spirit? It's a synergistic work, right? Um for whatever reason Satan is given court. And so to your point, could only do this because God allowed it to happen, right, for a particular purpose. So you can see all three persons acting here, right, in our A special providence of God cares for the saved and keeps them from falling away permanently. Right. That is simply saying that doesn't imply that you're working now to persevere. Uh I'm 75 and and and I have to sometimes say, right And these are questions you can ask yourself to examine yourself. Have I trusted in Jesus Christ as my Savior and as my Lord? What kind of impact are you having in the church body? I was with a couple men for coffee yesterday, and it was a great time of fellowship So let me just read the commentary Right? We we uh the Holy Spirit will continue to work in us. So, and the the other side of it is for those who are in the community, in the congregation, who are not saved This is Word's God. That's when eternal life starts. To have that confidence in who we are is really, really important, is why I get so excited about this. My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand You will persevere until that time of glorification. Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or peril or sword Prophet, priest, and king. Yielded the temptation. Back to your point, Wanju. There's still an appeal to that. This term, Abba Father, right, is an enduring term. No one can snatch them from me. So it is somewhat subjective. I I I found that helpful. Um apostates. They are saved because they persevere. We know that no one who is born of of God sins, but he who is born of God keeps him, and the evil one does not touch him. We cannot help us doing it then why are we being And the motivation is what? That is the path of a Christian to glorification. What are some things that might And sometimes it's tempting. We are adopted. So the point I want to make here, Hebrews can be tough, and I I'm just going to give you one commentary. Then salvation is by works. But I have prayed for you that your faith may not fail, and you, when once you have turned again Ephesians one Right, and that's going to tie us into our next section here on preservation. Where you have that confidence right in what Christ is doing in your lives. He can take that now and build on that the assurance of his But if it produces thorns and thistles, it is worthless and about to be cursed, and at the end will be burnt Knowledge, assent, and trust. Yeah, exactly. You will continue to be conformed into the image of Christ. Right, exactly. Alright, any questions on that? Right. Grace? Was Peter a believer? But good. Let us hold fast our confession. So so Alan and I would agree that's Right, so let's go down to that second passage, Luke 22. I really love this chapter because it involves the Trinity. We, right, as Christians. They were an immature group of believers who were tempted to hold on to the symbolic and spiritual, powerless rituals and traditions Those he called, he justified, declared righteous Sanctification is the exact same thing. You know, you didn't let me make you sick, whatever. It's work, but through the power of the Holy Spirit. To the praise of the glory of his grace, which he freely bestowed on us in the beloved. What kind of impact are you having on the church body, on the saints that are around you? So being in a class like this, being teachable, having a humble heart, being teachable. And I don't know if he ever repented on his deathbed. Probably just that everything always comes back to God's sovereignty. It also talks about the Holy Spirit interceding for us. Right. For sure, for sure. He tells us there are some character traits which, if we keep on increasing in them, will guarantee that we will never fall. We live in a fallen world and it's hard. For the God that drinks the rain that often for the ground that drinks the rain that often falls on it Eternal life is eternal. I have thought they're going to fight. Protected. Circumstances. We should see the evidence if we are truly saved. And I wanted to end with that point. Right. So is he being delicious? So when you get the full word, it's not about me. Okay? 106. Everything. Yeah, a couple great points in there that that you pulled out, and we'll get to this. Also, we get to read about it, we get to hear about it, we get to study it. When does eternal life start? They did each respond initially, but in both cases it was only temporary Wait, let me pause time. Hebrews 4. So let's let's go to the second page, tying into this, uh the second passage down Romans 8. Good discussion. Right? Verse 6. Go to Hebrews. Eternal life. There are times when you will be anxious and you will worry. And one of the scenarios was a young man I have kept the faith. Right? So you could have a set. I'm going to start in verse 1. Very good. But uh if you have to We just read, are we going to sin on this earth? He says, No, why I'm working so hard and I see all these evil people and all the blessings that they get So let me let me give you three categories of um Yep, good. But we also kind of forget that it was worked for, it was earned by Christ. Another church is chastised for being luke uh like lukewarm water and completely Does that make sense? It could also be I grew up in church. That's what that's implying. For you have not received a spirit of slavery leading to fear again, but you have received a spirit of adoption. Or would I without hesitation say that I am depending on the merits of Christ and am confident You know, elementary teaching is That's exactly who he's talking about. Yeah, and that's always what kind of what falls So I I wanted to cover this again so you have a remembrance of the I was just gonna point out there are a bunch of times in the If if it's meeting their needs, it's a fulfilling a void at the time Therefore you are no longer a slave, but a son, and if a son, then an heir through God. So let's go to our Bibles. Talking about those go back to the parable of uh the the seats We see that in Scripture where they would revert back to the traditions. I I must not be safe. That is a heavy, heavy burden to bear. It's not it's not the focus, the emphasis and the focus isn't so much on what you can do and cannot do The the enemy is crafty, crafty, crafty I am no more in the world, and yet they themselves are in the world, and I come to see thee Um people who come into the faith, they're around the faith, they hear Alright, next verse, John 17. Um see what I thought what I thought evidence was that Talks about the fruit of the Spirit. Right. He's our advocate that sits at the right hand of God So here you see the second person of the Trinity. So this idea of assurance Six one through eight. Good That's right. There was a reason for that. And this is kind of a summarized version of what that looks like in Romans 8. Grace, can you read that for me? Right? People are always searching. So we have the Holy Spirit indwelt inside of us. Um this is a young man who is new to the faith. I mean no no one is perfect. No I was agree. All real believers endure in their faith to the end. This is God's word, right? People inherently are searching for something. Let's go to your Bibles. Our circumstances, our sin, to easily start to doubt. Glorified means you get to that end state Um we were where did I hear this? So my caution there is we need to understand all the attributes of God Where does that repentance come from? So you see that connection. We're gonna get disencouraged, we're gonna take and wonder why it's happening and Um, why are they even involved at all? That's right. Right, so I want you to get that picture. 5 at the top there. And and obviously that's a focus on Let you rust There's nothing that can separate us from God, right? He's always like directing these letters to believers, to the saints, to the church. It is working out your salvation with fear and trembling. Right. Let me read that to you again. They persevere though because That's right. Eternal life. What I want you to keep track of under section three is um the the verbs that are being used. And as long as we keep our faith in God's word which is true, trustworthy and honor. But you should see the evidence where? Right, we've talked before, ever every every counter or false religion is what? How can we be sure of our conversion? Yep. Okay. But when the fullness The Spirit. And he fell away, wrote a book on why God is not real Alright, hold on, we've got to peel that back then. Once you are under the Lord's care, once you are adopted Ignore it completely, embrace it superficially, or embrace it fully. You don't think where to go, but if you don't work? If you read It can't be, right? You can't do that if you are not saved. So excellent, good. So you have to believe that you do or you do not believe that he was faithful to save So you listed a couple of those, right? It is absolutely by the power of the Holy Spirit. Alright, let's go to Colossians 1 I have finished the course. That's when you're gonna see the turn, right? If indeed we suffer with him, there's the suffering again, in order that we may also be glorified with him. Through our obedience. Miss Kareem. He's empowering you to do what he wants you to do for his good. You know, there there is an appeal to the knowledge. If I were to die tonight and stand before God's judgment seat So you gotta make sure that that's clear. Because some people will read circumstance and say because of these circumstances Is he contradicting himself? That fear is a I I would argue a very powerful tool for our own sanctification at times. And specifically I want to highlight here the Holy Spirit the Holy Spirit seals us. Right? Therefore, a person should ask himself or herself, do I today have trust in Christ? All right. Alright, good. But we'll talk about that in a little bit. He did not come to God yeah. That feels like works, sounds like works to me. No truly saved person can or will lose his salvation. Sanctification. Where does that faith come from? Okay, does that make sense? Not realizing that your salvation is not just justification, but also your We desire to do that now, right? They're still not living in sin, but they're being very So that way it helps us strengthen He's allowed to have court before God. Like Chester said, when you look at the entirety of that passage. We talked about that. Um it was a fact, it was a thing. Now I say as long as the heir is a child. That ties back to our discussion on sanctification I think this would be a good case study. So that's Alright, we see that with Judas. Again, this idea of being adopted through Jesus Christ to himself. The Spirit. Yeah. And then three unbelievers who were attracted by the gospel I mean let that sink in. That was all part of God's redemptive plan, that Judas would be part of that. I want you to go back in your notebook there to page 100 From this we know that it is the last hour. You can be under intense pressure. Right? A couple passages down. Absolutely. So I don't know, any other thoughts on that? I see what you're saying. It's going to give us confidence. We may cry out to God, but it's because we got caught, we feel guilty But I believe that um And and his comment was if God is sovereign And so that's kind of like Alright. We are indwelt with the Holy Spirit. These stack on one another. It is hard, hard. And so just the I was just going to emphasize on the permission aspect That's the order that we see here. And it's not. True believers can and do sin and act carnally I mean life is hard. You know, last week you guys talked about what? We know the rest of Scripture tells us we are secure. If we keep his commandments. All real believers endear in their faith to the end. And and there are religions, many, right, that From God There is a power to that. It could also be you know, there's so such a wide range of Am I saved? If you're doubting the efficacy of His So those are the advocates that we have before our Father. Um sin, you are repentant, but you're fighting it So if you flip the page over to So what were some of the verbs that were being used And so, you know, Glenn, to your point, um, this is a journey, sanctification. Yes. Yes, Glenn. You know And it's genuine obedience, but it's enabled by God. I have kept the faith. Let's go back to Romans. Do I sense these attitudes in my heart We read that verse earlier It means daddy. And this is a letter addressed to the church, and the threats are about Right? Simon Simon, behold, who who is a Simon Simon? It's the Holy Spirit. As Christians, we will. Yeah. These are the evidences that you can see. All right. And we're going to talk about that at the end. The other thing I like that you pulled out, you know, something we've tried to emphasize Again, this idea of eternal life that starts at our conversion. Absolutely. We are saved through Jesus Christ. Yeah. Really understanding What what do you think? We have a different disposition Their continuance in the Christian walk What should you see happen? Those trials and tribulations are to confirm, not to trip us up. For this reason the world does not know us because it did not know him. But again, these are three categories that I think are helpful to examine yourselves. It's really Paul saying, look, you did really good in my presence. They're searching for meaning of why am I here? Alright? What else? Alright, good discussion today. You want me to go? But those of them I don't know What what are some things that can steal our assurance Hebrews 11 What is he saying and why? And he's what what's the name for Satan? This is from MacArthur, but I'm letting you know up front it's from MacArthur Let me get Chester and then Pastor Allen. So what's going on here Great, great point. Mm-hmm. We live in a fallen world They would revert back to works. Category two But We are warned that in our churches today that might be possible. Isn't um I I would say when you think about the um Think of Job. You grow in them. What was the topic Nothing at all. Ms. Good. That's the effect of that That's exactly what's happening here Well I mean even those that came to Christ and followed him. Therefore Now are we obedient all the time? I'm thinking of that guy and I can't think of his name It will happen. It's the Holy Spirit that is now allowing us to cry out. Kareem. They went out from us, but they were not really of us. How can I be saved Romans 8. In the future there is laid up for me to cry Nicholas, did you have your hand up? Who was the son of perdition? We're going to dig into this idea of adoption as sons. 17 It means father. Think of the tree analogy Any other comments? Wow The third category is about time. Any other thoughts on that? And it's and And I But where commands like To include what? Yeah. And because you are sons Um, and then he Only as it pertains to that one verse as we He's a great accuser. Alright, again in Romans 8. Good. Right? Um It's based on works. And so It's a pledge of our inheritance. It's a definitive truth. Glenn? And this is uh in Peter. Who's him here? Why is this universe here? Ourselves. Peter.