Okay, welcome to section nine out of ten of our doctrine statement. Nine is what we teach about angels. And no, I'm not going to answer the question how many ants angels can dance on the head of a pen. Uh I don't know if you've heard that one, but Not going there. Uh so by way of background, uh the word angel is connected to the Greek word. I'm not sure how it's pronounced, but you know in English it's A-N-G. In the Greek it's A-G-G. But we kind of make it in because that's the way we're used to speaking, I guess. But uh Angelos is an angel. And what does the word angel mean? Anybody know? Messenger? Messenger, yeah. Yeah, the the word for message is Angelia. Makes sense. And Messer is Angelov. So an angel the word angel is is um indicative of their role, one of their roles at least, and that is that of a messenger, a messenger from, obviously, from God. And so here in our notes, I'm on page seventy-two of the notes. Everybody have a copy? Um First, we talk about elect angels and then Satan and demons. Number one, angels are a class of spiritual beings Created by God to worship and serve Him. They proclaim God's holiness, execute His judgments. carry his messages and war against evil. And we see examples of those throughout Scripture. Let's survey some of those here. That first one in Psalm 103. Bless the Lord, you his angels, mighty in strength, who perform his word, obeying the voice of his word. So what do we learn about angels there? Perform his word, which would what would be an example of performing his word Probably. Yeah, doing what he wants them to do. Right. Um You want to stay on their good side. Why? Because they're mighty. They're mighty. All right. Um you know, um While we're here, maybe that's a good time, if you go to page seventy-six, seventy-seven There's some supplemental notes there about various heavenly beings mentioned in Scripture, angels of course being the most Common word being used. But there are other specific names that are not just names for angels, but different beings. And so one is, and actually they're all in plural. Terubim, the em ending in Hebrew makes it plural. You know, we add an S usually to make it plural. The singular would be cherub. Um and so uh the r uh thinking about this characteristic that angels are mighty Um when you think of cherub, what do you think of? A cute little uh pudgy little thing with little wings that wouldn't carry anybody, right? And um the kind of cute and endearing. That's not the picture of angels, let alone terrahs in scripture. Um Uh they're fierce, they're mighty. And when an angel appears to someone, what does someone usually do? Fall on their face. And what is the first words out of the mouth typically of an angel in that case? Fear not. Right. Well of course we would fear. I mean this is an angel of God and this is not an everyday occurrence, but um they are um Meant to be uh encouraging. They don't want to come off as as um too terrible in their execution of God's uh task, his message. Um but in many of the the verses that we'll see here, uh even their appearance is awesome. And they're mighty. They have great powers. They're not omnipotent, but um They are you know, how would you put you don't want to mess with one of the things that would make me rather um you know we believe that but when we're faced with that yeah it becomes a reality that's gotta be it it's bound to be yeah yeah chills going down your spine and So a few years ago I was at a wedding and my father was there and we were talking about heaven and my dad turned to me and says when I get to heaven I like to have some good-looking angels hanging over me feeding me grapes. And I wasn't thinking about it at the moment, but later on when I met him, I said, you know that question, that that statement that you said in heaven? I said, did you realize all angels Yeah, so it's interesting how we and certainly culture out there have um Um, perceptions, misperceptions, and um we can be led astray by that bomb. Um and to me an angel was a female because of Christmas and Christmas trees always had feminine angels. And it wasn't until much later I had a aha moment reading the Bible and realizing They're all male. There aren't any female references to angels. Is that a possibility that there are, or is that not Something that we now have. I'm not aware of any I mean the names that we have are all male and they're usually using the male pronouns. Yeah. Well when you talk about misperceptions, I think about how so many people refer to us one day becoming They're very separate and specific creations and we'll never be them. Right. Anymore than we'll become gods. Right. We won't become angels either So even going to heaven, uh our picture of heaven is something that we're getting out of heaven, even when we're there with Jesus. When we're there in heaven we're going to be worshiping as that misses the whole point, right? Yeah, that's not what we get out of it. I did add that when I spoke to my father, he said, Really? And we're not gonna be looking at our clock. Yeah. Okay. Well, just wanted to um Uh we might come back to this, but uh that word well look at cherubs for example on page seventy six. They're mentioned just a few times, but one of them in terms of their actual role is right in the garden after the fall. The Lord uh God sent him, uh Adam, out of the Garden of Eden to cultivate the ground from which he was taken, so he drove the man out. And at the east of the Garden of Eden, he stationed the Cherubim. There were at least two of them And the flaming sword which turned in every direction to guard the way to the tree of life. By the way, whatever happened to the tree of life? Must have been destroyed in the flood. Wiped out like the rest of the earth. Somehow Well there is that's right, that was just a picture of of the the heavenly tree of life referred to at the other end of the Bible in Revelation. But they were here to guard. And there's a flaming sword involved. It's a little hard to picture what that was, but um they weren't cute little cherubs. They were they were fierce protectors of uh that turf that that uh God wanted to prevent people from uh partaking of that. The other mention of Cherubim is in the design of the Ark of the Covenant You know, the lid of the Ark and the Covenant had the two cherubim with their angels kind of there hovering over um the top. And their aim their their wings were just kind of spread out but also just touching each other. And they're kind of guarding again the presence of the Lord in the Ark of the Covenant. Yeah, we we're on pa uh page seventy seven, Isaiah thirty-seven. Hezekiah prayed to the Lord, O Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, who is enthroned above the cherubim. You are the God, you alone, and so on. Um I think What I say as referring to here is um Not just statues of cherubim on the Ark of the Covenant, but real Cherubim in heaven. I may be wrong on that. But um the Um everything about the tabernacle and the ark and so on was was symbolic of the the real tabernacle in heaven. And I I think that's what Isaiah is referring to here. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I Isaiah's recording what has a hasekai. That's right. Yeah The other type of heavenly being that's given a different kind of name is Seraphim. Again, this the plural there would be Sarah. And uh seat up a friend if you want. Welcome to. So you do best seat map. I'm all for it. Yeah, best seat map. Oh, I probably exactly and so um The main verse, maybe the only verse, I forget now, but is Isaiah 6. You're familiar with that in the year of King Isaiah's death. I saw the Lord sitting on the throne lofty and exalted with the train of its robe filling the temple. And then it says seraphime, plural, seraph. Seraphim stood above them, each of them having six wings. With two he covered his face, with two he covered his feet, and with two he flew. Kind of hard to picture. And one called out to the other, holy, holy, holy, and so on. And so they were very much involved in worship. Not so much guarding, but worship. And um seems to be just continual worship. Um so then we see reference both in the Old Testament and in Revelation to living creatures. Just kind of a generic Who knows what they are? Living creatures, but they're described. Ezekiel one, for example. And I looked, as I looked, behold, a storm was coming from the south, a great cloud with fire flashing forth continually with a bright light around it. and it's in its mist was something like glowing metal in the midst of the fire. Within it were figures resembling four living beings. And this was their appearance. They had human form. Each of them had four faces and four wings. Now, in what way were they human form? It was kind of human plus Not human, right? Four faces and four wings. Their legs were straight and their feet were like calves' hooves and they gleamed like burnished bronze Under their wings, on their four sides, were human hands. Okay, so serapheme, each seraph has one face and six wings. These living creatures have four faces and four wings. They're not the same thing. Well can you describe the seraphim hands? The seraphim? Um I'm on page seventy-seven. Do you have a copy of that? The verse there from Isaiah 6. Each having six wings, with two he covered his face, his face singular, with two he covered his feet, and with two he flew. So the there are some similarities. I mean there's multiple wings, but there are differences between these seraphime and living creatures. And all I really want to say here is that there are various Uh heavenly beings that aren't called angels, um they're called other things. And All to say, I think, that we use the term angel to mean pretty much any heavenly being other than God But there are multiple kinds of heavenly beings, and they're not necessarily all called angels, messengers Some of them may have a specific task other than carrying a message like worshiping God. Continue. I was just gonna ask uh Since prophecy is not always literal, how literal do we think the descriptions of the living creatures in the seraphim and cherubim are Do we think that they literally have six wings and that literally have four faces, or do we think that that is an interpretation of something that is not comprehensible to the human mind. Yeah, sometimes the question is, should we take these descriptions literally or are they somewhat symbolic and and so on? Sometimes words are used to make it clear that there's a comparison being drawn. They say like this or as this. And I don't think we have that here. So um I would definitely um think of these as literal descriptions of what was seen. Yeah. The Revelation passage? Yeah. Um, yeah, so Revelation four eight, for example, the four living beings. Each of them had a Six things. Yeah, that's a good point. So that description fits more like what? Seraphim Seraphim. Yeah. So could there be multiple categories of Living beings for sure. I I would think so. I mean th living creature, living being is sort of a generic anyway. Right? Also if you think about it, Isaiah was looking at these creatures, I think you would have said, and their wings were full of eyes. Perhaps. We don't know. My my main point here my main point here is is the the term angel Is we we often use it sort of generically for all heavenly beings other than God. And um The scripture uses it, seems to use it a bit more um narrowly. So there are other names for other kinds of heavenly beings. Yeah. Well You would have to take it as what it says in the Bible because if you read Revelation it states that you do not take anything away from this book nor add to the book So if the description is in the Bible, then that's what that creature would look like. Yeah. I would take it literally. Um but also maybe the other conclusion and tell me if it's your own. So angels described as spiritual beings, but living creatures would be of a physical presence Because we do know in the new heaven and the new earth will have f new physical bodies. So are those living creatures Physical beings. Well, when you think physical, you think flesh and blood like we have. Yeah. Um physical would also include, I think, Jesus' glorified body. And we're going to be like him in heaven. So it's a heavenly compatible physical, not physical the way we know it, probably. Yeah. Um, as opposed to being Like the Father and the Holy Spirit, Spirit. Right? Christ, of course, took on flesh Uh and he now has a glorified body. But um Yeah, what we think of physical is going to be a whole lot different, I'm sure, in heaven. It's a heavenly compatible physical reality. I like the way you say that. Whatever I say. I don't want to do it. I like that. I haven't heard that shit. Okay, well anyway, so those are there for your review. And we are back on page 72. Uh and this one's interesting. The second one down, Daniel ten. Could someone read that for me? Okay. And he said to me, Do not be afraid. And first say that you can set your heart on understanding this and on humbling yourself before your God, your words were heard. And I have come in response to your words, but the prince of the team and treasure was to stand in me for twenty-one days, then behold, Michael, one of the chief A me came to help me, but I have been left there with the kings and pressure Now, you really need to read that in the broader context of the whole book of Daniel, particularly the immediately previous several chapters, to realize who's speaking here. It's he's identified in Daniel as Gabriel, the angel Gabriel. And when he refers to Um Michael, one of the chief princes who's he referring to? Yeah, Michael, the archangel. Or at least one of the archangels. He's referred to here as one of the chief princes. Where princes is sort of from God's perspective, these are princes who are um doing the father's bidding, right, and and his work and and chief in the sense that he's over other princes, other angels or heavenly beings, and so on. And this is in contrast with the prince of the kingdom of Persia. Who's the prince of the kingdom of Persia? Satan. Yeah. Or at least Satan or one of his minions. Yeah. I was just gonna say I was curious about WordPress there. I looked it up. It can also be translated governor, Lord Lieutenant, SATRAP, uh something like that Yeah, so he he's using words for Daniel that may relate to his his um concept of authority and and and so on. Um Not too dissimilar to um the way several places like in Genesis where uh Says the Lord and two angels appeared to Abraham, except initially they're called men, because they have the appearance that that they took on a the appearance of of men. And then later one is referred to as the Lord and the other two are referred to as angels. And I think it's similar to that here, where instead of referring to uh Michael as the archangel or one of the archangels. Um he's referred to as a prince, and then likewise the prince of the kingdom of Persia. This is a spiritual battle that's going on that that Gabriel is explaining to uh Daniel. In fact he's kind of apologizing. You know, I would have come sooner except that I was being detained in this this struggle with the a demon who has control over Persia And even Gabriel needed help from Michael. So they are mighty, but so are those emans. And they can help one another and and so on. And so uh interesting stuff. Do uh angels have a different role? to play. Because um what about then um Daniels and three friends who are in the furnace in the fourth person. I think most of most um uh interpreters understand that to be Christ. Yeah. So that's a that's an Yeah that that would that would be different from This these angels here, yeah. And in this case, so Gabriel is being sent to Daniel to give him the message, to give him the insight and and so on And he was being detained by the angel of of the demon of Persia. And he calls on Michael to help him and and so on. So they have different roles. Um Gabriel being a messenger and Michael is more um powerful. Michael is also an angel. He's referred to in the New Testament a couple of times as Archangel. the arch prefix being um a higher position, so there's a ordering of rank and and so on. Whether Gabriel is an archangel also I don't think scripture particularly says, but it seems like there are multiple archangels. And uh who knows, Gabriel might be one, but Gabriel's currently on this role of a messenger Well that is the role of a messenger, uh of an angel. Um so we we don't have a full um what do you call it? In the military where you've got the uh uh the listing of all the uh officers and ranks and levels and What's that? Chain of command. Chain of command. There's a good that's a good way of putting it. We don't have all that laid out specifically for us, but it looks like there is such a thing. And there's there's order, there's hierarchy, there's uh I mean the this angel was still at the um uh Jesus tomb is that's an another angel they would say. And they're specifically called angels. Um Whether they're the same angels who announced to those coming to the tomb that Jesus is risen and and go to Galilee and so on. Um and even there they were presumed to be just men initially. Um yeah, m whether they were the same ones or different ones, we don't know. Interesting. Yeah, we have little snippets of information about angels, but uh we probably have more questions than we have answers. Yeah Okay. Uh the other point on this we're here in Daniel ten. The other point on that is Even though angels are definitely mighty, they're not omnipotent. Omnipotent is almighty, right? Like who is almighty? Only God. So angels have might, they have um uh strength, they have lots of capability, uh, but so do the demons. And sometimes there's a clash. And so compared to us, I mean they're they're way mightier than we are. They have lots of capabilities that we don't, but they're not almighty, they're not God. Okay, let's go down to the fourth one there, Matthew thirteen Where Jesus said in one of his parables, so it will be at the end of the age, the angels shall come forth and take out the wicked from among the righteous. And the parable just before that, in the verse just before that, Matthew 13, 41 through 42. says that um the Son of Man will send forth his angels and gather people. So this is reference to the role that sometimes angels are given In other words, to do his um how's it worded here? Execute his judgments. Um they're not only uh messengers, they're also servants just to do what God wants them to do. And uh sometimes that doing what God wants them to do is to uh implement God's justice. And we see that in a couple of places like that. Uh let's look at the last one there. Hebrews one, thirteen through fourteen. Can someone read that But to which of the angels has he ever said, Sit at my right hand, until I make thine enemies a footstool for thy feet? Are they not all ministering spirits sent out to render service? So what kind of role do we see here for angels? Ministering to ministering to who? Believers. Believers, yeah. We see instances where m angels came to minister to Christ. Remember those? Once what were the main occasions? Sorry. When it was in the wilderness? Uh it was in the garden. In the garden? Mm-hmm. Yep. And so in a similar way, but different way, I mean they may be administering to us, and we're not perceiving We're kind of oblivious perhaps to the protection, the the uh providential care and so on that's happening, but um it's happening nonetheless Which is encouraging. Okay. Number two, angels are not to be worshipped, or pray to, the exercise no mediation in human salvation. So they're not go-betweens between us and God. Um they are go betweens in terms of God sending them to give specific people specific messages. Um But in terms of salvation, we don't go through angels, right? Who is our mediator? Jesus Christ alone, right? However, I find it interesting in Revelation 22 from the top of page 73 And I, John, of course he's writing this book of Revelation, and toward the end here, he says, I, John, am the one who heard and saw these things. And when I heard and saw, I fell down to worship at the feet of the angel who showed me these things. And, well, let me let me just continue. And he said to me, Do not do that. I am a fellow servant of yours and of your brethren, the prophets, and of those who heed the words of this book. Worship God and God alone, right? Now, part of me is wondering, John, what are you thinking? But given the awesome appearance And the context and the message. He's just got this sense of awe, kind of wide eyed, I assume. And without thinking, he probably in his heart he's probably thinking, worshiping God, but here's God's messenger. So anyway I think the benefit of this verse is it confirms to us that angels are not to be worshipped. And it certainly confirmed it to John in that context. And they're not to be worshipped, even though they're awesome. They can be uh respected, even feared in in a good sort of way, but they're not to be worshipped. They're not God Yeah. And I'll be able broadband the topic. Yeah, we're just all serving God. We have different roles, we're in different contexts, but uh we're in this together and um God is the one to be worshipped. why uh there's his understanding of us like that because Jesus say you want to be all like angels and heaven. That's why you don't marry and you don't give in to Mary Well is that why is uh Angel understand us as your brethren because of your thing I think the importance of what the angel said here, in terms of I'm a fellow servant of yours, in other words, we're all servants of God. He's the one we worship. It doesn't have as much to do with um uh unique roles or physical um characteristics while we're in heaven. It's more about the The fact that the only one to be worshipped is God alone. And we're all servants, we all have different roles. And that's the bottom line. So yeah I I don't know that we're not roles at per se, but who we are. We're we're all servants of God. Yeah, what we call servants of. Angels we're um all these other heavenly beings and when we get to heaven, even before we get to heaven, we're all servants of God. He's the one we worship. That's the point. Okay, number three, on page 73. There are a vast number of angels who are ordered by ranks and classifications. And Jesus in the second one down here, Matthew 26, Jesus said, or do you think that I cannot appeal to my Father and he will at once? put at my disposal more than twelve legions of angels. First of all, if there are twelve if he could Call on twelve legions of angels. That's probably not as many as there actually are, but there could be a lot more than that. But just as an he's just saying I could bring easily twelve legions of angels Uh a legion is six thousand soldiers. Twelve legions would be do the math. Seventy-two thousand angels. Um but they're they're categorized, they're organized. in legions. And maybe there's like in the military there would be a subset of a legion, whatever that might be called. Um But there's there's this legion, there's that legion, there's that legion. There's some kind of organization, even amongst the angels. And that's consistent with the the reference to Michael at least and others unnamed being archangels or chief princes. Daniel. Um so there's there's ranking and organization and so on In the incarnation account in Luke 2, suddenly there appeared with the angel who made the announcement a multitude of the heavenly hosts. What's the heavenly host? What's a multitude of the heavenly hosts? It's a multitude of presumably angels or other heavenly beings who were being sent on this occasion to be the chorus essentially behind what the angel was announcing to the shepherds. And multitude is just unnumbered, but there's a lot. Probably not everybody, but there's a lot. Made a big impression, I'm sure, on those shepherds. Next to the last one in this section, Revelation 5. 11. And I looked and I heard the voice of many angels around the throne. And the living creatures and the elders. And the number of them was myriads of myriads, thousands of thousands. Too many to count. TMTC. And then Revelation twelve, seven. And there was war in heaven. Michael and his angels. Waging war with the dragon, and the dragon and his angels waged the war. And so the the um the point here is that Michael had angels Other presumably other um archangels had their ranks of angels and there's some organization and leadership there So like in um Isaiah when Hazekiah says in And then and the angel of the lore went on and struck down hundred and eighty-five thousand. Just like that, right? But that's the angel of the lower is Jesus Not this angel. No, I would take that to be an actual angel, not the Lord himself. Doing one angel can do Just do that. Probably a lot of them. Huh? Probably a lot of them. Because w the they're dealing with mere men. And they just wipe them out. So the angel of the Lord is like many angels, you say? Yeah, I don't think that's referring to Christ. Um but a mighty angel. The angel of the Lord. The Angel of the Lord refers to Jesus in the Old Testament. Sometimes you have to kind of see what else is there in the context to give us clues, whether it's An actual angel or So Daniel's friends in the f in the furnace. That's not angel. The angel That he he's not called an angel there. He's he's referred to as uh like the son of a man or a son of man. It looks like a human being in other words Most commentators understand that to be the pre-incarnate Christ, like the one who appeared to Abraham, uh pronouncing judgment on Sodom. Okay. Number four on page 73. Angels are intelligent persons. No artificial intelligence here, guys. Angels are intelligent persons who study the works of God and continue to learn. Now that's something. Look at the second passage there, for example, in 1 Peter. It's referring in context here to the Old Testament prophets. And it was revealed to them, the Old Testament prophets, that they were not serving themselves, but you in these things which now have been announced to you through those who preach the gospel to you. by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven, things into which angels long to look. They're curious. They haven't been told everything any more than we've been told everything Um they're not omniscient. They may know a lot of things we don't know. In fact I'm sure they do. They're being in the presence of God and and understanding spiritual warfare and all that. But they're not omniscient. They're not omnipotent. They're not omniscient. They're not God. And they long to look. Man, I got a front row seat on this, how it's unfolding And they're as curious, I guess, as we are. Um and that's kinda cool. Yeah. Um can I add to that? So my since Satan fell short and he rebelled against the Lord, he was also oh he was also considered an angel, which means that angels and human beings I guess the most level of capacity only since only problems. They all had that and so I think this is where it separates the angels from who Christ is. We can't compare ourselves to that and people Oh, when I go to heaven and be an angel, like no. Like, even the level of angels, they are actually probably I would assume one of the level that's in humans, right? Because it's it The enemy is using different people which are going to be level they can be affected as well. So exactly from a social market Yeah, yeah, no, good point. And that gets us back to the title of this section versus the next section. This section is Elect Angels. The next one is Satan and Demons. As opposed to the elect ones. So yes, angels, they're not robots any more than we are. They can sin. Many of them have sinned. Right? Rebelled against God. That's sin. They're accountable to God, just as we are. And so what's the difference between the good angels and the bad angels? It's really the same as the difference between the saved and the unsaved humans. Except they can't intend. They can't be Yes. But y w there there's no evidence in scripture of a f a disobedient angel repenting and coming back. It's just that there some were chosen and some not from the outset. That's the best we understand. In that case, those like angels cannot fall anymore. Never will apparently They're not they're not robots, but they're they're um I don't know, you can speculate. Shielded? Protected, sorry? So you have choice. Yeah. I mean they're accountable, right? They're accountable. We see evidence of of fallen angels being Uh judge and we'll we'll read a couple of those verses here so I think I'm done reading the elect angels. They're one or the other. They're not I don't I don't think that's that's a term that's actually used in scripture, elect angels, but it's how we would categorize them because they're not demons, they're not fallen. Um Um and yet they're accountable and yet they obey. So I was just gonna say like about that. Um Like I think the main reason that angels would not fall after the initial fall is because they have more complete knowledge of sort of They can see what's going on with Satan and Daton, so they you know they can see what's happening, they don't want that. Uh but then like some slightly circumstantial evidence for that in the Revelation 22 passage In this version it has a very neutral do not do that. In other versions, and possibly in the original language, but I would have to double check. That the phrasing is much stronger where it's like you must not do that, where it's like this angel is like slightly panicking, like no, don't do that. Both of us are gonna be cynics. If you worship me and I accept that, both of us are sinning, don't do that So there's defin they definitely have a motion, it seems like. Uh that doesn't necessarily mean it's the same as human motion, but they seem like they have motion. Could be, yeah. Yeah. They're not just robots. Oh, and by the way, by the same token, I'm not aware of any passage that specifically says that Satan is an angel. Um could be, but um clearly the chief of all the demons and and um But if if we understand that there are different kinds of heavenly beings, putting them into the kind of angel is uh what most people presume. But I'm not aware of a passage that specifically refers to him as a a fallen angel, using the word angel specifically. Um there may be one, but I'm not aware of one. So was it like it's a Maybe the word prince well the prince in Daniel that we looked at wouldn't necessarily have been Satan, but one of his menus. Persia. Persia. He's called the Prince of the Powers. Yeah. So that would categorize him today as well. Which I mean. It's those kind of things that cause most people to presume that he's an angel but a fallen angel But uh they have one. And then there's also the he's like referring to multiple times he's like morning sharp and morning is for how to get this connection. And then it's describing like other stars falling with him. So like it seems like the implication especially with the direct parallels between him and Michael, it seems like the implication is that He's like an archangel, whether that feels like terrain seraphim, one living being whatever that means. But it seems like possibly Yeah, that all seems quite probable But it's not an explicit teaching of Scripture. Uh it doesn't mean it's wrong. It just means we have to sort of piece together what little we are given. And and that's fine. So I I um scripture doesn't explicitly state otherwise either. That's true. That's cool. What's it say? How you are fallen from heaven, O da Star, Son of Dawn, how you are cut down to the ground. You who Exactly. Yeah. It's only it's only It uh everybody presumes, almost everybody I assume, presumes that he is a fallen angel of that category of heavenly being. And I mean we called him heavenly being angels. I mean they have to have some names, but there are other kinds of heavenly beings, right? The seraphim, the cherubim, the living creatures. Angels specifically means messengers. So heavenly beings that are not messengers would not technically be angels. Yeah, that was my point. Can I um re instructor? Sure. in eleven fourteen. Oh, I think we start from thirteen. For judge our false apostles, the people workers trans transforming themselves into apostles of Christ. And no wonder for Satan himself transforms himself into an angel of life. So I would assume he had the ability So I don't know. It doesn't mean he is and he doesn't make himself an angel of light, he makes himself to appear as an angel of light. So when I have no idea. I don't have any uh uh anything other than presumptions that seem to be natural. Assumptions. What does the categorization of what and who Satan is matter in terms as far as scripture and us studying of it? It doesn't. Um I at least I can't think of any major Useful reason. But I just pointed out that we often use terminology that's based on presumption rather than specific biblical data. Okay. And uh a lot of times we're probably correct. But just want to clarify assumption from biblical data. Okay. So that brings us to Satan and Demons, bottom of page 73. Satan is a creative being possessing all the attributes of personality. Which means what? Intellect, emotion, will, uh, spiritual capacity He is also called Lucifer, the devil, the dragon, the evil one, the elcible, our accuser, serpent of old, uhpollyon, the prince of the power of the heir. Now, um here's another example where there's assumption being layered in here. Abaddon and Apollyon are referring to the same heavenly being. One is the Hebrew name, one is the Greek name. Uh he's referred to in uh Revelation as the one who uh the the name means destroyer. Okay. Um and he's the one who holds the keys to the bottomless pit, the abyss. But that's where Satan's throne. Um and There are a a lot of people who presume that it's making reference, that name is being used of Satan. I I think again that's a presumption. I don't think it's necessarily the case. Um but just kind of raising that as a yeah. Ezekiel twenty eight from like twelve on and especially fourteen says you are an anointed guardian I placed you. You were on the holy mountain of God. And you were blameless in yours. And then you fall. Cherub. Right. Cherub, not angel. I mean I don't know why this is but even if we we we know what he meant, like were safe and coming from that they were were trying to start that's all right. Okay. All right. Well enough of that. Um I want to be sure to cover on page seventy eight The application questions. Two application questions I think are the two important things to take away from all this. What should I what should our um let's do the second one first. What's the most likely way in which Satan will attack the church? Distorting information. Distorting information. Misinformation. That's a key tactic in warfare, right? And in this case, what would that look like? False prophets. False. Teaching. False prophets. Lies. Lies. Deception. Right? Discord is Discord is sewing those kind complacency complacen sewing complacency, yeah. Uh tempting tempting Uh do you think any of that's going on these days? Oh big time, right? Yeah. Um, what should be our response to Satan? Ephesians six, right? You put on the whole armor of God and then having done all, he says what? Stand firm. Stand firm. example for us in the desert quoting scripture back to like even when scripture is misused against us having scripture at hand ready to go. Right. Mm-hmm. So um You know, we've got those those three main areas of battle that we deal with: the world, the flesh, and the devil. What should be our response to the world? When we say world, we mean world value system, right? How should we respond to the the pressures, temptations, allure of worldly values? Romans twelve. Be not conformed to this world but what? Be transformed by the renewing of your mind, which happens how Scripture. Scripture. Right? Our understanding and application of Scripture says that's what I'm seeing in the world out there is incompatible with God. Getting our thinking straight, right? And acting accordingly. What about the temptations of the flesh? The battle in the flesh fleshly desires and so on. What's our what's our um response to be there? Oh I I'll let you I'll go ahead and I'll Flee. Flee. Right? Flee, youthful lusts, we're told several times in scripture. Put to death. Make no provision for the flesh. I think a a key word I have to use often is balance because from a worldly perspective, some people feel like they need to be to be humble to be poor and like homeless have that that mindset rather than being balance. 'Cause you know when you use something originally he's like, Well, how about you just give away all your stuff and and walk with me? You could it because he's it's the worldly market was based in his original I think it has to give value to what we do with our money, are we stewards with our money? Are we serving people? So we have that heart project. Because that's really what they just want to come back to is the heart project So people that may look really righteous from a human mindset, right, we may think, Oh they definitely go into heaven, but the Lord may say, I never knew you. Right. So it's it's really find that balance and technique Yeah, and that's that's particularly helpful for our battle with the worldly value system out there. But when we're talking about the flesh the temptations of the flesh, the allurements of the flesh. He's told us to flee, make no provision for the flesh. What's our response to Satan? Stand firm. Do you see the difference? A lot of people get those two mixed up. I'm strong enough to withstand the temptations of the flesh. Wrong. And so I'm stand I'm trying to stand firm. Wrong Um but my my temptation is to flee from Satan and we get it exactly wrong. We're supposed to flee um uh temptations of the flesh, make no provision for them, but stand firm against Satan. Why? Yeah, he's lost. If you've got that armor on, having done all, stand firm. Right? Now standing firm can be using the sword of the spirit both defensively and offensively. Everything else is defensive. Those fiery darts bounce off the armor because we're standing firm not in our own strength but in the strength of the Lord. And he has defeated Satan. And we stand firm. Yeah. So yes, we are definitely supposed to sleep, but I think sometimes we forget that there is a um wisdom and some proactive things we're supposed to be doing. Like when you say make no provision for the flesh, don't put yourself in situations that are going to cause you to need the slave. Yes Yeah, and you see that in the book of Proverbs. Uh Proverbs seven, for example, where uh there's this idiot who walks down the wrong street at the wrong time and sees this harlot and he he's he's like um a sheep To slaughter. He had no business being there. Right? Make no provision for the flesh. We have 1 Corinthians 1013 When God's lookout for us, he's providing the way out. I'm just not Muslim for that way out. And the way out may be preemptive, not just reactive. Yeah. That's the point. Sometimes the way out is like to now watch bad movies. Click and I mean because just like um Gardener of Eve Satan never force he to eat the fruit. He tempted, right? So even now, right, isn't that the new can force us to sin? Yeah. And there's that that deception, he's a grand deceiver. And lying. Um lying of course. Um Using things of the world and the flesh, I'm sure, to tempt, but uh it's it's lying and deception and and false uh falsehoods. that uh creep in and somehow have this you know f which would be more strategic? Um a a lie that is just so blatant nobody's gonna believe it Or a lie that's so close to the truth that a lot of people are going to believe it. The latter, right? And so we need what? Discernment. Where do we get that? The Word of God. Right? That was the Church of Woman. That was a perfect example. They call themselves Christians and I have to stop myself. Yeah. Yeah Okay. Uh I think we're basically you can read the rest of it. It's pretty straightforward. Um And I want to be sure to touch on those applications. Let's go ahead and close in prayer.