All right, I am on page 69, and we'll do a little bit of review. We're on the topic of soteriology, right? Salvation. We've we've talked about um Sin, we've talked about man, and now we're on this uh topic of what man needs, right, to be right with God to reconcile with a holy, holy, holy God. Salvation. Um I've said this several times and and Pastor Allen reiterated it You know, one of the purposes of for us to dig into theology is to do what? To get a really high view of God, to really understand the attributes of who God is. That puts everything in perspective. And then I like to say a correct view of man. And it's a little bit of a nuance, right? I don't say a low view of man because man has a couple different states Certainly in our sin nature, we need to realize how incredibly low and depraved we are. Right? No doubt about it But in our saved state, we need to have a high view of who we are as a child of God. That's what I mean by that. All right. Oftentimes I feel like we have a very low view of who we are as a child of God. And that's why I always emphasize You know, when you see those promises in Scripture, underline those, meditate on those. That's why I love Romans 8. It's full of assurances of who we are in Jesus Christ. Right? So again, the very high view of God is what we're trying to ascertain and a correct view of man. That makes sense? Alright, good. All right, so Pastor Allen last week started the the topic on salvation, and I just want to cover those in general. Salvation is wholly of God by grace on the basis of the redemption of Jesus Christ, the merit of His precious blood at Calvary, and not on the basis of human merit or works of any kind or degree. Praise God, right? Because if it was based on our works, none of us would get there. That is the gospel message. That's why it's so important that it is Christ alone. Salvation in Christ is complete, forgiving all our sins, providing for the resurrection of our bodies and restoring of the world to paradise. I think I mentioned I have a friend that that doesn't believe it's complete yet here on this earth. And so he's always striving for additional works. That's a not a hopeful place to be Salvation is received as a gift by personal repentance from sin and faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Do you remember the uh the Greek word for repentance that Pastor Alan shared? Metanoia. Yeah, you got it at least. Good, good. Right? A change, a change in mind, a turning away. Instead of serving your sin nature, you now have a desire to be a bondservant. You are a bondservant of Jesus Christ. Your desire is now to be obedient to our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Good. There is salvation in no one besides Jesus Christ, right? We had the discussion about faith and works. And Jesus Christ is the only way to salvation. All those who die without Christ die in their sins and without salvation. The purpose of salvation is to conform man to the image of Christ. That is our sanctification, right? As a believer, you continue now to grow in Christ-likeness. And then lastly, the believers' union with Christ is the cause of all other aspects of salvation. Again, getting back to the sanctification piece and ultimately glorification, right? That is our hope. That is our hope. Alright, so turning to our lesson for today, page 69, we're going to talk about the topic of atonement, which is going to be very interesting, and regeneration. Alright, before I get there, I wanted to highlight, you all have probably heard what is Ordo Salutis. The order of salvation. Okay? So let me share some some commentary, if you will, from some names that you'll know. All right. So this is from the MacArthur Bible doctrine, basically his systematic theology book. And you can see what's listed there, right? We talk about foreknowledge or predestination or election. The effectual call, so there's the general call, this would be the effectual call where the elect would then respond to that call. And then regeneration that we'll talk about today, right? The transforming of your heart. Conversion, which includes both faith and repentance. You are then justified, declared righteous. Positionally, you are righteous before a holy God. And we talked about baptism in the Holy Spirit, right? You are adopted as children into the church. with Jesus Christ at the head of the church. And then you continue that process while you're on this earth of sanctification, of growing more and more into the image of Christ. And as a believer, you will persevere until the end. It's guaranteed. In Ephesians, it talks about that. And then obviously that final state of glorification where you will no longer be in the presence of sin. It'll be gone. What a wonderful state that's going to be. Alright, so this is one list that I've seen. There's a very similar list if you were to go to Grudham And I highlight in blue just he adds a couple elements there, right? The gospel call, which would be more of that um sharing the gospel to everyone, right? Make disciples of the world And then he also includes death in his list. Now what I want to caution you about is many people will take this list and there's many debates. about the timing of these steps. We're not going to go there. And and I encourage you not to go there. Right? As Pastor Dave used to say, good and godly Christians disagree on this topic, right? Think of it more as maybe logical things that need to happen. I like this list because what it does is it shows the magnitude of all that God, all that Christ has done In view of our salvation. Often we think of salvation, I was over here and I was unsaved, and the next day I'm saved. And that's true. But when you look at the magnitude of all that is happening in our lives to bring us to that point and bring us to the point of glorification, that's why I like these lists. And you're going to see if you look through our table of contents, we're going to be touching many of these topics When we talk about salvation. So I think this is a nice framework to say, hey, these are all the elements. This is the work of Jesus Christ in our salvation. Okay? There's one more list. Let's go to the Bible. Turn to your Bibles in Romans 8. Romans 8, the Apostle Paul also writes a list, very similar, although not as inclusive. I'm in Romans 8, starting in verse 28. And we know that God causes all things to work together for good to those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. for whom he foreknew he also predestined to become conformed to the image of his son, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren, and whom he predestined, these he also called In whom he called, these he also justified. In whom he justified, these he also glorified. So you see the pattern, the list there, very similar. Alright, so that is a great reference in Scripture, Romans 8, when you talk about the order of salvation. But again, I don't want you to get caught up on, does this come before this? As you know, much of it is very instantaneous, right, as we know it, as we understand it. But this is a great, like I said, framework to understand all that God has done for our salvation. That's why I love it. Okay Alright, what don't you see in the list? What about atonement? I have seen some lists that also put um atonement early on in the list. But that is going to be a topic of discussion that we are having today. So you have to start with defining atonement. What is atonement? Again, we go to a couple of different resources. We go back to Grudham. The work Christ did in his life and death to earn our salvation. Whenever we talk of of earning our salvation, I love to make sure we include the life part, right? We obviously focus on the death. Obviously we have to, but the life is just as important In order for him to be that perfect substitute, he had to live a life of total obedience to the Lord without any sin So the life aspect, he had to be, you know, a virgin birth. All that had to happen through his life and his death to earn our salvation. Alright, we go back to MacArthur. Very similar, but a little bit nuanced, the aspect of the work of Christ again, and particularly his death. That secures the restoration of fellowship between individual believers and God. So it talks a little bit more about that reconciliation, if you will, right, of man to God. And we're going to come back to this at the end, so I want you to just be thinking about that. A little trivia question for you. Not really trivia, but you'll see. Alright, we have one more. We have to go to a modern day theologian. Wrongly. He um we're gonna go through some supplemental notes. His definition, the literal word, is a covering. And he's going to make the assertion that that word is really not adequate to describe all that Christ has done in his work, in his life, and in his death. Alright, so that's what we're going to cover next. Alright? Fair enough? Alright, let me go back to I'm going to leave this list up just so you have it Alright, so turn to the supplemental aspect of this, page 74. And I guess what I would tell you is, you know, you'll you'll see atonement and you'll see the the footnote there one and you go down and one says Alan Flumley, February 2007, right? So this is Alan's work to put all this together, and I'll be honest, he makes a very convincing case. But so let's go through that And then we'll see if you have questions. Pastor Allen would love for you to jump in at the end or any point. But then we'll talk about what do we do with that now. Okay, and what does that mean to us as we continue to study what Christ has done in our in our salvation? Okay, fair enough? All right Starting at the top of page 74. So a little bit of background. Um let me do this just so you can see what he's talking about. Let me put these back up there. The word atonement is commonly used to refer to what Jesus Christ did by his life and his death. I just read that, right? That's basically the definition of of Grutham and MacArthur. To sacrifice himself to pay the penalty for our sin to redeem us from bondage to that sin, to propitiate God's wrath against our sin, and to reconcile us to God. And we're going to go through those terms in a bit more detail. Let me give you the bottom up line up front The I guess the the thesis or hypothesis that that Pastor Allen has is there is no current day word that really encompasses those four those four efforts. And I have to agree with them. But we'll let you guys make that judgment on your own. Alright, continuing on. These four terms are used in the New Testament to refer to Christ's work on our behalf. The word atonement, however, is not. In fact, the word does not even appear in the entire New Testament It is used incorrectly in Romans 5. 11 in the King James Version. But the modern translations accurately translate the word cadalage, I'm probably mispronouncing that, as reconciliation. Moreover, the word atonement is a uniquely English word of relatively recent origin. It was created in the early 16th century, presumably by William Tyndale. as he labored to translate the Greek and Hebrew scriptures into common English. It is one of only a few English words that were coined specifically for Bible translation, another one being scapegoat Which Tyndale also coined. As you know, scapegoat, part of the Old Testament sacrificial process. Whatever the original intent, the word atonement is not a New Testament word Now, that does not necessarily mean that it is inappropriate to use it to refer collectively to the many aspects of Christ's work on our behalf, each of which has its own New Testament word. Those are the words I just read up at the beginning paragraph. It is completely valid to use terms to refer to clear Bible doctrines, even though the words we use in such cases are not actually used in the Bible. For example, the words Trinity, Omnipotent, Omnipresence, and Dispensation are examples. However, in such cases, the words are acceptable because they are unambiguous as to their meaning And that meaning is thoroughly biblical. The word atonement and the related words atone and atoning would meet that test on all counts except for one thing. The word is widely used in the English Old Testament to refer to what was accomplished by the Hebrew system of animal sacrifices. And this use of the word falls far short of the meaning and impact of the sacrifice of Christ. At the most basic level, one must ask, if the Old Testament sacrifices made atonement for sin, then why did Christ also have to atone for sin? So that's that's the conjecture going forward. Let's take a deeper dive on noting the word atonement in the Old Testament. Let's begin answering that question by first exploring the meaning of the Hebrew words that are translated as atonement and related concepts, then seeing how atonement was described under the law. Here's the Hebrew words. The verb make atonement is used to translate the Hebrew word kafar, to cover. It appears 102 times in the Old Testament. It is translated in the New American Standard Bible as follows. Eighty times as make or makes making or made atonement Six times as atone, atoned, or atoning, ten times as forgive, forgave, forgiven, two times as appease, and one time each as canceled, make expiation, pardon, and cover. The later use is in Genesis 6. 14, make for yourself an ark of gopher wood. You shall make the ark with rooms and shall cover it inside and out with pitch. And then it goes through some related words. Related noun, kofar means village. Kofer means the price of life, a ransom. Kippur appears eight times and is always translated as atonement, as in the Day of Atonement. And then Kaparef appears 27 times and is always translated as the mercy seat. So those are some definitions, the word definitions. Always good to do a word study to understand the meaning and the context. And in item two is what was the nature of the use of those words Especially under the law of Moses. What did atonement accomplish? In the Old Testament, atonement is said to have resulted in consecration, purification, and holiness. Forgiveness Bearing away guilt, cleansing, avoiding plagues, avoiding the fullness of God's wrath. Who did the atoning? You see there we have Moses, the priest, And the people, generally individuals, ourselves, and with the priests. And what who was atoned for? People, including the priests, people's sin and guilt People's souls, a mother shortly after giving birth. We see that in Leviticus, cleansed leper, a house or garment spoiled with leprosy, someone with a bodily discharge the altar, holy place, the land. So it was always, you know, for a um I'll call it like a physical ailment, sin. I mean that was the covering. It was meant to be a covering over those issues. In what ways was this atonement incomplete? It dealt with individual sins and uncleanliness, like I just said, by individual people, and therefore needed to be repeated by or for each person over and over again. In contrast, Jesus' work was needed just once for all time. I won't read all these verses because we're going to cover some of them in the lesson, but I I do want to highlight a couple. That first one, Hebrews ten. For the law, since it was only a shadow of the good things to come, and not the very form of things, can never, by the same sacrifices which they offer continually, year by year, make perfect those who draw near Otherwise, would they have not ceased to be offered? Because the worshippers, having once been cleansed, would no longer have had consciousness of sins. But in those sacrifices there is a reminder of sins year by year. So the sins were not taken away, were they? Right? That sacrificial, that atonement had to be repeated Second bull of there. It did not remove the sin. It merely covered over it. Jesus' work took away sin. First passage there, for it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins. Every priest stands daily ministering and offering time after time the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins. And then I love Jeremiah 31. Behold, days are coming, declares the Lord. When I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel And with the house of Judah, not like the covenant which I made with their fathers in the day I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt, the Mosaic covenant. My covenant which they broke, although I was a husband to them, declares the Lord. But this is the covenant which I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the Lord. I will put my law within them, and on their heart I will write it. And I will be their God, and they shall be my people. They will not teach again each man his neighbor and each man his brother, saying, Know the Lord, for they will all know me From the least of them to the greatest of them, declares the Lord, for I will forgive their iniquity, and their sin I will remember no more. Again, taken away. Top of the next page It did not cleanse the person's heart or conscience, whereas Christ's work does. I'm not going to read that entire passage, just the bold Um we just read the the passage from Jared thirty one, right? That is the new covenant. I will put my law within them and on their heart I will write it. They will not teach again each man his neighbor and each man his brother, saying, Know the Lord. Why? For they will all know me. Sacrifices are offered which cannot make the worshipper perfect in conscience And then down at the bottom, the law can never make perfect those who draw near. And at the bottom, for for by one offering he has perfected for all time those who are sanctified. So again, you see the contrast there, right, of the atonement in the Old Testament, a covering, but it had to be repeated, and it did not take away those sins, the finality of it. It did not clear the conscience. That's the work of Jesus Christ. It did not satisfy or propitiate God's wrath, right? Propitiation is to satisfy God's wrath against sin. But Christ did. Romans 3. For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, being justified as a gift by his grace through the redemption which is in Christ Jesus. whom God displayed publicly as a propitiation in his blood through faith. This was to demonstrate his righteousness, because in the forbearance of God he passed over the sins previously committed. For the demonstration, I say, of his righteousness at the present time, so that he would be just in the qual and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. So, answer to the original question, given the underlying meaning of the term atonement in the Old Testament as a covering, its widespread use in the Old Testament to refer to such a limited covering of sin and other uncleanness, and that this meaning falls short of what Christ did for us, should we use the same term to describe what Christ did? I don't believe so The word could be made to refer to all that Christ did, but giving it that meaning would contradict its widespread meaning in the Old Testament. We cannot have it both ways. Is there a single word that better describes what Christ did in contrast with the Old Testament sacrificial system? There may be no single English word. That conveys the totality of the related works of vicarious sacrifice, redemption, propitiation, and reconciliation. Perhaps the most comprehensive New Testament word for what Christ did is salvation. So instead of saying the atonement of Christ, it might be better to say the work of Christ in salvation. Let me pause there. Does that make sense what I just laid out for you? I'm getting a yes. It is okay for you to push back on Pastor Allen in this room. It's okay. But Pastor Allen, I want to pause. And we're going to go through these four words because I think they're they're extremely powerful And we're going to talk um about some of those as we continue the lesson. But I just want to pause. You did a lot of work here. Just anything you want to add to what we just read And I guess I'm going to ask this question of you first. What motivated you to do this research that you did here? Is that a fair question? Just my observation reading scripture. But I think there are other examples too of our using terminology that She is universally used, but we don't think about its meaning or the implications of the There ain't there may be only a dozen people in the world who who make a point of this. Which if if I can say, Pastor, and I would say this even if you were not in the room, you know, what a blessing we have at this church for someone to to say, wait a minute. Right, let's really research that. Let's dig in deep, right? We we have that person here at our church and that's a real blessing. Yes. Well, making sure we understand what we're trying to actually convey in the language. Yes. You could say something they could agree, but we mean it this way, they take it that way. Um terms are really, really important. I'm looking at Chester back there. Pastor Dave, that was a passion of his, right? As the SOP guys, the elders in training, we spent a lot of time on terminology and making sure we understood it and you start with a common understanding. And and as you're sharing the gospel, that's a good a good thought is As you're talking, people come with different backgrounds and different religious experiences. And you might say a word and they think of it very differently It's really important to start with. You just said atonement. Can you define what do you mean by atonement? Many other examples of that, right? But that's a great practice to get into is really think through defining terms up front. Alex Um I would say in my experience too, like you're saying, you know, like inner church or inner denomination conversations, but even when you're dealing with I would say like intelligent secularists especially like those who like prescribe to like LGBTQ plus agendas, a big tactic they use is redefining terms very subtly. Yes. And so that they can you know whatever add hominin or use some other type of logical fallacy to make you look bad to try to defeat your argument. But you have to be slow in your approach with these people and painstakingly define every term in the conversation. Yep, yeah. That's a great great point. You know, the the enemy is so crafty and so deceptive And that's the technique. Right if he can if he can start to blur the terms, right? And people start and and naturally, right? We're lazy, what do we? We we just start to gravitate towards these new terms and that's dangerous. Let me get Chester in the back and then go ahead I I think it's it's on the heel of what was just said it's important for us to remember Pastor Plummy didn't do the work because he wanted to be smarter than everybody else. Absolutely. But he's trying to get to the heart of what was the saving work that Christ did idea and once we have conversations with other people who may use atonement in a certain way, the importance is not to be right in the conversation but to know what the term means for the sake of the person that we're trying to either evangelize or have a conversation with. And that's really the heart of it. The heart of it is Can I help you get to the spot where you understand structure better versus can I demonstrate my knowledge and understanding is deeper than yours? Absolutely related for your benefit or that other person's benefit versus our own pride. Absolutely. That's a great, great point. Boy the sin of pride creeps in really quick, doesn't it? Right? That is not the intent. To show how smart we are, right? It's to draw people into Christ. Glenn? My my wife commented to me just the aspect of this is how Satan worked in the garden. Yeah. Did God really say? Did he really say? Did he really mean that? Good. Pastor Allen. As I was listening to Alex about uh different words mean different things to different people, just imagine sharing the gospel with an author Not true. Mm-hmm. What's their understanding of Talmud? Yeah, yeah. Yeah, that's a great, great point, right? Good Alright, let's let's talk about some of these words. Because back to your points, these are the words you want to have a discussion about, right? These are the truths of what Christ did when we talked about the work of Christ in salvation. And here's what I want you to do. Regardless of how you feel about the word of atonement, and I think we've given you some fresh things to think about, when you see that word, just fill it in with the work of Christ and salvation. I mean that's where I want you to focus your attention Don't get hung up on on the word. But understanding terms is and defining terms is really important. We've given you something else to think about here, but it's more important to be thinking about these works that we're going to go through right now. The first one being propitiation. That's a big nickel 25 cent word, isn't it? Right? Use that with the un unsaved But it simply means to satisfy. Go down to the last passage in in that section there, uh 1 John 4. In this is love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. I love this connection. You know, think about satisfying God's wrath. What was that like for Jesus to take on all of our, not only take on our sin, but to be given the wrath the judgment of that sin. And what does it point to? It points to God's love. People say like to point to his justice, which is true. But we deserved all that, right? And he gave his only son to satisfy all that. That is an incredible demonstration of God's love. Again, high view of God God is love and the ultimate demonstration is he gives up his son to be the propitiation to satisfy his wrath. Christ's sacrifice was propitious because it fully satisfied the Father's wrath against our sins. Look down at Colossians 2. When you were dead in your transgressions and the uncircumcision of your flesh, He made you alive together with him, having forgiven us all our transgressions, having cancelled out the certificate of debt, consisting of decrees against us, which was hostile to us and has taken it out of the way, having nailed it to the cross. We were condemned in our sinful nature. As believers though, Romans 8. 1, there is no longer condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. Right? But it was fully satisfied, not partially, fully satisfied through the propitiation of Jesus Christ. Alright, let's move over to page 79, redemption. Its meaning is essentially the same as paying a ransom. The price paid to free someone from bondage or captivity. In our sinful state, we were in bondage to sin. To redeem us, Jesus paid the price to release us from that bondage. But note that we were in bondage to sin, not to Satan. And you can see the parentheses there, as suggested by the lion, the witch in the wardrobe, fantasy allegory. Again, go back to biblical truth. The ransom that Jesus paid was to God the Father because we were under the curse of God's law. Do you understand that distinction? It's not a ransom being paid to Satan. Right? He's saying that to God because God created the law, and we are a curse under the law outside of Jesus Christ. Otherwise, we would face the Father's wrath because of our sins. There are similarities and differences between this redemption and our experience in redeeming a coupon, which involves exchanging the coupon for something of value to rescue it from worthlessness. Indeed, the same word is used in Ephesians 5 and Colossians 4 to mean making the most of your time. There are two main Greek verbs in a related noun used in the New Testament to convey this concept. The first one to buy up, for example, ransom figuratively to rescue from the loss. Galatians 3. Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law, right? Rescued us having become a curse for us, for it is written, Cursed is everyone who hangs on a tree, in order that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might come to the Gentiles, so that we would receive the promise of the Spirit through faith. And the next one, Galatians 4. But when the fullness of the time came, God sent forth his Son, born of a woman, born under the law, so that he might redeem those who were under the law, that we might receive the adoption as sons. Again, using biblical terms and understanding their true meaning. Second, to release by paying a ransom, to redeem. Go down to 1 Peter. If you address his Father, the one who impartially judges according to each one's work, conduct yourselves in fear during the time of your stay on earth. Knowing that you were not redeemed with perishable things like silver for gold from your futile way of life inherited from your forefathers, but with the precious blood As of a lamb unblemished and spotless, the blood of Christ. There is only one way you can be redeemed. Right? The spotless lamb. A release affected by payment or ransom. Um turn the page if you will, I'm going to cover Hebrews 9 For this reason, he is the mediator of a new covenant, so that since a death has taken place for the redemption of the transgressions that were committed under the first covenant. Again, referring to the Mosaic um law or mosaic covenant and now the new covenant under Jesus Christ. Ultimately our redemption will be complete only when we receive glorified bodies. So There is a process, but that complete payment or rescue, right, no longer in the presence of sin, happens at glorification. Ephesians 1. In him you also, after listening to the message of truth, the gospel of your salvation, having also believed, you were sealed in him with the Holy Spirit of promise. who is given as a pledge of our inheritance, with a view to the redemption of God's own possession, to the praise of his glory. Again, I would suggest, encourage you to have a high view of who you are in Christ. You have been redeemed. You have been bought by the blood of Jesus Christ. And what does that do? Reconciliation. Right? The problem is in our sin nature, we are totally separated from a holy God. We must be reconciled. That is the only way of peace. That is the only way of salvation. That is the only way of having eternal life, isn't it? Reconciliation to God. Unlike reconciliation between people, Scripture always indicates that peop that people need to be reconciled to God. We are not reconciled with God, as if he also needs to change or has anything to be corrected Helpful analogies include when we reconcile our checkbook. What's a checkbook? Which may contain errors to the bank statement, which is presumed to have no errors. I actually back in the day I did that Right, down to the penny you'd get your paper bank statement and I would um I rarely use a checkbook anymore, so or when we reconcile our watch Right? There is a an international standard, if you will, Greenwich Time, the atomic clock that we use to set all of our clocks to. The atomic clock doesn't change to meet our clock, right? We go to it 2 Corinthians. Now all these things are from God who reconciled us to himself. Again, reconciled us to himself. through Christ and gave us the ministry of reconciliation. Namely that God was in Christ reconciling the world to himself, not counting their trespasses against them And he has committed to us the word of reconciliation. Therefore, we are ambassadors for Christ as though God were making an appeal through us. We beg you on behalf of Christ be reconciled to God. Let me pause here for application. You know, Pastor Allen, or I'm sorry, Pastor Gabe has classes on reconciliation, the importance of that as believers, to reconcile. Right? And we make that really difficult. Go back to the fact that you have been reconciled to God and that not of yourself, right? That was the work of Jesus Christ. All the more we should be reconciling with our brothers and sisters in Christ. Alright, we have this corny recommendation at the bottom. Next Christmas, when singing the popular and otherwise very biblical Christmas carol, hark the herald angels sing instead of singing Peace on earth and me mercy mild, God and sinners reconciled, sing instead, Peace on Earth and Mercy Mild. God had sinners reconciled. You guys will never be able to sing that song again without asserting that change. Um just really excellent, Pastor Allen. So we appreciate uh the supplemental notes. Let me go back to the little trivia question here in MacArthur. Based on what we just covered, how would you change or would you change MacArthur's definition? And and I'm not sa I'm talking about the reconciliation part, not to change the atonement says that secures the restoration or reconciliation of fellowship between individual believers in God. Yeah, right. He his definition talks about indiv you know um reconciliation between individuals and God, where in here he's asserting to God. Right? So just a little trivia Alright. Any let me pause there. Any questions? We took some time because I thought it was important to walk through that. And again, I think some really neat lessons. Terms are important. Struggle through them. Make sure you understand them. When sharing the gospel, make sure you understand terms that people are using. Spend the time to do that so you have a solid baseline. And often in doing that, you're going to open the door for other truths and scriptures to come out, like we just talked about with these four words. But let me pause. Any questions or comments? Glenn. Just the aspect of when you say God and sinners reconciled, it's it's that's not necessarily untrue, it's just not specific enough. Sure. That's that's really what we're trying to get to. That's the nuance there. Alright, let's go back to our actual lesson and we'll start our lesson. Page 69. So again, if you want, where you see atonement, you might put in parentheses the work of Christ in salvation. Right at the very top of your page there. The work of Christ in salvation. And really what we're after is the totality of his work, his life and death, in in all the terms we just discussed. So let's talk about this idea of atonement. Or again, the work of Christ in salvation. Christ Himself bore our sins in his body on the cross. It was the death of Jesus Christ on a Roman cross in human history that made atonement for the sins of man. Now let me pause there. Pastor and I was going to get with you before class, but would you this is what is written in in our what we teach, right? Our statement of faith, if you will Based on what you wrote, would you change that word going forward or use something different? Because we use that terminology here. I don't want to confuse folks with what we just talked about. Right. Yeah. Actually there's a there's a short list of things I've got to discuss with the elders to sharpen our language in what we teach. So yes. So I don't want you guys to be confused where we just talk about atonement might not be the appropriate word And here we're starting our lesson and I'm using atonement. Like Christopher, what's up? Like Pastor Allen said, there there we are going to take a re look at um To sharpen, right? It's not going to be a wholesale change of anything in our statement of faith, but it's to sharpen because we've learned over time. There are some words that that are misunderstood. And we want to make sure there's clarity Right? That's why we are so diligent about. So again, when you see that word atonement here, you can you can put in its place the the work of Jesus Christ in salvation. Okay First passage there. Alex, can you, Alex over here, can you read that for me? First Corinthians. For I delivered to you as of first importance what I also received, that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures. Good, right? Not only a a cover, but remove our sins. Right? Ephesians 1. In him we have redemption through his blood. We talked about that term redemption Right, a payment, a ransom that's paid for. The forgiveness of our trespasses according to the riches of his grace. Uh Mr. Alex on this side, can you read First Timothy for me? For there is one God and one mediator also between God and men, the man Christ Jesus, who gave himself as a ransom for all, with a testimony born at the proper time. Good. So again, we we've talked about terms just now, and I want you to underline that's that's part of the reason for this is to underline those terms as we go through this, again, to show the more comprehensiveness of Christ's work versus that literal word atonement. Let me read, it's a long one, Hebrews 9, but there's some really um key factors in there And not through the blood of goats and calves, but through his own blood he entered the holy place once for all, having obtained eternal redemption. For if the blood of goats and bulls and the ashes of a heifer sprinkling those who have been defiled, sanctified for the cleansing of the flesh, how much more will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without blemish to God, cleanse your conscience? We talk about that. from dead works to serve the living God. And for this reason, he is the mediator of a new covenant. We talked about that new covenant in Jeremiah 31. In order that since a death has taken place for the redemption of the transgressions that were committed under the first covenant, those who have been called may receive the promise of the eternal inheritance For where a covenant is, there must of necessity be the death of the one who made it. For a covenant is valid only when men are dead, for it is never enforced while the one who made it lives. Therefore, even the first covenant was not inaugurated without blood. For when every commandment had been spoken by Moses to all the people according to the law, he took the blood of the calves and the goats with water and scarlet wool and hysop, and sprinkled both the book itself and all the people, saying, This is the blood of the covenant which God commanded you And in the same way he sprinkled both the tabernacle and all the vessels of the ministry with the blood, again creating that covering, if you will. And according to the law, one may almost say all things are cleansed with blood And without shedding of blood, there is no forgiveness. You can point people to this verse when people ask, well, why did Jesus have to shed his blood? Right? This this is part of that justification. Without shedding of blood there is no forgiveness. Therefore it was necessary for the copies of the things in the heavens to be cleansed with these But the heavenly things themselves, with better sacrifices than these, for Christ did not enter a holy place made with hands, a mere copy of the true one, but into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God for us For it nor was it that he should offer himself often, right, as the high priest enters the holy place year by year with blood not his own Otherwise, he would have needed to suffer often since the foundation of the world. But now, once at the consummation of the ages, he has been manifested to put away sin. By the sacrifice of himself. Again, the completeness. You have this beautiful comparison of you know the Old Testament, the tabernacle, the sacrifices which were not complete and had to be repeated versus what Christ did in his life in on the cross. His sufficient, sufficient work. Alright, good. Hebrews 10. By this will we will have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ again, once for all. And then 1 Peter. Knowing that you were not redeemed with perishable things, right, that ransom that is paid, there's only one way that can take place like silver or gold from your futile way of life inherited from your forefathers, but with precious blood, as of a lamb unblemished and spotless. Alright, let's turn over to the next page. I'll just cover cover a couple of these. Um the bold at the top, and he himself bore our sins in his body on the cross that we might die to sin, right? Removed And live to righteousness, for by his wounds you were healed. Let's go down to Revelation 5, the second one from the bottom. Ms. Heather, can you read that one for me, please? Sure. And they sang a new song, saying, Worthy art thou to take the book and to break its seals, for thou wast slain and didst purchase for God with thy blood men from every tribe and tongue and people. Good. So again, this concept of ransom, redeemed. And then Revelation seven, Glenn, can you read that one for me, please? And I said to him, My Lord, you know. And he said to me, These are the ones who come out from the Great Tribulation. And they have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. Isn't that imagery just absolutely beautiful? Right? Um our our sinful nature and we are we are covered if you will in these white robes. How though? Through the blood of Jesus Christ. I just I love the imagery there Okay, moving on. Item number two. Jesus' one death accomplished complete atonement for the work of salvation. for all time. The death of Christ never needs to be repeated, and no other atonement of any kind is needed. What happens when we say we need faith and works for our salvation? Don't we negate what I just said? Right? You negate the one-time purpose of what Christ did in his life and his death on the cross. Right, we say that's not sufficient. Something else is needed or it needs to be repeated. Right? Very, very dangerous One time. Let's go down to Hebrews 10. I think we covered that in the when we were doing the supplemental notes. But by this will we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. And every priest stands daily ministering and offering time after time the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins. But he, having offered one sacrifice for sins for all time, sat down at the right hand of God, waiting from that time onward until his enemies be made a footstool for his feet. For by one offspring he has perfected for all time those who are sanctified. Again, one death, one time for all of time, never needs to be repeated All right, any questions on this topic of atonement? Very in-depth look at the word atonement, which I thought was very fruitful. But again, what I want you to walk away with is again if you look at this This list of order of salvation, I want you to just think about the totality of the work of Christ in our salvation. That's what I want you to focus on. Does that make sense? Okay. Yes, why don't you? Hmm. Great question. So and and people can jump in here because I'm not fully studied on this, but Revelation does talk about another temple that will be set up, right? And it does talk about sacrifices. And the intent might be a and this is I believe um from MacArthur believes it will be just a reminder, right? It in no way, shape or form is intended to be some kind of further need for um sacrifices for salvation or redemption or covering or any of that. Bill. If you look at Leviticus and the Old Testament sacrificial system. There were five sacrifices laid out there and only two of them were made were for sin, right? One there's a sin arm But the other three were for worship and fellowship of God. Right, there's the peace offering, the free will offering, and the something else. Um but the point there is that even in the Old Testament, sacrifice was not just for like covering over sin. It was also just for work. for the fellowship of God. And so that purpose would still be served by a temple even in the future. So what why wouldn't we delay that? Um that's a good question. We have uh our we offer our bodies as a living sacrifice. Well, so there's there's a difference between the church and You know, Israel is still there's still um a a reality to being if you be an Israelite and you know the the there will still be like a Jewish nation and a Jewish temple. In the church age we have um we offer our bodies as moving type And not a direct relation, but I I think of the Lord Supper, right, as a another reminder of worshiping the Lord. What have you, but I I think what Bill, I think you framed that really well. It's an identification, it's another form of worship. Um I just want to highlight it is it is absolutely not a way of of covering our sins, if you will. That has been abolished. Pastor Allen Um I think the only other temple that's anticipated in scripture is um during the tribulation period. And because they're doing sacrifices uh the first three and a half years then their the temple's gonna be desecrated mm-hmm in the middle of that seven year period. And that's before Christ's returns. Uh that would be the Jews finally having the permission, I guess, to um build a temple, do sacrifices, get back to the status quo that they were used to. Um how genuine a part that's gonna be is probably no different than what it was back then. Um that was That's that's gonna be temporary, it's gonna be done away with yet again. Um it's different from our worship of God for eternity Or even the limit. Yeah. Good. Mind you is that no? Nope. Okay. We'll we'll cover that maybe uh offline then. Alright, let's move to regeneration. And again you see it on the list here, right? Um both lists if you will. Regeneration is a supernatural work of the Holy Spirit, by which the new nature and divine life are imparted to the believer. It is the new birth which results in a change of heart, leading to a growing obedience to the will of God. Right, it all has to start here. We are dead in our sinful nature. We we talked um I think it was last week or maybe the week prior, right? We are unable to go after God. Right? Our works are filthy rags. There's none who dunk who do good. There are none who are righteous. We are spiritually dead We need a new birth. We need to be born again. That's what regeneration does, right? You are a new creature. John 3, Jesus answered and said to him, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. And that was very perplexing, right, for Nicodemus. Nicodemus said to him, How can a man be born when he is old? He cannot enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born, can he? Jesus answered, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born of water and the spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God. That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the spirit is spirit. Do not marvel that I said to you, you must be born again. The wind blows where it wishes, and you hear the sound of it, but do not know where it comes from and where it is going. So is everyone was born of the Spirit. You must be born again. At our um the church we came from in Massachusetts I think I was doing the the pastoral prayer one Sunday morning. And there were there were a couple families, ladies that had just given birth And so we were, I made a comment of that. I celebrated the fact that uh children are just a blessing from the Lord. But I followed up with, you realize that child must be born again Right? So here we have this this beautiful creature that has just come on the scene and the reality is they will need to be born again. I don't know if the ladies like me saying that, but it's true, right? Must be born again. Yeah right. That's yeah. Good point. Thank you, Glenn. Top of uh page seventy-one, Titus three. Miss Jackie, can you read that one for me? basis of deeds which we have done in righteousness, but according to his mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewing by the Holy Spirit. Alright, excellent. So so this idea of and I'm probably getting ahead of myself, but regeneration is is a work of the Holy Spirit. Right? It has nothing to do with our works. Nothing to do with our deeds. Impossible. Couple down, 1 John 3. The one who practices sin is of the devil, for the devil has sinned from the beginning. The Son of God appeared for this purpose, that he might destroy the works of the devil. No one who is born of God practices sin because his seed abides in him, and he cannot sin because he is born of God. By this the children of God and the children of the devil are obvious. Anyone who does not practice righteousness is not of God, nor the one who does not love his brother And first John five. We know that no one who is born of God sins, but he who is born of God keeps him, and the evil one does not touch him. Again, we have a new nature. Stating the fact that we will never sin again. Paul talks about the struggle we will have with the flesh while we're on this earth. But your desire will not be to sin. You will have a new nature. You will desire to obey God. Item two, regeneration is instantaneous and is accomplished solely by the power of the Holy Spirit through the instrumentality of the Word of God. Right? This is not like sanctification which happens progressively over time. This is instantaneous and it happens one time Again, a work of the Holy Spirit. Let me jump down to 1 Peter 1, the third one down. For you have been born again, not of seed which is perishable, but imperishable That is through the living and abiding word of God. So important, right, that we share Scripture, that we share the gospel, the Word of God. That's the power To convict, to regenerate through the Holy Spirit, right? Through the Word. Item three, man does not contribute. I just talked about that. Man does not contribute to his own regeneration, but receives it entirely by the undeserved favor of God in Christ. Um Chester, can I have you read the bold, 1 Peter 1? Blessed be the God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who according to his great mercy has caused us to be born in Good. Right? Again, it's God the Father who did that. By his great mercy, we do not contribute to it. And then I'll read the uh last passage here, 1 John. Beloved, now we are children of God, and it has not appeared as yet what we shall be. We know that when he appears, we shall be like him Because we shall see him just as he is. That would be that state of glorification. Right? That's our hope. That's what we're looking for, where we will have no more presence of sin in our lives. But I like how that starts. Beloved, now we are children of God. Again, encouraging you. Have a very high view of who you are as a child of God. Really, really important. And then the last section on top of page 72. Genuine regeneration is manifested by fruits worthy of repentance. as demonstrated in righteousness, in righteous attitudes and conduct. Good works will be its proper evidence and fruit. We talked, I think two weeks ago, right, the passage in James where we talk about faith and works. We talk about work should be the evidence, the genuine, the genuineness of your salvation, of your regeneration. It's not caused by works, but it should be evidenced by works. And that should cause us for self-examination. Right? And we'll get to the passage, so I'll hold off. Let me start in Matthew 3. Um Kayla, can you read Matthew 3 for me, please? But when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming for Bashagan, he said to them, You brood of vipers, who warned you to flee from the wrath to come? Therefore bring forth fruit in keeping with the content. Love Keila's passion there. You brood of vipers. Right? You can just you can picture Jesus just really confronting them. Why? These were the religious leaders and they were demonstrating the works, but they didn't have the faith, right? The hypocrisy John five, do not marvel at this, for an hour is coming in which all who are in the tomb shall hear his voice and shall come forth. Those who did the good deeds to a resurrection of life those who committed the evil deeds to a resurrection of judgment. Again, if you remember a couple weeks ago, we talked about um two different books. They talked about the books and then the book of life. Right? If your name is in the book of life You you go on to um a resurrection of life. Those who your deeds are in the books, right? What will Jesus say? I never knew you. Depart from me. I never leave. And you you go to a resurrection of judgment. That's the that's the passion why we evangelize, right? Because those are the only two alternatives. Those are the only two options. John 15, I am the true vine, and my father is the vine dresser. Every branch in me that does not bear fruit, he takes away, and every branch that bears fruit, he prunes it, that it may bear more fruit. You are already clean because of the word which I have spoken to you. Abide in me and I in you, as the branch cannot bear fruit of itself unless it abides in the vine. So neither can you, unless you abide in me. I am the vine, you are the branches. He who abides in me, and I in him, he bears much fruit. For apart from me you can do nothing If anyone does not abide in me, he is thrown away as a branch and dries up. And they gather them and cast them into the fire, and they are burned. Let's jump down to First Corinthians. Or do you not know that the unrighteousness or the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor homosexuals, nor thieves, nor the covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers Which is what? All of us before we became Christians, all of us, shall inherit the kingdom of God. And such were some of you, but you were washed. Back to that imagery, right, of being washed. But you were sanctified, and you were justified, declared righteous in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and in the Spirit of God. Alright, let's hang on to the next one, Galatians 5. Now the deeds of the flesh are evident, which are immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, outbursts of anger disputes, dissensions, factions, envying, drunkenness, carousing, and things like these, of which I forewarn you, just as I have forewarned you, that those who practice such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God. But The fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. Against such things there is no law. Now those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. We've got a couple minutes left. I'd love to just kind of hang on this verse When we talk about, or this passage, when we talk about the evidence of our regeneration, right, you can point to Galatians 5, the fruit of the Spirit. What should we be exhibiting in our lives if we are regenerate? The fruit. The fruit of the spirit. And it's bounded by what? You have it starts with love, and at the end of that is self-control. Right? Those two go together so well and really bound what what happens in between there. Just your thoughts on as you look at your own life or your children's lives, right? Maybe that's an easier one where they may have professed Christ. And yet sometimes there's doubt. Dad, am I really a Christian? What can you do? How can you help them with that? Go ahead, Millie. Showing them the scripture. Absolutely, right? That's a part of it. Specifically for this verse though, or this passage Pointing out the evidence of fruit in their life. And you can ask them, are you seeing that in your life? Are you seeing that increasing? Right? Part of our sanctification is we should be increasing in those fruits. Right? Now again, be careful, there is no condemnation. Right? You gotta balance those two that we are not perfect in this life. Right? We are growing, we are being sanctified, but we should be seeing ourselves growing in that fruit. Um I know when we Crean and I council couples You know, this is an area that that we often touch on is to be growing in the fruit. Are you seeing that evidence? Right? And there's fruit you should be seeing in your marriage If you are fulfilling the roles you should be fulfilling, God-ordained roles, you should see that fruit. You should see that evidence, right? Any other comments? Pastor Allen. With children, and maybe even a lot of us, we look at a verse like that and say these are the marks of being born again. And um particularly for children, I guess. They could say, oh, well all I need to do is do these things. And it becomes a work. Yeah. A work of the person rather than a work of God. It says it's the fruit of the Spirit. And so Parents ought to be looking at their children and asking the question, can what I'm seeing in that person's life be explained only by a work of God in their life. Do I see a change? Uh is it really the fruit of godliness or the fruit of their best efforts? That's a hard question for a parent to ask. Yeah. Yep. But I I I love that you brought that up. It's a it's a great training moment, right, for them to be examining what is their heart intent. Right? If if they showed kindness to their sibling. What was was the heart intent? Was it self-motivated or was it truly and these are discussions you can start to have with your your children. Or others, right? Good. Alright. Any other points on that or comments? Why don't you say they need to say that with a I mean meaning like self-control patience. We don't exhibit all every day. We fail. So hold on. So because we have those fruit, that doesn't mean that I mean with our own effort there's just no way we can add those um there. Well I don't know about you. I have self control every day all day. So No, no, excellent point, right? In and that's we we are still um in a fallen world. We're still gonna struggle with sin. The idea is are these increasing? So where you might have had the kind of this baseline self-control, are you seeing that maybe maybe you're not getting as agitated You know, it's taking you a week before you see a flare up and and now it's a month of two months. You know. The idea is are you growing in this route Um does that make sense? Yeah. So we will we will struggle until the day of glorification with exhibiting these fruits perfectly, without a doubt. The idea is are we growing? Yeah. Gwendon. Hold on, Millie. I'll come back to you. I was just gonna add this aspect of the intent. It's like um do you see the sin as sin and how does how do you respond to that? Right. And I really wanted to I need to be more loving. I need to be more sorry for whatever it is. Yep. And and then understanding that and and then just like that for me is kinda like well I can sin, okay, God's gonna No, uh if I'm a lack, I can I can't outsend God. Okay, but it's just a matter of is that what I want to do? No, I don't want to do that. Yeah. Jesus said, if you love me, you will obey my command Yeah. This is how you can show your love. And so it it becomes that sort of attitude. Yeah. And then then it's not so much about the actions. They should Right. Yeah, and I guess you know going to your point, let's not make or even Pastor Allen, let's not make this into a checklist. Right. Right? It should be an outgrowth of your regeneration And what I would tell you is spending time in Scripture praying, oh Lord, help me exhibit this fruit in in more growth, if you will. Right? Miss Miller. Walking in Christ, like I said, we all sinners in. And we look toward prayer to Jesus Christ because he's Doors always open. And we have to recognize that sin when we do it because we are walking your heart. And if you're not recognizing your sin when you do it, then something is still wrong. Uh because you're supposed to be speaking Amen. Yeah. Melly, that's a really good point. You know, under understanding this root is also that ability to more quickly assess sin and deal with it Whereas prior you might have left that lag for a long time, right? And our implications for that. So hopefully part of our growth is identifying that sin much quicker repenting before the Lord and potentially um the another individual reconcile you know um moving on from that and growing. So that's a great point, Millie. Okay. Anything else? I will close this in prayer.