Alright, we're on week three of this role as high priest. So I did want to highlight just a couple aspects that we've talked about the last couple weeks, and then we'll finish up today this this idea of Jesus Christ as the high priest. So we've talked about several things. And a lot of this, when you think of high priests, right, we have to think of what Jesus did to the work that he did to earn our salvation. Right? And we often have to remember we we quickly go to the death, right, on the cross and the shed blood. But we also have to remember the life is just as important. Alright. So we started with the fact that as high priest Jesus is what? He was a sinless human being. He had to be obedient as a human. That was the life aspect of it. And then the rest of it was really talking about what he did, the work on the cross, right? His death Shed blood, paying for our sins. His death was what? Voluntary. It was substitutionary Who should have died? Us, right? The penalty had to be paid. So he was our perfect substitute. His death was propitiatory Means what? Satisfies the wrath of God. Takes that wrath away, satisfies it past, present, and future. And maybe as important or most important, all sufficient Savior and only Savior. We're going to talk a little bit more about that today. And just as important, right? He was raised from the dead in what? In spirit? In bodily form. Right? That's important in bodily form. So this last um lesson, lesson seven, on page 51, we have three more points that we're going to talk about regarding his role as high priest. And where we left it, like I just said, is that he died, he was buried, and then he rose again. Right? And that's what we covered last week. He was with the disciples for a short time. Today we're going to talk about what happened next. His ascension. Where he actually takes his final place in heaven seated at the right hand of God. So point eight there on page 51. Jesus Christ ascended into heaven and was exalted to the right hand of the Father. He ascended into heaven in his in his glorified human body. So that first verse there, the bold, so then when the Lord Jesus had spoken to them, he was received up into heaven and sat down at the right hand of God. Did you ever wonder why the right hand why not the left hand of God? What's so significant about the right hand? It's a place of honor, exactly. Um Grace, I'm going to call you out. What's your rank in the military? Staff Sergeant. Staff Sergeant. So if you're walking along with uh, let's say a major, where should the major be in relation to you if you're walking down the street? I'm putting you on the spot. Mm-hmm. You gotta be honest, that is not something we cover because most of us do not interact with officers. Alright, fair enough. It there was a lot of protocol, right? But it was on the right hand side and it was funny. I can remember walking down the the street or to the next building with a senior officer and we're just talking and I'm on the right hand side and the light bulb goes off, so we quickly shift over to the to the left so that that person is on the right-hand side. But it was intended again to just be a place of honor, right? That's the significance of the right-hand side. Alright, let's skip down and I want you to turn in your Bibles to John. John 15 Because remember he's he's now with the disciples, right? He they they saw him die and buried and now here he is in bodily form and that's where we're gonna pick it up. That that time in between him being raised and his ascension All right, let's go to John fifteen and I want to pick it up in eighteen. Just to set the context, if the world hates you, you know that it has hated me before it hated you. If you were of the world, the world would love you as its own. But because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you. So he's getting ready to tell them something, right? So let's pick it up now in chapter 16. I have said all these things, the things I just talked about to you, to keep you from falling away. He was trying to encourage them They will put you out of the synagogues. Indeed, the hour is coming when whoever kills you will think he is offering service to God. And they will do these things because they have not known the Father nor me. But I have said these things to you that when their hour comes you may remember that I told them to you. I did not say these things to you from the beginning, because I was with you, but now I am going to him who sent me. And none of you ask, Where are you going? But because I have said these things to you, sorrow has filled your heart. Nevertheless, I tell you the truth, it is to your advantage that I go away. For if I do not go away, the helper will not come to you But if I go, I will send him to you, and when he comes he will convict the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment, concerning sin because they do not believe in me Concerning righteousness, because I go to the Father, and you will see me no longer. So put yourself in the shoes of the disciples, right? They they were with the Messiah in bodily form, day after day after day. He dies, he is raised again, and and he's telling them now, I'm going to leave you, but I need to leave you, right? So I can send the helper You can imagine what was going through their minds. And again, the admonition was that I don't want you to fall away. I want to encourage you that the Holy Spirit is going to come and give you all the power that you need to live life. Okay? We read 167. Again I'll read it, but I tell you the truth, it is to your advantage that I go away. For if I do not go away, the helper shall not come to you. But if I go, I will send him to you. God's redemptive plan is always what's best for us. And that's what he was trying to convey here, right? I have to go away. I have to finish that redemptive plan by going to my rightful position at the right hand of God. And I want to iterate earlier, we talked about a place of honor. I'm not suggesting there's a rank order there in the analogy I gave, right? It's simply a place of honor. Jesus and God the Father and the Holy Spirit are one being, God, one in essence. Okay? All right, let's move down to I'm in John twenty now. Please commit for I'm not yet ascended to the Father. If I go to my brethren and say to them, I ascend to my father and your father and my God and your God. Good. So who is her in this passage? Um Mary Mag Mary Magdalene, right? She was at the tomb. Um and and they're Jesus now. And he's saying, stop clinging to me. What do you think he was getting after there? Rex I want to answer that, but I had a question. Were there two ascensions by Jesus? Because Jesus is here saying don't clean me. The word literally means don't detain me because I'm ascending. Um and this is right after the resurrection. So did Jesus go to heaven and come back for those forty days I don't know, Rex. Um what what I know and Pastor Allen, please jump in there. I mean what I know is he was raised, right, from the tomb, and now we see him Mm-hmm. With the disciples. Well, I'm basing it on this verse here, because the word literally means don't attain. So if he's gonna be waiting forty days What's he being detained from? That that's fair. I think that's one view. One commentary that that I read um uh had this to say is this idea of clinging to his physical presence. That that Mary was was used to the physical presence of Jesus Christ and and he left for that time, right, during the death and burial, and now he's back, and there could be a temptation to want to cling to Jesus Christ. Not that she would ever hinder him from being ascended But he's saying I have to go. I'm going to go. Grace. I mean there is also just the literal practical aspect of while she is there, like the implication I always got was that she's literally holding on to him 'cause like she he just came back from the hitch. Right. Very emotional. Right. But while she's there literally holding on to him, she's not going and telling the disciples what happened. She's not spreading the word about the resurrection. And until that happens, the rest of what we see in the chapter can't. So obviously there would have been other ways for God to accomplish it, but the way that she has it lay out is that she needs to go tell the disciples they need to come and see the tombs of the sun Right. And he he tells her to go do that, right? Exactly. Uh Pastor, please. Um probably of the decided. All throughout his ministry and even after his resurrection, we're assuming that he was bringing the kingdom now. And his death on the cross, even though he foretold it to them multiple times, took them Um it's not by surprise. And I can imagine it would be natural for in that context for someone to say, oh, what is alive? We're back to plan A, right? Yeah. Um and he's saying like he's been telling them in the upper room, it's better for you to not go. Don't cling to me. Um we're in a new stage things here now, or transitional. the resurrection appearances, but um he's still trying to get them to think longer term he's not going to be around to do what they think he's going to be doing. And even when the day he um is ascended in X1, they're asking him that very question. So is now the time when you're going to restore the kingdom and all this? And he has a substance Right? So yeah. I think it's a it's a natural human expectation in that context. And so he's trying to get them to think longer term that he's not ready to be around as for their best. Yep, to think uh eternally. That that was the sense of the the commentaries that I read, so so thank you for that. And thank you for the question, Rick. Well can I say one more one more thing? Sure. Um the Old Testament's saints couldn't go to heaven until the blood was shed. You know, a lot of commentaries say that this is the time, the feast of first fruits, that he took them there, came back to be with them. The so that's where I was baiting you have to see where you put that. Thanks for the bait. Because it's no longer there. Abraham's bosom is you know the blood was shed. Matthew even refers there's a scripture there where it says the they came out of the graves. Um and and I say that because We go straight to heaven now. But they didn't because the blood hadn't been shed, yeah. This idea of him returning, let's go right to the next passage, Acts 1, 9 through 11. Grace, can you read that for me? And after he had said these things, he was lifted up while they were looking on and Cloud received him out of their sight. And as they were gazing intently into the sky while he was departing, behold, two men in white clothing stood beside them. And they also said, Men of Galilee, why do you stand looking up into the sky? This Jesus who has been taken up from you Alright, this idea of just the same way, right? You're talking about he will return. What way did he go up? And and don't don't read into this too much, but What did what did they see? What happened? Physically, right, in bodily form he was raised into the clouds Right? And it's saying he will return the same way in what? In bodily form to do what Pastor Alan talked about. That's when he's going to set up his kingdom. Right everything that that's what they were waiting for. That's when that's gonna happen. But right now he needs to ascend. He needs to be at the right hand of the Father to complete that plan of redemption. Alright, good. Alright, turn to Ephesians one. So what I want you to pick up as I read this is let me read the passage, Ephesians 120, which he brought about in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in heavenly place So we've been talking about this position, seated at the right hand. What what's happening though, which he brought about? What did he bring about? So I I want you to be thinking about here's the benefits of completing that redemption, of ascending and sitting at the right hand of God. Picking up in Ephesians 1 15. For this reason, because I have heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love toward all the saints, I do not cease to give thanks for you. Remembering you in my prayers that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, and here's where I want you to pay attention, may give you a spirit of wisdom and of revelation in the knowledge of Him. Having the eyes of your hearts enlightened, that you may know what is the hope to which He has called you, what are the riches of His glorious inheritance and the saints. And what is the immeasurable greatness of his power towards us who believe, according to the working of his great might, that he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead? So did you catch that? Um by raising him, we now get a spirit of wisdom, of revelation, and knowledge of him. We have uh eyes that our hearts might be enlightened We get the hope of what we've been called to, the riches of this glorious inheritance, a measurable greatness of his power towards us Right? Beautiful, beautiful blessings because of Jesus completing his ascension and completing that plan of redemption. Good. All right, let's jump down to Hebrews 1-3. Lewis, can you read that one for me, please? Yes And he is the radiance of his glory and the exact representation of his nature, and upholds all things by the word of his power. When he had made purification of sins, he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high. So a lot of he's in there. Let's let's go through there. Um and he is the radiance. Who's the he there? Jesus of his glory. The Father, right? On the exact representation of his nature. It's the Father again, right? I love this verse, Hebrews 1 3, simply because And he is the radiance of his glory in the exact representation of his nature. I've said this before. You want to know God the Father? Know Jesus Christ the Son. Right? That's why we study the Gospels. We study the life of Christ. by the exact representation. Since then we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God. Let us hold fast. our confession. We're going to talk in a little bit about the confidence we should have knowing that Christ ascended and sits at the right hand. Right. That's what we're talking about. Some of his roles as high priest. So again, as a recap, he's ascended what? In bodily form at the right hand. To do what as high priest? That's point nine at the bottom of page 51. At the right hand of the Father, Jesus Christ now mediates as our advocate and high priest. As high priest, Jesus sympathizes with our weaknesses. We've talked about that in previous lessons. He represents us to the Father. And intercedes on our behalf. This idea of representing us to the Father, right? We are justified. If we are in Christ, we are justified before God the Father Why? Because of the blood of Jesus. He sees Jesus when he looks at us. We are declared righteous Alright, this first verse here. My little children, I am writing these things to you that you may not sin. And if anyone sins, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. And he himself is the propitiation for our sins. And not only for ours only, but also for those of the whole world. This idea of advocate, what does that mean, an advocate? Someone will like speak on our behalf. Okay. And next verse isn't the word they're using like literally like legal representative in court. Yeah. It's uh it's the Greek word parakletos, one who pleads the case of another, just like a lawyer would on your behalf The beauty is what? Jesus is the ultimate advocate. He wins every time. He wins every time. Why? Because he has already paid the penalty. How many lawyers would pay the penalty for you? Right? So this idea of advocate, I want you to think about someone who pleads for the case of another, right? And Jesus always wins. Right, top of page fifty two. And here's where I want you to get a sense of um the confidence, if you will, and the hope of what happens as as we think about the the truth here. In whom we Ephesians 3. 12, in whom we have boldness and confident access through faith in him. So let's pause here for a second and ask ourselves Why do we sometimes lack a boldness or confidence in approaching the throne? We see the truth here. We know what Jesus did. We know what role he has. Why do we lack a boldness? Get real for me for a moment. Ms. Green. Um when I'm very I'm just very aware of my sinfulness and um I know in my head that what Sadatha says is true, that I am cleansed from my sins and I separate throne, but when I'm so aware of my sinfulness, I it causes me to falter. Mm-hmm. Thank you. Any other comments on that? I mean this is real, isn't it, guys? Don't we all face this? I mean what Karine was describing was what do we often do? We we in that time of sin or the that burden of sin, we we do what? We condemn ourselves. Lord, I fell short. Again, I can't approach your throne. And yet Romans 8. 1, we'll go to that in a little bit, tells us what? There is no condemnation Right, we have to fight those thoughts and hold to the truth that we can come with boldness and confidence to the throne at any time. I I just I love that. We continue on the next verse, Hebrews six. Uh Johnny, can you read that for me please? So this hope we have is an anchor of a soul, a hope both sure and steadfast, and one which enters within the veil where Jesus has entered as a forerunner for us, having become a high priest Forever according the order of Alchizdec. Good. Alright, again this idea of a hope and the anchor of our soul. Right? This can be in those times when we're having those times of doubt Verses like this need to be an anchor, a reminder of what we have in Christ, a hopeful, sure, and steadfast. And one which enters within the veil. I'm going to show you a picture you guys know, but of the tabernacle There was a veil between the Holy and the Holy of Holies. You only the high priest could enter into the Holy of Holies. Sometimes I think we have a fear that, yeah, we can pray to God, but we we can't enter into the Holy of Holies. Jesus Christ has torn that veil, has torn that separation between God and man for those who are in Christ Jesus. So those are wonderful, wonderful truths of encouragement. We talked last week about this idea of the order of Melchizedek. Anyone want to summarize what they remember from that? Who was this high priest Melchizedek? Not a Levite, right? It was not hereditary. Right? It was not um due him because he was born into the tribe of Levi. Right? He was outside of that. He was special. And that was a type that that pointed forward to Christ. Was Christ from the tribe of Levi? No. No. He came from what line? Judah. Judah. Do you have a comment? Just because he was also a king. He's a priest of the Multi God and King. Yes, good. All right, Hebrews eight, one and two. Heather, can you read that for me? Sure. Now the main point in what has been said is this we have such a high priest who has taken his seat at the right hand of the throne as a majesty in the heavens, a minister in the sanctuary, and an intrigue tabernacle, which the Lord pitched. Yeah, so I just wanted to emphasize here the true tabernacle. Again, I'm going to show you some pictures of of the complexity of what it meant to to go into the tabernacle and all of the feasts and all of the ceremonies and all that had to happen, Jesus entered the true tabernacle, and I like this, which the Lord pitched, not man Right? This is always the Lord's doing. Jesus Christ did the work. Hebrews eight six. John, can you read that for me please? But now he has obtained a more excellent ministry by as much as he is also the mediator of a better covenant. Which has been enacted on better promises. Good. So we're going to talk in a little bit about this idea of a mediator And um let me just cover the next verse and then we'll talk about the covenant. And to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant, and to the sprinkled blood, which speaks better than the blood of Abel. So what are your ideas? What is what is this new covenant? Verses uh let's do this. What is the blood of Abel referring to? The Old Testament sacrifice system. Right? That's what we've been talking about. The tabernacle, the feast, the sacrifices, and and all that was involved with that. And Hebrews eight we just covered that. Excellent. What's the new covenant then? Instead of the law of grace, it's oh I'm sorry, the law the law it's great. Right? It's the law of grace. That is the new covenant now. And we're going to see, again, I want to show you some pictures of just the complexity of what was involved, and that's all been taken away. That's all been fulfilled through Jesus Christ. And we can now enter through and into the true tabernacle. Just a wonderful, wonderful picture. Alright, good. So he's our advocate, he's our intercessor, but what about this idea of a mediator? So point number 10, Jesus Christ is the only mediator between God and man. Christ being the infinite God-man and being fully adequate as high priest is the only mediator God recognizes. So what is this idea of mediator? Think differently, it's a little bit different than advocate, although similar, but give me some thoughts about being a mediator. What is a mediator in general? Speaks on your behalf or may get involved when there are two warring factions. Right? A mediator is often someone who has to try and bring them together. Well what is our relationship to God and our fallen state? Apart. It's separated, totally separated. Because God is holy, holy, holy He cannot have anything to do with sin. And that's who we are in our fallen nature. Right? That's the veil. There's no mediator that can bring that together except for one So Jesus Christ is that go-between. That's what mediator is and arbitrator. Right? A go-between. He restores peace Now we know that Jesus Christ is the only mediator that can restore that peace between God and man, right? What do many of the false religions do? All of them. They have a different way of mediation, whether that's good works or different gods or different traditions or different ceremonies, all of them. That's what they're trying to fill is that gap of how do I restore man to God Right? Um let me pause there because Pastor Allen you do a uh a whole growing disciples on other religions. I mean anything you want to re relate there or add to that? Well, only that point, that every other apart from biblical Christianity, all religion is a religion of work. And uh sometimes it involves mediation by some other third party. But it's everything boils down to a religion of work. In my experience sometimes in the secular world with mediation, um often it can bring a a I'll call it a temporary arrangement of peace where at least people are now talking, but there's often not true restoration, right? It's a negotiation and you get to a common ground. It's not true restoration that we see here in Jesus Christ. So let's cover a couple of those passages starting with 1 Timothy 2 5. Jenny, can you read uh that one for me? The first one? Right. So not one God and many mediators, one God, one mediator. And that's the message we have to be giving to those who are not in Christ. That's the hope that they have to hear. There is one mediator, one way. Hebrews 6, 19 and 20 This hope we have as an anchor of the soul, a hope both sure and steadfast, and one which enters within the veil, where Jesus has entered as a forerunner for us, having become a high priest forever, according to the order of Melchizedek. So We just read that, right? But these truths are so, so important. We cannot enter without Jesus Christ. Let me read um let's go down oh comment? Yes please No good. Because when you are reaching an agreement there is always some win and loss and discomfort in both parts, but they are reaching that point. But in this case it's a win win for us. Um it's Yeah, and that's what I was trying to get at. Often it's uh we we compromise, right, when we try to restore that relationship. Um Good. But I I think in that context we we have to be careful too what what role are we playing in in this mediation, right? It's all Jesus. Mm-hmm. It's all Jesus. It's win-win in the sense that we didn't have to do anything. Right? Yeah. So forever with him. So All right, let's jump down. I wanna because we we've covered some of these verses here, I wanna jump down to Hebrews ten, eleven, and twelve, kinda halfway through there. Miss Lauren, can you read that one for me? Hebrews ten, eleven and twelve. And every priest stands daily ministering and offering time after time the same sacrifices, which can never take away sin, but he, having offered one sacrifice for sin for all time, sat down at the right hand of God Good. So we've talked about this before, right? And we'll cover it when I show you the pictures. What what did the high priest have to do? Year after year after year had to offer up the sacrifices. Right, on behalf of the people. And then in Jesus we have one time once and for all Since therefore, brethren, we have confidence to enter the holy place. Again, we've read that verse, but wanted to emphasize the confidence to enter the holy place. Well then let's go down to the uh bold verse there, 1 John 2. My little children, I am writing these things to you that you may not sin And if anyone sins, we have an advocate, right, someone who's fighting on our behalf, if you will, with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. And he himself is the propitiation, right, satisfying the wrath of God for our sins. And not for ours only, but also for those of the whole world. All right. I want to let's go. To some Old Testament um books, if you will, where were at the end of Exodus going into Leviticus and so this is just a picture, these were slides I had from my Old Testament survey but just to kind of give you a picture or a glimpse, I know you're all familiar with some of these stories, but pictures sometimes help So they had the Exodus and it it did not take them long actually to get to Mount Sinai. It's just it's it's um several months to a year by the time they get to this point where God gives them very detailed instructions on how to build the tabernacle. And the tabernacle is all about, here's how I want you to come and worship a holy God. This is what I I demand from you. And what was it doing? It was a foreshadow, if you will, a type of what was needed, of what was going to come, and what Jesus fulfilled, right, through his death, resurrection, and his ultimate ascension. Alright, so that's where we're at. Again, we're at the end of Exodus going into Leviticus. And this was just a picture that I grabbed from the internet of what it could look like Actually the tabernacle and the surrounding aspect of it, uh kind of the the outer um borderline here, the fence, was really quite large. I I think I remember like a quarter of a football field. It was very, very large. And inside of that you had the tent of meetings, and you had the holy place, and then the holy of holies, which we've been talking about. And that's where the Ark of the Covenant was um where where the Lord had a manifestation of himself, right, with the cloud and you can see the the ark behind the veil. So there was the the very thick veil. I've been told it's thick as a um not everyone will remember this, but phone book, right? A Boston phone book. Very, very thick. And that's what Jesus tore. That was what was torn when when um Jesus died on the cross. And then you have all of these other artifacts, if you will, that have you know a lot of symbology to them, the perpetual flame with the candlesticks. The table of showbread, write the 12 cakes representing the twelve tribes. The altar of incense, right, where the prayers were offered, but out here is where the um the sacrifices were, and then the high priests, before they went in, had to cleanse themselves, didn't they? Right? They they were sinful as well. So again, a very complex, um ornate, uh even to build the tabernacle, very complex, but very orderly, right? God had very specific instructions Now the high priest who went in had this very ornate garment, a lot of jewels. In fact, um I think the twelve tribes were actually written on the epids that that kept that together But this whole garment was really centered around this breast this breastplate of judgment. And inside there were two I don't know if they were stones, but pieces of material, the Thumim and Urim, you'll hear that reference, right? And it was kind of like casting lots. Depending on on what happened with uh the position of those, that was getting direction from the Lord. And you'll see in the Old Testament that kings would often counsel with the high priest to get direction based on these stones. So again, I just want to point out very ornate, very complex, very ceremonial. Okay? Now the actual um tabernacle, it would move with them. So the the Lord, the pillar of cloud, the fire by night, when it moved, they moved. And they would have to pack everything up and and move it. And when they when they camped out, this is the very distinct order that they had to have things set up. By direction. So you can see the the positions up here. The front of that always had to be facing to the east, and here's the camp of Judah, right? Um the line of Jesus. And then you have the the priestly Levites, the tribe of Levi, and all the tribes have their order of where they had to be. And then when they marched out, they again had a very distinct order on who went where and where was the covenants and where were all the artifacts. And this was a rendering of what that might have looked like, but it was a big, big deal. Right, you're talking about thousands and thousands of people in a very distinct order marching along as God is taking them to the promised land. Another story of how they actually quickly got to like 11 miles away from the Promised Land and then spent 38 more years wandering in the wilderness. But in addition to the tabernacle, right, there were these five offerings. I'm not going to go in in in detail just to simply say there was Again, a lot of complexity to the offerings and the services that they had to render. Again, trying to have this relationship with a holy God. So these were the offerings, and then you have the seven feasts. And again, they were all very symbolic, but a lot of activity. Could you imagine having to do that today? Right? All those ceremonies, having to go to the tabernacle. Um, it's just it's mind-boggling. And yet Jesus completed all of that. completed all of that. I think that was it. Alright, good. Alright, any questions about that? I just I I think it's always helpful to see visually the magnitude of what was happening with the tabernacle. Yes. Can you pull up the left button The the like the name and then the number above the Bible versus look above the Yeah, don't go there, Kayla. No, I I don't remember. You know, I grabbed this from um. All right. Pash Allen, you're gonna add something. just to emphasize that the um tabernacle was portable by design by you know purpose because it all wandering and whatever. It ended up when they entered the promised land, it was established in Shiloh. We see that in in uh 1 Samuel and so on. But eventually they built a temple patterned after the Order of Tabernacle. So it was very much built to be the temple in Jerusalem was built to be a permanent structure, not a portable one. But it followed the exact same pattern. Yeah, and we see the the grandeur of that um temple from Solomon, right? It was destroyed and we see it being rebuilt not to the same magnitude. And we know when Jesus returns, or prior to that, right, the temple will be restored. Right? So keep your eye on what's happening in Israel, for sure. Alright. Any other questions, comments about that? Good. All right, let's uh work over to page 53. You know, we didn't have a lot of material for today, but we do have some good um interpretation questions, so we'll spend some time on uh kind of the application, if you will. The first question on page 53, why can't there be mediators between God and man other than Jesus, such as ancestors or Mary or priests? Right, they're they're sinful too, right? So they also need mediators. What else? Only he has fulfilled all the requirements of the law. Right, right. Only Jesus was sinless And only he paid the price for our sin. That's the that's why he can be the only mediator. I just think it's interesting when we think of mediators. I often think of how Christ is mediating and Like puts us into God's good graces if you will. Like puts us into a right relationship with God and forget that he also needs community in the sense that we're sinful and God can't be in the presence of sin and without that like almost holding back of God's judgment we would face that as a psalm and I can't remember the reference and this is a paraphrase But it says something like, Correct me, O Lord, but in your mercy, not in your anger, let you bring me to nothing. So it's like, yes, God can correct us, but like if he were to like unleash judgment on us according to our Yeah. I I'll call it visual. Sometimes we talk about a a mediator, a a um secular mediator where Okay, here I am and I'm trying to bring two people together. So hey here you over here I'm I'm gonna present you to each other. You gotta I'm gonna help you work things out. That's not the visual here, right? I I mean Jesus Christ as the mediator basically encapsulates us, encapsulates the church and is presenting that to God. That's the restoration of that relationship. Does that make sense? So that's a beautiful picture, I think. All right, any other comments on that? Why can there be no other mediators? Yes, Lauren. Um I think a really good question all comment. I was like if others could mediate so Jesus would have needed to make that sacrifice. in the first place. Mm. Because Revelation states that there was no one found on the earth that could and that have paid for the deed of mankind. It was just Christ. Right. Right. Yep. Yeah. Grace. that um and like mostly just the like Christian denominations, not the like completely pagan religions, but those ones they always have there needs to be repeated sacrifices and or there's going to be repeated symbolic sacrifices or something like that, but it's always saying that Christ's sacrifice is not enough. That it either he needs to be sacrificed more than once or just we need to make sacrifices too. supplement that right. Right. And always just undermines Christy at the intelligence. Yeah. Grace, that's a great point because um we can often fall in the trap. We start with, right, and Paul admonishes the people often in the epistles, you started with this grace. Where Jesus Christ was your mediator. And then you started to put stuff back on there, right? Traditions, earning your way through works, and that's the danger. Right? That's a danger anytime we add mediators to what Jesus Christ has already done. Ms. Kareem. Just building off of what you were saying, I was thinking about um specifically more And I mean but and um so basically you were saying that um it undermines his deity, but really Jesus isn't God So it's just another aspect of his worthiness or what he had to be. in order to fully save that price. Yeah, that's like that a little bit gets more into the like take in versus Christians things like I wouldn't say that Mormons even have a right to call themselves a Christian. I was thinking more like Catholicism because like they literally teach that they're like rape baptizing Jesus every single mass and it's like Like at least some priests would say that, but some would say else. All right. Any other comment Alex Um maybe a way to summarize the uniqueness of Christ is that in order to be the perfect mediator, really only valid mediator between God and man It has to be a God man. Um who has has stature with God because he is God, stature with man because he is man, the perfect man. Good. Alright, let's go to number two there. How did the priests and sacrificial system of the Old Testament foreshadow Christ's role as high priest? Why weren't they sufficient in and of themselves? We've talked a little bit about that, but just what are some of the highlights? Alright, so um sacrifice for their own sin. Good Uh they were a reminder that blood, that life needed to be shed to pay for the wages of sin. And they were not enough uh for the reasons that we've already discussed because Um in order to pay for the sins of humanity you needed a God man, somebody fully god and fully human. That's the only possible way that you could save humankind. So animal sacrifice is animal Right. Yep, no that's it. That's it. I mean none of those animal sacrifices were sufficient, were they, right? They they were temporary, they they were a type, they pointed to a future state that was going to be fulfilled in Christ, but they were unable. Right? You needed the God man. You needed that sinless human, the shedding of his blood. Yeah, excellent. Any other points on that one? Yes, Ms. Lawrence. So the high priest's role was meant to intercede for the people for the for the overall sacrifice. To cover any sins that hadn't been um brought forward by you know the dog or the bull loops or the grain, whatever the Israelis could bring and it was like Like the annual way of covering so that the relationship between God and his people could continue. Right. Um Christ's role in that is exactly that. Our sin is is It is hurting over throughout our entire life. And so his job is he covered us so that our relationship with God can continue And that's his role as the high priest. That's right. And the distinction is it's permanent now, right? It doesn't have to be any. Only Christ who can be our head for the money. Yeah, good. What else? Any other similarities you see there? Why was it to our advantage that Jesus ascended into heaven? And it references John 16 7. We covered that earlier. You guys might remember it. Let me see where that is. Yeah, it's on the on page fifty-one in the top section there. But I tell you the truth, it is to your advantage that I go away, for if I do not go away the helper shall not come to you, but if I go, I will send him to you. So obviously, right, he says I have to go to send a helper. What's the significance though of sending a helper? You know, the Holy Spirit. Wouldn't it be great to just have Jesus on the earth all the time? We will eventually but I mean this thing on the earth the old covenant basically just would have stayed in place with Jesus to the high priest and now we have the new covenant but for that we We need the Holy Spirit to be here again. That's right. Right. He needed to complete that plan of redemption. Um what are some of the other we we talked about some of the other benefits when we talked about Ephesians 1. 15 Right? The power that we will have through the Holy Spirit, the knowledge, our eyes being opened, those are all additional benefits of Jesus being ascended. in filling his rightful role as the high priest at the right hand of God. So wonderful on that. Mm-hmm. But this is the presenting of God in that place. So now we've had the Cody C we have God dwelling in her. So we're amazing this time. Exactly, exactly So all the more reason, right, we have to uh approach the throne in confidence. Um we need to be filled with the Holy Spirit daily. We need to be in the Word. Um I think it was last week we talked about, Pastor Alan talked about you know, those those sins. So what? We need to be transformed. Our mind needs to be transformed. We need to flee youthful lust. We need to stand firm against the devil. We need to put on the full armor of God. With confidence. With confidence. Good. Yes. Io go ahe. Just we understand this. When I read this, I focused on Jesus ascending into heaven. And for the text 15 seven talking about Jesus went away so that those things could come. I was just wondering about that ascending into heaven. Did he have any specific Um he's talking about the same event when he's saying I have to go away, I have to ascend into heaven and and sit at the right hand of the Father. I have to fulfill that role as the high priest. Does that make sense or am I not answering your question? No, I I mm maybe I'm not understanding your question, but it was it was he needed to ascend into heaven, right? And and so that's what he was saying. I have to go away to fulfill that um plan of redemption. Why not just like Okay, all right, that's fair. I I'll give you my thoughts but but somebody else jump in. We we kinda covered it earlier. Potentially. I mean one aspect of it is what? Is that they saw him ascend, right? And they visually saw him ascend how? In bodily form. And it was said that he's going to return the same way. So part of it, um it's a great question, I is that they needed to understand how he ascended, right? That he still had his bodily form and he was going to return in bodily form as well. I think that's one aspect of it. Does that make sense? That answers the question actually. Okay, all right. Yeah. Okay, good Alright, let's jump to number four. In what sense is Jesus both our judge, and you see some passages there in Acts and Corinthians, and our mediator advocate? So let me just highlight, excuse me. Let me highlight these passages of him being judged. So Acts 17, he will judge the world in righteousness. By a man whom he has appointed. So obviously God the Father will judge the world, the man he has appointed, Jesus Christ. 2 Corinthians. All appear before the judgment seat of Christ. And they will receive what he has, what what he, we, have done in the body, whether good or evil. And then this idea we've talked about of a mediator advocate in 1 John we covered that of what that role is. So what is this idea of he is going to judge even us as Christians? What does that mean as believers? Well he's he's going to assess our word. See you know the heart that was behind them Um that's the only way we're going to be judged because we've already been released from the penalty of sin. Right Rex. There is a judgment seat of Christ once we get to heaven for Christians only. Falls aren't aren't there, but that's when basically our life will be exposed. But we're in heaven and it's basically for future rewards. Whereas the Great White Throne judgment is simply for lost people and Christ doesn't intermedi doesn't intervene for us because we that they're not under the blood. But there are two separate judgments. That's exactly right. Johnny. I think I think about a couple of the parables of one of them. of is of the talents, right? You know, how well did you invest your time and your efforts, right? Um did you yield worth you know much of your investment Okay. Um and then there's comparable to soil where the good soil some will reap thirty sixteen hundred points. There's going to be varying amounts which we will be Yeah, good. So you guys are picking up on this. Don't forget what what we have studied um for the last several months, these attributes of God. Right? Yes, God is love, but he is also holy. He is righteous. He is just. He is also a God of wrath. Right? So yes, he is a judge. And we've talked about both the unsaved and the saved. If you are saved, he's going to judge your works, right, for the wars that we've talked about earlier. But if Jesus Christ is not your mediator, it's a different kind of judgment And God must execute that penalty of death. Right? That's clear. So good. All right, I want you to turn to Romans 8. This might be one of my favorite chapters in the Bible. Simply because of the encouragement that it gives to those who are in Christ. And I want to continue this theme of of Jesus Christ, if he truly is your mediator, is your advocate, the assurances and the hope that we have in Christ, and especially in his role as high priest. So I'm going to jump around here a little bit and just highlight this idea of things we can be clinging to, these truths. It starts, and I often quote this, Romans 8. 1. There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. Right? We talk about being able to approach the throne with confidence, and we can do that because there is no longer condemnation. We often fall on the trap of condemning ourselves, and that's what we have to fight. Right? Even in the midst of that, we have to approach with confidence. Lord, search me. Show me the sin in my life. Make it right. Right? We can have that cry to the Lord. Um go over to Romans eight. Let me start in 14. For all who are led by the Spirit of God. Again, we talked about Jesus ascending. Why? Because He wanted to now give us the helper, the Holy Spirit. For all who are led by the Spirit of God or sons of God, for you do not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear But you have received the Spirit of Adoption as sons, by whom we cry, Abba Father. And then this is the verse. The Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit That we are children of God. And if children, then heirs, heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, provided we suffer with Him in order that we may also be glorified with Him How do I know that I'm saved? Because his spirit testifies with my spirit. My spirit cries out, Ah the Father. Right? And if that's so, we are co-heirs now with Jesus Christ. That is a great, great assurance. Continue on the next little bit. It talks about groaning, right? And there's three groanings, if you will. Creation is groaning for that time when things will be restored. Remember, after the fall, even creation met the effects of distortion. Right? That's going to be brought back to its glorified state. We groan ourselves wanting to be in that position of glorification. But also go down to verse 26. Likewise, the Spirit, remember the helper that was provided. Likewise, the Spirit helps us in our weakness. For we do not know what to pray for as we ought, but the Spirit Himself intercedes for us with groanings too deep for words. And he who searches hearts knows what is the mind of the Spirit, because the Spirit intercedes for the saints according to the will of God. And this is uh a very familiar and wonderful passage, and we know that for those who love God, all things work together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose. Again, this idea we should be able to approach the throne with confidence. But why? Here we see the Holy Spirit is interceding for us. And to what purpose? God's will. What is best for us? And we know that for those who love God, all things work together for good for those who are called according to his purpose. That's the assurance, that's the confidence we can have. Flip over then to verse 34. Paul, in his style of asking these rhetorical questions, who is to condemn? I'm sorry, let me back up. It is God who justifies, right? Declares us righteous. Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died. More than that, who was raised. Who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us. Right? So you have the Holy Spirit and Jesus Christ interceding for us. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or soul? It is written, For your sake we are being killed all the day long. We are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered. No, in all things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I am sure that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor rulers Nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. If that doesn't encourage you, I don't know what will. So Romans 8, great, great chapter of the truth of Jesus filling that plan of redemption. Alright, we got a couple minutes. Let's jump down to the application section. How does the advocacy of Jesus Christ on your behalf before the Father influence your everyday life? And again, get real with me. How does the fact that Jesus is our advocate influence our everyday life? Ms. Kreen. We can wake up and we can have hope for each day. Yep. Johnny. Courage and strength to kind of move on and know that you know it's not like oh I messed up, I lost my salvation. that that will work. So Yep. Yeah. Assurance? Good. What else? I think along those same lines, like when we find ourselves like struggling with sin or like falling into it. Like what Caleb was saying, like we can go to the Father about it. We can ask for it. Yeah. Yeah, I had a point here. Um you're talking about our sanctification. Life is hard. Life is really, really hard, right? This this assurance of his advocacy increases our desire to obey Right? It gives us that opportunity to continue, to continue, to continue to go to Him when we continue to fall. Right? That's the sanctification process. If you notice in Romans 8, something I read there Suffering is the path to glorification. You will suffer. You will go through trial and tribulation while you're here on this earth. It's going to happen. Right? And we want to obey the Lord. We want to have the desire. We want that to increase by being filled with the Spirit. Speaking of sanctification, you know, it is going to help us to go through that sanctification process. Can you imagine going through life without an advocate? For those that are single, that desire to be married, just with my own kids, I know how hard that is. Can you imagine trying to go through that trial, if you will, without an advocate like Jesus Christ? Um how about those of you who are parents? That's easy job, isn't it? Easy peasy. No way. It's hard. It's really hard. But we have an advocate that helps us through all of that. Um how about just being married? Love being married It's a great sanctifying process. It is. I you guys have heard me say it. I wouldn't be the man I am today if I wasn't married to Karim And I wouldn't have the ulcers I have today if I I just I can't even imagine life. Um you know, trying to go through the sanctification process without our advocate. But we haven't, right? The one and only Jesus Christ. So all right. Any other and and here's what I want to encourage you guys. I know we come here on a Sunday morning, we talk about this theology, this doctrine. It's really important that we're applying this to our lives. And you guys know the applications we just went through You know those, right? You know how we apply them to our lives. But I really want to encourage you to go back to some of the truths that we went over today, underline, fold, memorize, meditate Those are precious, precious truths of who we are as children of God. Right? And let that be your armor that you put on. Is that fair? All right, good. Alright, any other comments, questions? Pastor Allen? I'm also reminded of a passage we've talked about before that um our high priest, Christ, um Well tempted in every way like we are without sin. And In a selfish way, we might be tempted to say, okay, well, um he's paid for that. His his righteousness is what God looks at on our account Um and we might want to just say, okay, then I can do whatever I want. But the reality is that if it really has transformed our heart and and and brought us into a right relationship with God, then our desire or motive is more out of love. And knowing that he was able to live a sinless life in in what was probably a m much more difficult life than we've ever faced, um gives us the courage to ask him to help us through um the day today. And we can rely on him. Yeah. It's just a great combination of knowing that we know the final outcome, but he's also helping us through the day-to-day Amen. Yep. Yep. Excellent point. Thank you. All right. Looking ahead, we have one more lesson on uh the role of Jesus Christ. We've talked about prophet, priest, and the next one King. Right? Jesus Christ is King. That will wrap it up and then we'll finish up this quarter talking about pneumatology. What is that? Holy Spirit, right? Exactly. Well we just talked about today, the helper. Right? So this is all being tied together. Alright, let me close in prayer.