Okay, so uh lesson number six, we're going to be talking about spiritual gifts in your book. It's page 52. I I put together uh PowerPoint slides just for my own organization and I they're projected above here, but it's really following along with uh with your notes. So First of all, what are these spiritual gifts? What's the purpose of these spiritual gifts? And the reason we have spiritual gifts, the reason God has distributed them is to accomplish His purposes in the world. For that purpose, he gives spiritual gifts. And he gives them through the church. And so, first of all, he brings gifted people into the church, people that have these spiritual gifts, uh, for equipping the saints. And so we have elders and deacons and various people that the the the Lord has brought into our church in order to uh for the purpose of equipping the saints for the work of ministry And then he's also distributed spiritual gifts to every single member of the body of Christ. And our job then with those spiritual gifts is to develop and exercise them within the context of the church. So there's some good scriptures that he's got in the in the body of the notes, and uh I want to particularly read those first couple. Um So let's just take a look at 1 Corinthians chapter 12, verses 4 to 11. Would somebody like to read that? Yes, go ahead. Now there are varieties of gifts but the same spirits, and there are varieties of ministries of the same Lord, and there are varieties of effects of the same God who works All things in all persons. But to each one is given the manifestation of the spirit for the common good. But one and the same spirit works all these things, distributing to each one Very good. Thank you. So what do we see here in this passage of scripture where Paul is explained to the Corinthian church about uh how the spirit works in the body of Christ for the building up of the body of Christ. First of all, uh in the bold adverse you see there, but to each one is given the manifestation of the Spirit for the common good. And so Well, first of all, you see that the these spiritual gifts are for everyone. Not just a few. There's not just a few uh super Christians that get spiritual gifts. It's every single follower of Christ has spiritual gifts. And then that same verse tells us what they're for, for the common good Uh what does that mean in this context? The common good of what? What the body of Christ. Right? So he's talking about the body of Christ. And so He's talking about spiritual gifts being distributed in the body of Christ, and he's saying that the reason that everybody has them is for the common good. Uh so not for the good of the person that has the gift, but for the common good. So when we think about spiritual gifts, there's two uh easy and kind of straightforward tests, general tests, to determine if something is a spiritual gift. Number one, it will always be for the benefit of others And number two, it will always be ultimately for the glory of God. So if if something doesn't benefit others and bring glory to God, then it's not a spiritual gift. That's the initial test. Yes. But uh in this particular passage it seems to indicate that um for the common good for each one and it lists a bunch of uh uh gifts which I don't think we see too much today. Miracles, healing, tongues, interpretation on things like that. So I I imagine we'll talk about that later. We will. So we will get into the idea that there are uh parti there were particular gifts in the first century for particular purpose And that particular purpose no longer exists. We'll talk about that in in some detail, but not quite yet. Okay. Uh yes. Between um word of wisdom and word of knowledge. Uh so that's a good question. So what's the difference then between knowledge and wisdom? Isn't wisdom knowledge applied? Sorry. Uh okay, yeah, so wisdom knowledge applied. Yep. I was gonna say the uh gift of knowledge I would say would be people who can quote like the entire Bible off top of their head, where wisdom would be somebody who's better at seeing how to apply it. Right. Wisdom is the application of knowledge. Um I have uh experience of very smart foolish people in my career. Yeah, so uh absolutely absolutely. Yeah. There's some very well educated fools. In our in our country. So d how do you um uralize your word of knowledge and word of Um yeah, so so good question. So uh knowledge is uh things like information, uh being able to impart information, uh information from the scripture, for example. uh is imparting information. But application is more like biblical counseling. Taking a particular piece of scriptural knowledge and applying it to a real world situation to help a person through some life crisis or circumstance. Wisdom. And knowledge and obviously teaching. Information. So teaching can include both. It can be just knowledge, but it can also teaching can include application of knowledge as well. But it it doesn't always have to be. Especially when they're young. You're just trying to get the information into them when they're young. uh application can't you you can start making really simple applications, but when you're training children or somebody that's really young in the day, for example. Uh y you want to get the information in first and then the application of the information. Okay. Let's take a look at the second passage. These are the main passages about the spiritual gifts, as we'll see as we go along. So uh can somebody read Ephesians 4, 11 to 16 for me. And he gives some as apostles and some as prophets and some as evangelists and some as pastors and teachers for the equipping of the saints for the work of service, for the building up of the body of Christ And so we all attain to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God to a mature man, to the measure of the stature which belongs to the fullness of God. Christ. As a result, we are no longer to be children tossed here and there by the waves and carried about by every wind of doctrine. by the trickery of men, by craftiness and deceitful scheming. But speaking the truth in love, we have to grow up in all aspects into him, who is the head, even Christ, for whom the whole body being filled and held together by that which every joint supplies According to the proper working of each individual part, causes the growth of the body for the building up of itself in life. Alright, so there's a couple things we notice from this passage. There's some particular gifts at the beginning, which are for equipping the saints. So there's some particular gifts um that sometimes are uh associated with positions in the church that are specifically to equip the rest of the saints And build up the rest of the saints. And so what are those? Apostles, prophets, evangelists, pastors, teachers, those sort of things. And Paul says, those are for equipping the saints for the work of service. So who actually does the work of service? The saints. Not particularly just the pastor teacher, but the saints who he's equipping are the ones that actually do uh the work of service. He's equipping them the the pastor teacher is equipping them to do that. But then notice at the bottom of this passage, what does it point out about the whole church and how it works? It says from the whole body being fitted and held together by that which every joint supplies. So by what every single person in the body supplies. That's what he's talking about. Held together by that which every joint supplies, according to the proper working of each individual part. So now we're talking about the whole thing. Each individual part causes the growth of the body for the building up of itself in love. So that's what causes the growth of the body is everybody doing their part. Yes. It certainly seems like Uh we're we all need each other and and and that we're all important and part of the body. Absolutely, absolutely, and and Paul makes that point in another passage about how Um certain parts of the body seem honorable, but you need all of the body body parts. Uh very good. Um And then 1 Peter 4. 10 says, as each one has received a special gift, employ it in serving one another, as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. So what are these gifts for? They're for serving one another. Uh that's what uh Peter teaches in First Peter four. Any questions about any of that? Just this setup and background of spiritual gifts. Okay. So there were two kinds of spiritual gifts given in the early church. Two kinds, two categories basically, of gifts. This is one way to divide up the gifts. So first there were miraculous gifts of divine revelation, of healing, given temporarily in the apostolic era for the purpose of confirming the authenticity of the apostle's message. So there was a particular purpose for these miraculous gifts. It was to say, hey, listen to what these men are saying. Listen to what these men are saying It's an authentication from heaven that the words they were speaking were true. And that was the purpose for it. And then there's ministering gifts, given to serve believers for edifying one another. Um and so we have um For example, uh Acts chapter five, verse twelve, and at the hands of the apostles many signs and wonders were taking place among the people, and they were all with one accord in Solomon. Portico and so the apostles were doing these signs and wonders as they were teaching, and the purpose for those signs and wonders were for everybody to um pay attention and to understand that what the apostles were saying was authoritative authoritative from God. So the the miracles come from God to show that the words the apostles were speaking came from God. see the purpose for these gifts. Uh it's not a it wasn't a circus show. Uh it wasn't, you know, come and see the sword swallower thing kind of thing. It was for a particular purpose of validating, authenticating their words. Can anybody read for me? Somebody read for me. 1 Corinthians 12, 27 to 31. Now you have Christ's body and individually members of it. And God is appointed in the church first apostles, second prophets, third teachers, then miracles, then gifts of healing, help administration, very kinds of tongues. All are not apostles, are they? All are not prophets, are they? All are not teachers, are they? All are not workers of miracles, are they? All do not have gifts of healing, do they? All do not speak with tongues. Do they also not interpret do they, but earnestly desire the greater gift. And I show you still a more excellent way. gave these particular gifts to certain men to launch the church. Uh And those are particularly apostles. And we'll get into apostles a little bit later, what the definition of an apostle is, why there are no apostles now, uh things like that. But originally the church was set up with these particular um these particular gifts, these particular giftings of certain people, uh, in order to launch the church and um One of the main reasons why that is, that why that was then and and is not now, is because we now have the New Testament. So remember that when Paul is writing this, they don't have the New Testament. In fact, the letter that he wrote these things in to the Corinthians becomes part of the New Testament. Well they don't so they so this Corinthians church at this time has now in their hands First Corinthians. But they don't have Second Corinthians and they don't have lots of other parts of the New Testament and we've got all of it. We've got all of it. And so we don't need somebody, uh we don't need an apostle to tell us these things originally because we have a copy of God's Word in our hands to tell us these things. And we can read about the miracles that authenticated these things. We don't need fresh miracles to authenticate these things. Okay. So that's the purpose of what what Paul is talking about there. First Corinthians 14 22. So then tongues are for a sign not to those who believe, but to unbelievers, but prophecy is for a sign not to unbelievers But to those who believe. What what is he talking about there? What does he mean there? About tongues for unbelievers and prophecy for believers. What's the difference there? What's the context? So uh w who what was the so eventually of course this these this church was um uh spread out to the whole world. But where did it start? Um at Pentecost who was Peter talking to? Jews. Jews. He was talking about Jews. He's talking to Jews from all over the empire. When whenever Paul went to a new city, where did he go first? The synagogue. He went to the synagogue first. Um and so who had an experience of prophecy? Which group had experienced, millennia history of prophecies? The Jews. They had all these prophecies from the Old Testament. If you can clarify the uh prophecy, because there's prophecy in terms of preaching the word and then there's prophecy in terms of predicting the future that maybe you can clarify your use of prophecy now. Yeah so uh we'll get into the definition of prophecy but uh prophecy can be uh prophecy is just uh Speaking from God. And it can be a prediction of the future, but it doesn't have to be a prediction of the future. Typically that's the the general use of the word prophecy, but it doesn't have to mean predicting the future. Yes. the Jesus saying to which one is it? Timothy, I saw you on just tree Timothy. That was that could say prophecy. It's like it was past and it was something that you know, didn't take necessarily any special knowledge that he had because he was God. So that was what all instead. Yeah, that's right. Um and but for the but for um uh Gentiles, so and what language was all the prophecy in for the Jews? It's in Hebrew, right? Um so, but what what about the Gentiles? What languages do they speak? Well so they could have sp some of the Gentiles probably spoke Aramaic and other disciples spoke Aramaic too. Uh everybody spoke Greek. Everybody in the Roman Empire spoke why did everybody in the Roman Empire speak Greek? What did you say? That's what it can. Because Greek Because the Greek Empire was like still it was very the Greek Empire rose up first and then the Roman Empire rose up, and then the Roman Empire took over a lot of Greek territories and And then I think I know at least as far as Egypt, the state language would have been Greek because it was a Ptolemaic dynasty. Um so probably there are a lot of places where Greek was still just in the standard language. Right. So so uh before this, Alexander the Great took over the whole known world and he was Greek. So everybody spoke Greek. And so even after the Roman Empire came, Greek was the language of commerce. Language of commerce. Sort of like English is today. And so everybody had to speak Greek if you wanted to do business. And so everybody spoke Greek. Latin was the language of the administration of the state. uh the government language, but Greek was the language of commerce. And everybody had to do commerce, uh, if you wanted to live and make a living And so that's why that's why the New Testament is written in Greek. That's why God or that's how God orchestrated it, so that everybody would speak Greek, and so he would write his put his New Testament in Greek so that everybody could understand God worked all that together. But that's why uh Greek. And that's why the New Testament is in Greek. But then you have to be in the Ron person secret, right? Well like of uh Jesus' disciples did deny secret? So most likely yes, because they had to do commerce like fishermen Would have to do commerce with their fish. They gotta sell their fish somewhere. If you want to sell your fish somewhere, you gotta have you gotta be able to speak the language of commerce. So yes, most likely they did speak Greek. Mm-hmm. Yeah. So it was the it was the language of commerce, like sort of like English today. Where no matter where you go in the countr in the world, it seems like there's at least a you know everybody has some knowledge of English. English wherever you go. It's amazing. Not everywhere. I mean you can go you can go to places where they don't know English. But it's a common language, yes. Control is all over the world, it's English. Right. Yeah. So you have to speak English to be a private. You have to be able to speak English over the bridge-to-bridge radio. You have to have English speakers on your ship to to drive a ship across the ocean. Yeah. Okay, yeah. So uh but so there's all these other languages though. There's many, many other languages in this empire. And so tongues were originally um so that people could understand in their own their own uh local language what these people were saying. So if you go all the way back to Acts chapter two and um and the original uh First 3,000 added to the church, they spoke in tongues and each one heard in their own language, their own local language. what they were saying. So that was the purpose of tongues, is to testify to many, many different kinds of people that this was these words were words to be listened to. Okay, so um uh 2 Corinthians 1212, the signs of the true apostle were performed among you with all perseverance by signs and wonders of miracles. So signs and wonders of miracles were associated with apostles. um at the time of the foundation of the church. And then Hebrews 2. 4, God also bearing witness with them, both by signs and wonders and by various miracles and by gifts of the Holy Spirit according to his own will. So this is talking about the foundation of the church and the testimony that the original apostles were giving being authenticated by miracles. And there's many passages of scripture. That tells us that. Alright, so let me just talk about tongues here for a second. We're going to get into some more discussion of the doctrine of cessationism. at the end. But let me just touch on tongues. The gift of tongues is the s supernatural ability to speak prophetically in a foreign language never learned by the speaker. Not a gibberish. But a language that other people understand, but which the speaker never went to university and studied. So it's a miracle. Uh it was a sign given to confirm to the Jews in the early church the coming of the Holy Spirit. That at the very beginning, that first Pentecost, it was a gathering of Jews, but it was Jews from where Why were they in Jerusalem? They were in Jerusalem from all over the Roman Empire for Passover. Um and so they came from all the different local provinces and in addition to Greek being a language of commerce, they also had their own local languages. And the apostles could have given the whole address in Greek and everybody would have understood it. So why did the Holy Spirit have them speak in many different languages at once? Because that miracle was done to authenticate their words. If they had merely spoken in Greek and everybody had understand them in Greek, then there's no miracle, and these words are not special. There's nothing special about these words in the minds of the hearers. But because the Holy Spirit did a miracle, miracle of tongues, and they all heard them in their own languages, those words were, everybody knew that those words were special um to be paid special attention to. Um and so that was the gift of tongues. And that was how it started. Yes. Um This slightly differs from I'm forgetting which instance, but it's the one where and each herd in his own language, and the way I kind of see that is One of the apostles is speaking and miraculously it's heard in twenty different languages. So is the way I kind of read that or interpret that. I was just gonna think is it is ambiguous that then there are onlookers around who are saying, What are these guys drunk? So they're hearing something that isn't a language that they understand So there is like I don't know if it's like one apostle is speaking one language and it's a one-to-one ratio, or if like he's speaking Cappadocian, but people are also hearing him in Etruscan. I don't know, but like it does seem to be implied that at least to some extent they were not the in in Greek or Aramaic. Well let's read the passage and see what it says. So uh the passage does Acts 72, 4 to 11. Uh can somebody volunteer to read through that one? And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and began to speak with other tongues, as the Spirit was giving them utterance. Now there were Jews living in Jerusalem, devout men from every nation under heaven. And when this sound occurred, the multitude came together and were bewildered, because they were each one hearing them speak in his own language. And they were amazed and marvelled, saying, Why are not all these who are s Why are not all these who are speaking Galileans? And how is it that we each hear them in our own language to which we were born? Parthians and Medes and Elamites and residents of Mesopotamia Judea and Cappadocia, Pontius and Asia, Fergia and Pamphylia, Egypt, and the districts of Libya around Cyrene, And visitors from Rome, both Jews and proselytes, Cretans and Arabs, we hear them in our own tongues speaking of the mighty deeds of God. So there are multiple apostles speaking, there are multiple people listening. But somehow the hearers are hearing in their own language. Now it is a little bit ambiguous whether it's one apostle speaking in a you know, each of the different languages or uh if they're all speaking and that speech comes out or goes into the ear of hearers in their own language. It doesn't It's a little bit ambiguous. It doesn't say for sure how the Holy Spirit did that. But the the important thing to grasp here is that this is a miracle. These Galilean apostles don't know all of these languages. Uh yes. So question for you, because I can't can you have any examples of Are there examples in the Old Testament of tongues being spoken? Or is it specifically in the New Testament? Is it something that the Jews listening would have been familiar with this type of So no, I don't I can't think of anything uh speaking of tongues. Um there are uh the the Old Testament is in um Hebrew with the exception of the handwriting on the wall passage which is in a a different language. Um so no I I don't I I can't think of a um a speaking in tongues passage in the in the old test Yeah, so I so the point is I think this is new. I think this was new. And then my question is like now this we don't need an interpretation because everybody her own language, but later in the chapter in the Paul said when you want to speak in tongue you need to have a temporary, you have to be in Yeah, so uh he's talking later on about if you're in a church assembly. Um and somebody's going to speak in a tongue that not everybody can understand, that there's got to be somebody to interpret so that people will understand. Yeah, so why is it that the Holy Spirit doesn't do it the same way? I I don't know. Uh evidently this was a special case and when Paul's talking about later on in the life of the church, uh he's anticipating that it won't be that same way. It won't be that one person speaks and everybody understands, no matter what languages they understand, but that somebody has to Interpretatively yes. And I don't know why that is. I was going to suggest that one reason could be that it's a safeguard against phonies because if somebody speaks in tongues and nobody understands what they're saying, then why would God have had them speak in tongues when no one could understand them. And if it's you know the same dude interprets every single time it's always a similar message. It's like, okay, you're just repeating yourself. You're not actually getting anything things from God. So I feel like that could be part of it. Is it a safeguard against people trying to take advantage of people? Could could be. Could be. Yes. I don't know if there's any actual different word for tongues in Greek and Hebrew or whatever. So but this case that you're asking about is like inviting a pastor from a foreign country to see and just have them babble for forty five minutes without anyone actually sort of doing the interpreting, you know. Um so quite quite yeah I get confused on the tongues and the tongues thing, knowing a foreign language, whether is it a gift? No, it's not really a gift, but I learned it. So you know, I get cr caught up on that. Right, yeah. So the the The instance that you're talking about where and you invite a pastor over, obviously that pastor learned that language. He's not speaking it as a as a gift of tongues, and somebody would interpret that pastor who had studied the language Uh so it's not a miraculous thing. Um I mean I went to church in Brussels and Brussels is a um i Belgium is both French and and Flemish and they they've got two languages and um but a lot of people speak English. But the church we went to um was a bilingual church, English and French. And so the pastor spoke in English. He was an American actually. But there was a French interpreter standing right next to him. And so he would say a few sentences and then the interpreter would would say it in French. And all the hymns were sung as a him in French and then him in English and it went back and forth. Uh but that there's no miracle there. There's no gift of tongues from the Holy Spirit. Those are languages people learn uh the ordinary way. Yeah. uh through the Holy Spirit by Jesus Christ. That that one time anyone that speaks tongues or produced or speaking tongues If they are not able to explain what they are speaking to the congregation, then they're talking to the heir. This is what Jesus Right. Yeah, that's right. So it was for a particular purpose and if you don't uh and and we're gonna talk about later that purpose um very s very narrow purpose of the New Testament which no longer exists. Um because we have the New Testament though Okay, let me continue along Acts chapter 10, 44 to 46. While Peter was still speaking his words, the Holy Spirit fell upon all those who were listening to the message. And all the circumcised believers who had come with Peter were amazed, because the gift of the Holy Spirit had been poured out upon the Gentiles also, for they were hearing them speaking with tongues and exalting God And so this w what was the purpose of this particular uh speaking in tongues? To show the Jews that the Gentiles also were receiving the Holy Spirit. That was the purpose of this particular gift of the tongues in this particular circumstance. Okay. Let's continue on. Sign gift, it sees that to the Holy Spirit's intended usage for it, and we'll talk more about that in a minute. The Holy Spirit administers spiritual gifts to every believer in the church And he decides who receives which gifts. So it's not us. It's not up to me what gifts I have. It's not up to you what gifts you have. The Holy Spirit superintends that With the whole big picture in mind, a big picture of a particular body of Christ in mind, yes. So I have a professional came up in the first Corinthians twelve, twenty-five to thirty Yeah, so um the the idea that we should pray to be used by God. And um there's nothing wrong with praying to God for his gifting to be used. But how do how does what was Jesus' example of how to pray? Not my will, but your will be done. So there's nothing wrong with desiring the greater gifts and praying for uh God to use you in a powerful way But always make sure that you close that prayer with, Not my will, but yours be done, because what if God's will is not to need to have one of the greater gifts? Um should I complain to the potter that he's made me a s a certain way? Um yes. What if you better if uh God doesn't I'll pray You know, but rather than to say, uh, give me a gift, why not? The gift that you have given to me, please allow me to be able to use it in the way that you would have me to use it. Yeah, that's that's we all have gifts but sometimes we're not able in our own capacity to you know use it so yeah so uh yeah so y that's true that would be a good prayer to pray. However, remember Jesus' prayer in the garden Uh take this cup from me. He prayed, take this cup from me. Um and so um be over with. Yeah. Because he was sent here to do what his father wanted to he was struggling, but he always wanted to do his father's way That's right. And so we can struggle with what it is God wants us to do. Um that's the example of Jesus, but The the ultimate example of Jesus is not my will but yours be done Okay. So uh the Holy Spirit distributes gifts. Uh no believer has all the gifts, but it is but is in need of God's gifting of the others in the body. So somebody mentioned this earlier that we need one another. The Christian life is designed to be lived in community with other believers. And we need each other. We need the gifting that the Holy Spirit has given us. And so the Holy Spirit gives gifts and he also brings people together in miraculous ways. I mean, think about your life story and how it is you ended up at Hope Bible Church in 2024. There's a story there. There's a story that's God's story for your life that if one thing was different, you wouldn't be here But the Holy Spirit has orchestrated every event in your life and every event in everybody else's life that are here as part of the body at Hope Bible Church so that we are here together as brothers and sisters, as a family with a particular set of spiritual gifts that fits together so that we can um serve one another, so we can build up one another. We can build up this Body of Christ. And that's all a working of the Holy Spirit together through and across time and everything about it is amazing. I'll just give you one example. So uh my my father for decades and decades and decades and decades has been teaching a Bible study for international students. in the Pittsburgh area. It's a ministry called Prism, Pittsburgh Regional International Scholastic Ministries. And so my parents over the years have had many different people and they also do host family things with these international students and they come and stay with them for and come for Thanksgiving and Christmas. And my dad teaches these Bible studies and And so at one point he had a young lady from China, and she was a medical doctor, and she was uh studying at the University of Pittsburgh Hospital Uh that was her study abroad. And then she went but she came to my father's Bible study and she gave her life to Christ and she became a Christian. And then she went back to China and my father was very concerned, was she gonna be able to find a church? Um, you know, was she gonna be able to plug in with other believers or was she gonna be all on her own back in China as a brand new believer? Um and so just after that happened, um my father and I I went to a conference in Pittsburgh. It was a um an apologetics conference. And I went, my father was there, and I in through the door walks a guy that I hadn't seen in 35 years. He was a friend of mine from college. And he at the University of Pennsylvania his major was Chinese language, culture, and history, because all he ever wanted to do was go be a missionary in China. And so as soon as he graduated from Penn, off to China he went, uh 1986. And he's been in China since 1986 as a missionary. And I hadn't seen him since we graduated from Penn, like 30 something years before. And he walks into this conference. Tom! Hey Tom, how you doing? And uh my dad's there and he's telling Tom this story about this young lady that went to his Bible study and went back to China And um and so uh and I so I talked with my friend Tom, I say, Tom, I know China's a big country. I mean China's a really big country with a billion people in it. Um, but would you happen to know anybody from Dad where's this uh young lady from? Oh she's from Guangzhou, the city in the south coast of Guangzhou. And Tom goes, Guangzhou, that's where I live. Um that's where I pastor a church. And so we were able to contact this young lady and steer her to my friend's church in Guangzhou. Now, think about the threads that the Holy Spirit had to weave to make that happen. I met this guy at college before this woman was born. Not only was she not a Christian yet, she wasn't even born yet when Tom and I were friends at the University of Pennsylvania And then she sa the the Holy Spirit sends him to a particular town in China among a billion people. And it just so happens that this woman is from Guangzhou. It just so happens that she comes to Pittsburgh to my father's Bible study my father and I and so I'm not from uh you know I I used to be from Pittsburgh but I don't live there now. Um I I went to college in a different city. I live in a different city. She's from Guangzhou But the Holy Spirit can tie all these threads across decades of history and across the entire globe to make sure one of his children, this young lady, one of his daughters, is taken care of. Think about that. Think about how the Holy Spirit orchestrates something like that. And He does that for every single one of God's children. Every single one So uh not every every story is as outlandish as that. And not every story are things that we get to see. You know, I I wouldn't You know, I got to see, I got to peek behind the curtain and see how that was orchestrated, but we don't always get to see how that's orchestrated, but just know that the Holy Spirit is doing that all the time. Okay. The purpose of the gifts of the Spirit is to glorify Christ by implementing his work of redeeming the lost and building up believers in the most holy faith, and so there's a purpose for the church. The purpose of the church is the Great Commission to make disciples of all nations, baptize them and teach them The purpose of the gifts is to glorify Christ within the church to implement that work, the work of redeeming the lost. Now there was no obligation for God to involve us, allow us to be involved in the work of redemption. He could have just done it on his own. But for his own purposes and for his own glory, he allows us to be part of that process of redeeming the lost. And so, therefore, that's the purpose. And so, therefore, this Holy Spirit is not interested in ostentatious displays of power and miracles. He's not interested in bread and circuses. and putting on a show. And I one of my grandmothers was a Pentecostal Assemblies of God kind of person and I I remember going to church with her one time when I was a kid and in the program is you know hymn number one hundred and then the speaking in tongues, and then the interpretation of tongues, and then hymn number one ten. That that's in the bulletin in the in the in the order of worship. The speaking of tongues is in the order of worship. Uh think about what you're saying when you do that. That the Holy Spirit has to perform on my command. Um that's really what you're saying. The Holy Spirit's got to perform on my command, on my timeline, and I've got it there in the in the church bulletin. Um I I thought that was a very Sad. Uh very inappropriate. So that's it, is like will or what? So uh What I heard was a guy who stood up and y yammered gibberish and another person who stood up and said, this is what he said. That's that's what I that's what I heard. I was a little kid. But I was very skeptical, even as an eight-year-old, that that that gibberish was really anything Um and so there's a famous story, I don't know if it's true or not, of a young man that was a missionary's kid who had grown up in Africa and was fluent in Swahili And he went to a charismatic church just to see what they would do. And he stood up and said a bunch of stuff in Swahili, in actual language. Um and the in and then an interpreter stood up and said nothing like what he had actually said in Swahili. Um so there was hi his answer, his test of whether this was true or not, and it failed. Miserably failed his test. So um yeah Let me uh so let me just look at uh the different passages. We've we've read these passages now, I think. Maybe we didn't read the Romans passage yet. Um but there are three main passages that discuss spiritual gifts and list what they are. And they say them in a little bit different words, some of them But for example, the spiritual gift of apostleship, of being an apostle, is in 1 Corinthians 12 and also Ephesians 4. Prophecies in all three. teachers and uh two of the three. And so you can see the list there. Apostles, prophecy, teachers, pastors, teachers, evangelists, word of wisdom, word of knowledge, effecting miracles, healings, faith, helps and services Exhortation and encouragement, showing mercy, giving, administration, governing, managing, leading, speaking in tongues, interpretation of tongues, distinguishing spirits, and discernment. So we're going to talk here in a minute about some of these that have stopped and some of them that haven't. But that's a pretty good list of the gifts. And some of those were for a particular purpose in a particular time to authenticate the apostles' teachings so that we could build the New Testament. And so now that we have the New Testament, the purpose for which those gifts existed no longer exists. But many of these gifts, of course, are things that continue teachers, pastors, teachers, evangelists, word of wisdom, word of knowledge. Faith, helps and service, exhortation, encouragement, showing mercy, giving, administration, governing, managing, leading. Those things are all things that the body of Christ needs. And the Holy Spirit distributes those among the members of the church so that the body of Christ can uh can very efficiently function for the purpose of glorifying God and spreading the gospel, proclaiming the gospel. And so those are the gifts. Those are the gifts that existed at the beginning and many of them still exist. So Let me switch gears now to the cessation. So cessationism. And this one is on page 59. So this is in the supplemental information that Alan has in your books. And I just want to I'll start with this one. Maybe we'll get to some others. But I want to go through this one, the cessation of some spiritual gifts. Remember that all spiritual gifts will cease when we're in heaven. So no need for the spiritual gifts in heaven. Apostleship. The Greek word apostolos means one sent on a mission or a messenger. It's derived from the verb apostolo, which means to send. Christ gave his apostles a message and power to perform a testing miracle. So Christ sent the apostles with a particular mission. Um and he gave them particular gifts to be able to authenticate and spread that message. The office of apostle is a person that's selected and sent personally by Christ. Instead of Luke chapter 6 and Acts chapter 1. And all of the apostles are eyewitnesses of his resurrection. Eyewitnesses of his resurrection. So is there anybody alive today that's an eyewitness of the resurrection? No. So are there apostles in the house? No, there are not apostles. You will see some churches where people designate themselves apostles. What they're saying is they're eyewitnesses of the resurrection and that they were sent directly by Christ in his bodily form. They're the ones who through whom God provided the New Testament. The New Testament revelation was through these apostles either directly or through their immediate disciples. So there were some, like Mark, for example, who was Peter's disciple and companion and wrote down the things that Peter told them to write in the Gospel of Mark. And the same thing with Luke, who was a companion of Paul and wrote down the things that he saw as a companion of Paul. But the New Testament is the inspired word of God that he gave through apostles, directly or indirectly. And so there are no apostles today because there are no live living eyewitnesses of the resurrection. And nobody that Christ stood there in front of and said, go and do these things. And the church has already been established, and the New Testament is complete and sufficient. And so that's why those sign gifts have ceased, because their purpose has been fulfilled. The New Testament is written and the church is established. That's what the signed gifts were for. That's done. And so those signed gifts have ceased. Now I would add that God can do whatever he wants. And so if uh if God wants to heal somebody, he can heal somebody. Um and if he wants a person to be there as the person is healed for his own purposes, then that's great. But it's God who's healing. Um and he can do that if he wants to do that. Um all right. So um cessationism. So any questions about that? Let me go back. And so does anybody is anybody troubled by that Has anybody come from a tradition where you had um a belief in what's called continuationism that all these gifts still exist and they they have apostles and church and And all these things. uh processes and beginning time. Encroach in the angle of the SAD the uh yeah the Anglican and the Catholic versions, yeah. Uh where they say that speaking in tongues, it's it's really um Yeah, I I have a good friend from South Africa. Um his name is Dennis Zulu, from the Zulu tribe in in South Africa, and he told me that there's a lot of syncretism. And by secretism, what I mean is mixing of Christianity with other native religions, animistic religions, and so forth And there's a lot of kind of occult practices in those animistic religions that then gets kind of blended in with Christianity. Um and for example, he told me that his um grandmother um was a witch doctor and owned a Catholic church. Um like she own physically owned a Catholic church building, but she was also a witch doctor, his his grandmother. And that was kind of a common thing to mis mix Catholicism with some of the native um pagan kind of rituals and practices And so one of the things that happened was things like speaking in tongues kind of m blended well with some of those native pagan religions. That's what he told me, my my friend from South Africa. Um yeah, so there are there are things like that out there. Um but When when tested, they don't seem to hold up to testing. Um Yeah. We're told to test the spirits. Uh like the like the young man who spoke Swahili and went into the uh the the charismatic church. Test those spirits. Um from Korean church they're still really thinking um sticking town. I mean a lot of I mean they're not saying like they have the order of the worship or anything like that, but there's like so many More you spiritually, you know, even with the Lord you have to speak. It just comes naturally because it's they really formally agree and they that they're just incredibly experienced when you're able to do that. Of course I never experienced it, but then I mean how do you just describe that like do you have an experience with so Right. Yeah, so uh what I would say is there there was a purpose for those particular gifts, and that purpose is completed. And so what is the purpose the Holy Spirit's purpose, not my feelings, but a per Holy Spirit's purpose for those tongues today. Yeah. And we're going around to different churches, like a church dedication service that we went to. And so I I was asked to give my testimony So I stood up there and as I'm speaking in English giving my testimony, the pastor who we were traveling with, he was translating into their language. And at some point they're clapping. And at that moment I'm thinking, what in the world did I say that triggers them to clap? So I didn't say anything to the pastor at that moment, but recently, a few months ago, this pastor came to the States and he pre- I went and heard his sermon, very nice message, but afterwards I said Remember years ago when I came to India and I was giving my testimony and um you were translating, they were clapping His response was, I was adding a little spice. What did you say? So anyway, that sounds a lot. So they're in the process of translating it. They can say whatever they want. Yeah. That's right. Yes. I mean that strikes me as kind of like not just a line, but it's very easy. Agreed. Agreed. And his son actually s called him out on that. Yeah, yeah. Uh but yeah, so there are there are a lot of charlatans out there that will use wh whatever tools are available to dupe people And one of those tools can be religion. Um if you think about the the Mormon faith, for example, uh I mean that whole thing is based on a scam artist Um that Joseph Smith, I mean he was arrested for being a glass looker. Have I told this class this before? So I I taught a c a class in comparative religion and so I had to study Mormonism and how it came about This guy Joseph Smith, he was convicted of being a glass looker. And a glass looker is somebody that puts a glass, like a lens into a hat, like a big top hat, and he goes around and he tells you where to dig a well because he can see the water through this this lens into the top in the hat. Right? And then he charges for that. Charges for fighting wells. It's it was called being a a glassworker or a peep stoner. And there were people that used this scam to make money, and he was arrested for using that scam Before he invented Mormonism. Well, uh when it comes to uh how the the the Angel Moroni supposedly gave him these plates with this this uh revelation in a language that nobody knew called Reformed Egyptian and there never was any such language and a anyway, w when Joseph Smith told his story about how he interpreted the place He said, well, I took a hat and I put a stone in there and I looked through the hat and then I could interpret the plate. He used the same scam that he had been arrested for to start his religion The same scam. So there's scam artists out there that will use religion to scam people. So test the spirits. Test the spirits. Yeah. Yeah. Uh any other questions? Yes, sir. Well, uh this is just a little snippet. Uh I I I was born again sometime in uh twenty years ago um in my house when I when I got convicted and I went to this uh Pentecostal church. I didn't know the difference there and they said there's gonna be this uh preacher who's coming from Australia and then they called to the altar and all of a sudden they started blabbing saying a whole lot of stuff And he said he said, come on, speak in tongues. I said, but I don't know what to say. And he said, just say something in your local language. I said, what? It's while we're at the altar. I said, no, no, no, no This is and I'm glad that the Holy Spirit is fine that you know I what can I say something in my local language? And that that is speaking in tongues. Alright, any other questions about any of that uh the idea of cessationism, the purpose for which I'm saying Learning the Bible reading it, asking God to show you what he wants you to see before you go into it is the best thing. Yeah, and so detailful, quite caliphable. Right, and so the the purpose of all these miraculous gifts was to get us to the point where we have the New Testament Um so that now we can read what God said and we can pray to the Lord and we can use the wisdom of the Holy Spirit grants us to understand what the Holy Spirit has put into the New Testament so that we can live the Christian life in accordance with God's will Um they didn't have the New Testament. And so this is why the apostles were given all these sign gifts as they were setting up the church and as they were developing the New Testament, as the Holy Spirit was making the New Testament through them All of the things that they were doing and saying had to be authenticated by God so that they would everybody would know that these were words from God. Um but there's we don't need that now. We have the word of God now. Uh yes. Um maybe You'll get into this momentarily, but um the question I have is um how does how what does the Bible say as far as um how do we determine how we discover or understand our gift Okay. Uh let's talk about uh the gifts, um the meaning and purpose and the kinds of gifts and how we know what we have. So um And so this is in supplemental material. I think this starts on page 54. And I hope this will help. So the Greek word for the Greek word for gift is charisma, derived from grace, charists. Uh and charisma is also translated free gift in favor, hence people often refer to someone as being gifted or charismatic speaker or as having charisma, uh, which are of course secular terms unrelated to spiritual gifts. So in this sense, anyone who has a spiritual gift is charismatic because you have a gift from the Holy Spirit Uh but the working definition of spiritual gifts are supernatural, so they're given by God. They're ongoing as opposed to momentary. In other words, if you have a spiritual gift, you have the spiritual gift. It's not just something that flashes for a second. Um it's uh enablements and passions to do specific things with abnormal though growing excellence So as we'll see, many of the spiritual gifts are things that all Christians are commanded to do. We're all commanded to exercise hospitality, for example. But there are some that are given the gift of hospitality, that are supernaturally empowered by the Holy Spirit to excellence in hospitality. Can anybody think of somebody from this church that you know has the gift of hospitality? The surgives. They have the gift of hospitality. Uh everybody is supposed to be hospitable and inviting people to your home and being friendly to everybody But they have a unique gift and passion for inviting people over to their house and and showing hospitality. Uh that's how the gifts work. The Holy Spirit has supernaturally enabled certain people to excel at things that all Christians are really supposed to do But some are given the special gift to excel with them. And the purpose is in the church for God's glory, to build up the church for God's glory. So the purpose of spiritual guests is to promote care and unity within the body. So they're not primarily for personal edification, they're for building up the body. To promote spiritual growth and maturity in others to prepare for service and for unity within the church. And so as you think about these things, think about your own gifting. So think about these things and what the purpose of these things are, and ask yourself, what is it that the Holy Spirit has gifted me with? that will enable me to do something for service to the church that will build up the body of Christ and will glorify God. So that's how you have to think. That's how that's how you figure out what your holy what your spiritual gift is, is you think about well, so what is the purpose of these spiritual gifts and what has the Holy Spirit enabled me to do Well also a lot of times others help identify that and and encourage. Yep, that's absolutely right. And so that's another step in the process is to uh to ask somebody that knows you and is spiritually mature, what do you think my spiritual gifts might be? It has to be somebody that knows you. You don't want to ask a random stranger, hey, what are my spiritual gifts? Somebody that you've that's come to know you over a period of years that can tell you, they can maybe see something that you don't see yet about yourself and what your gifting might be. So it might be a parent, it might be um some older saint that you've gotten to know over the years. Um uh for me I've got I've had a series of men in my life that are older men. Um now they're all in their eighties, um, but who have been able to um tell me before I knew myself what um what they thought my spirit should get for. Yeah, so that's that's so so contemplation of your own on these scripture passages about uh spiritual gifts. Uh so the the main passages in 1 Corinthians and Romans and Ephesians, read through those that list the spiritual gifts and Think about what the purpose of the spiritual gifts are, building up the body of Christ, serving others, glorifying God, and then pray. And talk to a seasoned saint that knows you and see if they can give you some suggestions. And then rely on the Holy Spirit to reveal to you what the Holy Spirit has gifted you to do in the church. I think if you're praying earnestly about that, that the Holy Spirit will reveal to you what you your spiritual gift is. Quite often you'll see something in your life as you're growing and you're learning more about Christ and you're getting involved in the church. You'll see what motivates you the most. So the thing that motivates you the most to bring God glory, a lot of times it's tied into one of those spiritual gifts. Yes. You like to show people in God's Word how you can change. You can go from point A to point B, extrovertation. Do you like to meet a need, right? Or do you like to serve in the church? Things like that. Right. Those things will give you spiritual energy. You'll be spiritually energized by doing those things. And if you talk to the surgines, they're spiritually energized by having people come over to their house. I am spiritually energized when I teach. Um I I know that teaching is my spiritual gift because There's just something about standing up here and and teaching God's word that energizes me in a way that nothing else does. Um so yes, that's a good that's a good way to think about it is start out doing something in service, and then when you hit on something that spiritually energizes you, that's most likely it. That's that's the Holy Spirit telling you, yeah, that's it. When you when you do something when you serve others in some particular way and you get this uh spiritual energy as you work. Um That's that's a good sign that it's your spiritual guide. Okay. Uh any other questions about that? Um Yeah, just Bible, so um yeah. And so it was uh very interesting for me. I Um I I grew up painfully shy. Um in fact I can remember uh as uh mo most one of the Many of the most horrific moments in my life is you know when you have to give one of those class presentations when you're in you know uh junior high or high school. Th that absolutely terrified me. I was terrified. And I would just freeze when I got up there. I couldn't speak. Uh I hated standing up in front of people and having everybody's eyes on me. That was absolutely terrifying to me. But the first time I s I stood up to teach the Bible, there was none of that. I was not terrified. speak normally without my voice freezing. Um and so um it was just another sign, you know, just the way the Holy Spirit uh And I had a a supernatural calm that I never had standing up in front of people before. Um and I was spiritually energized. And so yeah. So yes, it was different. Once I w was able to teach and spiritually energized to teach, it it actually uh retroactively went back to other things. And so li after I became a teacher in church, I subsequently became a physics professor at the Naval Academy Uh and I was fine teaching physics at the Naval Academy after I had become a teacher within the church. Interestingly enough Okay. Um we've come to the end of our time. Any and last question? Any any last minute questions before I wrap this up? I was gonna get a an end note in sort of the sort of the gifting part is like uh Lynn's part of uh Hope Academy and we sign up for staff assistanting. And I can tell you there's been multiple times where I've had a sore back, I've had a gala pack, whatever, in pain. Just do it, and by the end of the day I have more energy, the pain is gone. Yep. Good. Yep. So it's kind of a spiritual and natural supernatural empowerment to do the things that God called you to do. Alright, let's pray.