So we are on the last lesson of the last course in this whole series on uh theology and doctrines. Uh we've been in the topic of eschatology, the study of last things. And so we're in the last things of the last things today. So we've already kind of hit the high points of uh uh this whole topic from the last several weeks. But I thought it would be helpful to have a survey today of Other interpretations, other positions, other traditions, and so on along these lines. And uh before I do that I wanted to say that uh unless it's uh particularly if it's not obvious You know, for membership here at Hope Bible Church, we have just a short list of basic doctrines that we would um expect that any genuine believer in Christ would believe. It's just a short list. Um But we have a much longer, more detailed doctrinal statement that we've been going through, right? Uh on a rather slow basis here. There's nothing in this whole section that is in the basic doctrines. In fact, there are um Lots of very strong Bible-believing Christians who understand and interpret and apply these passages of Scripture. differently. And I wanted to cover some of the main uh ones of those. Um But that doesn't say anything about their salvation, uh their faithfulness to Christ, their faithfulness to Scripture. Um It's just that different people have over the years uh come to different conclusions. Well, why would people come to different conclusions? That's maybe the most important question here. And it has mostly to do with Hermeneutics, which is the the uh uh the process of interpreting scripture. Our approach to interpreting scripture is called the literal grammatical historical method. So we take the scripture at face value for what it says, literally. Um God gave it to us for a reason for us to understand. Scripture does have places that include uh symbolism of various kinds, analogies of various kinds, uh metaphors You know, when Jesus says, I am the door, he wasn't saying he swings on hinges, right? I mean we understand that from the from the context what he meant. That's a metaphor. And other places that are well parables, for example. They're stories that have a bottom line message, spiritual truth. And uh they're clearly identified. I mean just it's clear just from reading them that this is Well it is, and often when Jesus told the parable, uh the gospel writers said, This is a parable, one of the parables you told. Um but if the context and the words and the grammar and so on don't indicate that it's meant only to be uh symbolic or um not to be taken literally. We take it literally. And the context, the the literary context and structure and so on is very key for understanding. uh scripture for interpreting scripture. Um when it comes to uh The various positions concerning end times. Pretty much all genuine believers believe all the basic essentials. Where there's disagreement is timing Oh thanks. Typically. Um and so we're going to focus on on the two main elements of that timing here in a few minutes. But the last thing I wanted to mention before diving into it is many of the positions people have, the interpretations that we have have implications for application. How does it affect me? What should I do? And so it's not a trivial, just a theoretical thing. It has practical applications. So our understanding of scripture ought to lead to better application and consistent application and so on. And uh Okay. So I'm on page one hundred four. And like I mentioned, most of the The uh differences in position come down to timing. And the first thing that's that's a timing question is about the rapture. We covered this earlier, but just by way of review, two key passages here, 1 Thessalonians 4 and John 14. Paul writes in 1 Thessalonians 4. And remember here, the the context is people in the early church were, particularly in Thessalonica, were getting to be gr concerned because some of their loved ones, some of the saved people were dying. And they were concerned that they're going to be missing out on the kingdom And so Paul writes, but we do not want you to be uninformed, brethren, about those who are asleep, meaning Christians who have already died. So that you will not grieve as do the the rest who have no hope. For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so, God will bring with him those who have fallen asleep in Jesus. For this we say to you, by the word of the Lord, that we who are alive and remain until the coming of the Lord will not precede those who have fallen asleep. For the Lord Himself will descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, and with the trumpet of God, and the dead in Christ will rise first. Again, this is referring to their physical bodies rising, taking on a heavenly form, and at this point going up with Christ And so he says the dead in Christ will rise first, then we who are alive and remain will be caught up together with them in the clouds. to meet the Lord in the air. So we've got two things going on. The dead in Christ, their bodies are raised. to unite with their soul again. It's a glorified body Uh similar to Christ's resurrected body. We're told we'll be like him. Um And so that happens first, and then those who are alive at the time, they don't die physically. They go directly to their glorified body, meeting Christ in the air And so we shall be with the Lord always, he says. Therefore, comfort one another with these words. So uh there's great uh anticipation, uh hope, and comfort in that Jesus himself said in John 14, near the beginning of the upper room experience, towards the end of his life, Do not let your heart be troubled. Believe in God, believe also in me. In my Father's house are many dwelling places. If it were not so, I would have told you, for I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you to myself. that where I am, there you may be also. So what he's comforting them with is a a future where Christ is going to take us to be with him in places he has prepared. And um So this is not referring to his second coming, where he comes down to earth. Instead it's referring to him taking us away from the earth to be with him and go to his the places he has prepared for us. He says, I will come again and receive you to myself. Okay, so we refer to this as the rapture. That word comes from the Greek word that's used in 1 Thessalonians for, translated caught up together. And that's really all it means. It means being um transformed, uh brought up to the sky, really, to meet Christ in the air. Christ doesn't come to earth at this point. We go up to him. Okay, his second coming, we'll talk about that later. That's where he does actually come down to Earth. So the key questions here are when will this occur? And it probably doesn't surprise you that the Bible doesn't say when it will occur. In fact, Jesus when he was talking about end times and d describing a lot of detail Saying that saying that um nobody but the father knows the timing the father is all going to play out, not even the son. But anyway, there are four main views as to when the tribulation will happen, and they're all with reference to the tribulation period. Uh is it before, during, or after, basically is is the question. And the Pre-tribulational view, most people call it pre-trib, obviously posits that it will be before the seven-year tribulation period. The mid-trib view, as you might guess, puts it at the middle of the seven year period. And there is Um numerous, there are numerous places in Scripture where the middle, actually the very middle of that seven-year period is a significant landmark. things happening. We saw that even in uh uh Daniel nine when we read that. There is another sort of mid-trib, but it's it's generally called pre-Rath Rapture, where sometime in the second half It's unknown, well, yeah. They're not saying specifically when in that second half of the seven-year period, but it's somewhere in that period which is known as the Great Tribulation. Jesus described the tribulation period as a whole, the seven-year period, but he says after the after the middle point, it's going to be the great tribulation. And you see from the book of Revelation that it really eats up. in the second half. So they're saying somewhere in that middle half. And the fourth, I guess the only one left categ is left the only category left is after the tribulation. And that's obviously called the post-tribulational rapture. So it's at the end of the tribulation and just before the second coming. Okay, so that's that's uh kind of an overview. Let's take a look, maybe working backwards from post-trib view I'm on the bottom of page 104. Yeah, the next section here is is various evidences or arguments From scripture against the post-trib view. And so the first is upon being raptured Scripture says that we'll take up residence in heavenly accommodation. And so we read from John 14 where We learn that Jesus will receive him to himself in the clouds to take us up with him to heaven. And so that clearly appears to be um that the rapture happens Before his second coming. Because at his second coming, he will come to earth and stay here for a thousand years. But for the rapture it we're it's it's all about us going up to him. Right? Uh so think of some characteristics we've already gone over about the rapture and about the second coming, so we can learn a little bit about the distinction between those two, that they're not happening at the same time. Uh we just mentioned that uh from thirst First Thessalonians four, for example, that Christ Won't be coming to earth on the earth at the time of the rapture. We're going to be taken up to him in the clouds. Whereas at the second coming, Revelation 19 and 20 He's going to be coming to Earth. That's his second coming to the earth. Right? And he comes to dwell, to reign. And so Those must be speaking of two different times. Secondly, at the time of the rapture, Christ will gather his own to himself. And at the second coming of Christ, angels will gather the elect from all over the world. They seem like different times, right? Third, Christ will come to reward the elect with his presence, bring him to bring us into his presence at the time of the rapture, but at the second coming, he's going to be judge of the nations, separating the sheep from the goats. Number four, at the time of the rapture, all the dead in Christ will be resurrected to heaven. And Revelation twenty teaches us that at the time of the second coming Those who are martyred as believers during the tribulation will come to life. uh two different kinds of people. Those who from all time past uh have died in Christ, being raised at the time of the birth of the rapture, versus those who died during the tribulation period. uh for their faith, not just died generally, but they were martyred for their faith. Come to Christ, or come to To life, have glorified bodies at the time of the second coming. Number five, at the time of the rapture, believers will depart from the earth And at the time of the second coming, unbelievers will be taken away, separating the sheep from the goats. Uh number six, just the converse of that, at the time of the rapture, the unbelievers are the ones who are left. And at the time of the second coming, the believers are the ones who are remaining with Christ. They're the sheep. Number seven, the rapture doesn't usher in Christ's kingdom on earth, but the second coming will. That's when his kingdom will be established. And we read about that in in Matthew 25 and we see it also in Revelation 20. And then finally, number eight At the time of the rapture, believers will receive glorified bodies. And at the time of the second coming Believers who made it alive through the tribulation will not receive glorified bodies yet. But it's those very people who will propagate over a thousand years many generations of people who even though they're not subject to the deceit of Satan because he's locked up for a thousand years, Many of them still will not come to Christ, even though he's on the throne in Jerusalem. Okay, so there are a lot of differences between the rapture and the second coming, and so placing them at the same time presents a lot of difficulties. There's there's But then there are other clear prophecies that indicate that the rapture doesn't take place At the time of the second coming as well. Under uh point C here, number one. What's the purpose of the rapture in the post-tribu? Essentially, there's a rapture, and then immediately the very same people are coming back down to earth with Christ to reign. So it's you see there there's um they're both happening at the same time in their view and um Rapture and come right back. Pretty much immediately. And that doesn't seem to to uh make a lot of sense But what's the purpose of the r rapture in the post-tribut? It wouldn't be to escape tribulation, because the view there is that they're going through the tribulation. In that view, the church would be taken up out of the world at the end of the tribulation, only to return immediately to earth. But Scripture indicates that believers will stand before the judgment seat of Christ once they have been glorified, and there will be a marriage supper of the Lamb. And his bride, the church, prior to his return to the earth. You see that in Revelation nineteen. There wouldn't seem to be time for these things to happen if it was a rapture, second coming, pretty immediate. So there are other other things happening that would need to be taken into account. Secondly, um Actually, the notes say if Christ were to return after the tribulation, what it should say is if the rapture were to happen at the time of the tribulation There would be no need for Christ to separate the sheep from the goats, which is clearly what happens when he returns. Um because all the sheep will have been raptured and only the goats will be left on earth. Right? And yet he does, when he returns, he does all the people on the earth who were there at the time are assembled by the angels And he judges them separating the believers from the unbelievers at that point, people who are on earth. So in the millennium, there are going to be apparently Both saints, believers in glorified bodies, and some who are not in glorified bodies. In other words, just our normal bodies because they made it through the tribulation period. Yes. But you don't consider the rapture being the separation process. So he is in fact separating. Yes, there is a separation that happens at the c because he's only taking up the um But he's taking them up to heaven, not to populate the earth under his reign So it's it's what's the purpose of the separation. Plus, there are others who come to Christ uh during the tribulation. Um So yeah, if if the rapture were to happen at the end of the tribulation period, he would take up all the sheep. And it would come down with the sheep, separate the sheep from the goats, why separate them again? Right? Again, that's all part of the event. There there wouldn't need to be if if what you say, if if the um if the rapture took place at the end of the tribulation period and before the second coming. So it was kind of part A of the second coming. He br calls up the sheep and he brings them down with him as the second coming. There would be no need to gather everyone, all the nations from the earth to separate the sheep from the goats. He would have already separated. Already separated. Right? So um separating the sheep from the goats is a judgment. Whereas the rapture is is uh taking to himself those who are his. Yeah, they're related because the rapture applies only to the sheep, the believers, but Believers are also identified in that separating the sheep from the goats on earth. Yeah. The rapture is for the church. like after the rapture it's not the church. It's ones that are coming to know Christ during the truth. Yeah, I'm scripture doesn't I don't think scripture gives any indication, but I'm pretty sure the rapture must also include uh Old Testament believers who are already dead. Rising also at the same time as New Testament. Yeah. On page one oh eight, another useful consideration anyway is that when Jesus gave detailed descriptions when you remember his disciples and the passion we asked him about end times And the um uh the account he gives in Matthew twenty four and twenty five has lots of detail about uh various events and the timetable and and the the judgments and so on Um but there's no reference to a rapture during that. It would seem like if if that was going to be a key part of this, he would have mentioned that. Right? Because he just um well actually a few days later in the upper room discourse he told them in John fourteen that he would be taking them to himself. He's preparing a place for them in heaven. And um so you'd think that he would have mentioned it in Matthew twenty-four and twenty-five, let alone Revelation nineteen But it's not there. Those are some things that those who hold to a post-tribulational position need to wrestle with. What we have left then is a pre-tribulational interpretation and some kind of mid-trib, somewhere in the middle of the tribulation, whether exactly or a little bit after the midpoint. And so let's compare those as we go through here. And looking, first of all, at Jesus' promise to the church. So you're probably familiar with the book of Revelation, where in chapters 2 and 3, there are messages given to specific churches, right? And it seems pretty clear from the way those are written that these are about those specific churches that were real churches at that time. But also have a lot of applicable principles and warnings and so on to Christians generally everywhere. In fact he says, uh he who has ears to hear, let him hear what the Spirit is saying to the churches. Plural. So uh the first point here is that the church is addressed in this couple of chapters in Revelation also represent and are typical of a variety of churches throughout the church age. Indeed, the message to specific churches often ends with this exhortation that I just mentioned. And one of the things he says in chapter 3 says, Because you have kept the word of my perseverance, I also will keep you from the hour of testing. That hour which is about to come upon the whole world to test those who dwell on the earth. Um Christians from the very beginning have had various levels of persecution. Um uh the tribulations and and so on. But what's described in Revelation four through nineteen is worldwide. It's a worldwide thing, not just uh sort of a local thing. And Jesus is saying here, I will also keep you from that hour of testing the hour which is about to come upon the whole world. So, given the context in the book of Revelation, this time of testing must be speaking of what's going to happen, what's being described in the subsequent chapters of Revelation, which is the worldwide tribulation period. And also note that the church nonetheless will persevere and continue to overcome numerous other challenges prior to that time of worldwide testing. So yeah, there's always going to be persecution, there's always going to be discrimination There's a need for perseverance through that, but that's different from the seven-year worldwide tribulation Secondly, he says here in Revelation 3, and then also in 1 Thessalonians 1, which I'll get to in a second, that he's keeping us from and rescues us from both referring to taking us away, not just shielding us during. And so 1 Thessalonians 1, 8-10, for the word of the Lord has sounded forth from you, not only in Macedonia and Achaia, but also in every place, your faith toward God has gone forth. so that we would have no need to say anything. For they themselves report about us what kind of a reception we had with you, and how you turned to God from idols to serve the living and true God. And to wait for his son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead. That is, Jesus who rescues us from the wrath to come. What wrath? Ultimately, what's referring to is God's wrath against sin. Right? And he's rescuing us from that. That's the purpose of the tribulation period, by the way. It's not the ultimate wrath of God. But it's a wrath of God poured out on particularly the nation of Israel and unbelievers generally, worldwide, at that time. The result of that, by the way, is that many of them will come to Christ, which is a good thing. And what's interesting, bottom page 106. Since many believers will die during the tribulation period, they're believers, they come to Christ. during the tribulation period. Um but whether they did or not, if they're believers and they died for Christ during the tribulation period They're not going to be protected from that time of wrath. Um and Notice that although at least some of these believers would be killed at the hands of other people in the first half of the tribulation period, this would be a part of God's fourth seal judgment over a quarter of the earth. And they will not be resurrected until the end of the tribulation. So they must therefore be made up entirely of people who come to saving faith in Christ. after the church has been removed because the church is re protected from the wrath. Okay, another important point, um yes Smith. It says that uh Christ's kingdom will be established on earth at this time. Matthew 20 chapter 2536 The 43 4750 and it says believers who made it alive through the tribulation will not receive a glorified body. Can you explain that please? Lots of people who come to Christ during the tribulation period. Many of them are Jews, many of them are not Jews. They come to Christ during the tribulation because the context forces them to Get real about what's what's true and what's right and and God and so on. Um some of those people who c who um Come to Christ during that time. It specifically says they're martyred, many of them beheaded during that time because of their faith in Christ. But apparently not all of them. Some um who come to Christ during that tribulation period uh and are not martyred for their faith. They don't even die during that period. Christ comes in the second coming. And he calls everybody on earth who's left at that point. Actually the angels gather them. But that's where he separates the sheep from the goats, the believers from the unbelievers. Who are the sheep? Who are the believers? They're the people on the earth at the time who didn't die. In the in the tribulation period. And so they're still alive, they're still in human bodies. Christ in his Judging of the nations, all the peoples of the world at that point who are left, separates the believers from the unbelievers. Those believers are still in their regular bodies. And I I think it's amazing also that um the angels will be gathering the elect from all over the world. Right. Okay I'm on page one oh seven. Uh you remember we went over Daniel nine some weeks ago. Where he well let me just go ahead and read it again. The angel Gabriel tells Daniel, in answer to his prayer Seventy weeks have been decreed for your people and your holy city. To finish the transgression, to make an end to sin, to make atonement for iniquity, to bring in everlasting righteousness. To seal up vision and prophecy and to anoint the most holy place. So you are to know and discern That from the issuing of a decree to restore and rebuild Jerusalem. Now remember, Daniel's in captivity in Babylon, and he's been praying for the restoration of Jerusalem and and Israel and so on. Uh and so G Gabriel here has the message that yes, that's gonna happen. As Jeremiah prophesied. There's only going to be 70 years of captivity. So from the time of the decree to restore and rebuild Jerusalem Until Messiah the Prince, there will be seven weeks and sixty-two weeks. It will be built again with plaza and moat, even in times of distress. Then, after the 62 weeks, in other words, the total of 69, the Messiah will be cut off and have nothing. And the people of the prince who is to come will destroy the city and the sanctuary. So it's going to be destroyed yet again And its end will come with a flood. Even to the end there will be war. Desolations are determined. And he will make a firm covenant with the many, that is, the Jews. For one week. But in the middle of the week, he will put a stop to sacrificing grain offerings in the middle of the week. Again, here's one of the references to the middle midpoint of the seven-year period And on the wing of abomination will come one who makes desolate, even until complete destruction, one that is decreed, is poured out on the one who makes desolate. There are a lot of things in there, but one of the things I wanted to point out here is that these 70 weeks are decreed for who? Daniel's people. The very people he was praying for, he was confessing the sins of, in fact, even his own sins in Daniel 9. And praying for the restoration of Jerusalem as a place where God had put his name for the world to be seeing. uh as a testimony to the world. And so he's praying for the restoration of all that. And um His prayer was about his people and Jerusalem, and the answer was about his people and Jerusalem. Daniel closed his prayer earlier in chapter 9, asking for God's deliverance by saying, because your city and your people are called by your name. That was Daniel's heart. And so the prophecy was a direct answer to Daniel's prayer for both the Jews and Jerusalem. So all seventy of those weeks, all seventy of those sevens, that is, all four hundred and ninety years, um were primarily for the Jews and Jerusalem. But then secondly, at the close of the 69th year, the Messiah will be cut off I'm not sure how much Daniel would have understood what that meant, but looking back on it, we know what that means, right? He's it's referring to the crucifixion of Christ. Um I might be asking sort of the basic question, but um why is it that we the uh translation of the word we um when it's universally sort of understood to be years. Well could you maybe explain that as and I contrast that versus the um usage of terms that like thousand years and you know just the the numbering of things and such other kind of things. No it's a good question. The the term that's used in the Hebrew uh as I understand it is just the word seventh. Plural. Seventh, right. Yeah. Um it's the same word that's used No, I'm not sure about that, whether it's the same word used for week, but um I know that the word that's used here is just sevens. Seventy-sevenths have been decreed for your people. So translators usually want to indicate what must be meant by that. I mean literally they would just say seventy-sevens have and you can it's up to you to decide what it means, right? I I would probably have third of that. Yeah, well okay. Yeah. Um I think they have the uh preface view that starts the um the four hundred and eighty-three years from Cyprus's decree And then if you add the 483 years, you you're you're hit right on the birth of Christ. We know that the ministry of Christ is three and a half years So that means when the Messiah was cut off, I guess when you read Daniel, when the Messiah was cut off, he gets cut off in the midst of the seven years, which is three and a half years. And so that's when all those promises that we read in Daniel is fulfilled, so that's that's a previous view. That's not the uh dispensational view. Correct. However, what Daniel's prophecy the prophecy to Daniel is saying is that the Messiah is cut off at the end. of the 483 years, not the middle of the three and a half years later. He's cut off, and then the last week happens. So anyway, um taking just at what is said here You would expect that the 70th week would begin right after the 69th week. That's normally what happens, right? But we look at history, looking back at it, we see that the events that were described that would be happening in that 70th week haven't yet happened. And we'll talk about that in a minute. And so the The cutting off of the Messiah actually on that chart eight eighty four Uh there are some notes here about calculations related to Daniel's prophecy. There are two references there that go into a lot of detail about the the history, the chronology, and if memory serves, I think the chronology Takes advantage of Hebrew time at the time the prophecy was given, which is based on a lunar calendar. Not our current calendar. But anyway, the details are in those those books. Okay. Bottom of page 107. First Thessalonians one oh four, we just read earlier is is significant in the the the way Paul is anticipating this happening. In verse 17 of chapter 4, he says, then we who are alive and remain will be caught up together with the ones who have already been raised, who have already been dead. uh the believers. And so he's writing it as if it could happen today. including himself in the possibility of being among those who are remaining after God calls up the the dead in Christ, and then those of us who remain, he says, will be caught up together with them. And so uh he's not giving any particular timetable, but the The way it's written is he's anticipating it can happen any time. And in other words, there there are no prophetical uh milestones needing to happen first before this happens. Seems to be the way he's writing this. Anyway. Oh, excuse me. Yep. Pastor Allen. It seemed like to me he's that he's saying that there'd be no warning There's be there be nothing that would give them in s you know uh any inkling that something is coming their way. Just be You know, steadfast in the word to expect the unexpected. Like a thief in the night. Yeah. I don't know if there are any translations that just keep it at sevens to be a literal translation. But I'm pretty sure the ones that have weeks there Which is sometimes I gather um a translation of that word, but um The reason to prefer weeks as opposed to sevens is that those translations have happened after a lot of history has taken place. And looking back at that history, we see that the fulfillment of the first sixty-nine weeks, the cutoff of the Messiah, was in a matter of years. Right. And so um seventy weeks that is seventy sevens of years Makes sense after the fact. At the time it was given to Daniel I doubt he had any sort of insight as to the timing. It just and there's no indication as to when it's going to start except from the issuing of the decree to rebuild Jerusalem. That's when it's going to start the clock Um so that's my presumption. Okay. Yeah. According to John MacArthur, the the there are weeks of years and words weeks of days are described differently, so the the term weeks in chapter nine are the the words we're saying years, but if you wanted a different example of the days of weeks is actually in chapter 10, verse 2. And those are the two differences in the uses. We just can't see the difference because it's not translated So if you were to say seventy literal weeks, you would use a different exact form of the same word, I guess. Okay. Okay, where are we at? Um I'm on page one oh eight. Letter D. So it seems to be both from 1 Thessalonians 4 and John 14 that the reason Jesus and also through Paul uh communicated info about the rapture was that it would be a comfort. That's uh just an observation And letter E, uh, there's no reference to the church in the tribulation aspect part of Revelation. Um they're believers, but there's no reference to the church specifically, which you know isn't isn't um all by itself sufficient to come to any conclusions, but it seems to be consistent with the pre-tribulation rapture. And then similarly, I guess somewhat similarly, letter F here, there are lots of warnings given to the church about per persecution, about being faithful, steadfast. And some of those are very specific about the nature of the of the uh danger, you know, false teaching, false teachers and and whatever. But the whole of the New Testament is is um without any specific warnings about how to endure a worldwide So again, it's hard to argue solely from silence, but it is consistent with the pre-trib position. Well uh the second main question uh event where there's some c a question about the timing uh a little bit more than timing, but mostly timing, is the millennium. And actually on page one hundred eight The key passage here, I neglected to re refer to it, give reference, it's Revelation 20, verses 1 through 10. That's the key passage. Revelation 20, 1 through 10. So the verse numbers are here, but the actual reference was not. So we've read this before. I'll read portions of it. Um after uh Christ comes down at the end of of Revelation nineteen. Defeats all the enemies of God In the Battle of Armageddon. Verse 1. Then I saw an angel coming down from heaven, having the key of the abyss. and a great chain in his hand. And he laid hold of the dragon, the serpent of old, who was the devil and Satan, and bound him for a thousand years. And he threw him into the abyss and shut it and sealed it over him so that he would not deceive the nations any longer until the thousand years were finished. And after these he must be released for a short time. And so it continues to describe what's going to happen during this period of a thousand years. The saints who are reigning with him for a thousand years Um the uh those who were martyred during the tribulation period says um come to life, that is, they received glorified bodies as well. No, they had died, now they're raised. And they they also ran with Christ for a thousand years The rest of the dead did not come to life until the thousand years were over. That is, the unbelievers. And then verse 7: when the thousand years are finished, Satan will be released from his prison will go out and deceive the nations, people who are across the earth, who are um Regular mortal beings, descendants of those who made it through the tribulation period, many of whom are unbelievers. Even though Christ is on earth, in Jerusalem, reigning on David's throne. And Satan deceives them to rise up to do battle with Christ. And they're all um defeated. Uh what's it say? It says um They came up to the broad plain of the earth, surrounded the camp of the saints of the beloved city, and fire came down from heaven and devoured them. So no big deal. God just takes care of that threat. Well, um, let's look then at some characteristics of the Millennium Period. Seems to be rather clear in scripture that it lasts a thousand years and it has a beginning and an end. A thousand-year period. During which time Satan is bound in the abyss for the entire time, preventing him from deceiving the people. And during this entire period, Jesus Christ will reign in his kingdom on the throne of David in fulfillment of numerous biblical prophecies. Many of which are in the box here below. His bride, the church, will come with him and reign with him. And at the outset, all the people from throughout the earth who survived the tribulation and the Battle of Armageddon will be assembled before Jesus who will separate the believers from the unbelievers. That's given to us. Christ said this in Matthew twenty-five. Um Those who became believers and were killed during the tribulation will be raised from the dead in glorified bodies and also reign with Christ for the entire millennium. And so in this thousand-year period there will be people, sheep, in human bodies, as well as saints who are already glorified, coming with Christ, reigning with Christ. It's an interesting time period. Number six, along with Gentiles, that is the nations, present in the millennium, there will be saved remnant of Israel. Who will be centered in Jerusalem under their Messiah, Jesus Christ. So many of those will have been saved during the tribulation period And uh uh Revelation and and uh others of the prophecy like Ezekiel and so on talk about um this fulfilling of the promise given to Abraham and the promise given to David. Um And there's a a restoration of believing Israel at that point. Number seven, the millennium will be a huge blessing, but it will not be perfect, like the eternal state. So it's going to be characterized by a renewal of creation, righteousness, prosperity, peace on earth, and lifespans will be much longer, but those who are not in glorified bodies yet. are gonna die just like we do now. Um there is gonna be death and ca they're gonna be capable of sin. Um and it's because of that that when Satan is released, he's got people who will be deceived by him. Okay, so the question is when will Christ return relative to the millennium? And so again, there are four basic views. Primary views. One is preterism that has already happened around the time of the destruction of Jerusalem in 70 AD. The second is called Amillennial Amillennialism or A Mil But the a prefix here doesn't mean no, none, literally. The idea here is that it's being fulfilled spiritually now It's not a literal thousand years. Uh I think maybe initially it was thought that it would be a thousand years, but time such time has happened since Christ that It's more than a thousand years, right? So it's how people felt like at eighty thousand, you know. It's like it's coming, it's a little bit more. Looking at the clock, yeah. Um or a thousand and thirty-three or something. So that's the general idea. Amil means it's not that there's not a millennial, but it's not a literal thousand years. And it's kind it's happening now. Similar to that, but actually very different, is post-millennialism, specifically saying that he will return after the millennium. Even though um if you read through Gener Revelation nineteen, twenty, twenty-one, it's clear that it's happening before the millennium. But the idea here is that Christ is working through the church to Christianize the world. And once that task is complete, he'll return. That's a very optimistic view of current times. Yeah. Um, and just correct me, is that they are thinking that it just gonna get better and better and better and better and more and more and more and more believers until like we just like first meetings with believers. Not necessarily a hundred percent but yes. That's the general idea That has a uh passage that sort of breaks all of the the systems. And that is in in the book of Acts when the Holy Spirit I guess came upon everyone. Then they said this is the fulfillment of the prophet Job And then it talked about that the spirit will be poured out on all flesh. And then in that same passage, they connected it with um Uh blood, fire, vapor, and smoke, the sun shall be turned to darkness and the moon to blood before the day of the Lord comes. That just confuses me to no end That's what the prophecy said, and like many of those prophecies, there's an initial fulfillment and a longer-term fulfillment. And the prophecy, when given Doesn't distinguish between them. But we see how it was fulfilled. Now some of the prophecies about Christ himself are that way. You remember when when he was reading in the synagogue uh from I guess it was Isaiah and he said today this prophecy has been fulfilled in your hearing. The prophecy was about him. He stopped in the middle of reading that. It tells exactly what he read, but the verses after it are things that are happening in the future. He didn't cover that He he stopped in his reading. It's only that first part that is fulfilled right now. And so there are several prophecies like that that have sort of an initial fulfillment, sometimes with um people, and then there's a long-term fulfillment ultimately in Christ and in the end times things. So I'm pretty sure that's part of what's going on there. Um another aspect um in the non millennialist view which I have I tend to to subscribe to that but it one of the problems with it is that it it it indicates that Satan is bound now. Yeah. But it doesn't feel like it. It doesn't feel like Satan is bound now. In fact we're given a lot of instruction about how to deal with Satan now. Look at the armor, right? Or another way to put it is um boy, I I'm glad I don't really want to say I'm unbound over it. Exactly. And wouldn't that also kind of contradict the stance that things are gonna get better and better better until the second summon because the same is bound now. The entire point of thing being found is to demonstrate things still sinful without being simple. Yeah. Um if you look at page one hundred twelve, I think, that some of the problems with that view um Satan is not bound. We're not going to have time to go through all of these points, but um It really does hinge on how do we approach the interpretation of Scripture. And uh our conviction is that w regardless of the passage, Scripture needs to be interpreted literally unless it's clear that From the immediate context and from the context of all scripture, that it's it's to be interpreted uh either figuratively or as a metaphor or an illustration or something like that. But typically it's clear, it's it's literal. And the grammar definitely is key. Well, I wish we had time to finish this, but you've got the notes, you've got the details. If you've got questions, um thank you, Alan. Be glad to Talk about it. Let's pray