So as I mentioned, last week we started this lesson on the incarnation of Jesus Christ. And again, it's one of the most profound maybe outside of creation, mysteries, paradoxes, just miracles to know that God is with us. So we're actually going to continue uh our study of the incarnation this week and it's going to get a a bit more personal, right? It's going to talk a little bit more about his humanness and the virgin birth than it's fitting for this time of year, of course um as we we are in the Advent season and we are soon to celebrate Christmas. Um to to have a little bit more detail of what that looks like. Um often we think of when I think of Christmas, at least for myself, we we quickly run to you know, Jesus uh in the manger, right, this sweet little baby. But as we'll look on either side of that, there's so much involved with what happens around this time period and the number of prophecies that are fulfilled, it's just mind-boggling right? Historic historic event. And so we'll study that a bit today. Alright, a little bit of review from last week, um just hitting the highlights, but we covered this idea of kenosis. And let me read Philippians 2. 5 through 8. Have this attitude in yourselves, which was also in Christ Jesus, who although he existed in the form of God, did not regard equality with God a thing to be grasped. but emptied himself, taking the form of a bond servant, and being made in the likeness of men. Being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. And so we talked about this idea of what does it mean to empty himself? That's where you get um the doctrine of kinosis And what we talked about, right, the distinction is that he he was laying aside, right? Let me use the words um Christ surrendered only the prerogatives of his deity, but nothing of the divine essence. That was in contrast to what theory did we talk about? Remember, Tara? It has kinosis in it, Kenosis theory. Right? That was the contrast where that is a theory that people believe that when he took on human nature, that he gave up some of his divine attributes. False Right? What we saw is in his humbleness he laid aside at certain times. Right? He laid aside, and where did he take his direction from? from the Father. That's when he did use his divine attributes. And we see that in the miracles. We see that when he knew what people were thinking, and yet he didn't know the hour when he was going to return. All right. And what we saw from MacArthur's commentary, which which I really loved, is he emptied himself not by subtraction. But by adding, by adding the human nature is how he emptied himself. Right? That's a beautiful picture of this divine nature. None of it goes away, but he adds to it the human nature And in that, he laid aside for a time being some of his divine attributes. Does that make sense? Alright? Alright. So we're going to continue this idea of the incarnation again What I want you to try and do is is let's not make this just a doctrinal discussion about truth I want you to try and personalize it. And that doesn't mean I'm trying to create an emotion in you. I want us to try and put ourselves there at the time of Jesus' birth and all that that meant Okay? Remember, if you were a Jew, most likely you understood the implications. You were waiting for a Messiah. And here it is. That's the perspective I want you to have today. Okay? Alright, so jumping in, I'm on page 27. It says, our Lord Jesus Christ was conceived by the Holy Spirit and was born of the Virgin Mary. He had to be virgin born. Why? To fulfill prophecy as a sign and not to be born with a sin nature. We talked a little bit about that last week, and we're going to kind of continue to peel back those layers Fulfill prophecy, and he could not be born with a sin nature. And as we talk, the Lord, God, you know, God the Father chose to use this vehicle to make this happen. And we're going to see the implications of why that had to be. Okay. So first verse there, Isaiah a seven. Um therefore the Lord Himself will give you a sign Behold, a virgin will be with child and bear home, and she will call his name Emmanuel. He will eat curds and honey at the time he knows enough to refuse evil in Excellent, thank you. So, Emmanuel, we all know God with us. Um but this phrase here, eat curds and honey at the time he knows enough to refuse evil and choose good. For before the boy will know enough to refuse evil, blah blah blah. What what does that say about Jesus? What do you pick up from from that passage. Did he know everything when he was this little baby boy? Alright, so what what are the implications of that? He w he was fully human. But he had to learn. He had to learn, just like all of us, right? It shows a growth period. In our parenting class, we we teach that as young infants, they don't have the ability to reason. Right? They learn right from wrong through obedience. So it's a lot of character training until they get to a point where you can start to bring in the reasoning. We see the same sense of development here in Jesus. Right, that certainly brings a a great element of humanness to Jesus Christ. Does that make sense? Right? So he had to go through that process. He didn't he wasn't born and had all the knowledge he needed. He didn't know all the scriptures. Right? He had to learn that. He had to learn evil and good. I I just thought that was extremely interesting. Right, next passage. And to Jacob was born Joseph, the husband of Mary, by whom was born Jesus, who is called Christ. Therefore, all the generations, from Abraham to David, are 14 generations, and from David to the deportation to Babylon, 14 generations, and from the deportation to Babylon to the time of Christ, 14 generations. So let me pause right there. What does that tell you about our God? He's a God of order. Right? You see some very specific time elements. And yet we know God in his transcendency lives outside of creation. He doesn't operate in time and space, and yet he created time and space for us as part of creation. And you see that plainly And so when God, through Jesus Christ, took on human nature, he's now in that same time and space. Okay? Continuing on. Now the birth of Jesus Christ was as follows. When his mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph, before they came together, she was found to be with child by the Holy Spirit. Obviously before they came together is talking about, you know, intimate relationships and and we know that's the virgin birth that had to happen. Okay. Alright, so what I want to do now, like I talked about, is let's let's make this a bit personal. So the next several chapters, what we're going to try and do is take this from the perspective. There were other people in play here, right? Not just Jesus Christ. So we're going to look at Mary. We're going to look at Elizabeth. We're going to look at Joseph. All right, and try and understand their perspective, what's happening here. Again, just this profound, miraculous event, but how does it affect these individuals? Sure. Now in the sixth month, the angel Gabriel was sent from God to a city in Galilee called And the virgin's name was Mary And coming in. He said to her, Hail favorite one, the Lord is with you. Alright, pause right there. How would you feel if if you got if you're sitting there, you're at home, you're just chilling out, and you get this message? Frightened, overwhelmed, frightened. Overwhelmed, confused, okay. That would just be blue screening link. Blue screening, yeah. Okay. All right, so let's see how she responded. Ms. Green, keep continuing. But she was greatly troubled at this statement and kept pondering what kind of valuation this might be And the angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God. And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son. Alright, pause there again for me, sorry. Um this idea found favor. Obviously it wasn't by Mary's works. It wasn't because Mary was doing all the right things God elected Mary, if you will. God chose Mary, right? That's the found favor. Alright, continue. He will be great and will be called the son of the most high, and the Lord God will give him the throne of his father David, and he will raise And Mary said to the angel, How can it be since I'm a virgin? Right, stop there again So of all the things she could have said, she focuses on, I'll call it the mechanics. Right? She she knows how this process works and and she She's being very normal. Probably the same question we would have, right? How can this be? This is not how it works. How can this be? Alright, so she's very focused, I'll call it on the mechanics versus the purpose and and we can totally get that in the moment, right? We'd probably be asking the same thing. Alright, keep going. And the angel answered and said to her, The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High Will overshadow you. And for that reason, the holy offspring shall be called the God Good, thank you. And that reference, you know, you often see son of God, sometimes uh reference son of man, often the son of God is pointing to his deity versus son of man, his human nature. And so we see here, right, the exclamation of the Son of God, a reference to his deity Good. Alright, so that's Mary. I I can't even begin to try and understand what she might have been going through. You know, like Diane said, just a mix of emotions, and we see some of that coming out here, right? She was troubled And yet the angel spoke to her and she's like, How can this happen? How can this be? Like we would all ask. Yes. And yet she had faith. Yes, and we're gonna and I think that's gonna come up later, but she had faith. Absolutely you're gonna see that with all of these. They had faith. They had trust. Good. Alright, so that's Mary. Now let's look at Elizabeth. Mary said, Behold the enslaved of the Lord, be it unto me according to your word. Alright, pause there. Just like Karine said, how is she responding? In faith. Right? She's recognizing the bond slave of the Lord. Be it done to me according to your word. Right, that is stepping out in faith. Alright, keep going. And the angel departed from her. Now at this time Mary arose and went with haste to the hill country, to the city of Judah, and entered the house of Judah Zacharias and greeted Elizabeth. And it came about that when Elizabeth heard Mary's greeting, the baby leaped in her womb, and Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit. And she cried out with a loud voice and said, Blessed among women are you, and blessed is the fruit of your womb. And how has it happened to me that the mother of my Lord should come to me? Think about what she's saying. Blessed among women are you, and blessed is the fruit of your womb. And how has it happened to me that the mother of my Lord should come to me. What does that say about Elizabeth? She somehow knew. Yeah? Right? She's she's recognizing what's happening here and who's in Mary's womb. That's phenomenal Right? Important not to gloss over those verses. That the mother of my Lord, right, pointing to her faithfulness, Should come to me. Alright, keep going. For behold. For behold, when the sound of your greeting reached my ears, the baby leaped in my womb for joy. And blessed is she who believes that there would be us of Alright, pause there for a second. What you're gonna hear next, and you might have it in in your Bible, um, the topic or the Um phrase at the top might be song of praise, but this is where you get the magnificat from. Alright? So alright, continue. And Mary said, My soul exalts the Lord, and my spirit has rejoiced in God my Savior. For he hath had regard for the humble state of his bond slave. For behold, from this time on all generations will count me blessed. For the mighty one has done great things for me, and holy is his name. And his mercy is upon generation after generation toward those who fear him. He has done mighty deeds with his arms. He has scattered those who are proud in the thoughts of their hearts. He has brought down rulers from their thrones. And has exalted those who are humble. He has sold them undue good things and sent away the rich empty-handed. He has given help to Israel and servants in remembrance of his must As he as he spoke to our fathers, to Abraham and his offspring forever. And Mary stayed with her about three months and then returned to her home. Okay, good, thank you. Um you see the bold um lettering there, what does that mean? Right. It's a reference back to Old Testament. So she is quoting Old Testament scripture. What does that say about Mary? She knew the scriptures. Right? She was brought up in the ways of the Lord. Deuteronomy six, right? Her parents did a good job of passing that down through generations And here she is quoting scripture. This is from uh Psalm 103 and Psalm 107 specifically. Right? Again, tying back this perspective of of who Mary was, who Elizabeth was. They they understood the scriptures. They were part of that group anticipating the Messiah. And now here she is, she has the Messiah in her womb. I can't even wrap my head around that. All right, Mary, Elizabeth. We don't cover it here in these verses, so I want you to look up in Matthew 1. Let's take a look at Joseph. Can't forget the guys in this situation. Matthew chapter one, I'm gonna pick it up in verse eighteen. This is how the birth of Jesus came about. His mother Mary was pledged to be married to Joseph, but before they came together, she was found to be the child through the Holy Spirit. Because Joseph, her husband, was a righteous man and did not want to expose her to public disgrace, he had in mind to divorce her quietly. But after he had considered this, an angel of the Lord appeared to him saying And said, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to use Mary home as your wife, because what is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit Spirit. She will give birth to a son, and you are to give him the name Jesus, because he will save his people from their sins. All this took To fulfill what the Lord has said through the prophet, the virgin will leave a child, and they give birth to a son, and they will call him Emmanuel. Which means God with us. When Joseph woke up, he did what the angel of the Lord had commanded him, and took Mary home as his wife But he had no union with her until she gave birth to a son. And he gave him the name Jesus. Excellent. Thanks, Simone. All right, what do what do we see here about Joseph The righteous man. He's a righteous man, okay. And he really has a lot of love for Mary. Mm-hmm. He wanted to protect her, right? He could have easily stopped the betrothal, if you will, um, and said, I'm I'm done with ya But he didn't. He was a gentleman. Uh he wanted to protect her. He was a righteous man and and even understood what was happening and and had no relations with her, right? I mean that could have been a path too to protect her Right, so he could justify that, but he right you see in all of these characteries, Mary, Elizabeth, Joseph, right, this faithfulness in obeying the Lord. I thought Joseph was also a disciplined man. Oh disciplined man, yes. Yes. That's the wife of him to stay away for nine months. Yes, yes, absolutely. They probably they probably waited a while because she just had a child. Yes. That's the realness of what's happening here, guys. So good. You're picking up all the all the great points. Excellent. Right, so that was Mary. We talked about Elizabeth and Joseph And those are, you know, again, some of the major players that's happening here. Alright, let's go to the next passage, Luke 2. I'm just going to read the first part of that. Now it came about in those days that a decree went out from Caesar Augustus that a census be taken of all the inhabited earth. This was the first census taken while Corinnaus was governor of Syria And all were proceeding to register for the census, every one to his own city, and Joseph also went up from Galilee from the city of Nazareth to Judea, to the city of David, which is called Bethlehem, because he was of the house and family of David in order to register along with Mary who was engaged to him and was with child. Um I think it was Jessica might have brought up last week, you know, the the intricate order of events that had to happen, right, to get to Bethlehem. You know, the census was now taking place. I mean so many things had to fall in place in order for the child to be born in Bethlehem as prophecy had ordained, right? So again, we're going to talk about that in a little bit more detail when we get to the order of events. But also you see here what line is he from? David David. Right? The Davidic covenant. I will establish your throne forever. It had to come from that line. I did the um Old Testament survey during the summer, and one of the things we focused on was You know, following the lineage. And it's very interesting as you see again the order of events that happen to make sure that it happens through the line of David, through the line of Judah Good. Alright, so recognizing at this point Jesus is truly human, the next point here, Christ experienced all the things associated with true humanity. He grew and developed as a child, like we talked about earlier. He experienced fatigue, hunger, thirst, and pain. Jesus Christ truly suffered, truly bled, truly died, and was truly buried. He was not a phantom, spirit, or ghost. His agony and death included real physical torment. We talked a little bit about kind of his human essentials last week, but want to really dig in. I think sometimes it's easy to think Alright, he had a human nature, but boy, he had this divine nature too, that that somehow he did not have to go through the same sufferings that we feel. Right, the same humanness that we feel, and it's just not true. Right? He felt and understood everything that we go through. And we're going to really dig into this when we get to the end and talk about temptation Okay. So let's go through some of these verses and if I could have folks just kind of jump in. Matthew four two. Tara, do you have can you read that one for me? And I know this might seem um a little silly, but just point out what is the human aspect of each verse. So what jumps out there is hunger, right? He became hungry. What's happening in Matthew 4? Temptation for forty days, right? He wasn't just hungry. He wasn't just hangry, man, he was hungry. Famished. one of the other gospels where it talks about it, but it says that he was like faint from hunger. Yeah. Angels had to come and take care of him because like forty days is a long time. Long time. Yes. So he was uh we can't even understand that kind of hunger. All right, uh Miss Kayla, can you take the next one? Mark fourteen. And he said to them, My soul was deeply breathed to the point of death. For many ear and keep watch. Yeah, soul is deeply grieved to the point of death. Again, extreme. I've never been that felt that way. All right. It is extreme Ms. Io, can you take Mark 15, the next one? I feel also the love crime and wicked love. Yeah, what jumps out at there, the humanness of it The last cry. Yeah. And the loud cry, right? The loud cry and breathes his last. Excellent. Good. All right, Luke 2. When the child continued to grow and become strong, increasing in wisdom, and the grace of God was upon him. We talked about this up front, right? This idea that Jesus Jesus uh in his human nature had to grow. He had to increase in wisdom. Connor, do you have a comment? Uh moral important question. Okay So Jesus being God like omniscient, um I guess how would that send Tigrun wisdom how would that ultimately be s omniscient Great question. And we talked a lot about this last week. So this idea of again Kenosis emptying himself, we need to really understand what that means. And as we talked about it, what it simply means is he lays aside, he chooses to lay aside some of those attributes for a time. You see there are other parts of scripture in the New Testament where we see that he is omniscient. He knows. He knows what somebody's thinking right before he meets them. He can calm the seas, and yet he didn't know the hour of his return. So what we see is based on the Father's instruction, he applies those divine attributes at certain times. Does that make sense? But he doesn't he's never what we got to be careful with is he never is getting rid of those divine attributes. Does that make sense? It's a bit of a mystery, a bit of a paradox, but that's what we have. Fair? You don't convince me. We can tell it's tough. It's a tough one. So we can talk more about that. All right, Luke two. Miss Diane, can you read that one for me? Yes. And Jesus Christ is created. Increasing in wisdom and stature and in faith in the God and men. Same thing, increasing in wisdom and stature, right? Alright, good. Alright, Luke 8. Bob, can you do that one for me? But as they were sailing along, he fell asleep, and a fierce gale of wind descended upon the lake, and they began to be swamped and to be in danger. What do you see there, his humanness? He fell asleep. You know a lot of commentaries say that he was so tired from his ministry. Um maybe, maybe not true, but he was certainly tired enough to fall asleep Yes. May I add something to that? He fell asleep. Everything Jesus did was to was to show him something. When he fell asleep, the uh Shepherds on the ship got kind of worried because the wind and the waves were almost above their head. And when they did when he did decide it to open his eyes, I don't think he was truly in a deep sleep, but he was just testing them. And he said, when when He said, you a little faith. I mean, everything has to do with solid, concrete faith and belief. Mm-hmm. So it's more to that picture For sure. For sure. I mean kind of, but like you were right because like whether or not he was genuinely that exhausted from his ministry Yep. But either way, like if you're worried about something, if you know something's coming up, it's a lot harder to sleep. If he was sleep sleep so sound pleased it was basically a hurricane out on that lake. Yeah. And he was still dead to the world. Yeah. It was like He had that much faith in God and that's what I'm saying. And that's the key point here, right? We can speculate whether he was tired or what the situation and it's it's speculation, it doesn't matter, but that's the point. This complete confidence in the Father, right, and what was happening there. Good. Uh Mr. Lewis, can you take the next one? John 4. So he came to a city of Samaria called Zakhar near the parcel of ground that Jacob gave to his son Joseph and Jacob's well was there. Jesus therefore, being weighed from his journey, was sitting thus by the well. It was about the sixth hour there came a woman of Samaria to draw water. Jesus said to her, Give me a drink, for his disciples had gone away into the city to buy food. Good. So the six hour would have been around noon and and what's the human piece of that? Uh I need water. He's he's wearied from his journey, right? He's tired. He gets tired. Ministry wears him out in a sense, in his human sense, his physical sense, right? Like depending on some calls to get him something? Ah. He was dependent. I like that. Good. Good. Yes, Rex. Um MacArthur even puts a note on it. John uses Roman time. It would have been six AM. Alright, we we can talk about that. I know other commentaries show six A. M. is the start of the day, right? And the sixth hour would have been at the end of the first century and the timing is is Roman time. Gotcha. I'd love for you to show me that after class. Okay. Yeah. Because I'm not as familiar with that. Yeah, good. Thanks, Rex. I appreciate that input Um I didn't understand uh the difference between the two, so that's good. Uh Miss Tara, do you can you take John nineteen? After this, Jesus, I mean that all things had already been called In order that the scripture might be fulfilled, said, I am thirsty. A jar full of sour wine was standing there, so they put a sponge full of the sour wine upon a branch of his own Okay, so obviously thirsty, right? And we just talked about that. Jesus being thirsty. Rex, can you take the next one, John nineteen? What verses? Uh yeah, John nineteen, thirty-three through thirty-seven. And I'm curious what translation you're using. New King James. Okay. Thirty-three through thirty-seven. Yes, please. But when they came to Jesus and saw that he was already dead, they did not break his legs, but one of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear. Immediately blood and water came out And he who has seen has testified, his testimony is true, and he knows that he is telling the truth, so that you may believe. For these things were done that the scriptures should be fulfilled. Not one of his bones should be broken. And again another scripture says, they shall look on him whom they have pierced. Through thirty-nine? Thirty-seven. That's it. Good. Alright, so what do we see there, right? Piercing his side. Out came the blood and the water. Again, just highlighting his humanness. Alright, so we've covered a lot of different aspects, right, of the humanness of Jesus. It's real. But I really want to to to maybe focus on this last piece and dig a little bit deeper when we talk about um the temptation that he felt. We covered it a little bit last week, but it's really worth making sure we understand it. So if you could open your Bibles to Hebrews. Hebrews two we'll start with. Yes. Why what is the good temple blown down water? So actually uh one one explanation that I've seen is that it was a mark that he had been dead long enough, the blood flat enough had separated So there was a clear liquid coming out and the red liquid coming out. Because like he was physically dead at that point So I owe there's there's a physical piece of it, right? Being human, very natural to have blood and water, is prophetic and I I forget the verses that reference Um uh the blood and the water that would come out of Jesus that was significant. Does anybody have that or remember that? I just forget it. stack around the heart and there's the like I have read it before, I can find it for you I guess So we'll get that, but I there there is a reference to the the water is significant. Right? In the in the piercing and the shedding of blood, of course. But um there's significance to that prophetically. I've heard that um it's also I mean sign that he was really dead and it refutes the argument that people have put forth that he really wasn't dead when he rose from the dead. That's an aspect of it too, Bob. Absolutely. Good All right, let's look at Hebrews 2, if you're there, 2. 18. It's written in your binder. For since he himself was tempted in that which he has suffered, he is able to come to the aid of those who are tempted. And let's go to Hebrews 4. Yeah, let me start Hebrews 4, starting in verse 14. Since then we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession, for we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weakness, but one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, yet without sin. So I want to jump to uh MacArthur's commentary. His big uh systematic theology book. There was a comment made last week that Yes, Jesus was tempted, but he did not have the struggle of a sin nature like like we did. And it can you can walk away from that common thinking that somehow Jesus had extra power in his human nature that we don't have because he didn't have to struggle with the sin nature. And that's not the right way to think about this Right? Jesus, we're gonna see here in a second, Jesus understood and felt the full weight of temptation. More so than we have we do. Right? So let me let me go to the commentary here. After John baptized Jesus, the Holy Spirit The Holy Spirit led Jesus into the wilderness. This is Matthew 4, like we talked about, where he was tempted by Satan. The Holy Spirit played a significant role in Jesus' life and ministry. The Spirit was the agent of Jesus' conception in Mary's womb. He anointed and empowered Jesus in his ministry. And he was also the active agent in Jesus' resurrection. The Spirit's involvement in leading Jesus into the situation with Satan demonstrates that this testing Accorded with God's sovereign purpose in the program of redemption. Satan's temptations attack Jesus in his humanity Since God Himself, and therefore Jesus' divine nature, cannot be tempted with evil. In fact, God never acts even as the agent tempting anyone to evil. In accord with the categories listed in 1 John 2, Satan tempted Jesus with hunger as one of the desires of the flesh. With putting God to the test as an exp exhibition of the pride of life. Where did you see those those temptations take place earlier in the Bible? Genesis. Garden of Eden, right? Those were the same temptations that were given to Eve and Adam. With putting God to the test as an exhibition of the pride of life, and with the possession of the kingdoms of the world and all their glory to fulfill the desire of the eyes. Through this specific time of testiness throughout his earthly life, Jesus was tempted in every respect as we are, yet without sin. Jesus was able to be tempted, but was unable to sin. Let that sink in. Jesus was able to be tempted, but was unable to sin. Do you remember the big five dollar word we used last time? Impeccability. Right? This idea of impeccability is not able to sin. There is conversely an idea of peccability where Christ could have sinned, though he did not. Very different, right? That would totally go against his divine attributes, the ability to sin. Specifically his holiness, right? He is unable to sin. He could not sin and yet felt the full weight of temptation. Even though Jesus could not sin, the temptations he faced were genuine. The reality did not depend on his ability to respond. Indeed, since he never yielded to them, get this, he endured their full force. Thus temptation for Jesus was more real and more powerful than for any other human being. A comparison of Adam's temptation and Jesus' temptation reveals great differences and makes Jesus' victory all the more remarkable. So we talk about again that event in the garden. Adam faced temptation in the best of settings. The Garden of Eden. Jesus faced temptation in the stark environment, the wilderness of Judea. Adam lived in the perfection of the pre-fall world. Jesus lived in a deeply corrupt and sinful fallen world. Adam gave in to the first temptation he faced. Jesus faced repeated temptations throughout his earthly life and ministries, but never yielded. Adam entered his time of temptation, adequately fed in a delightful garden filled with fruit and fresh water. Jesus was weakened by forty days of fasting before his temptation in the wilderness. And lastly, the consequences of Adam's fall to temptation were lethal to the entire human race. The consequences of Jesus' triumph over temptation allowed him to complete the program of redemption successfully. Miss Diane. And I don't even know if I'm gonna say this the right way, but I would think that the temptation was even greater because of the fact that Jesus was sinless, so he was more sensitive to those sins that were to the temptation. Whereas we're fallen so it doesn't it wouldn't hit us the same Yeah. No, I think that's a great point, and again what I want to emphasize here is just that the magnitude of what Jesus fell through his temptation. He wasn't necessarily protected by this superpower shield, right, and didn't understand or feel the effects. He felt it more than we do. Think about your own life. How quickly do we give in to temptation? Do we strive to the point of death? Right? The extremes that Jesus felt. Forty days of fasting without food. We can't even begin to understand that. However, what was his dependence on? It was on the Holy Spirit. Christ's dependence on the Holy Spirit can be witnessed in his conception, his baptism, and his temptation in the wilderness. John writes that Christ utters the words of God, for he gives the Spirit without measure. Indeed, Christ relied on the Spirit for power in his ministry, and especially in his preaching. Christ, through the Spirit, gave commandments to his chosen apostles, and he cast out demons by the Spirit of God. When Jesus healed, he did so by the power of the Spirit. If I can encourage you with anything We have this great encouragement that we have this great high priest that can sympathize with us, and yet he relied on the Holy Spirit. That's the gift that has been given to us. We must rely on the power of the Holy Spirit. Ms. Kareem. I'm just going to say that we have the same Holy Spirit empowering us. Yes, excellent. And I want to finish in Hebrews. Uh Hebrews four, right? I I walked you through fourteen and fifteen. Let me read that again. For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weakness, but one who in every spec respect has been tempted as we are, yet without sin. That should be encouragement enough. But go on to verse sixteen. Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need. Right? Let that be an encouragement. That's our hope. That's our hope. And we can approach the throne through grace and mercy and through the Holy Spirit. Good. Any comments on that? I I just I thought that was really important to dig in deep on that one. Yes, we all have grace and uh it's up to us to uh use it if he give it to us. But we also have to remember that the tone is a deadly witness. And The Holy Spirit that we have should be helping us to control it. Yeah. Amen Yeah. You know none of this resisting temptation can can fall on our our human power, our human strength, which is what we often tend to do Like Jesus, we need to be asleep at the at the front of the boat, right? In in great confidence of what our Lord can do. Miss Diane? is unlike Jesus, we take our eyes off of God. Amen. Yeah. Diane, that's a great point because you see continually, and this is a great segment to talk about, you know, Connor, to your point When did he show his divine attributes? Is when the Lord instructed him. He was so in tune with the Father's instructions, which is why he needed time to be set aside, to go off and pray. We need to do the same. Right? In the busyness of life, we need to set that aside and be with our Lord. Excellent. Great discussion. So here we are. Established back to that point that you were making about um Um the impeccability, like his inability his in Jesus' inability to sin. I guess I'm trying to wrap my mind around that a little bit and you know if I'm going to No, you're good. And I called you a money earlier, I'm sorry. Yep. Um so it I guess what would be the point of of temptation if there wasn't a possibility of sin. Obviously like we know Jesus wasn't going to, you know, so it's not a matter of like, oh, he might flip up or something like that. But if he's fully God and fully man and one of the things that make us human is our ability to sin or our n our sinful nature. Obviously Jesus wasn't sinful because he never fell the way that we have fallen. But would it be wrong to say that it was possible even though he didn't? Do you know what I'm kind of I do, and that's what I was referencing earlier. There there is a view, peckability, that he he could sin but he chose not to, and we would not ascribe for that. We would ascribe to the fact that he was unable to sin. But to your question, why why did he go through temptation? Anyone want to answer? Or or but even with that, like how was he actually tempted if he was never going to sin Was he really tempted? Do you do it as a So how was he tempted? Yeah. I was just gonna bring up I think I said that last week Or I can't remember. Um but part of it was that he was tempted the same way that Ab and Ave were tempted, but he had no sin nature. There was nothing like compelling him to sin. Uh what he resisted was the conscious urge to sin and that's what he was tempted with. Uh Satan wasn't like waving something like under his nose to like trick him into it. Satan was singing to him, like offering him like arguments to get him to agree to it. Where uh a lot of the time with us we have to sin unconsciously as well as consciously because we have sin nature and we're fallen and that's why Yeah. Why we will never be fully glorified until we're in heaven of time. Well I don't I don't really see how that answers the question exactly I know it's the same. You say why did God have a non-sinful nature? So why did he need Satan to tempt him? Because there's no for him to be tempted. Um because how is someone tempted if they can't spend? I guess that's what I'm getting That's a good question. All right, hold on a second, hold on a second. Let's go around the room. We've got a couple of hands here. Rex. There is a middle ground. Okay. That usually makes neither side happy, but it fits he had the ability but not the possibility to sin because he was God. That is a middle position. Both sides don't like it, but that is an answer that is commonly All right, I appreciate the the additional view. I'm not sure we would ascribe to that here at Hope I was a good idea. No no this is a good question. This is hard. Because I feel like that this is something that people that we engage with, maybe even outside of the body here that they'll make this as an argument like this is why I don't believe what you believe or this is why I don't subscribe to the Bible because of that or this is where it's fallen or broken or you know, and so I'm just trying to have like a like a rational understanding so that I know it for myself and then it's easy to explain to the question. At least I love the question. Right? And it's a hard one. No no no. It's it's good. Ms. Diane, were you going to contribute to that? Maybe I was misunderstanding the question, but I thought I heard you ask why did he need to be tempted? Was is that what you should ask? So that was part of the question, but it was also how could how can Jesus be tempted truly tempted if He can't spend anyway. Right. So when when I think about the first part of your question, why it needed to be tempted Someone had to be able to fulfill all righteousness by overcoming temptation because that way we could have our sins atoned for. Yeah, no no. We're gonna get to that in a second. Um I don't think that's what you're asking. But put your spot on. Yeah. It's like that that in That I I understand and I agree with. But it's just the the basic question of like how is someone or how is not someone, how is Jesus undergoing temptation, like how is he truly tempted if he was never going to sin? So let me let me ask it this way, is temptation a sin No. No. So the so the act of being tempted is not a sin. Right. Okay? So now you have Jesus, we just talked through all of his humanness. Right. So I referenced the desires of the flesh. the pride of life, the desires of the eyes. After forty days of being in the desert, he was extremely hungry. Do you think that that Jesus might not well he was tempted to maybe partake? Right? In in his human nature. He he wanted the food, maybe, or the He wanted the food, let's say, or the temptation that Satan gave him, right? Right. Yeah So in his human nature he was going to experience that temptation. So then is it wrong to say that in his human nature he could have taken that but he chose not to. I think that's when you get into the different views. And what we would ascribe to is that he was unable to sin. And I get it, it's it's a hard time. Like it's it maybe that that's just that it's just one of those things that you you just walk in face with and and I I personally am okay with that but I just I know certain people don't accept that. Like they they have to understand it. Not one of those people by just asking execution At least again I love I love the questioning and and what I would tell you we said this early on as we go through these doctrines you you You peel it back, you peel it back, you peel it back, and you're gonna get to a point where sometimes it's it's by faith. And you continue to s wrestle with the word to try and understand it, right? And I know that's not an adequate answer, but that's sometimes where we end up. Yeah. Great question, you know. Ms. Kreen. Thank you. Help me if I'm understanding right, but my understanding is that because he was fully that And fully man, the fully got fully God part, he was unable to sin because of that. Right. That is true. Yeah. Hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on. Hold on. That's that's my understanding. That's what it makes sense to me as I study this is that even though the human part of him was susceptible, he was not because not only did he not have a good nature, but he was fully God. It's the divine nature he was unable to send because of the divine nature. Pastor Allen. I've been sort of talking at the video for a while. And I feel I need to say something. Uh first of all, just to set the record straight, in our doctrinal statement, although it's detailed, we don't think the list from that. You look at the doctrinal statement, it just doesn't say Yeah. Um and and I think one reason for that is that there's a lot of good very Bible believed strong Bible believing Christians who come down in different ways and Um frankly it it is hard to uh find a scripture that comes down very clearly on either side. Thank you. And so um it it's one of those mysteries that that we can't completely comprehend. Uh but I think Kareem's kind of started getting us down that that road. Yeah, can God Does God sleep? Does he slumber or sleep? It's very specific in scripture of the Cathead. But Jesus did in his humanity. Right? Does God hunger? No. But Jesus did. It is humanity. So what it really boils down to what is the nature of his, well, his dual nature uh being divine and human at the same time. That's what we can't wrap our minds around. Right? But we see it in scripture It's clear to both God and man, and because it's so hard for us to wrap our minds around it, most of the significance um uh heresies in the early church were about the nature of Christ. And um God fortunately um Allowed the early church fathers and church generally to understand what we need to understand, that he's both God. And man. The implications of that are hard for us to understand. But Scripture does refer to Christ as um the second Adam. In what sense was Jesus like Adam He didn't have he was um he got his start in life, put it that way, his his his earthly life without sin. Both of them began without sin. Adam, of course, when he was tempted, blew it. First time. Jesus never did. And Jesus is often referred to as obeying, which in fact he did. He obeyed the Father. Um so there's enough mystery about what it means for Jesus to be both God and man. simultaneously, where in his divinity, his divine nature, there's some things that are just non-negotiable, they're just true of him, right? um not capable of sin. The complete antithesis of sin. But in this humanity, even without a sin nature He had to sleep, he had to he hungered, he experienced all the the limitations of time and space. Um and the fact that we can't wrap our minds around it ought not to uh discourage us, but rather to just point us to the the awesome miracle of the incarnation Yep, yep, for sure. Um great discussion. I want to keep going here, but I think you know Pastor Allen brings home a really good point. When we're having these types of discussion, bring it back to the framework of his two natures Right. A lot of times I think when we're having this discussion you gotta set that foundation first because there are many who don't believe that. And you can see that That was often questioned, right? That's the authority. His deity was being questioned all the time. Bring people back to that basic element of two natures in one person. Right? Like Pastor Allen said, you get to a point though where it can still be a bit of a mystery, but bringing them back and having to discuss around those two natures is absolutely critical. That's the foundation for all of this. All right, so let's keep going. So we've established his his few uh his full humanity, but back to we were kind of getting at this earlier, what is the purpose? Why? Why do that? Why operate that way? The purpose of the incarnation was one, to reveal God. We see that in Hebrews 1, don't we? The exact representation of the Father. To redeem men. That was part of the plan of redemption was his incarnation. And to rule over God's kingdom. Thus, Christ in his incarnation is the prophet, our high priest, and the King of Kings. So, what we're going to do for the next five lessons is we're going to be parsing through those roles, if you will, right? Prophet, priest, and king. And so I just want to highlight real quick, um we see some of these positions, if you will, or roles highlighted in Scripture. So I'm going to go through those pretty quick so we can get to the the last part of this. Like I said, we're going to spend a lot of time going through each of these specific rules. Matthew 2, where is he who has been born king of the Jews? For we saw his star in the east and have come to worship him. Obviously again, king of the Jews Jews. And what is a king? Right? That's somebody who has authority, he has a kingdom, and he has subjects. That's what you need in order to be a king. Going down to, I think it's the fourth one, Matthew 21, say to the daughter of Zion, Behold, your king is coming to you, gentlemen, mounted on a donkey Even on a colt, the foal of the beast of burden. Again you see reference to King. Flipping the page, I'll skip King again. Let's go down to number the third passage, Luke 24. And he said to them, What things? And they said to him, the things about Jesus the Nazarene, who was a prophet, mighty indeed and word, in the sight of God and all the people. What is a prophet? Sent from God to do what? Speak God's word. The messenger, right? Speak God's word. So Jesus was a prophet. Go down a couple more to John 6. Again, you see, when therefore the people saw the sign which he had performed, they said, This is of a truth the prophet who is to come into the world. And just below that, some of the multitude therefore, when they heard these words, were saying, This certainly is the prophet Clearly, Jesus is prophet. Let's go down to the very last, the bold statement at the bottom there. And I just referenced Hebrews 1. And he is the radiance of his glory and the exact representation of his nature. I love that And upholds all things by the word of his power. When he had made purification of sins, he sat down at the right hand of the majesty on high. And we read in Hebrews 4, he is what? Our great high priest. Right? And a priest is a representative, an advocate for us. And it talks about, I think it's Romans 8, where not only Jesus Christ, but also the Holy Spirit interceding for us. Right? So you got the double banger, but Jesus Christ as priest. And again, we're going to talk about that in a lot more detail in the next lessons to come. Turning over to the supplemental notes, this is really kind of focusing on this chronological order of the birth of Jesus. And I know you guys know the story, but I think there's some really neat truths and tidbits that come out of this. this process, if you will. So we'll go through that and then leave some time for uh application at the end. So it starts obviously Joseph and Mary travel to Bethlehem, the birth of Christ And I won't read that, but maybe the bullet. Notice that God sovereignly worked through Roman bureaucracy to ensure that Jesus was born in Bethlehem in fulfillment of prophecy. Apparently Joseph wouldn't have gone there on his own initiative, perhaps for economic reasons. So we've talked about that a couple times, right? What attribute do you see coming out here in the Lord? We talked about uh one of God's attributes. What jumps out at you when you see the order of events here. He plans things, what what would you lump that under? I'm trying to lead you here. His sovereignty or his providence, right? Under his sovereignty he has this very detailed plan and I I shared with you the fact that I'm even standing here today, I can look back at the order of events, everything that happened, and that includes um my family, my work to get me here today. And that's true of all of us. Right? Specifically here though, the order of events that happened, it's incredible. And like I said, as you look at the entire miracle here, the numbers of prophecy that have been fulfilled, it's just mind-boggling, right, as you look at the entire events. But number one, we see God's sovereignty to get Mary and Joseph to Bethlehem. Then second point, their shepherds hear of his birth and go to worship him. Let me read the first In the same region there were some shepherds staying out in the fields and keeping watch over their flock by night. And an angel of the Lord suddenly stood before them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were terribly frightened. But the angel said to them, Do not be afraid, for behold, I bring you good news of great joy, which will be for the people. For today in the city of David there has been born for you a Savior, who is Christ the Lord. And you see the note down below. Jesus was introduced as rabbi? Teacher? Savior, who is Christ the Lord. Christ is the Greek form of the Hebrew word, Messiah. And again, they were anticipating the Messiah. And here it is. Here is prophecy being fulfilled. And again in Jesus' humanness. And when eight days had passed before his circumcision, his name was then called Jesus, the name given by the angel before he was conceived in the womb. So, like many of the male Jews at that time, he was circumcised. And you guys know circumcision was the sign of the Abrahamic covenant. Okay? But this um this proclamation was not just made to the shepherds. On the next page, you see also to Simeon and Anna. And again, I want you as I read this I'm running out of time. I'll read it real quick. And when the days of their purification, according to the law of Moses, were completed, they brought him up to Jerusalem to present him to the Lord. As it is written in the law of the Lord, every firstborn male that opens the womb shall be called holy to the Lord, and to offer a sacrifice according to what was said in the law of the Lord. A pair of turtle doves are two young pigeons. And here's the key. There was a man And there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon. And this man was righteous and devout, looking for the consolation of Israel. And the Holy Spirit was upon him. And it had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not see death, he would not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ. And he came in the spirit into the temple, and when the parents brought in the child Jesus to carry out for him the custom of the law, then he took him into his arms and blessed God, and said, Now, Lord, you are releasing your bondservant to depart in peace According to your word. I'll stop there just to say, you know, here was Simeon who understood the scriptures He understood what was prophesied. He was waiting. He's like, Lord, I don't want to die until that happens. And the Lord allows him to see the Messiah before he passes on. Right? That's just a beautiful testament. Same well I'll keep going. Verse 30, for my eyes have seen your salvation, which you have prepared in the presence of all peoples, a like of revelation to the Gentiles and the glory of your people Israel And his father and mother were amazed at the things which were being said about him. Again, marrying Joseph, taking this all in. And Simeon blessed them and said to Mary his mother, Behold, this child is appointed for the fall and rise of many in Israel and for a sign to be opposed, and a sword will pierce even your own soul. Mary needed salvation too, to the end that thoughts for many hearts may be revealed. And there was a prophetess, Anna, the daughter of Fanuel, of the tribe of Asher. She was advanced in years and had lived with her husband seven years after her marriage And then as a widow to the age of eighty-four, she never left the temple, serving night and day with fasting and prayers. At that very moment she came up and began giving thanks to God and continued to speak of him All those who were looking for the redemption of Jerusalem. When they had performed everything according to the law of the Lord, they returned to Galilee. to their own city of Nazareth. So they are at Jerusalem to carry out the the traditions, if you will, and now back to Nazareth. So Jesus' divine nature and role were revealed to Simeon and Anna, just like the shepherds. Again, like we said, they were looking for the redemption of Jerusalem, and here it was. And then we see Joseph and Mary return to Nazareth. And then you have um the inclusion of of the Magi. I'm not going to read um, but let's just look at some of the notes below. There's some interesting facts, if you will As we know, the Magi were not kings, but rather wise men. It may have been after the tradition of Daniel, right, and his buddies, the wise men in Babylon Herod and the Jewish leaders knew that the King of Jews referred to the Messiah. The Jewish leaders knew that the Messiah had to be born in Bethlehem, though Herod didn't know this without asking them, right? He had to to bring them into court to ask to inquire. But everyone understood the implications of what was happening. I'm going to skip down a couple They found Mary and Jesus in the house. The word here indicates that this is a human dwelling, not a stable. The Magi didn't visit Jesus the same time the shepherds did. This was long after his birth Right. So you in in scripture you see them right next to each other, but there was a gap of time. Potentially Joseph must have moved his family to Bethlehem from Nazareth before while the Magi were traveling. So that's when you see when you read the different accounts. They're in Bethlehem, Nazareth, you know what's going on. This kind of helps pull the chronology together. Notice that these Gentiles fell to the ground and worshiped Jesus, the King of the Jews. I didn't read that, but you can see the bold up there. The three gifts tell us something of what the Magi were thinking in their worship of Christ. Gold was for a king, frankincense used in prayer to God, and myrrh, common spice. preparing dead bodies for burial. Anyone know what frankincense is? I had to look it up. Yeah, it's uh it's a gum like material, but it has a fragrance to it. So it was used in incense aroma A lot of aroma treatments will use frankincense, but that was the significance there was the aroma, the prayer to God And then turning over, this is a part we often overlook, but this is part of the chronology of events that happened around Jesus' birth. Now when they had gone, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream and said, Get up, take the child and his mother and flee to Egypt, and remain there until I tell you. For Herod is going to search for the child to destroy him So Joseph got up and took the child and his mother while it was still night and left for Egypt. He remained there until the death of Herod. This was to fulfill what had been spoken by the Lord through the prophet. Out of Egypt I called my son Then when Herod saw that he had been tricked by the Magi, he became very enraged and sent and slew all the male children who were in Bethlehem in all its vicinity. From two years old and under, according to the time which he had determined from the Magi. I'll pause there. Bethlehem, having that city in Scripture, you must have felt great honor And yet, here overcomes this incredible tragedy. The focus of this slaughter was on Bethlehem and the residing areas outside of it. All right, just absolutely tragic what is happening here. The slaughter of newborn babies. And it's interesting to note that this is surrounding this this miraculous incarnation of Jesus Christ. So even though there's this great miracle surrounding it is this this incredible slaughter. Right? So there was there was protection for Jesus. Right? So the the word to Joseph was you gotta get out. There was protection, but still adversity. They had to flee. They had to flee the comfort of their own home, okay? Just like our life today. Sorry. Sorry, I was just thinking as I was as as you were speaking through all of this. Um, did that impact Jewish people's desire to I guess crucify him, was that would you say that that would have had any impact at the time? Or I'm not sure I'm following it. Jesus and Herod trying to find him um and not finding him, but instead killing all of these other children. Do you think that that would have been something that was remembered at the time of Jesus Yeah. I just thought about that before. Yeah, potentially. Kareem, were you gonna add something to that? I was gonna say I don't think the general I don't think people would really know where he was born, where he lived, like his childhood and stuff like that. Like I don't know most of the childhood or details of people that I listen to, like sermons or anything like that. I just maybe the scholars, maybe the Pharisees and stuff knew, but I don't I mean that was that assuming that they knew Jesus is specific history. Everybody called him a Nazarene. Everybody thought he was from Nazareth. His parents would know. Maybe his whole family would know. Maybe his disciples known. But Probably with a general knowledge. Yeah. But Pastor Alan, were you gonna add Yeah basically the same thing? That uh multiple people in Christ's ministry sort of ridiculed him because he was from Galilee, Nazareth and and someone and didn't really seem to make any connection with his actual birth in Bethlehem fulfilled prophecy. So seems like it's kind of a non-issue. Potentially. It it's speculation, you know, but I have thought of that before. So at the time that the tree went out, would a king have given like reasons for why babies were being kill you know what I mean or you just say what we're gonna do anybody and especially since he was trying to get rid of his competition that he would not have wanted that anybody to know that there would be the possibility someone Wh which would have made it even worse. You know, why is all of all of a sudden this happening? So I I just if I'm a parent and this just happened, why? You know I'm asking why. Yeah, that's that like there have been like talking that was Yeah, there's there's certainly nothing in scripture that would tell us. So it it is speculation, but I have thought of that, being a parent myself, what that would have been like. So good. All right, we are just about out of time. Um what I would encourage you if you haven't, we we talked the interpretation piece. Explain why it was necessary for Jesus to be born a human of born by a human mother but also by a virgin. We we have talked about that, so hopefully you filled that out. But really the application, you know, list ten things Jesus experienced as a man. Verses that indicate these experiences and what impact his experience should have on us today. If you have not gone through that exercise, I really encourage you to take some time and meditate on the application in your own life. We talked a lot about the temptation and it was a good, good discussion. Hard to get our heads around that sometime, but it's important for us to understand what he went through, what he felt, um, and why, right? So he could sympathize with us. That's the high priest that we have, someone who can sympathize with our temptations Right? And he relied on the Holy Spirit. In his human nature, he relied on the Holy Spirit to overcome that temptation, just as we need to do. Alright, let me close the prayer and we'll wrap this up. Really, really good discussion today, guys. Thank you.