Well welcome to um lesson four of our uh sequence As we're continuing in the doctrines that we teach, we're in the doctrine of the church, ecclesiology. Remember uh last couple of weeks we've talked about um uh the the authority uh for the church and then last week particularly uh leadership and and so on. Today the topic is discipline. We usually refer to it as church discipline. So let me read from number one. The church, under the leadership of the elders, is to discipline sinning members of the congregation in accordance in accord with the standards of Scripture. The four steps of church discipline are privately confronting the brother who sinned Confrontation by two or three witnesses, confrontation by the church as a whole, and removal of the sinning brother from the church. And so Christ uh laid out that basic uh framework in Matthew eighteen. Could I have someone read that? Actually, um I think it would be more efficient if you want if I ask for someone to read and you'd like to read, just raise your hand, I'll call on you. Okay? So would it anyone like to read The first passage. Okay. And if your brother sins, go and reprove him in private. If he listens to you, you have one your brother. But if he does not listen to you, take one or two more with you, so that by the mouth of two or three witnesses every fact may be confirmed. And if he refuses to listen to them, tell it to the church And if he refuses to listen, even to the church, let him be to us Gentile and attacks us together. Right. Well there's a lot packed into that, and I hope that we during the the course of this uh hour we'll be able to unpack it a bit and apply it and understand it well. Um so It says if your brother sins, what kind of brother is it talking about here? Brothers in Christ. Brothers in Christ, yeah. The context is church, right? Family of God. Um so if your brother sins, um Do you think there's a day any one of us that goes by that we don't sin? So this is a pretty prevalent thing, right? Um I think it's an important question. Is it talking about every single sin? Um You know, on and again in Matthew in the in the Sermon on the Mount, uh Jesus gave examples like Turning the other cheek when you're offended, right? Uh going the extra mile. Um Right after this very passage in Matthew eighteen, we see Peter trying to process this in his head, I think. And he says, So how often should I forgive my brother? Up to seven times? And what did Jesus say? I have a number. That's it. Seventy times seven, which means what? Don't count. Right? So we're to be forgiving, we're to be gracious, we're to turn the other cheek, and yet it says, if your brother sins, go and reprove him. So um The question often comes up, does that mean every little sin in every context? So let me let me help you think that through, okay. Uh let's say um you uh are coming alongside a a new believer. And as you may know from your own experience, a new believer is likely to bring with him a lot of baggage. into the Christian life, habits, thoughts, uh uh whatever And a lot of that needs to be sanctified, cleansed, and shed over time, right? Does the Holy Spirit do that immediately? No, it takes some time, doesn't it? And so how can we help that person the most? Give him a list of 30 things he needs to change overnight? Probably not, right? How can we help it? Sorry? Come alongside. Um be an encouragement that yeah um and maybe from your own testimony and how God's been working in your life. Um Uh maybe point out something that's pretty clear And probably low-hanging fruit, something to to work on. And uh help them to see that from Scripture. Uh help them to uh See that, commit to it, pray through it, uh be accountable about it. Uh without yet addressing the things you also see on your list that you could help him with, right? But being gracious, being patient, even as the Holy Spirit's patient with each of us. Um not that we would ignore it, but we're understanding, we're we're gracious and and so on to him. Yeah. then expose yourself to that environment as the to say that say they meet in a way that may be a little coarse. Yeah. And um so you might have to expose yourself to that and befriend them. as they become part of the church and part of part of the uh uh fellowship. But it also means that you would bring them in you would spend time with them, you would bring them in, you would It takes time, it takes effort. Yeah. It takes some amount of vulnerability on your part. But it also obviously then takes an an aspect of uh you would need to make sure that you're not going to become more like them rather than them becoming For sure. For sure. Right. And so you need to be a good example, even a mentor and and so on. And so that's one example, right? And so you could see that brother sinning in some other ways. Okay, that's on my list. We're going to work on that eventually. But uh let's take this one step at a time and and help him uh to understand the word, apply it to his life, and uh be progressively sanctified, right? Let's take another example. Someone who's a um Mature Christian who obviously knows better and yet does that same thing? How would you approach that? Externally maybe. A little more direct. Possibly. It may depend on the context and and so on. Yeah. Quite often uh as a matura leader, as you're growing, uh you have to be reminded of what true repentance is. So I I think of Matthew three eight, if you have true repentance, there's gonna be fruit in your life. Right. Are you gonna be constantly going after the sin that you're supposed to repent from, turn away from, or are you going to show that you love Christ and grow with him by having fruit in your life? You said taking God's word and applying it into your life. Right. So going there and then say, your bird is my burden. I'm going to come alongside you and help you apply this script Yep. Yep. Yeah, and so a question that's in your head would be, could other people be led astray by this, stumble by it, uh think that it's okay, you know, it could spread, right? And so if if the likelihood of it spreading is great, and it may be increased, as you say, because maybe it's someone who's recognized as more mature and a leader, yeah, you need to deal with that more quickly because the stakes are higher, right? The consequences. Um and and so getting right into this first step pretty quickly would be a a wise thing to do, for sure. Yeah. It's not really a relevant relevant point probably, but just like also the under balancing the sternness with compassion because depending on the spin there could could be, you know, solid reasons why they're they've been led to sin, but that doesn't make it right. Where if it's something like somebody's child is murdered and they're harboring unforgiveness and bitterness towards the man who's kill them. That can be sensible. That's also very sympathetic and understandable and it's a tough balance when there is something where they are gonna have to work through that, but the issue is there, like everyone saying it's like more if they're making if they're refusing to apologize for it and if they're leading other people to think that that's a righteous way to behave, that's almost more of a problem than their own sin. Even though their own sin is a little problem. Yeah, so yeah. Each each case may be somewhat unique in that way, but there can be ramifications that we need to be sensitive wise to. Yeah Um let me give you another example. Let's say someone you know very well. actually does offend you uh by something he says, maybe something he did, something you didn't do, and it was even directed at you. Do you think that's an opportunity to maybe turn the other G? Well cover multifairs then. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. So um let's say that your your initial reaction is motivated by scripture like that and to turn the other cheek and say, yeah, I I know this guy, this this This is not him. Right I know him well. Um and yet so this is an outlier. I'm not gonna be harsh um as a knee-jerk reaction does turn the other cheek. But then he does it again. And again, it's starting to be a habit, a a tendency. What then Tell them tell them Romans six one and two. What shall we say then shall we continue in sin? So grace may abound, certainly not. How can we have died the sin that we've all ridden? Then you take them over to Galatians 2. 20. That's where we die Our old self died on the cross. Explain to him your about your new life with Christ. In a lot of cases, those things are going to be already well known by the person. And what you need to challenge them on is He's dropping his keeping his eye not keeping his eye on on the on Christ. Instead he's allowing this sinful response to become a habit. Um and so what would the loving thing to to do in his case be for us to do for him? Yeah, that's a loving thing to do. It's not loving to allow him to continue in that, uh not just because of its impact on us, but presumably it's also happening with other people. And uh that's and that's a very It seems like there might be something else going on. Often is. And so by confronting, you may actually open up another very home. Yeah, and we're gonna we're gonna touch on that in a minute, but a couple more hands. He's doing what pleases himself Uh and that is you know, w what does he want to please Christ or is he choosing Is his heart uh uh away from Christ, which it would be if he continues in the same way. uh his love is towards this thing that he's doing uh rather than uh please Christ. So if that's really the root issue is where are his affections? Where is his uh uh where is this heart right in the method. Right. You can change all the externals and if you don't change the heart nothing can Exactly, exactly. That's what what Glenn was saying. There's probably something else going on that's causing this, right? Yeah. I wanted to go back to the first example you said um if something was done to offend you, she I think in most cases yes, provided you can truly let it go. Sometimes someone will offend you. You're saying, okay That's not them, I'm gonna let it go. But then you start to get bitter and then when that happens, you're guilty of sin. So I think you have to check your own heart to see if you're really able to let it go Good point. Yep. That's certainly involved. I was going to say sometimes too. Even with mature people, do compartment analyze things. And I think it's good to bring it up to them. say, you know, this is offensive to me and maybe other people and they might not even realize it. Because sometimes we We know a principle, but we don't apply it across the board. We've kind of got little compartments and it might be because you know, we're in a work environment that encourages that or wh whatever that kind of whatever. And so I think it's good to point it out in a loving way and then And I say, oh thank you for hopefully they would for letting me know this. I didn't realize that that was so offensive. Yeah, and it's very easy to to rationalize because we've put little boundaries around it even though it is sand And it it it seems acceptable in some cases perhaps we've we've uh deceived ourselves into thinking that. Yeah. I was just going to say turning the other cheek isn't necessarily mutually exclusive with confronting somebody over their sin. You can be completely forgiving and not hold any of them and still say, That wasn't a very good thing to do, that wasn't a very good thing to say I'm not angry at you, but that's something that you might need to be aware of in in a loving way remind them. Yeah, so that's a good point that our our forgiveness, our limitless forgiveness is not contingent on their response. We're not holding it against them, but we're loving them to help them see their sin, right? Um and if we come at them with a judgmental attitude and a conditional thing, it's just going to make things worse. But like God in his example with us, uh he's forgiven us even though he disciplines us greatly. Right? I can give some other examples, but let's yes. I have a question um different translations take this verse and and it says in that your brother sins against you. Yeah. Um is there I I I I see that sometimes sort of differentiate those things that are sort of against me versus sins that are just sort of dishonoring to Christ. And I tend to be more in front of on to those who sort of dishon the Lord rather than those that Offend us. Offend me specifically. Uh although sometimes that can be both. But but I I tend to be more sensitive, I suppose. to that and sort of like we've taken on his name you need to act accordingly. Now like you said, it's sort of a Christian age but you know related, but certainly a mature Christian if they're acting out of Yeah. Yeah. More confirmed, I suppose. Yeah, and I wanna Remind me to circle back to the question of the purpose of this whole thing. I want to cover a few more points now, but that's key. Why are we doing this? Right? Let's keep that in our mind. But to answer your question, yeah, there are some translations that that insert their uh against you But that against you is not in the earliest manuscripts. And so uh translations like New America Standard, which we're reading from here, um doesn't include that Yeah. But the principle's the same. Yeah, I think exactly. Yeah. Okay. Um If your brother sands, so step one is go and reprove him in private. What does reprove mean? It's a little bit different from correct. So it's it's um Um yeah, admonish is a good synonym. Yeah. And so correct would be like a next step. Um uh Second Timothy three sixteen says that the word of God um It can accomplish four things. Do you remember what those four things are? It's profitable for teaching, correction. Reprove. Correction, training in righteousness. So the teaching is explaining what's right. Reproof is you're you're falling short. Correction is how do you get back? And then training in righteousness is staying there. So go and reprove him in private. Now Why in private? No gossip. No gossip. What else? Well also I think not Number one, people are more open to being re uh reprimanded or corrected when there's not an audience. You're gonna get people to sense this. They could be defensive anyway, but this minimizes the the the likelihood of that. Okay. Any other reasons? And that's the eighteen that you start out with, it said that um says in private if he if he listens to you one your brother it's all about reconciliation and if you won your brother it's done you don't have to go to the next step in the third step Right. That is intention. Right. But but going in private, I mean you could reproof reproof someone in public. And if he repents, that's good, you you achieve the same result. But in private any other thoughts there? You could be shaming him, that's would put him on defensive. Right. I guess the motivation too is you're doing it for their their growth and out of love, so it's better to do Yes. That's certainly true. Yes. It also avoids self-grandisement where if you're doing it in public, you might not intend it, but you're still kind of putting on a show. I'm so much more righteous than you, I'm telling you have reasons for in private. It's it's a whole lot easier to be uh humble going in private. Um why humble? Why in love? That you're sinners. Because we're centers too. We're all a work in process, right? But something key, very key here, um was that here? Oh, yeah. Yeah, okay. Yep. Love, gentle. How would we want them to approach us, right? We should be likewise considerate for them. But something very key to this process. It's getting the facts straight. Right? If if something looks like sin, you talk to them and you realize, oh I didn't s I didn't know that. I didn't realize that or whatever. Depending on the nature of it, it might not be sin at all. It may appear to if it appeared to you a sin, if someone comes to me with a concern like that And it appeared to be sin, but turned out it wasn't. I would take it just as seriously, because other people could interpret it as sin. So it's a loving thing to point that out, right? But getting the facts is crucial so that we can assess what's going on. Several people have said, well, what is the root problem here? You only know that if you can dig out the facts, right? And see the context and understand the heart if possible, right? So going to private allows you to do that. And so you're not coming with both guns ablazing, right? You're coming with a gentle, loving, but forthright. approach to gather the facts humbly and demonstrate love in a tangible way. Right? Okay, so Go, it says. In other words, don't wait for him to come to you, it's probably not gonna happen. Or don't just wait for the Lord to set up the appointment and then put everybody on the spot. It says take the initiative. Take the initiative because um there's um Quite potentially a hurting brother or sister here. So yeah. He pursued us. For the same reason we need to pursue those that are in sin. Right. We need to like while we're yet sinners, would Christ do and die for us. Right. by going after the person and help them be recognized. And so who's going? Just go and reprove him Individuals, right? It doesn't say go grab an elder, right, to do it. Uh but it's just you, go and demonstrate love in that way. Okay, approving in private. If he listens to you, what does listen here mean? You heard what you said? Yeah. So he's um if he listens to you, understands and responds appropriately. If it's sinned, then it's repentance. If it's if it's not actually sin, there may still be steps to take. Um but if he listens to you, you have won your brother. In what sense would he be won? There's a victory over sin, basically. Right. Doesn't mean that if if he doesn't respond appropriately, he'll lose his salvation. Uh but the whole point here is to restore him, right? But if he does not listen to you, take one or two more with you. Um so the original person is still going, but taking one or two more. What would be the purpose of the one or two more? So what's the financial purpose? person is saying so it's not just like just that she's a kind of situation, but like, no, a lot of people are noticing this. Maybe there is something here. It it can send the right kind of message that it's it's it's more important than like you say just one person's opinion or or whatever, yes? Because it could be that the two people are talking cross purposes where there's some misunderstanding going on. So outside people who weren't involved in the initial thing might be able to see what the other people are missing Yes. In fact, that's basically what Jesus said. He says, and he's quoting here from the Old Testament law. Take one or more, two one or two more with you so that by the mouth of two or three witnesses every fact may be confirmed. What facts? the facts of the case, right? What um and and so it's possible that the um the original person going to him uncovers the facts and it becomes pretty clear it's sin, let's say. But rather than it just being he said, she said, uh opinions and so on These additional people serve the primary role of being objective what what's uh the term I usually give to it? Um observers? Like observers. Observers um Well, it'll come to me. Anyway. one person's word against another. So they need to be objective and uh they can participate in the questioning and whatever. Uh and But they're being objective about both of those people, not just the person who presumably sinned, and bringing um objectivity and discipline to it. Yeah. I was just gonna add to that. It it may mean it may it may mean that if you go into that situation and you feel like someone is sending it to it, so With coming into a commun with humbleness that that others might disagree. You might say, Well, no, it's not offensive. You know. Yeah, so these people definitely need to be objective. Rather than being slow. Right. That may be my problem. And so others may help me with that even though I in you know I sort of sort of process. Right. Right. So not that I'm saying that from experience What what you what you don't want here is your best buds to come with you with a an agenda. Right. What you want is people who are just objective. And maybe the most objective people who who will be those who don't even know the person all that well Certainly don't know the facts, but are willing to um to help ensure that the facts are clear. Make sense? And if he refuses to listen to them, that is, to all of you collectively, tell it to the church. And here's one place where um when I get to heaven One of the questions I'm probably going to have for Jesus is, why weren't you more specific about that very step? Tell it to the church. Well We apply that here at HBC with actually two sub steps The first subset is for this small group of people who have now established the facts to bring it to the elders Because up to this point the elders are oblivious, they don't know anything about this, right? Typically. Um And so they bring it to the elders, and what are the elders going to do? They're going to say, tell us the facts. What are the facts? And what was the process? And ensuring that uh the right uh steps have been taken and uh not only the facts of the sin are clear but the facts of the response to all this is clear But then we will also, as part of step three A, if you will. uh reach out one more time to the same brother as elders as the elder board and kind of um In in the very same way, with the very same purpose, and yet with some firmness, because we're pretty sure about the facts, we'll ask them plead with them, please come and talk with us so that we can be sure we've got the story complete, we can help you, offer counseling, we want to understand this. Um but please come meet with us. And Again, as part of step three, if if he doesn't listen even to that, then taking it to the church is step three B, which is announcing it to the church We want to be sure in our role as protecting the flock to not um We want to do our due diligence to make sure that we're not making problems worse by passing along incomplete, inaccurate information. But clearly Jesus is saying uh if if he doesn't respond well or even at all at that stage, then tell it to the church. What we typically do, many of you have have been around some of these occasions We don't go into all the gory details, but just the nature of the sin, the nature of the process and the response. And why do you think Jesus Wanted us to do that. Yes. Uh we're getting back to the overarching purpose of the whole process, but why specifically this step to tell it to the church? There's a possibility other people could be affected uh by that very same person or maybe the same sin. It could be an example. But this is this is serious, folks. Okay. Also so that the like assuming he's an unrepentant sinner has no intention of uh ever repenting from this, so that he can't go and say, They're persecuting me, they're being so unfair, they're doing all this stuff to me. Now the entire church has the facts, at least as far as the elders are willing to share them, and he can't say they're making everything up because everybody has at least a basic sense of what happened. Okay. I actually have a question. I know that they're focusing more on the in the church uh discipline within the church But what if it's no apparently? Yeah. Um Everybody hear the question? The context here is is sin within the church. And the question is, what if it's somebody outside the church? And the example was maybe parents, someone else in the family, or maybe a co-worker, it could be lots of people. There are principles here that would be helpful in those cases But um um people you you have a long-standing relationship with, you don't say you're no longer a part of the family. Right? So there's some changes here. I tell you what, in uh I think the first Sunday of September I'm going to be preaching a sermon about that very thing. If you don't mind waiting. Okay. However, I will say, sneak peek. Do you remember where Jesus said, I have not come to bring peace? But I've come to bring in one case he says sword, in another context he says division, which is really what he means. But the example he gives is within the family, right? We're going to talk about that. And a lot of the principles principles here in terms of going in love, getting the facts. being clear about what scripture says when you talk to the person are going to apply. Um but the the application is going to be different because the context is not the church. Yeah. But um The consequences of of not dealing with it are going to be very similar to what if what would happen if you don't deal with it in the dirt. Yeah, that's why it's hard, right Yeah. Along the line with what Kareem was saying, um well the church is considered the bride of Christ. Right. So one day he's coming, but in the meantime the church, the bride is being purified and cleansed. So along that line, if there's an ongoing sin constantly happening from one of the members of the body that is harnessing the body. So how can the church continue to be cleansed, right? So it's at some point something needs to be done, and as elders that are ordained in that position, they find they're making the final decision on whether or not that person needs to continue being in the body of Christ because maybe that person's not a believer at all. Right? It takes a lot of discernment on the elders' part to get to that point. You know, quick to listen, slow to speak, you're you're taken in all the knowledge, the Proverbs 18 and 13 I believe, you're you're accumulating all this info before you respond. So those are two verses I can think of in Albert So you're you're still being careful, you're not gonna make a rash decision, but when you finally make the decision, you know that's God Yeah. So um this is good. Everybody is sort of pointing toward um Uh let's being be explicit about the overall purpose, the purpose of the overall process that Jesus gave us Several things have already been mentioned. One is to restore, bring the person into a restored relationship with Christ, with brothers and sisters, and whatever Uh Brian's talking about the the purpose of maintaining the purity of Christ's bride. Christ is jealous. for the purity of his bride and if outside people are looking in at the church and saying, pfft, they think they're holier than thou, but they're no different from us. They're just a bunch of hypocrites. That brings shame to Christ. Right? Also, we've also mentioned uh the need to keep sin from spreading within the church. That's another purpose of it. Um and that that keeping it from spreading is helping people to um uh uh be well I'd say warned but also uh regularly reminded that um God is is is serious about our sanctification and pleasing him, honoring him, glorifying him, keeping the the bride pure. That are not believers, and we know a lot of people are deceived. So that this fellowship can be the one thing that opens their eyes and So two things there. One is if they're not actually a believer, this is a process that purifies the church by removing them. You remember when several weeks ago we talked about who is in the universal church versus who is in the local church? The universal church, only God knows. We have a pretty good indication in a lot of cases, but it's every true believer in Christ. But the local church could have people who are not actually believers in it who um because we're we're not omniscient as we as we evaluate um people in the membership class and have interviews with them Uh that's the whole process is intended to help both us and them understand whether they are truly saved and growing and so on. But we're not going to be perfect at that, and there could be someone who talks a good game, but comes to find out the fruit of repentance just isn't there And this process will expose that and deal with it in a godly way. So that removing the person would help to purify the church. But then that person, the removal itself, well any one of those steps, depending on where the heart is, could be instrumental to turn them, to bring repentance. But that includes even the fourth one, which we haven't actually talked about yet. There is a fourth step, which is removal. Right? So that third step Why would we do it? We didn't completely answer that. But one other aspect of why we would announce it to the church is so that more people could call that person to repentance. More people know about it, particularly people who are have an ongoing relationship with them or they know them. It's just a natural connection. But then all of us can be praying for that person. Right? It's all about restoration. Um but if that doesn't and the other thing, wouldn't it be nice if the Lord had said um Step one shouldn't take more than one week. Step two shouldn't take more than another week. But it's he's he's not all that specific. Why? Yeah, it it's gonna depend on the situation probably. I've only belonged to two churches in my over eighteen years. Why I th I may be wrong, but it doesn't seem like a lot of churches are practicing this commandment. And w what do you think the result of that is? My stomach. I mean really I twenty four years at our old church. We loved our pastor and a lot of you know him. Dearly man of God, but and I wasn't in leadership, you know Alan knew more than I did, but some things came out and I was like I came here and I'm like, wow, this would have solved a lot of issues that are in charge. Yeah. And that's why Jesus taught it. Right. That's probably uh I was thinking about your question, so why does it take so long? Why can't why isn't it a week For each stage. While God is hopefully sanctifying that person, getting their attention, God is still sanctifying us through patience and understanding and compassion. You name it in our lives while we're waiting for God to do a miracle in their life, right? But at the same time, He's working on us. Was there another Greg? Could you maybe um discuss or square this with uh Matthew Seven When Jesus is talking about judging others. Do not judge lest you be judged. Obviously we're gonna be putting ourselves in a position of judging someone that they're sinning. Or has I taken offense and so maybe Yeah, so um The the point of of warning us not to be judgmental is to prevent our our sinful um posturing and and so on from doing more harm than good, basically. So we've talked here about what would be the right approach. Some cases it would be turning the oat cheek. Or be patient with the long list of things and just help them to work on the most important thing now. Um is that being judgmental? No, it's being loving. Right. Uh If we're being judgmental from a an opinion perspective That's completely uncalled for. Right? But if it's if it's a very clear um disobedience to God's word, then um Helping someone to to see that and understand it and apply it um in a humble, loving way. It's not being judgmental, it's being loving. Yes, for sure. We we We are doing that, that way we become useful for the body, for the brain. Yes, yes. Um and that's very much tied with the the need for humility, right? However I think there are a lot of people who who lean on that principle and therefore find themselves unworthy to help take the log out of someone else's eye because I know I have a bunch of stuff I need to deal with. And so this whole process fails because nobody goes to them. We're all a work in process So the point about taking the log out of our own eyes is make sure that we're not being hypocritical in this particular issue and being equally as willing for that very person to come to me to point out sins in my life. and to work with me to repent from that. So i i it's all about where our heart is and are we going in in love and humility, seeking to serve the person rather than Um so let me give you an example. Let's say uh it's it's really hot out there, right? And uh you're you're walking in your bare feet somewhere, and you step on some glass. And your foot starts bleeding. What is the rest of your body going to do about that foot Say, you stupid foot, watch where you're going, right? No. What's the rest of your body gonna do? Come to the aid of the foot, right? So the hands are going to to take the glass out. Um uh clean it, put some pressure on it, stop the bleeding, put a bandage on it. Why? Because it's a big thing. It's a member of the body. It's hurting. Right? Now what if You didn't do that. You didn't clean it. You didn't you didn't stop the bleeding. What would happen? Infected. It would get infected. Spread. What if you didn't treat the infection? It could spread. What if you didn't treat didn't treat the spread of infection? What would happen? Gang Green could set in. What do you do for gangrene? Do you see the analogy? So does anybody want it to get to the point of cutting off the leg? No. Is it being judgmental of the foot to not intervene? No, it's being well it's it's um It's being foolish. It's being unloving to not intervene. Yeah. I was just gonna point out part of the problem with the word judge is the two separate meanings. that it has in English where there's judging as in condemnation and there's judging as in discernment. We're called to discern between sin and righteousness. We're not told to condemn because it's a place that is God's job. Right. But we can you know, accurately judge, okay, this person who's cheating on his wife is sinning and he needs to be called out for it without saying he is not a Christian and he's gonna go to hell and we shouldn't even associate with him. So there's two levels of that which like English Yeah, yeah, for sure. Yes, sir. Reproof is a admonishment where I think we could say in this context uh the difference is the facts are known. And it needs to be addressed. Judgment in the um in the uh What was the term you use there? Condemnation? Yeah the the condemnation kind of thing. We're being judgmental, looking down on the person Um uh the the the attitude of um you need to listen to me And that kind of thing is is the judgmental thing that Christ is warning against. But uh um Reproving sin is widely commanded of us And uh it's it's one of the purposes of Scripture is to reprove of sin. Um the final judgment of course is with God, but But he's designed the church in such a way that we serve one another to hold us accountable to his word. And that's not being judgmental if well um it's not unlike our approach in evangelism with unbelievers. We can speak the truth in love and they take offense at it. But if their offense is at us, because we're being judgmental, then that's wrong. That's bad. But if if the issue is with the truth that we've shared from Scripture, that's between them and God And we've done our job to communicate that in love, hopefully in love, but not to shrink back from the truth. Right. That's not being judgmental, that's being loving. So yeah, good questions. Okay. We're still here in Matthew eighteen. If he refuses to listen even to the church, let him be to you as a gentile and a tax gatherer, which means what? Well, basically an unbeliever. Um so we treat them as if they're an unbeliever. They're removed from the church. Um and as Diane said earlier, it's possible that that would be something God would use in their heart. To either bring them into repentance as a believer, if they already were a believer, or bring them into repentance having been an unbeliever through this whole process. And if they do repent and they want to come back to the church, and we establish the facts, of their repentance, we would welcome them back just as publicly as we remove them. And we'd be praying for that in the meantime. Yeah. Okay. Well, uh I want to walk through the rest of this real quickly here. It's not too long. Uh first Corinthians five. Could someone read that? Someone want to volunteer? Raise their hand. Yeah. I wrote to you in my letter not to associate with immoral people. I did not at all mean with the immoral people of this world are with the cabachos and swimmers or with idolaters. An immoral person, or covetous, or an idolater, or a reviler, or a drunkard, or a swindler, not even to eat with such a one. For what have I to do with judging outsiders Do you not judge those who are within the church? But those who are outside, God judges. Remove the wicked man from among yourself. You know, there's that term judge again, right? Um and so the context here in Corinth was Um one of the church members was uh being sexually immoral with his mother and it was well known to everybody and they weren't dealing with it And they should have applied those steps from Matthew 18, but didn't. And so Paul, because of the the um How widespread it was understood, Paul is saying, okay, you short circuited the intended process, but um we're way beyond that now. Remove And um he was trying to lay out some some principles here. This is not the type type of of uh reaction we would have to people outside the church. Um but if there's if there's impurity within the church and it's blatant and unrepentant, um And it's obvious at this stage, Paul says, that um there is there's no repentance, then remove him from the church. And as we've discussed before, one of the benefits of that is keeping things like that from spreading, maintaining the purity of the church. And um so another example there. Um hopefully That wouldn't need to be applied in the church because we would s we would nip things in the bud. So let me ask you a question. What does it mean to be submitted to Scripture? Obey. Yes. To obey it? Why? Okay. And it's for our good and his glory. Right? So, should everybody in the church be submitted to Scripture? Sure. Okay. So if in a given church everybody is submitted to Scripture Would we need this process? Trick question. Yeah, it is. There will be pairs in the church. The idea is because Well, even more fundamentally, all of us is a work in process. Right? Does being submitted to Scripture mean we won't sin? No. What does it mean when we do sin? We'll respond the right way. When either the Lord convicts us, Scriptures convict us, someone has to come to us to convict us, but we respond how? Yeah. We we we acknowledge the truth, we confess it, we repent of it, we forsake it, we put off the old and put on the new, right? And so if everybody in the church is submitted to Scripture How often should this happen, this process? I was just going to say it's kind of a tricky question to there's things that might not be thin that people still need to be caught out of because people have different conscious issues conscience issues. Where like my parents were fine with me watching things like Lord of the Rings and like action movies when I was a kid. They didn't signs of violence. There were families at church that were very, very strict about that. If my parents had hosted like one of my friends and we put on one of those movies, my parents parents let it happen, those parents, their her parents would have been in the right to call out my parents and say, hey, we're not okay with that. That's not the point we're raising our children. That's not a sin issue, but it's still something that could cause strife and could lead to sin Yes. So but what we're talking about here is actually sin. Um and my point is that if everybody in the church is A sinner. And if everybody in the church is committed and submitted to Scripture Then sin is still going to happen. It may even happen between people. But when it does, the person who notices it, submitted the scripture, obeys this process and goes to the person in private, right? The person who uh let's say sin responds how with repentance and and actually thanking the person for loving him enough to to do that And it ends in step one. Ninety-nine point nine percent of the time it should end in step one. Right Church discipline should be happening all the time, but nobody knows it. It's in private. We're sharpening one another. We're loving each other. Right? A lot of times people when they refer to church discipline, they're referring to step four, or maybe three. But church discipline should be happening all the time. Because we need each other. Make sense? Okay. And that's the good segue, maybe to number two. I hope you're here for the whole day. All believers are to help one another grow in godliness. This requires the discipline of confronting one another when necessary in humility and love to determine the facts and to expose sin privately. The exercise of self-control guards against gossip, misunderstanding, and divisiveness So if we're all seeking to be um obedient to Scripture and loving one another Just like coming to the aid of our foot when it needs help, God is glorified. The church is strengthened, and uh people grow spiritually. Top of page 40, Galatians 6. 1. Brethren, even if a man is caught in any trespass, you who are spiritual restore such a one in a spirit of gentleness. Each one looking to yourself lest you too be tempted. And again the context here is is the church primarily. Um caught in any trespass. Uh I I think he he's giving an example where the facts are are are clear Um you who are spiritual? What do you think he means there? Maybe more mature, but You're not actively dealing with known unconfessed sin in your own life. Ephesians 5. 18 commands us to be filled with the Spirit. And if we're harboring unconfessed sin that God has convicted us of, that's not being filled with spirits, that's being filled with our own pride and will. Um it doesn't mean those of you who are perfect. It means those of you who are uh submitted the scripture, uh you keep short accounts with God. You know, whenever you're convicted of sin, you respond to it right. And you go in humility. It says in the spirit of gentleness, why? Well we talked about it. You can you can bruise the fruit if you're if you're not being gentle. And uh you can be also very hypocritical and unloving. Ephesians 4. 25. Therefore, laying aside falsehoods, speak truth each one of you, with his neighbor, for we are members of one another. We're part of the same body. Okay. Any other thoughts, questions? Well based on what you just said, uh I was having a conversation maybe about a month ago with my father. complaining about his neighbor. And it instantly I I thought of um um second love you neighbor yourself, right? I said, you know. So I told him to turn to Matthew twenty two, round thirty-nine. And so he looked it up right in front of me. He said, Yeah, that sounds good, but I don't really agree with it. So we're supposed to speak the truth. Right. Right. Need to be motivated by love and it needs to be obvious to the listener that it's motivated by love. Okay, so I think we covered most of the points in the supplemental notes But there may be some things there that um uh would help you. So be sure to read through those. Um all right. Any other questions then? Everybody got it down? Yeah. Larry. This is something that came to mind and I somebody told me when I was very young in my Christian life, which is around a hundred years ago. But um He said to really effectively reprove or brother, you have to earn the right to speak to them. to that, but it's people with whom we have established a trusty deep brother sister and relationship. So uh noise pays uh is the foundation for effective resource plastic. So developing relationships is where it discusses And the the trust in those relationships um kind of brings down the defenses and and uh allows for um speaking the truth in love. Um I would caution though that sometimes people are in a burning building and we need to take rather quick action. Um but even then we need to do it in love and gentleness. Yeah. But the deeper that relationship is, the more effective you're likely to be. For sure. Yeah. What does it say also respect if If you're approached by somebody, even if you have a really good relationship with them, but you know, okay, but you're an alcoholic, am I really gonna listen to you? Versus somebody that maybe you don't know but you do have a lot of respect for them because you see them living in a gospel Like one of those they both need to be there, trust and respect. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Well the the trust builds respect, the respect builds trust. I definitely thought that much. Yeah. Yeah. Good. Yeah. This might tie into your your summary coming up in September, but the question earlier that was asked about uh parents or family Family. Uh dealing with that first Corinthians five verse about family members who profess to be Christians, who are not tied to a church, how we as Christians relate to them, if their lifestyle would be one or if they were in a church, they'd be disciplined out of the church. So if the call on a Christian within a local church context is to not uh eat with them. Um, you know, how do we deal with that with family? You know, professing believers that if they were immatures they'd be disciplined out. Um yeah, that's something that is uh wrestled with and yeah if you have any thoughts on that or preview it to Yeah sneak peek um If we say nothing because we're trying to be loving and forgiving and whatever, we're probably going to do a disservice to the person. On the other hand, if we speak the truth in love, truth fundamentally in some of these cases is just going to be the gospel. Or it may be the gospel and um if it's a particular sin or whatever, um, you know, what does the scripture say about that particular script? But clearly the gospel. Um and if it's uh let's a sinful lifestyle or or whatever Um we need at the very earliest opportunity we need to address that biblically and speak the truth about that biblically Uh in in love, in gentleness, but resoluteness. Is that a word? Resoluteness? Yeah, it's gotta be. And so the person involved, the family member, needs to know this is not your opinion, this is God's opinion. And needs to know that um it has ramifications. And so um we can't we don't do them a service if we let them get by thinking that we approve. And there are lots of ways they can come to the conclusion that we approve, starting with we don't even mention it. We just go along and and whatever. And they need to be very clear that they need to have the Lord's conviction, biblical conviction brought to bear. How they respond to that is between them and God. But they need to make it clear they need to be understanding and clear that um uh uh their sin is an offense to God. It's not primarily an offense to me, it's an offense to God. And uh there are eternal consequences for that The difficult part, I think, and that may be hard with people, but I think the more difficult part is then what? Let's say they don't respond. The difficult part is what difference would that make in our lives, in our relationship with them? And that may be a case-by-case thing, but I think it has to make a difference. Otherwise are speaking the truth, even if it is in love, is not going to carry any weight. So that's kind of the bottom line. Real cheery thought. But on that thought, let's close in prayer.