Well, welcome back to our series on the doctrines of the Church. uh doctrines about the church, the way God has designed the church. We call that ecclesiology, right? And I wanted to cover this first, but um Uh I I understand there's a possibility that uh Pastor Rob, who was teaching last week, didn't get to all the material that you wanted to cover. Yeah, there was a lot on spiritual gifts, but It appears those few pages read in gold. Yeah, the um the supplemental material at the end uh is mostly for your reference. If you've got some questions on that we can talk about it. Anyway, I want to uh keep on track here today. We're uh studying the section in our doctrinal statement on the ordinances of the church. So on page 66. Two ordinances have been committed to the local church by the Lord: water baptism and the Lord's Supper. Now, um what is an ordinance? So when we use that word like a city ordinance or something like that, what's it referring to? Yeah, it's basically a law, a rule. Okay. Um something to obey. Um typically a law concerned Uh yes. Sometimes ordinances in civil law are things not to do. But Um in this case, yes, it's things that we are commanded to do as the church. Now I know the Catholic Church, and I guess maybe some others, view these as what they call sacraments. And actually have a longer list of things in that list of sacraments. Um what is a sacrament? Not clear. Okay, that's good. Sacred ordinances. Yeah, so the word has that sort of sacredness in it. Uh but not so much ordinances, yeah. Is it something that's you do that's supposed to make you holy? Uh that's closer, yes. Um The the philosophy I know of of the Catholic Church is that these are things you do to um be given more grace by God And so it's very much a part of a works-based idea of salvation, that these things you need to do in order to receive God's grace Now what's wrong with that? What's the word race mean? Gift, right? So doing things to get a gift doesn't make it a gift anymore, right? It's something you earn. But more importantly, is salvation the result of things that we do? No, right? So um uh Referring to these as sacraments, particularly with the kind of mindset and terminology used by the Catholic Church. Is inappropriate. Yeah, the there there are examples really of God's grace at work and there are applications of that in our in our lives, but the idea of It resul when we do these things, it results in more of God's grace being given to us That's not biblical, right? And so calling them sacraments, at the very least, would make it think that people who believe that Think that we're aligned with them in that thinking. Which we're not, right? Yeah. Um you would you then suggest that there aren't any sacraments Well if it's defined that way the way they do I would say no, but no. But there is a in a in a sense there is a um a a way in which there are things we do that would that would in which we seek blessing, in which we do things where there is blessing to be found. For sure. In fact, every time we obey God Um it's primarily for um his glory, but it has the added benefit to us often. that he's given us this command, even for our benefit, let alone for his accomplishing his will. But that's not um earning anything for salvation, which is what they think. Absolutely. Yeah. It's it's just the benefits of of um falling in line with God's Design for things, his will. He does those things not just for his purposes and his glory, but also for our benefit. uh applying his his wisdom, his his rules and so on, uh are things that that definitely bless us. But that's not earning anything It's not receiving more grace, so we have to do more of it to be in better standing with him, which is what it is from a works-based mindset. Um and so it's better to refer to them as ordinances. They are um rules of practice that have been given to the church to to uh practice continually uh direct commands from the Lord. But um uh their purpose is not um to gain right standing with God or to gain better standing with God or anything like that. Um nothing to do with earning salvation. They should be a reflection of a salvation that's already happened. Um so we prefer to call them ordinances as most not all, but most uh Protestant denomination too. Okay, well let's look at a little bit of overview here, number one. Uh you're familiar with the Matthew 28 passage for the Great Commission Uh here's one of the times where uh Jesus specifically is commanding his disciples to do a number of things, including um Baptizing in the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit. And then earlier chronologically in the Last Supper As is uh recalled by Paul in 1 Corinthians eleven, uh he's referring to the account we have here in Luke 22 and the account This in other of the gospels as well. But he says, For I received from the Lord that which I delivered to you, that the Lord Jesus in the night in which he was betrayed took bread And when he had given thanks, he broke it and said, This is my body which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me. And the same way he took the cup also after supper, saying, Uh, drink it Now this cup is the new covenant, my blood. Do this as often as you drink it in remembrance of me. For as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's staff until he comes. So Those in a nutshell are the two commands, the two ordinances we're talking about here. Now there are lots of other commands. that all of us are to be involved with and uh obey and and so on. But these are about um church practice, church uh as a whole. And so they're also connected. In what ways are they connected? Okay, well the commands, but I mean turns to the content, the nature of them. Yeah. uh the Lord's sacrifice on our behalf. And so with baptism we're identifying that um uh with his death, burial, and resurrection And with the Lord's Supper, uh we're we're celebrating his sacrifice on our behalf, both the the body and the blood. cannot do it al alone. You have to do it as it's a church. It's a church thing. It's that you it's not a an individual thing. Yes that's right. Not so specifically only for believers. Yes, that is for believers. Um of course a lot of the regular commands that were given in scripture are are Basically for believers, but this is for the church. Yeah, this is for the church. Okay, so number two we start looking at some of the details here. Christian baptism Is the immersion of a believer in water in the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit. And so I read already from Matthew 28 Where the command here is to make disciples. And then there are three participles. We talked about this a little while ago. The participles typically end with ing And the first one is you don't see it necessarily, but the word go is a participle. Going, or while you're going, as you go, make disciples. What's the second one? Baptizing them. And the third one? Teaching them. Right. Yeah, a lot of times we We stop, we end that baptism, we don't go to the next step. So oh check, hold in the baptized good to go. Go and be well and go ahead and learn about Christ, but we have a responsibility to either teach them ourselves or get them connected to a church and or a Bible study, just make sure they're being taught Right. And what is it they should be taught? About God's word, about God's character, who God is, all that stuff. What did Jesus specifically say they should be taught? Yeah. Everything. Right? So it's not just head knowledge, it's also commands like this very one. Right? That um these new disciples need to be um aware of, instructed in, explained, and participating in Um so that there's a a replication of sound doctrine and obedient application. Um all the things that I commanded you meaning the orchard with in the talk or all the other process and then whole test and what we Um the question is um what did he mean by all that I've commanded you? Um Does it include the Old Testament as well as the New Testament, for example? Um I would say in general, that was probably his intent I think more focused wise it may have been understood that the historical background that we get from the Old Testament that sort of leads up to the Ministry of Christ um would have been understood that people need to be grounded in that and so on. But he was particularly emphasizing um what he has commanded. Parables, um the truth, the nature of God, the nature of salvation, all those things. Which were not inconsistent with the Old Testament. The Old Testament kind of gives a foundation for all that. Um so I don't think it's either or, but I think his particular emphasis was on everything that he had commanded them. And often his commands to them, his teaching of them, was explaining the um the intent of the Old Testament rules and laws. church is doing, right? Yeah. Teaching what we are teaching is what being commanded to command. Right. Right. Um And the important thing is, he says, um, teaching them to observe all that I commanded you. In other words, we're not to be selective either. Right? So all of the scriptures got five, right? Right. All of scriptures. Okay. So a a key point here for Matthew twenty-eight He says, go therefore and make disciples of all the nations. That doesn't mean that um nations like the United States or UK or Spain or whatever, but the nation itself isn't a disciple. But what what's he talking about here? People from everywhere. Right? So it's it's it's global. that all the world would be involved in becoming disciples of Christ. And so what's a disciple? I think we may have talked about that. A learner, a student, follower of Christ. And so he says, make disciples, what's that involve? So it's it it it presumes evangelism. Right? The going part is making disciples, uh making um uh proclaiming the gospel and as God draws people to himself uh there will be fruit, there will be new believers, and then he starts talking about how to what's next, but yes. You don't just like blast out the gospel and leave. You gotta like actually stay, get to know people, be teaching them, be showing them how to walk in Christ Christ. Um that might get lost when disciples are not a thing in modern society so much. Right, that we don't use the term quite so much. Yeah. But they understood, I mean there were disciples long before Jesus came. And many of his disciples had already been disciples of John the Baptist, for example. Paul was a disciple of who? Damalio, uh rabbi, um Pharisee. Um So yeah, that that does involve relationship. Not necessarily an ongoing relationship with the person who was instrumental in someone coming to Christ, although that's ideal Right? It could be that they get plugged into a church and 'cause because Paul didn't being itinerant the way he was, he wasn't always in a place long enough to disciple every convert But he put them into the care of those who would be able to do that. Right. Okay. Uh So it presumes evangelism that people come to Christ, and then these new converts. When do they become disciples? When they pass the doctrines class? Um Basically, if you look at if you look at scripture, particularly in the book of Acts, it makes reference to the disciples. uh pretty much synonymous with all the believers. So if they're believers, they're disciples, they're they're followers of Christ. The word Christian was actually derogative originally. D derogatory. Um it's those Christ followers. Right. Um that's because they were disciples of Christ. So they become disciples. Basically, it means they've become Christians, so they're genuine believers. And now what do they need is to be baptized and to be taught. That's the progression. And um Are they being baptized in order to become disciples? How do you know? um expression what you did already in the how do you know that from the text I'm getting quick Good thing. Good thing. He says, Make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them. Who's the them? The disciples. Right. Um So this even precedes the teaching that comes next in his command, right? They need to be taught, but As Brian put it, their first obedience is to publicly identify with the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. That they would be baptized. In the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I commanded you. So there's a process here that Jesus is laying out for them. There's the presumption that they're going. Why are they going? To share the good news. Among those who respond, the command is to baptize them and then teach them. To observe, what does that mean? To watch you as you do it? Observe? To obey, really, is what it means, right? To observe it means to obey it, to follow. Yeah. Um what was I thinking? Um oh the the um The idea of uh of disorder, um I I I suppose um I'm I'm thinking it it's it's probably not um it's probably you can't teach them before you get baptized And so forth. And there may be some teaching required to understand that you need to be baptized. That's what I'm thinking. So uh I I I I'm thinking that there's sort of a sort of a loose kind of order of things and it's Yeah, and in our case, uh we don't baptize daily on demand. It takes some preparation and we even have a class, right, about baptism. Um but the general the general progression is that baptism ought to be as soon as possible and um there's a lifetime of teaching. And that time, um, it seems like they naturally floated into like their thought process and naturally went with baptism. Is is that is there a reason for that? Did they like know that that this is just the way we use it? We I mean I don't know, like for I don't think that people in America let's say who share the gospel with them, I don't think they automatically think I need baptized and identified with Christ, but it seems like that was maybe uh you know, France may help me know, but like was that more of a natural progression of thought at that time Can I? I'm not sure that I uh asked me. So like before that John's baptism was there, right? So they've been baptized before Yeah. And now this is like a new battery. Right. And actually along with that I wanted to ask you like so do you just that wise is like a it in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. But John's baptism wasn't there, so maybe that's why they're different or baptism You see um later in Acts people who Paul was was uh evangelizing they had understood the baptism of John, but not the baptism of Christ yet. So d definitely different. Okay. But didn't hurry. Yes. That's why you said baptize in the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit. That's different. But the the the concept of baptism was very similar, which is identifying well the word baptism means what? Baptized. It literally means to be dipped, dumped, immersed into something. I mean there are references to um A sword being baptized in blood, that's pretty graphic. But it's it's completely immersed in something. Well you dye something in, you you immerse it. Um And so in our case, I think we covered it in the section on salvation, but the baptism of the Holy Spirit That when someone becomes a Christian, the Holy Spirit places us into Christ, places us into the body of Christ. Because we're now believers, we're Christians, he baptizes us into Christ, into the body of Christ, the church. And our you see references in scripture to both that baptism the baptism of the Spirit and references to water baptism, which is well the baptism of the Holy Spirit is something that we can't see It's something that happens to us at the moment of salvation. Water baptism, of course, is something we can see. Sort of like in the Lord's Supper, we weren't there when Christ was sacrificed on the cross. We can kind of visualize it, but um we can commemorate it with an outward um practice that Jesus uh commanded. Uh and so it's symbolic of what had already taken place. Likewise in water baptism it's symbolic of what had already taken place. That the the believer is identifying outwardly, publicly, giving a profession of faith essentially Identifying with the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. Neither one of those has anything to do with becoming saved baptism or the Lord's Supper, but they have everything to do with um celebrating the basis for our salvation. Let's see, where was I I was going to go somewhere else just a second. Um Yeah, okay. The the the meaning of baptism is to immerse, to dunk, to place into. And that concept was not new. There was John's baptism Even prior to John, there was sort of a self um cleansing that people, the Jews did. They had special little pools that people would go into to, on their own volition, and it was a private thing, but it was in preparation for their worship. And they were called a mikbah. And you see lots of them in Israel that have been uncovered in the archa archaeology there. Um And so people were used to the idea of needing to be having a symbolic cleansing. And so the idea of baptism into Uh in what was John's baptism about? Repentance, right? It was a preaching of of repentance, repent because the kingdom of heaven is near And so people would be identifying with that, and John's role was to prepare the way of the Lord. So he's preparing them for the Messiah. Um and fortunately it wasn't hundreds of years later that he was coming, it was immediate. Um So they were used to that concept, but then what Jesus is doing, even in his ministry, his not so much Jesus baptizing, but his disciples were baptizing people into his Messiahship, his teaching, and so on. They didn't have at that stage, I don't think, any concept of the church. the body of Christ, if you will, except that they they wanted to be publicly identified with Christ, publicly identified with his teaching. Uh some of them, maybe a lot of them, maybe all of them, I don't know, um were either knowing or hoping that he was the Messiah, although they probably had mixed ideas about what that really meant. Um so it wouldn't have been a complete surprise to them, but um Yeah. Anyway, hope that helps. Yeah, okay. Um did you maybe discuss the uh the scripture that sort of demands And it's seemingly to man the public aspect, the public aspect of it like would would you it or is there a provision against rural five baptism? Um I don't know that there's a prohibition against private baptism. I mean look at some of the examples. Philip and the Ethiopian eunuchs. The key thing there was that it was immediate. Right? And in fact the guy himself says, hey look, there's water. Let's do it. Well I think with the the the Hunake it's not necessarily private friends. I'm pretty sure it wasn't just the two of them traveling. Yeah, they had a they had a so it was done in front of other people. Yeah. He he was probab um undoubtedly part of a caravan. True. Yeah. Uh but it wasn't in a church context. Necessarily the church. Yeah. Uh how many of them maybe also got saved and baptized, we don't know. But um Um when Peter went to Cornelius Um multiple people in his family also got saved. And so they had a a larger baptismal uh ceremony there. Um I don't know that there's any any um specific Um requirement in scripture that it be um public in the sense of more people being there. But the understanding of of um The command it's it's all in the plural And he's given it to multiple people. He's establishing the the the the uh practice of the church The church has always understood it to be something the church body would would practice together. Yeah, I'm not sure I could go to a passage that I was just gonna say there's not necessarily like anything specifically about baptism, but the idea of keeping baptism like a private thing that almost nobody sees or even maybe even knows about would go against commands where we're not to keep our light hidden, we're not to be ashamed of the gospel, we are to like proclaim the gospel. So like I would say that it like Paul's minds that maybe sort of one of those things that's kind of obvious Yeah, that may be. Um declaring your unity with the body, you're declaring your you know affiliation with the body, you want the body to know that. Yes. Yeah. And You know, in history, you know, the r particularly in the Reformation, people coming out of the Catholic Church and actually getting saved Um some of them would break the ice in the river in order to be baptized sooner rather than later. And that's when you know people are on fire. But yeah, one two. Well then um who can baptize? Uh who can baptize? That's a interesting question. son my niece and her husband baptized their own son at the church. They they gave him oath No, in my in front of church, but I was like, Yeah. Well um Again, Jesus wasn't specific here, but he's he's given the command to his disciples after his resurrection. We are. Um, but it's it's in the context of the church. He's giving these commands for the church, both the Lord's Supper and Baptism. But the real church, right? We are, but but the church is not just a random individuals all over the world. I mean the universal church is, but any local church that's an expression of that Is um governed by the governing authority that God has established for the church And we're not all to be just going off and doing our own thing in all cases, when it's a command to um the church as a whole, it ought to be conducted under the oversight of the leadership and and so on. Now there's flexibility there, there's different contexts and so different situations, but uh we understand it to be something that um the church would um I was gonna say the word control, but exercise. So it would be a church exercise, a church um so then then the question becomes, does it have to be an elder, could it be a deacon, could it be somebody else? Mom and Dad. Um do you think of that? I I'm not aware of anything specifically that Dictates that other than the general principle that the operations of the church would be uh consistent with God's Leadership structure and oversight and and so on. And so, for example, our application of that is that we don't just baptize people We prepare them, we teach them, we interview them, we do our best to ensure that they really are believers. And even with that, churches have baptized a lot of unbelievers. In fact, my informal uh recollection, I would say, is that on the order of half the people we have baptized State in their testimony that I was baptized in my youth, or something like that, and then later realized I wasn't actually saved. And so they've come to be baptized as a believer, understanding the symbolism of it and the importance of it, to obey that command. And so the likelihood of a lot of people being baptized who aren't saved would grow a lot if just anybody could do it. There needs to be sort of a vetting process. Now, back in the early church, that was probably less of an issue because if somebody wanted to be identified with Christ, Um it's not like today, you know, they were their life could be on the line uh in some of those early and and even in the Reformation. Um so I think there's a lot of wisdom to having it that oversight be present there. But I I can't think of a specific prohibition or whatever. There's some J uh wisdom and wis of application that could be applied. But yeah. I mean I personally would say probably doesn't matter who does it as long as they're a believer. It's probably more important than intention, the motivation for their doing it, they know they became a believer. And they know that this is the first act of a healing. Right? Simple as that. Because I was asked by the DOM, which is the director of missions, if I wanted to baptize our two youngest, Lindsay, who's at that one And I didn't want to do it at the time. So I said, You you good I don't feel comfortable doing that. But he asked me if I want to baptize So on that note, so um I've been talking to someone for a while now and I'm trying to get a good grasp of explaining that baptism does not require for salvation. So they kept on bringing up 1 Peter 3. 21 which says there was also the anti which now saves us, baptism. Could you explain briefly some important things that would be helpful for me? Let's all turn to First Peter. What verse does that start in? Actually, let's start uh let's start with eighteen. For Christ also suffered for sins once for all, the righteous for the unrighteous, so that he might bring you to God, having been put to death in the flesh, but made alive in the spirit In which he went and made proclamation to the spirits now in prison, who once were disobedient, when the patience of God kept waiting in the days of Noah during the construction of the ark, in which a few, that is, eight persons, were brought safely through the water. And then he says, corresponding to that, baptism now saves you. What baptism is he talking about? Well he actually clarifies it. He answers the question. Not the removal of dirt from the flesh. But an appeal of a good conscience to God. So it's the uh conversion, it's the baptism of the Holy Spirit that he's talking about. But um and through the resurrection of Jesus Christ, who's at the right hand of God, and so on. Um so If the question is, does baptism save you, the answer to that is another question. Which baptism are you talking about? Is it the baptism of water? By no means no. Is it a baptism of the Holy Spirit? Yes. That's a um even that is a result of salvation. It comes because we are saved, but it's it's it's automatic. There's nothing we do other than um turn to Christ and submit to him and we're Christians. Um God baptizes us through the Holy Spirit. He places us into Christ, into the body of Christ Um and that's a sign, that's that's an effect, that's really the basis, the seal of our salvation And the process of doing research um when they connect, when God's word connects water and spirit together, it's not literally water, it's the cleansing of the heart. Right? Yeah, so I think they get thrown off when they hear that. Oh see, it says water in the spirit. Baptized by water Yeah. Well, of course, there is water baptism, and the water baptism is symbolic of two things. One of the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. And it is also like the the ceremonial cleansing and the mikvas and so on in the past, it's symbolic of the cleansing we need, cleansing from sin in order to be able to have right standing with God, to be able to approach God and worship and and so on. Um so It's symbolic of that because often we we go into water to get cleansed, and it it's a an apt illustration. of of that cleansing. The water itself isn't the cleansing that the water itself does is immaterial, and that's what Peter's saying. But it's symbolic of the cleansing that God does for those who believe in him. Okay? Good question. Where are we? Page sixty-seven. Uh third well the third box down in second in Acts two. Of course, the context here is on the day of Pentecost. A lot of people were gathered for the Feast of Pentecost, and uh God strategically arranged that That he would bestow the Holy Spirit on the believers at that day and begin the church And um filled with the spirit, Peter Preached, right? He preached the gospel. He was very um convicting to the Jews who were there. You're the ones who put him on the cross And all that. And God used that event and the preaching of his word to draw thousands. to Christ. And they said, what shall we do? They were convicted, right? And Peter's answer was, repent and let each of you be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ. By which I'm sure he meant Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. For the forgiveness of your sins, you shall receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. So there's an example of the sequence. You repent, and then you're baptized. Which of the two was necessary for salvation? The repenting part. Believing, right? Believing uh a genuine repentance, which is coming from the heart. Um And then the response to that is and maybe the evidence of that is a public proclamation of that faith through baptism. That's just like if you did that then Holy Spirit will come upon you. In this passage. Yes, and actually, actually we see that happening in the early days in the book of Acts. uh elsewhere as well. But um elsewhere we see Teaching, uh Paul, for example, teaching that um all of us have been baptized into Christ. That uh It was comprehensive. It was everybody who was a believer. And so it wasn't it he didn't say all of us who have been baptized if uh by water or into water uh have been baptized into Christ. Um he said all of us believers. These people said what should we do? Those are Jews, right? Yes. And so they got saved, so we call that Raman. the the Jewish remnant? Um yeah you can think of them that way but um they're really not unlike Jews who come to Christ today. They become part of the church. And all of the initial Christians were were Jews. And those Jews even themselves were expecting that was the norm And it was a challenge in in their thinking to even think that non-Jews, uh particularly Samaritans, even Gentiles, could be saved. Um But um the use of the word remnant is a little bit different, like in Romans. Um that's Talking my understanding is that that's talking more about the future rather than people who now are uh Jews who come to Christ. Because Paul isn't referring to himself as one of the remnants um or any of the Jews of the time. But later on, there will be Jews who come to Christ. That's still in the future. But now people who are being saved now, we don't hold that remnant. Hm. No. The church. And the church is made up of all the nations, all the no distinction between male or female, Greek or Jew, slave or free. It's one church. But then later on those people being saved as a Renna it's only Jews, ethnips. It's specifically looking at the Jews, referring to the Jews. Yeah. We're talking about like in the future mean like during tribulation right here, the hundred forty four thousand are there, all that stuff. Right. Yeah, that's future. Actually we're gonna get there in a few weeks. Not the future so much, but well actually a few weeks from now it will be future, but not that future. Well it could be. Yeah. Uh Maranatha. Yeah. Even so come quickly. Okay. Uh number three on page sixty seven. Christian baptism by immersion is the solemn and beautiful testimony of a believer showing forth his faith in the crucified, buried, and risen Savior, and his union with him in death to sin and resurrection to a new life. Baptism also symbolizes the washing away of sins. Therefore, it cannot rightly be offered to children who are too young to understand and believe the gospel, resulting in forgiveness of sins. Nor have they been united to Christ. So uh We already read from Acts 2. The Romans 6 passage here shows that connection between Spirit baptism and our identification with Christ. Um uh death, burial, and resurrection. Uh okay, number four. Baptism is the sign of fellowship and identification with the visible body of Christ, and is not salvitic. Salvific, that's a name we d a word we don't use all that often. Not related to salvation. It's not something that saves you. Right. And often people give the example of the thief on the cross. Who came to faith in Christ and uh before they died, and Jesus said what to him? Even today you're going to be with me in paradise. As long as you get baptized, right? No, he didn't say that. Yeah, right, right. Okay, was there another hand? Well, I think I was related to people that crosses. That's the one that I referred to when I was talking to this person. And I said, wasn't it cool when Fete was on the cross next to Jesus? And Jesus says, I'm gonna let you down on the cross when you're gonna be baptized and you come back here and be like, that didn't happen. Exactly. Exactly. Okay. Page 68, number five. The Lord's Supper is the commemoration and proclamation of Christ's death until he comes. It is both a time of solemn self-examination and a time of joy. So as you know we made reference to 1 Corinthians 11 where Paul uh describes the the nature of the Lord's Supper as Christ instituted it. But then he says here in verse 27: therefore whoever eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner shall be guilty of the body and blood of the Lord. But let a man examine himself, so let him uh eat the bread and drink the cup. For he who eats and drinks, eats and drinks judgment to himself. If he does not judge the body rightly. For this reason many um of you are weak and sick and a number sleep. What do you mean by sleep? Yeah. It's sort of like Uh we don't have specific examples, but it's kinda like Anna Sapira, I think, right? The sin was so grievous that uh the Lord took them Um but if we judge ourselves rightly, we should not be judged. Um so um It's a solemn time because we're remembering why Jesus had to die. Why did he have to die? Because of our sin, right? And so it's humbling. It ought to be, it ought to be a good time, as Paul's describing here, a time of reflection Are there any unconfessed sins that I need to get right before the Lord with? And do that before the plates start being passed. And make sure you Settled those things with the Lord directly. And then then it becomes a time of great joy. Yeah, yeah, they're they're they're doing it to earn more grace. Well, and that brings up a good point. Um Which is, I guess, number six. Um the elements of bread and the fruit of the vine are only representative of the flesh and blood of Christ Nevertheless, believers share communion, share in communion with Christ and with one another in a real way, of which the elements are symbolic. So how do we know that the bread doesn't become the body of Christ? And the the the drink, whether it's wine or grape juice, doesn't become the blood of Christ, as the Catholic Church teaches. Body pretend of it and keep wasn't chopping off his own Yeah. I mean very literally his body was giving them the bread. And he said, This bread um is my body. It's it's like it's it he wasn't giving them his literal body and it didn't become his body when they ate it or just before. Um it was clear to them that he didn't mean that it was um being Oh what's the word for it? Transmuted. Yeah. Um they understood that he was giving that just like in the Passover meal, there was a symbolism there of what had happened in the past. This is now symbolic of what to them was now in the future, uh in the very near future So it's obvious to them, it should be obvious to us as well. Yeah. Um what would be sort of the uh uh limitations on who would be Good question. In fact, I think in our application number two This often comes up with with families. Uh when is it too early for our child to uh participate in the Lord's Supper? Any boss? Yeah, I think I think that's basically the right answer, but practically speaking A shortened way to say that is you want to make sure that they're saved first. Right? So they can understand it, they can they can approach it correctly from the heart. Um so the bigger question, the underlying question, is how do parents know when they're actually so the kids are saved? Depends on the kid. It depends on the kid. Our our kind of recommendation to families is that um They ought to be baptized before they participate in the Lord's Supper. Um Baptism, at least here, has some oversight to it and vetting to make sure that salvation is clear. There's a clear testimony of repentance and evidence of repentance. And if that's happened, then they should be welcome to participate in the Lord's Supper, where on a case-by-case basis there's no vetting at all. Right. I need to ask one. I I think a child at the age of twelve years old Is is old enough to understand in his heart about Jesus Christ once we're being taught also from a young age. and then they develop the knowledge of understanding who Christ is. But twelve uh age twelve to me seemed like that child should be able to speak. from his heart truly whether or not he understands that he wanna be baptized or saved Yeah, um I I wouldn't necessarily put an age on it, but yeah. Um Uh in fact Jesus even said, you know, you have to have you have to be like a child, that is to have childlike faith, implicit just trusting in God completely. The problem is, in in our context, is that you've got children who because their parents are going to the church And they're maybe hearing the gospel a lot. They they um I I remember growing up, I knew when to stand up and when to sit down, right, in the church, and understood how to fit in and it's very easy for a child, uh, even of um in a Christian family To know what's expected of him. And it's still not from the heart. It's still not genuine repentance. And it's hard for parents to be objective about that. Really? Um and yet they're the ones who know the child best. And what I suggest to them is you need to look for the fruit of repentance that You can't explain because they're following your orders, or they they've kind of caught the lingo and the the the practices of the church Is there something that God is doing in their heart that's unmistakable as evidence of genuine salvation? to if you bring that child up from church, a lot of kids have walked away from church even after they have gotten grown, you know, understand nineteen three and one. But I think if you bring in a channel up in church Uh you don't judge them by what you know what you're doing, you judge them by how they're uh attitude towards what they learning as they growing up. Like John the Baptist says there needs to be the fruit of repentance. Exactly. And that's and and and because of that, uh the child ought to be baptized not because the parents says You really need to be baptized. Or they shouldn't want to be baptized because all their friends in the youth group are being baptized, right? It should be from the heart uh the a a a a step of obedience um after they've genuinely repented. Um I wanted to add a little bit of historical note here, maybe this won't take more than a couple of minutes. Um, I find it interesting anyway that uh in the Reformation You know, the Reformation around 500 years ago, God raised up people from within the Catholic Church to rediscover what Scripture actually says. uh about particularly about salvation and um And yet there were there were um this was happening in multiple places. It wasn't a coordinated thing. Uh there were um Luther of course was in Germany, there were others in England, others in Switzerland Um and um they they didn't have a conference every year to sort out what their doctrine was. However, um Luther met with um Zwingli, who was the the leader or a leader of the ch of the Reformed Church in Zurich, Switzerland, to kind of compare notes. Where do we agree on doctrine Hopefully we agree on everything. And it turns out they did agree on almost everything, except for one thing: the meaning of the Lord's Supper. And they just couldn't agree. And you know what? They wouldn't either one of them wouldn't agree with what we teach, our understanding of the Lord's Supper. Uh they were in fairness to them, I'm sure they did a lot better than any of us would have done if we were in their position to try to rediscover sound doctrine from scripture alone without the history, and we're standing on their shoulders. So it's hard to be critical of them. But in fairness to them also, they were coming out of the Catholic Church. And they had a lot of baggage from the Catholic Church, and they recognized a lot of it and shed it. But their understanding of both baptism and the Lord's Supper have Catholic Church origins all over it. Transubstantiation didn't wasn't e wasn't uh it was formalized before the Reformation, but only a few hundred years before the And I think they were struggling with that. I think both Swingley and Luther would have said, no, that's not right. It's it's too recent, it's not biblical. It was a an edict from the Pope But they were still caught up in this idea of infused grace and and we need to do it But they had different views on what that meant and how to do it and and um I it it is what it is But uh what's interesting though is another group, multiple groups, but another category of groups in the Reformation was the Anabaptists. Now, Anna in front of Baptist means re, re-Baptist. There are people who were looking at Scripture about all other doctrines and could find any reference to um child baptism or being This is again where where Luther and and Zwingli and Calvin all came with the the mindset That church and state are both under God and are kind of intertwined. And w when Luther and Zwingli met, both of them were subject to the uh city council even about things of church practices The Anabaptists, however, said, we don't see that in Scripture. Each church is uh independent, is um under the the the um the shepherding of Christ directly. And this they were the first ones that I'm aware of that that believed that there should be a separation between church and state. Many of those, several notable anyway, Anabaptists, were executed By reformed people in Switzerland because of their re-baptism, which was a forsaking of their child baptism. And their child baptism was supposed to have, was believed to have uh basically made them citizens of of Christendom, this church and state thing And so getting baptized later is forsaking that. It's basically treason. And the and the punishment Well, and one of them particularly, they um they uh tied up in wrote took him out in a boat in the lake, threw him overboard. So he was baptized. That was symbolic of his of his um turning from his yeah um So my point is that this has a a a a long history of confusion. And um Personally, I'm glad that it wasn't up to me to figure out sound doctrine based on scripture alone, given all the baggage that people had. We are benefiting from multiple people throughout history, particularly during the Reformation, who Many of them gave their lives. And we've learned much as a result. Anyway, I'm going to close in prayer.