Well welcome to lesson ten in our in our uh adventure through to the last section of our doctrinal statement, which is the last discussion of last things that are revealed to us in Scripture And so we have a bit of overview uh particularly last week, and that brings us now to page eighty-six where we look at the rapture of the church. Jesus Christ will return. personally and bodily before the seven year tribulation to translate his church from this earth. First of all, this is not referring to the second coming of Christ. Okay, that comes up, but I think we're going to look at that next week. Because here he's not actually returning to Earth to establish his kingdom. We're going to read about what is involved, but this is distinct from the second coming, okay? Secondly, where it says he's coming to translate his church from this earth. You might be thinking translate. When I think of translate, I'm thinking going from one language to another, right? Well, it is going from one to another. In this case, it's a place. Translate means to move Like you can translate an object to go from point A to point B. And that's essentially what's happening here. It's it's uh removing us essentially uh from this earth to be with him. So let's go ahead and take a look at these passages and get some uh greater clarity here. So in John 14, Jesus told his disciples, remember the context here was in the upper room, he's giving them some instruction in the upper room before his uh crucifixion. But he says in John fourteen one through three, Let not your heart be troubled. Believe in God, believe also in me In my father's house are many dwelling places. If it were not so, I would have told you. For I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you to myself, that where I am, there you may be also. So here he doesn't give a lot of details, but he's trying to comfort them that even though he's going away, and that was a big disappointment to them and confusion, right But even though he's going away, he's preparing for their future uh in heaven. And so if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you to myself. So uh he's making reference to uh receiving the believers, the church. To be with him where? Well, he's talking about heaven. Right? And so there's a little bit of orientation here, but not a lot of detail. So we move then to 1 Corinthians 15, 51 through 57, where it says, Behold, I tell you a mystery We shall not all sleep. Some of you feel like you you don't really sleep even now, right? But he's referring to here as as death, physical death. We shall not all sleep, but we shall we shall all be changed in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet. For the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised imperishable, and we shall be changed. For this how how changed in what way? Well he goes on to talk about that For this perishable, that is our physical body as we know it, this perishable must put on the imperishable. Right, so our bodies that we have now are conditioned for designed for life on this earth, but we need to put on the imperishable that would be um a a body that's suited for eternity with God. Put on the imperishable. And this mortal In other words, this mortal body, this body subject to death, must put on immortality So God's going to change our body into a body that is conditioned and suited for, designed for, eternity, immortality. Right. But when this perishable will have put on the imperishable, and this mortal will have been put away, um will have put on immortality, then will come about the saying that is written. Death is swallowed up in victory. O death, where is your victory? O death, where is your sting? He's quoting here from in the all caps here in the New American Standard is making a direct reference to a Old Testament prophecy or Old Testament uh uh statement. And here it's from Isaiah 25, verse 8 and Hosea 13, 14. But he continues, the sting of death is sin. And the power of sin is the law. But thanks be to God, who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. So, in what sense is the sting of death sin? Um well I think of it usually the sting of sin is death. Um but you see the connection. The the death is uh physical death is the result of sin. Always has been. Um and the two are uh definitely connected. The power of sin is the law the law exposes sin. It it it um establishes you know the holiness of God, the you know the righteous uh morality of God And it becomes obvious what's falling short of that. The law exposes sin. Without the the explicit nature of the law Uh people kinda go their own way. They don't have any markers for uh falling short. uh any indication of falling short, but uh the law brings that into focus. But thanks be to God who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. So there's reference here to a change of even our physical bodies. We talked last week, I think it was last week, about um, you know, we've got We're two-part people. We have a physical material part, our bodies. And the immaterial part, the real us on the inside. Scripture refers to that as our soul, our spirit, sometimes using the word heart. And when we die, as believers, our spirit, our soul goes immediately to be with Christ, but the body not so. The body is dead, it's placed in the ground, and is awaiting a resurrection. And today we're looking at that the nature of that resurrection. It's going to be a resurrection into a glorified body. a body similar to Christ's body apparently, uh after the resurrection. And um Uh we're told in Scripture, we sh we shall be like him. And even in this physical sense. So there's a transformation. 1 Corinthians 15 isn't talking, doesn't mention specifically how that's connected to a resurrection. Um but does say we all will be um we shall not all sleep But we shall all be changed. So some people will sleep, some people will die, even as believers, other people will not die as believers, but all of us are going to be change physically given um immortal bodies. So First Corinth uh First Thessalonians four, then. In fact, if you have your Bibles, if you could I want to begin reading earlier than that, starting with verse thirteen First Thessalonians four, starting verse thirteen. I wanted to provide a little context here. Paul writes to the Thessalonian church, but we do not want you to be uninformed, brothers. about those who are asleep, so that you will not grieve as do the rest who have no hope. So what's the context? He's gotten word from the Church of Thessalonica that some of them are confused, um uh not thinking that once a person dies, um something different happens, I guess. Uh they were concerned that that maybe they're going to miss out on the return of Christ And um he says, I don't want you to be uninformed. I I want to um Reaffirm the truth so that it will give you confidence and hope and so on. So it was a natural question they had. But I think it was even more natural because I think everybody was presuming that the return of Christ was imminent. And if they've already died, they're going to miss out. Right? But he continues in verse 14. For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, Even so will God bring with him those who have fallen asleep in Jesus. For this we say to you by the word of the Lord. That we who are alive and remain until the coming of the Lord will not precede those who have fallen asleep. For the Lord Himself will descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, and with the trumpet of God, and the dead in Christ will rise first. What's it referring to? Their bodies Right? The dead in Christ, whose bodies are still in the grave, their soul, because they're in Christ, is already with the Lord, but their bodies will be raised first. But then at this point in time, there will be other people who are still alive. They're believers. They're still alive In verse 17 says, Then we who are alive and remain will be caught up together with them in the clouds. to meet the Lord in the air. And so we shall be with always be with the Lord. That word caught up is where we get the word rapture from. So the the picture that we have here is not the return of Christ because he's not actually coming to earth. We're coming up to him. Like in John 14, he says, I will receive you to myself. And then we'll always be together. And here uh we see that there's a a an order, uh to uh order of events. And when he comes back for this purpose, The dead in Christ are going to be raised, given those glorified bodies, and be with him in the air first, and then those who are alive at the time. Likewise will be given glorified bodies without going through physical death. So Paul is writing in 1 Corinthians 15 that some will not sleep That is die physically, but we'll be transformed. But we're all going to be transformed whether we've died first or or not. You see that? Yeah. Maybe you can clarify and maybe you can't clarify and we'll just leave it as a a a vagueness. Um so on uh you have like that little graph on page 84 of the second coming being at the end of the tribulation, but here we're reading that the Lord will descend from heaven. So that sort of descending from heaven kind of makes it like he's coming, but maybe it's not necessarily the fact that he appears that it's the second coming. It's just the label of the second coming and more events occurred during the the second coming and this beginning of the tribulation is hey guys time to come home and that's not really the second coming although he made an appearance. Yeah, um not really making an appearance on Earth, and it's not clear how many people are going to visually see his presence in the and but we're going to be joining him in the air and then going off with him to be with him forever. But we're going to look at the details of the second coming, where he actually does return to Earth and what the events around that are, and the timing of it. Certainly next week we might introduce that later today, I'll see. But uh yeah, that's why I wanted to make it sure it's clear that this is not the second coming Because he's not coming back to Earth, he's coming close to Earth, and we're gonna he's gonna take us to himself, give us transformed bodies, and be with him. And then off. Yeah, so I think the timing of this is like seconds or seconds. Yes, I would imagine it's like that. Yeah. Yeah. Transpire just to tell you really quick. Yeah, we see references in scripture to things happening uh in the twinkling of an eye, for example. But yeah, we're not getting a lot of detail about the logistics here, but there is an order of events. The dead in Christ will be raised first, given glorified bodies. And their their glorified bodies and their soul that's already been with Christ are joined together now at this point. And then we are transformed, whoever is alive at the time in Christ receives likewise glorified bodies And uh don't actually taste death. Physical death. Yeah. Um could you maybe explain like uh sort of the difference between uh we die, uh spirits go to heaven to be with him. And at this point we're we're talking about a glorified body that is drawn from here where is our spirit and how does that all work? I mean it it seems a little confusing to me. Oh it is definitely confusing. Um because we we think sort of Our only experience is that our physical body and our soul, our inner being, are inextricably Linked. Linked. Yeah. Right? That's our experience. And we can sort of Well well, even worse than that, it's a it's a sinful experience. Okay. We're we're we're dim. We're we're dim. Sure. Yeah. We're limited for probably have a much better appreciation for their spirit body experience, you know, they kind of understood that better than we possibly so. But what we do know is that and we saw this last week, that for believers when they die, their spirit, their soul goes immediately to be with Christ. Not a lot of detail about what that looks like, how that happens But it's just the spirit, not the body. And here we're seeing that eventually there will be a resurrection of the body itself And the two will somehow be rejoined. Um we're not really giving much detail. And you know you can imagine, but um what we see is this two-step thing. Our body, our soul goes to be with Christ. uh at the point of physical death, and then our body later at some later point, uh all of those who are dead in Christ will rise at the same time And then secondly, all who are alive in Christ at that point follow them with glorified bodies. Yeah, lots of people speculate what that might look like, right? When millions of people who are actually on Earth are transformed like that and presumably disappear. Go to be with with Christ. Um that's why that song was so popular I think I can only imagine, yep. Okay. Can I have a couple questions with you? Sure. So um birth fixed is for the lower than something design for heaven for the child Um I was checking the city um in the eighteen twenty-eight uh dictionary. It does give me to move on past my higher to And this is the word descent. To a lower place to move, to come or go downwards, to fall, to take, to mount or flow down. I guess I'm just trying to understand. I mean you said I I I agree that this is definitely not the second covenant, but the word descendant itself seems like is going to be coming from Covenant. So is it more like he will be in the Yes, exactly. That's exactly what I mean. It says um in verse seventeen, Then we who are alive and remain will be caught up together with them. Where? In the clouds. In the clouds, right? So he's coming down to the clouds. We're going up to meet him in the clouds. And uh I guess and this is probably just the human brain of it all because you know you said like in Revelation says like a single of of the eye it will happen like that quick. So I guess the level of it happened in like why do you gotta Like I don't know, actually that way because it's like that that's just how my brain is going in. So it can seem like some people will interpret this as the second comment And so I mean I I just feel like I don't want to stress about when and how I just take shovel in my life every day the praise the Lord because it's not about it's I am gonna be here during um the tribulation I gotta make sure I survive. But I think that can be the mindset too because sometimes if people could move in that way, well, I'm not gonna be here anyway. And then what happens if you do? Like what are you preparing and what are you putting on the armor God in wrong within those things so that we can provide it if that was behaved. So I don't know. I I believe that the word of God is literal. Um and So I'm gonna just take it as it is. Okay, well um the the kinds of things that you're struggling with are natural. I think all of us essentially have questions that come You know, we often kid around and say, when I meet Jesus, I'm going to ask him this list of questions. Why in the world did you, you know, do it this way or whatever? That's natural. But I think the bottom line is what you said, that we need to understand what as much as he's given us and live accordingly. Okay. And so verse 18, I forget if I read that, therefore comfort one another with these words. And you see where where his heart is. People are disturbed about the fact that their loved ones in Christ have died fearing maybe they're gonna miss out. And um uh he's comforting them. He says, Comfort each other with these words that no God has this all under control. Uh in fact, those who have died previous to this happening are going to be before us in being uh transformed into uh their their uh glorified bodies. Okay. So that That term being caught up together with him in the air is where we get the term rapture from Secondly, between the rapture and the second coming, Christ will reward believers according to their works of faith. And we had a bit of a question and discussion about this last week, but this is referring to the judgment seat of Christ. So in 2 Corinthians 5, we read, for we must all, and here he's speaking of Christians, we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. That each one may be recompensed for his deed in the body, that is while he was alive, according to what he has done, whether good or bad. So the point here is not a judgment as to eternal destiny, but a judgment as to rewards and um I I read last week from First Corinthians three where it speaks of of um Wood, hay, and straw being burdened up, but gold, silver, and precious stones enduring the testing, the fire of God, and the person will be saved yet so as through fire. Um and so this this judgment seat of Christ Is my understanding of the judgment seat of Christ is that it purges that remaining sin in our lives. That was not sanctified out of us essentially during our life. But when we go to be with Him for eternity, we need to be perfectly holy. And so there will be some rewards, but there's also going to be um final resting of any sin in our lives so that um uh were compatible essentially with spending eternity with Christ. And uh The rewards part of it is a bit of a mystery. I mean we see that multiple places in particular Paul's writings. Um But I think the bottom line for us is that we ought not to be motivated by rewards specifically. We ought to be motivated by bringing glory to God through our lives. Yeah. Are these rewards you're talking about? Are they the crowns that we lay at Jesus' feet because he's the one that's been doing all the work to us, it's not us. Right. So let's go ahead and and um read that second passage there. Uh second Timothy four. In the future, there is laid up for me the crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, will award to me on that day, and not only to me, but to all who have loved his appearing And so that does seem to be a reference to um the uh the crowns, the rewards and so on that he would give out, but then Ultimately everyone will lay these at his feet because it's all of him. It's not about us. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. No sin anywhere, either in us or around us, being able to worship him genuinely forever. Yeah. Well the other aspect of that being with him in a condition where we're not able to sin. Yeah. Sinless and not able to sin. No sin whatsoever. No sin in the picture at all. Even so may it come quickly, right? Yeah. Okay. So then we get the tribulation period. Now we we sort of introduced this last week from Daniel 9. If you remember in Daniel Uh well we actually have it here. Um I'll go ahead and read again, twenty-fourth through twenty-seven. Where the the angel said to Daniel, in answer to his prayer, pleading for uh the restoration of of uh Israel. They were in captivity in Babylon, uh praying for the the resuming of the worship in the temple and so on. And so Gabriel comes to him and says, seventy weeks, and that word weeks is really sevens, seventy-sevens, have been decreed for your people and your holy city. To finish the transgression, to make an end of sin, to make atonement for iniquity, to bring in everlasting righteousness, to seal up vision and prophecy, and to anoint the most holy place. So you are to know and discern that from the issuing of a decree to restore and rebuild Jerusalem until Messiah the Prince there will be seven weeks and sixty-two weeks. which is 69 sevens, which is 483 years. Uh which is a lot easier for us to see in retrospect than it would have been for even Daniel to understand, I think, in real time. Um but we can understand it in In retrospect, because he continues and says, then after the sixty-two weeks the Messiah will be cut off. What's that a reference to? The crucifixion, right? And have nothing. And the people of the prince who is to come will destroy the city and the sanctuary, and its end will come with a flood. Even to the end there will be war Desolations are determined. And he will make a firm covenant with the many for one week. That last week, the 70th of the 70 weeks. But in the middle of that week, he will put a stop to sacrifice and grain offering, and on the wing of abominations will come one who makes desolate. That is someone who desecrates the temple. Even until a complete destruction, one that is decreed, is poured out on the one who makes desolate. So There's reference here to this 70th week, and if you flip back to page eighty-four in that chart, Um the sixty-nine weeks, four hundred and eighty-three years led up to Christ. The seventh week has these various events associated with it and um Our understanding of Scripture is that those are still future, with the the uh implication that the time between the 69th week and the 70th week Isn't uh was at the time Daniel heard this an indeterminate pause. Um which is why on the chart the church age is in parentheses. It's it's a um it's a it wasn't the point of the prophecy Um and so the seven the last seven, the seven years has these various events and more detail is given about those events also in Daniel, other prophets, but certainly in Revelation. And it's clear that that's the the uh oh the revelation and Christ also in his um uh Uh what's it called? The um oh come on. Slip my mind. Anyway His his in Matthew 24-25, where he's talking about end times, answering the questions of his disciples, he lays down a lot more detail about those events, and we'll touch on some of those. Uh yeah. So you're you're saying that the seventh eighth week is non-contiguous with the previous 59. Yeah, and that's we're We're um looking back at events, seeing that yes, the um The Messiah was cut off 483 years after the decree to rebuild Jerusalem. But the other events that were talked about in that seventh, that 70th week, the last period of seven years, um have not been fulfilled. Um including As we'll see in Revelation, the actual second coming of Christ, the return of Christ at the end of that period. Could you maybe bring you any insight into The description in Daniel where it talks about the seven sevens and then the sixty-two sevens. Given the fact that the seventy it is ninety-two Does that mean that in any way does that mean that the seven and the sixty-two perhaps are non contiguous in any way? Um what what was the point, I guess Yeah, I'm not aware of any rationale for the first um seven And then between the seven and the sixty-two, making a total of sixty-nine, other than the process perhaps of them being returned to the land, rebuilding and all that sort of thing. That may have been I'm not sure about the chronology, but but certainly events were happening to bring into to um Um what reality. If I had a better memory I might have remembered that. Um I think that may fit in with the from Daniel's time to to the return to Jerusalem building of the temple, building of the walls. Yeah. There was certainly a lot going on there. But the timing of the cutting off of the Messiah was from the very beginning of the whole process which was the end of the 62 weeks, which is the end of the 69 weeks. And uh we have kind of a marker for the beginning of the first of those weeks, the issuing of the decree to rebuild. We don't really have a marker other than the the amount of time. Um yeah. Yes, thank you. Olivet Discourse. Matthew twenty-four and twenty-five. Okay. I had a feeling if you were Yeah, for some reason the Mount of Olives just escaped my mind. That's where they were sitting, looking at Jerusalem when he said that. Okay. Uh page eighty seven, let's continue. In Revelation three. You remember at the beginning of Revelation, kind of toward the beginning of Rev Revelation, uh there are several uh pronouncements, prophecies and and so on given to uh churches throughout uh Asia Minor, what we would call Asia Minor today, uh at the time. And Some of them were very specific to that particular church, others were generally applicable to the church as a whole. But in the midst of all that, in Revelation 3. 10 The Lord says to them, Because you have kept the word of my perseverance, I also will keep you from the hour of testing. That hour which is about to come upon the whole world to test those who dwell upon the earth. So uh That's not real specific, but he says this time of testing is about to come and the balance of the book of Revelation is about that time, that tribulation period. In Revelation 6, as we move through Revelation, starting in verse 16, and they said to the mountains and to the rocks, fallen us and hide us from the presence of him who sits on the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb For the great day of their wrath has come, and who is able to stand? So what what or who is the source of the wrath that's being poured out on earth during the tribulation? It's God's wrath, right? It's not Satan's wrath. Yeah, so it's the wrath of the Lamb. It's God's wrath. against unbelievers, um but it's also a time of testing um for the Jews Remember in in Daniel, Gabriel said to Daniel, Seventy weeks have been decreed for your people. Who were Daniel's people? The Jews. And so for the most part, Jews rejected their Messiah when he first came. And this time of tribulation is going to bring many of them who are alive at the time to salvation in Christ. and others to judgment. Skip down to Revelation 15, verse 1. And I saw another sign in heaven, great and marvelous, seven angels Who've had seven plagues, which are the last, because in them the wrath of God is finished. Again, it's referring to all this as God's wrath being poured out. on unbelievers on earth. And it's widespread earthwi as worldwide. And then chapter 16, verse 1. And I heard a loud voice from the temple saying to the seven angels, Go and pour out the seven bowls of the wrath of God into the earth. And verse nineteen in that in that chapter again refers to it as his God's fierce wrath. So that time of tribulation is a time where God is pouring wrath out on unbelievers. And There's uh indications here, like in Revelation 3. 10, where because it's God pouring his wrath out on unbelievers, he's sparing believers of that. Of that, experiencing the extent of that wrath. However, during that time, not only Jews but non-Jews will actually come to Christ. In the midst of that tribulation. And we'll talk more about that and what happens with them next week. Um you you read through Revelation, it talks about many of them being beheaded, right, for their faith. Um they come to Christ during this time, but um are very quickly uh persecuted and and so on. Um. And then page eighty eight These tribulation judgments will be climaxed by the return of Christ in glory to the earth. Now that's the second coming. And we'll we've got time, we're gonna read through that. But before we do, Second Thessalonians one. For after all, it is only just for God to repay with affliction those who afflict you And to give relief to you who are afflicted and to us as well. When the Lord Jesus shall be revealed from heaven with his mighty angels and flaming fire. You see how that's different from the rapture? He's not coming just in the clouds. Um he's coming with might. Dealing out retribution to those who do not know God and to those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus. And these will pay the penalty of eternal destruction away from the presence of the Lord and from his glory, from the glory of his power, when he comes to be glorified in his saints on that day. And to be marveled at among all who have believed, for our testimony to you, was believed. So that introduces a victorious Christ returning to earth. Now as you read the prophecies of the Old Testament, Um you see both prophecies about his coming in victory and majesty and glory and might and power, which is what the Jews sort of they like that language. Right? But they missed a lot of the if not all of the language about him coming as a suffering servant. And it's understandable that as you read through that you would you would say, well how are those two compatible? Um and we know in hindsight that it's speaking of two different comings. His first coming is is in humility and um being rejected by men and and and so on, Isaiah 53. And the second coming is coming in victory and power and uh glory and victory. So with that, let's turn our Bibles to Revelation nineteen. Alan. Yeah. One other thing, the difference between this this learning passage about the second coming is that you bring friends Friends, angels, and as it turns out, us. Yeah, he's not coming alone to receive us, he's coming with us to reign. Well we're coming with him. Anyway, turn to Revelation 19. Uh I want to start a little earlier than verse 11, I think. Um let's start in verse seven. So this is Revelation 19. This is after all of the plagues and everything has played its course that are mentioned in Revelation. Verse 7 of chapter 19, let us rejoice and be glad, and give glory to him, for the marriage of the Lamb has come, and his bride has made herself ready. Who's the bride? The church, right? Who's the Lamb? Christ. Right. And it was given to her, the church, to clothe herself in fine women, bright and clean, for the fine linen is the righteous acts of the saints. Verse 9. Then he said to me, so there's a there's a marriage supper of the lamb that figured here. Not a lot of detail. I find it interesting, not compelling, but interesting, that a Jewish marriage was celebrated for seven days. And uh it's possible that once you have the judgment seat of Christ And uh believers are are in their glorified bodies and um without sin now that a celebration, the marriage of the lamb, could be taking place a whole seven years of the tribulation period, the end of which we're just about to read about Verse 9. Then he said to me, Write, this is now him saying to John, write this down. Blessed are those who are invited to the marriage supper of the Lamb. Isn't that interesting? The Lamb's Christ. The bride is who? The church. Who's being invited to the marriage supper of the Lamb? They're still on the earth. We're not there yet. The other like angel flooding creatures Pros possibly. Um those that were saved before Pentecost. Basically thinking in terms of Old Testament believers. Yeah, I think so. Um Old Testament believers are sharing in the joy of God's additional family members? Additional family members In essence, yes, they're they're part of the family of God, but they're not actually in Christ as as part of the church. But they're enjoying the same joy in the marriage supper of the Lamb. Well Hebrews 11 we learned about the cloud of witnesses, right? All the ones that are way before us So it's probably including Yeah, yeah. We're gonna get there. Let's keep reading. The question was what's going to happen to people who do come to Christ during the tribulation. But yes. So they didn't have the opportunities, I guess, hard in your heart, so they're still a part of the the believers They were saved by grace through faith before the Messiah even came. They were looking forward to the redemption. And so you you think of people like Abraham, right? Moses, David, and even at the time of Christ, um Simeon, who greeted him at his his um the the the circumcision of the dead, the dedication of Christ in the temple, Anna. People who were looking for the redemption of Israel, who were believing in God's provision And of course, Simeon and Anna actually saw the fulfillment of it at least the person of the Messiah, even though I'm sure they were both long gone before Christ's ministry. Um we're done with the rabbit trail, but um so I'm not understanding I mean I always view believers from the Old Testament and believers are from doesn't I just have view us all as one instead of church supposed to have known Christ in person I don't mean that. Okay. Those have known price versus because they were, they did have fade in space, so I don't understand why there's a difference in Um really there's not much difference in eternity. Um but there is a distinction. And the bride of Christ is the church The church began at Pentecost. So Old Testament believers are part of the family of God, as the church is part of the family of God. Romans speaks of them being grafted together. Right? That is a bit of a mystery. We're gonna, aren't we? I think we may have already touched on it in a previous lesson, but um there's a lot of uncertainty and even speculation about that relationship between uh Old Testament believers and New Testament believers. We're not given a lot of specificity, but we are You know, reformers, for example, like John Calvin, viewed Old Testament believers as the church. You look at his commentaries, he's always referring to Abraham and people as as part of the church. And Jesus always spoke about his church in the future But family of God, redeemed people redeemed by God The same it's by grace through faith. Whether you're before Christ or after Christ, it's all the same. Um should we then assume that they are going to be going through the same like every will be as such as famous cards, your judgments and rewards and all the stuff I think so. You you remember the the illustration Jesus gave about uh Lazarus and the rich man? Uh those were all uh Old Testament, you know, pre-church uh people. And so there was there was agony and punishment and there was rewards even before their bodies are raised. There's no reference to that being the church, but they're part of the family of God. Anyway, so we're reading in Revelation nineteen. Then I fell at his feet to worship him, this angel, and he said, Don't do that, for I'm a fellow slave with you and your brothers who have witnessed. The witness of Jesus. Worship God. For the witness of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy. Verse 11. Then I saw heaven opened. And behold, a white horse. And he who sits on it is faithful and true. And in righteousness he judges and wages war. His eyes are a flame of fire, and on his head are many diadems. What's a diadem? A crown. Having a name written on him which no one knows except himself, and being clothed with a garden a garment dipped in blood, his name is also called the Word of God. Who is this? This is Jesus, right? Exactly. Verse fourteen. And the armies which are in heaven, clothed in fine linen, remember that fine linen? White and clean were following him on white horses, and from his mouth comes a sharp sword, so that with it he may strike down the nations. And he will rule them with a rod of iron. And he treads the winepress of the wrath of the rage of God, the Almighty. And he has on his garment and on his thigh a name written, King of Kings and Lord of Lords. Then, verse 17, I saw an angel Standing in the sun, and he cried out with a loud voice, saying to all the birds which fly in mid-heaven, Come, assemble for the great supper of God. Now, this is not the w the wedding feast, this is carnage from war. Verse 18, so that you may eat the flesh of kings and the flesh of commanders and the flesh of strong men And the flesh of horses and those who sit on them, and the flesh of all men, both free men and slaves, small and great. Then I saw the beast and the kings of the earth. The beast here referring to that that tribulation leader. The dragon is Satan. Uh the beast is the Antichrist. Yeah. The beast is the one who takes the mortal life. Right. Yeah. Yeah, we've skipped over that part of Revelation, but we're getting to the end where we're um and I saw the beasts and the kings of the earth and their armies assembled to make war with him who sits on the horse with his army. We're talking here Armageddon. Right? This is um the end. And the beast and the false prophet. Um, yeah, verse 20. And the beast was seized. And with him the false prophet who did the signs in his presence, by which he deceived those who received the mark of the beast and those who worshipped his image. These two, that is, the um The beast and the small and the false prophet were killed with a sword which came from the mouth of him who sits on the horse, Christ, and all the birds were filled with their flesh. Real pretty picture, right? And then continuing, chapter twenty. So you see how that's a lot different from the rapture? Here he's actually coming down in victory against those who oppose God, uh coming down into the earth to To do that. And then verse twenty, chapter twenty. Then I saw an angel coming down from heaven, having the key to of the abyss and a great chain in his hand, and he ho laid hold of the dragon, the serpent of old, who is the devil, Satan, and bound him for a thousand years. And he threw him into the abyss and shut it and sealed it over him so that he would not deceive the nations any longer until the thousand years were finished. After these things, he must be released for a short time. And we'll see that here later. Verse 4. Then I saw thrones, and they sat on them, and judgment was given to them, and I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded because of their witness of Jesus and because of the word of the God. Here's where it's starting to talk about what happened to those who came to Christ. Some of them, the ones who were martyred during the tribulation period, are spoken of here. I saw the souls of those who have been beheaded because of their witness of Jesus, and because of the Word of God, and who also had not worshipped the beast in his image, and had not received the mark on their forehead, on the hand And they came to life. They were raised. The rest did not come to life until the thousand years were finished. This is the first resurrection. So that first resurrection is a resurrection of believers and re resurrection 1A is at the time of the rapture where we the dead in Christ are raised, given new bodies. But there are others in Christ who come to Christ after that. Particularly during the tri tribulation period. So you're saying just the first resurrection is kind of the people that came and people Because it's well th this is specifically people who came to Christ beforehand. Now, some of the people who came to Christ in the tribulation period were not killed Others were. This is speaking particularly of those who were during the tribulation time. Yeah. And so this is part of that first resurrection. It's part B of Resurrection 1, where resurrection 1 is about believers, and resurrection 2, which we haven't gotten to yet, is unbelievers. Okay. Blessed and holy is the one who has a part in the first resurrection. Amen to that. Over these, the second death has no authority. But they will be priests of God and of Christ and will reign with him for a thousand years. Got a few more minutes. Let me just finish reading this. Verse 7. And when the thousand years are finished, Satan will be released from his prison and will come out to do what Satan does, deceive the nations which are in the four corners of the earth. Dog and Magog, to gather them together for the war. The number of them is like the sand of the seashore And they came up on the broad plain of the earth and surrounded the camp of the saints and the beloved city. What's the beloved city? Speaking of Jerusalem, where Christ is reigning. And fire came down from heaven and devoured them. Um they were no match for God. Right? Probably Millions of people from around the earth are being deceived by Satan to rise up against Christ who is actually on the throne in Jerusalem. And the devil who deceived them was thrown into the lake of fire and brimstone where the beast and the false prophet are also, and they will be tormented day and night forever. So That raises some interesting questions. Who is it Satan is deceiving to rise up against Christ at the end of the thousand years? What's that? Um the people did you know that I was a little bit more than a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little Yeah, actually um I mean I would world in general, but um very specifically to the Jews in Jerusalem because there's it's the chosen people that are Yeah. It certainly includes well yes and no. Um I I skipped over something because it's not actually in Revelation. But it is part of the Olivet Discourse where at the at the uh beginning of the thousand years and the return of Christ, he does something very specific. He separates the sheep from the goats. Right. Um you see reference to that on on the chart. And and the the the goats are unbelievers, the sheep are the believers Now, what believers and unbelievers are being separated here? People who came through the tribulation period, some of whom came to Christ. They're the sheep. Others certainly didn't, and the goats are separated and cast into their eternal destiny, right? Separation from God. What about the sheep? They enter into the tribu or the uh the millennial period. Right? Under the the the kingship of Christ, um have they died physically? No And so in the millennial period, you've got people who have not died, therefore do not have glorified bodies. And you've got people like us who um have glorified bodies, whether we died before the rapture or not And we've returned with Christ, you've got a mix of people with glorified bodies and regular human bodies during that thousand-year period. What happens during that thousand-year period? the people who are uh not yet glor it starts out with everybody being sheep Or part of the church, part of the family of God. But over the course of a thousand years, the offspring of those who were unbelievers Will include some believers probably and some not. So you're saying their kids might turn out to be kids? Yeah, we're quite kinda used to that. But you know what's interesting? Where is Satan during this whole time? He's bound. I'm not that great. So so They can't blame Satan except for the fact that they were deceived by him at the end of the thousand years. And they were deceived enough to rise up against the Lamb of God who's ruling in heaven or in on in Jerusalem on the throne. Um And as we just read, God makes short work of that that um confrontation. And uh that's so there's a confrontation at the beginning of the tr of the tribu the millennial period when he comes down. There is a confrontation and annihilation, that is a wiping out of unbelievers at the end of the millennial period as they rise up against Christ. In between, you've got a mixed bag. You've got people who are in glorified bodies, you've got people who are um not. Started out the first generation were believers, but um salvation is not hereditary. People need to make their own choice. The sheep and the goal is left and would that also be extended to the parable that Jesus spoke about in Matthew thirteen about the inner scale being separated by the angels? Yep, very similar. Yeah. But specifically it said that when Christ returns he will be separating the ch the sheep from the goats. I think they're helping him to actually do it. Yeah. Now clearly Christ will know who to go with. Those of us who have glorified bodies, we still won't be omniscient, so we won't be able to tell who this soul Or will we have a well at or at at the outset where he separates the sheep from the goats, the goats are gone They're out of the picture. No, but I mean over that one thousand years. Over the thousand years there are people who are unbelievers. They never come to salvation in Christ. And they're the ones who were deceived by Satan at the end of the thousand years. So in other words, but th those aren't goats. But they're unbelievers. So I'm saying that those of us who are in the mill Kingdom and our glorified bodies, we still won't necessarily know who the unbelievers are, correct? Or will I I don't know. I'm guessing it won't be a whole lot different from today. Yeah, we don't We don't know for sure who's a believer, but we have a pretty good indication in most cases. Probably similar. I was just gonna say the um reference to Nailomain about the 'cause like that specific example, um you know he so it's a field, it's all crops, but then it but then weeds start coming up. He specifically tells the angels you don't you might pull up the good stuff with bad, so wait until everything's done. So could that be specifically talking about the millennial kingdom? You've got to wait till the end of that thousand years in order to fully under fully recognize Who would say to the snot, or could that be for multiple sections? Could that be like at the rapture, that's when the separation occurs, or that's when that specific example is talking about, or even it could be multiple sections? There may be multiple applications. We know specifically that Christ will be separating the sheep from the goats. At the beginning. Yeah, at the end, uh it's gonna be very clear who's rising up against Christ. And God's just gonna zap 'em with fire from heaven. Yeah. When are the um Old Testament Saints resurrected or bodies? Yeah, that's a good question. When are the the bodies of the Old Testament saints raised? Um I'm not aware of any particular passage that is focused on them as a population and that question. And so given that, I'm I'm assuming that it's the same as at the at the rapture, because they're believers. The First Thessalonian passage specifically says those who are dead in Christ. I think the meaning of that typically is they're they're Christians, they're in the church. But given the lack of any other evidence that I'm aware of anyway, I I think it's reasonable to assume that the Old Testament saints will be raised at the same time. Well, we're gonna have to close it down, but we're gonna pick up with this again next week. Let's pray.