That's what we mean by by baptized. Uh but what what about particularly in the church? Peter's sermon is recorded in there. For these men are not drunk, as you suppose, as they were speaking in tongues, for it is only the third hour of the day, but this is what was spoken of through the prophet Joel Then he regenerated 3,000 souls. Uh we don't know y what the overlap was between, say, the crowd at the Sermon on the Mount and these folks here. So it was persecution spread out, and then the Holy Spirit gave the church a period of peace to grow in those areas. One of the things that he commended them was the Great Commission. So God has promised to uh that the gates of hell should not prevail against his church. And if one member suffers, all the members suffer with it. The danger is us thinking that one particular function within the body is more important than another. So it's not talking about one person as a temple of God. uh on and on and on and on. Okay, it's worth pointing out that they would have had more of the gospels than we did because we have four accounts, uh one of which is purely investigative, he was doing interviews and he had no personal uh throughout the book of Acts, uh there's a couple of scriptures there that are given that you can take a look at. Uh for example Acts chapter eight verse one and Saul was in hearty agreement with putting him to death and on that day a great persecution arose against the church in Jerusalem and they were all scattered throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria except the apostles. And Lucius of Cyrene and Menae and had been brought up with Herod the Tetrarch and Saul, and while they were ministering to the Lord and fasting the Holy Spirit said, Set apart for me Which we send missionaries to other places that are not quite as unreached as that. And um I know the like n the New England area, I can't remember the I don't know if there's a specific spot and I can't remember where it is. of it but they're basically still unreached. And that the Spirit of God dwells in you. Uh I don't know if he's pr has he taught baptism in this these theology classes yet? Um and really, if you r really want to boil down the um uh the purpose of the church, it's to execute the Great Commission. uh and to each other really. um to one another uh that are that are commandment for the believers. So I said, hey, what's the what is this gospel thing? Gifts. So that it all fits together. What? at the end of Peter's sermon there. The Spirit of God by the Holy Spirit. and put him to death. with miracles and wonders and signs which God performed through him in your midst, just as you know your yourselves know, this man delivered over by the predetermined plan and foreknowledge of God, you nailed to the cross by the hands of godless men He quotes Joel and he quotes David and he quotes he quotes Old Testament scripture, but he also has his own words uh about Jesus and his crucifixion and resurrection. Apostles teaching, continually devoting to fellowship, and continually devoting to breaking bread. with the Holy Spirit and you just be there for one another. Um and so each and every person here adopted into the family of God, what does that make us? Holy Spirit regenerates 3,000 souls. and not focused on the entertainment itself. like spending time with each other. So we need to give them that difference. to send to Antioch with Paul and Barnabas, Judas called Bar Sabbas and Silas, leading men from the brethren to go to continue this work of spreading the church out. Barnabas and Saul for the work to which I have called them. I want Paul and I want Barnabas and I want you to send them out. all the way through the book of the of Acts of how the the the Holy Spirit um guided this uh this whole his proclaim his gospel even when they were Yeah and so that started all the way uh in Paul's day there were those who were proclaiming the gospel out of jealousy and other uh selfish ambition. uh verse three. Yeah. in the churches of Ephesus that there were gonna be uh wolves trying to come in. Now there are particular places where um they have a uh a a need, a particular need Uh Acts chapter 20, Paul's in Miletus. Um so let me just go through them. And Paul is reminding them of that. Shepherd the flock of God among you, exercising oversight, not under compulsion, but voluntarily, according to the will of God, and not for sort of gain, but with eagerness Nor yet is lording it over those allotted to your charge, but proving to be examples to the flock. And I lay down my life for the sheep. uh listeners to him. Christ Church. For by one spirit we were all baptized into one body, whether Jews or Greeks, whether slaves or free, and we were all made to drink of one spirit And if the ear says, Because I am not an eye, I am not part of the body, it is not for this reason any less a part of the body. were hearing, where would the sense of smell be? If they were all m one member, there would where would the body be? God is appointed in the church, first apostles, second prophets, third teachers, then miracles, then gifts of healings, helps, administrations, various kinds of tongues. based on the the gifts that the Holy Spirit has distributed so that the whole thing works together like a human body works together Uh Bell and Morag, for example. to those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose, for those whom he foreknew he also predestined to become conformed to the image of his Son, so that he would be the firstborn among many brethren. And he's writing to the church at Corinth and he's using a plural there. and they want to individualize it, which it may also apply individually in some ways, but Paul right here is applying that to the church as a as a group For what partnership have righteousness and lawlessness, for what fellowship has light with darkness, or what harmony has Christ with Belial Or what has a believer in common with an unbeliever? uh that were the temple of God. The um Jesus says I will send you the Holy Spirit and the Holy Spirit will dwell within us. Uh does that sum summarize what the church is or does it summarize what the church should be and it doesn't always live up for that or or something like that. So the definition of the word baptized is that to be strictly indicated by a physical word of baptism or a baptism? Um and so part of the membership process, if you remember, is um y you have to either say you have been baptized Others not not s as long, but that was part that's part of the membership process here, new member process here. Give some kind of testimony saying in allowing them to know that you saying doing this from the heart and it's not just something Um there's a great book called What What is the Purpose of the Church by Kevin DeYoung and it goes through two hundred and fifty pages and at the end he says The purpose of the church is to execute the Great Commission. Two parties? Okay, so the gospel and his word, um, that's the common faith. For obeying those one of their commands. your binder or an electronic copy. Peter's Peter's sermon is what happened before that. uh from the apostles to all these different peoples. And everybody could hear them in their own language. For the promise is for you and your children, and for all who are far off, as many as the Lord our God shall call to Himself And with many other words he solemnly testified and kept on exhorting them, saying, Be saved from this perverse generation. And they were added that day 3,000 souls. And they were constantly devoting themselves to the apostles' teaching and to fellowship, to the breaking of bread, and to prayer. what he what he preached there in in Acts chapter two. Even on my bond slaves, both men and women, I will in those days pour forth my spirit, and they shall prophesy. Before the great and glorious day of the Lord shall come, and it shall be that everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. For David says of him, I saw the Lord always in my presence, for he is at my right hand, so that I will not be forsaken Therefore, my heart was glad and my tongue exalted. You have made known to me the ways of life. And so because he was a prophet and knew that God had sworn to him with an oath to seat one of his descendants on his throne, he looked ahead and spoke of the resurrection of the Christ. that he was neither abandoned to Hades nor did his flesh suffer decay. So that was Peter's sermon, and then we picked it up with the response to the sermon. connection to it. there that it heard Jesus preach and it heard the apostles as well. Christ said on the road to Emmaus. things and enter into his glory of and beginning with Moses and all the prophets, he interpreted to them in the scriptures. He in your midst, a mighty works and wonders and sign that God did in him in your midst, as you yourself know. Even though they saw it, they didn't get the big picture. Uh that the the people that were there in the audience that the Holy Spirit was working to regenerate. The Holy Spirit's doing the inspiration of Peter to teach the sermon, and the Holy Spirit's working in these 3,000 these 3,000 people that he was intending to regenerate that day. But not all of it. seen it, it was like in the papers, you know, or on TV. Uh takeaway that we want uh from this lesson about the local church, what did they do once they were saved? A couple of things. Small groups, and singing, okay together. sisters. trying to be creative to get people to be part of the church, not compromising God's word, because they're afraid someone's going to leave the church. But that doesn't preclude innovative ways of doing those things, as long as that you really are focused on doing those things. And not something else. uh these core functions of the church like breaking a bread in front of us. to invite ones that don't belong to the church to come in and hang out and play some games. So you had the church start and it was right there in Jerusalem and there was 3,000 people at the beginning and they were and then it says they were adding continually, the Holy Spirit was adding continually to their numbers, so it was growing and growing and growing But was the plan to have just one big church in Jerusalem? So it was started in Jerusalem, it went to Judea and Samaria. The first step the steps of that, the Holy Spirit um guided the whole thing to the point where the scripture tells us that the Holy Spirit told them God had done with them. All nations baptize them in the name of the Father and Son of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to obey all that I have commanded you. Somebody taught that person the words of the Great Commission. And the miracle of that is that the church during the ages wasn't always faithful to the scriptures as well as we might ought. Um to all of us, right? Um what does it mean? I guess for dating. You know, there are no um they don't have any any Christians in their people group. So the church is described as a flock, among which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers. So that's one way that the first Peter five says a similar thing. So what's he talking about there? For the body is not one member, but many. So what he's saying here is he's using the analogy of the body to say that the way that God has designed his church is to make people have different roles, functions Teaching, expectation, the other giving, whatever serving. All are not apostles, are they? Uh so it's a household. Just as God said, I will dwell in them and walk among them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. in their application to that concept of we are the temple of God, and it's talking about we as the church are the temple subsection, underline the words or phrases that teach the doctrine being studied. And so you'll see verses that are in there, like Acts 2. Um so some things to think about. Man, I was telling someone the other day and I was making it personal. Both teachings that uh that we're each indwelled personally, individually by the Holy Spirit, so therefore we're the temple of the Holy Spirit. But there are other verses that are specifically talking about the church as a body being the temple of God. That's probably true, but let's think about this from your own perspective, from uh your own experience in the church. uh by immersion as a believer or that you're willing to become baptized. Because there are many groups of Christians that believe in infant baptism, for example. We have to teach. Right, so the the new members are saying the membership covenant, and the entire congregation is saying the membership covenant back to them Okay, so what what did you do on the day that you went up there in the front of the congregation to be uh to be to become new members of the church? Said the the membership covenant. um love one another, encourage one another, lift one another up, spur one another on to love and good deeds. Okay, Jesus Christ, our Lord and Savior. uh the Ordo Salutis, the regeneration of the Holy Spirit. the right mix of people to each local church so that ever so that it works, so that we we that so that everybody's not an eye, or everybody's not a foot. And uh we're going to pick it up in verse 37. What what what did they actually do here? And Peter said to them, Repent and let each of you be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins, and you shall receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. You got 3,000. And it shall be in the last days, God says, that I will pour forth of my spirit on all mankind, and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, and your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dream dreams this which you both see and hear. for the remission of sins. Sit at my right hand, until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. uh living the Christian life together rather than individually as a uh as a standalone island. I would say a couple things about that. Does everybody see the difference there between uh changing the focus to entertainment, which is bad, and coming up with innovative ways to focus on So nothing should enter in as an activity if it is not by the Holy Spirit. for them to go Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and then to the ends of the earth. The Great Commission is still there, right? has already been done under the sun. Um but we should be open to the calling of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit. But the Holy Spirit chose Paul and Barnabas. But when you're thinking about those who are going to places where there's already a church established, what about the places where there's a church that's completely apostate? a hundred, two hundred years ago, they hate everything to do with Christianity still. Yeah, the the harvest of is plenty but the workers are few, uh we hear from the scripture Yeah, and and this country may not be that far behind. On guard for yourselves and for all the flock. like predestined but haven't been brought into the church yet? Now, Jesus used the same kind of example during his earthly ministry in John chapter 10. And he's saying that the church is designed the same way, with all different parts that have different roles and functions in the church, and that this is a work of God to do that. If you're doing something that doesn't serve others and bring glory to God, then it's not a spiritual gift. And to focus on that a little bit more as you're being used in the body of Christ and you're glorifying God. But not everybody is given a special spiritual gift of teaching. But some people have given us been given a special gift of hospitality for the building up of the body of Christ So it's a household family, but it's also like a building and a house, sometimes described in Scripture. And so um if we look at um uh f First Peter two, uh four to eight, for example. You could parallel that with the local church and the universal church, where both are the church, but there's some elements of scripture that apply more to the universal church, there's some that apply more to the local church, and there's a lot that applies to both. Associated by covenant, sharing in the common faith, and in the fellowship of the Holy Spirit. Does that sound right? Uh and so we covenant to do that. So that's the common faith. They were hearing the Word of God because, and where does the Word of God come from? Therefore, having been exalted to the right hand of God and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, he has poured forth font uh to show where the the New Testament author is quoting the Old Testament. Um and so he did, he regenerated, um they they uh came to salvation, saving faith in Christ. It's that's what we mean. Perfect plan of um continuity and expansion of Christ's Church That's how it continued to grow each church. Uh and there's nothing anybody can do about it. And so um w that's a circle of influence that you have. um that are what what we typic you'll typically hear the phrase unreached people group. It's a um uh majority Muslim area of Africa. Yeah, you can do it right where you are, in your home, your workplace. Uh the other thing I would say is uh we should always be in prayer about what the Holy Spirit would have us do. They're not going to hear it unless somebody goes. There are places in the world that we used to think of as Christian that really aren't any longer. So I'll go just a little bit through each of those. That's the analogy of the church. getting involved with the church and you're doing things, other people might see what your gift is. just like there is in a in a household. So a good question. you want done. the commands of scripture about what we're supposed to do for one another. good message. No, everybody's got a different gift, and the gifts all fit together. And then what does the word say that they did? And so they're devoted to the apostles' teaching, which is the word of God. Um uh the Holy Spirit preached, gave uh Peter the words to say, the he inspired Peter to say those words and And so uh they continually devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching. I I was at a church one time that had a salsa dancing ministry and the focus was on salsa dancing, it wasn't on ministry. The first century all the way to today. to uh give the gospel in many ways in nursing and uh just ministering the word of God from the Bible, giving Bibles and studies and what have you. So somebody taught you the words of the Great Commission. to um to teach the Great Commission, along with everything else that Jesus commanded. at uh the river and these people came from uh now he said you vipers. But we have to be men and women who are open to the calling of the Holy Spirit. There's also areas where the church did get a footing, but because of false teaching or other circumstances, now the population is completely turned against Christianity. The first example was Paul talking to elders. Jewish people. Uh that's Christ. That's what Jesus is saying. Serve with joy. Together with the Holy Spirit working in and through us, we can accomplish God's purposes to edify one another and to reach out to the laws. and prophets, Christ Jesus himself being the cornerstone, in whom the whole building being fitted together is growing into a holy temple in the Lord, in whom you are also being built together into a dwelling of God in the Spirit So these passages view the church as a family, where there is mutual love, loyalty, and accountability, as well as a God-ordained leadership structure. Alright, so we're on lesson two, the local church. unless you go to the class. Yes. So what were they doing? were probably some of the same that we're saying uh we went for Abbas and crucify him, crucify him. And what's the final thing? So that's the model. Yeah, I I agree a hundred percent. You don't do anything outside the guidance of the spirit. So Yeah, so that's that's right. Then they had fasted and prayed and laid their hands on them and they sent them away. all that Christ had commanded us, and so we're commanded to teach that great commission. Right. are you proclaiming the gospel uh to them? So the church is a flock. these Jews who are his disciples, they don't understand that this is gonna be for the Gentiles too. Uh there were they were there were so many commands in the Old Testament for them to separate themselves from the nations around them. Um but something new is coming and and Jesus gives a little precursor of it here. Uh there's a long passage for 1 Corinthians chapter 12 that tells us, it gives us an analogy of the church to a human body. jealousy and envy. For example, Ephesians chapter 2, so then you are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens with the saints and are of God's household, having been built on the foundation of the apostles. That's true. And teaching them to obey all that I have commanded you. But gives you that desire to do things within the church. That we have the right mix of gifts. And this uh verse 37 here picks up when the sermon is done. You need to stick to teaching and preaching and let God do his sovereign work on growing the church. That is spiritually, because we're talking among ourselves. Yes. The Great Commission. And so and what comes next? It needs to be done everywhere. Okay. Notice that? And the spiritual guilt is all worked out. That's how God has designed the church. Uh I don't know if Alan sex the homework. Or do you not know that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit comes in you? Between two parties, right? Gifts. So what's the content of that? the content of his of his sermon. Peter's sermon. I mean you you carry each other burden, you pray, you uh love on one another. Speak the word and let God do his work. Um there are places like that where the church is so apostate that it's that it's almost worse than having no church at all. that that others that other than Jews being God's people. Elders are charged as under-shepherds under Christ to shepherd the flock. Okay. In Acts chapter 2. And it says the Word of God says this. No and that's two things. And this was their response. And anything outside of that, God will take away if the church is doing what he wants them to do, because God is the church. What did the Holy Spirit do to spread the church out? Those types all the time. And so be open to the call. Christ Church. Okay, uh so this pictures the role of shepherds elders to lead and feed and protect the members, the sheep, under the ultimate headship of Christ, the chief shepherd of both the universal church and each local church. Or that um I have the Holy Spirit has given me so some certain talents, gifts and abilities to do one thing, but that's not what I I I wish I could do the this other thing that the other person does. 1 Corinthians 3, 16 and 17, do you not know that you are you, and that you is plural in the Greek, are a temple of God? All right. But what what is being created right here by the Holy Spirit? And so it's like a family fellowship fellowship is like a family as well. Is you know anything he said, the rule he has the rules for us. Um okay. I think we're gonna have to we're gonna need to think about uh missions. It starts in verse 12, for even as the body is one, yet it has many members, and all the members of the body, though they are many, are one body, so also is Christ. as the temple of God. Right. They continually devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching. ready access to the to the gospel all the time. Do you have to go to another country? Act as free men and do not use your freedom as a covering for evil, but use it as bondslaves of God. We have um let's wait a minute, that's not one of those. Do you remember? Good news. So we should be devoted to the things that scripture tells us to be devoted to. And as long as the focus is on breaking bread with one another and having fellowship, then it that's good. Okay. There were all sorts of heresies that were trying to get into the church all the way in the in the first century. and to answer some questions for yourself. Yeah, so there are other verses, yeah. The gospel of the word of God. Yes, absolutely. The response was, well I'm afraid that we might scare them away. And then in Acts chapter 9, verse 31, so the church throughout all Judea and Galilee and Samaria enjoyed peace, being built up and going on in the fear of the Lord and the comfort of the Holy Spirit, it continued to increase. The bottom line is, whatever the Holy Spirit has designed, equipped, enabled you to do, go do that thing and do it with joy. And then what happened after that? Yeah, he lives in Israel. Ability. They had all of the apostles right there, firsthand witnesses, who had seen three years of Jesus' ministry. Any questions about that? That's the story of the church. Be open to that call, the way Paul and Barnes were open to the call. But also um there tends to be one spiritual gift that motivates you. Um and so uh it's th that that's another analogy of the church. Excuse me? They continually devoted themselves to the apostles' teachings. The mystery dinner is an example of how to be innovative with that. And he gives them this direction in Acts chapter 20. But God raised him up again, putting an end to the agony of death, since it was impossible for him to be held in its power Uh he he brings in current events. So report how God how the Holy Spirit had spread the church out. I we we can see it here because we have uh missionaries that are sent to different parts of the world The words that Jesus said to the disciples were passed down person by person from the day Jesus spoke those words to the day somebody taught you those words. First Corinthians chapter fifteen has the really short, sweet, uh very precise definition of the gospel. I was going to say just what you read. Severe persecution. So practically speaking, every single person has a group of friends, neighbors, coworkers, and family members who are unsafe. Let me continue on because I I want to uh I want to get to the stuff that Alan told me I was supposed to teach today. So a spiritual gift, when you have a spiritual gift, it will always involve two things. Yes, so that's true, that's true. There's all these one another commands. It's not uh it's not just words, it's we've been adopted into God's family. And and this church is is definitely being led by the Holy Spirit. So we s send missionaries. So um what uh what do we mean by baptism there? Okay, that's that's literally what it means. And so this is Peter's sermon at Pentecost, and the response is three thousand people, the Holy Spirit Okay, it could be communion. And then there was uh after the Jerusalem Council, later on in uh in Acts chapter 15, uh verse 22, then it seemed good to the apostles and the elders and the whole church to choose men from among them. Right? You're you're absolutely right that each individual one of us is indwelled by the Holy Spirit. So baptized uh baptized believers is part of the this definition that we have here. That's the scriptural model for the church. And then they came back in Acts chapter 15. How do we apply that in in in everyday life? All are not prophets, are they? Uh anything else? It's usually between two parties. And so Peter did that. I just wanted to say that a good example um when uh John the Baptist was baptizing So he's warning against jealousy and envy springing up in the body of Christ because we all have different roles in the church. Um so yeah. Um and so what is that good message? Say that say it again. Not just desire. Who does that? So Peter was speaking by the Holy Spirit, and we know that how. What's the fourth thing? Yeah, uh the idea of bread and circuses is uh a secular idea, drawing a crowd by having entertainment. He's telling his disciples ahead of time what the church is going to be like. So uh everybody is called to the Great Commission, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. Um perhaps perhaps that comes from the idea that uh the temple is where God is going to meet his people and dwell among them. Does that sound like we do what we do here? And the fellowship of the Holy Spirit, what does that mean? Yeah, so uh so you so think there's two things going on in the first the Old Testament, and so Peter was using Old Testament references in his sermon. But Peter, taking his stand with the eleven, raised his voice and declared to them, Men of Judea and all you who live in Jerusalem, let this be known to you and give heed to my words. In other words, the gospel was there in the Old Testament and Christ says, you know it is how I fulfilled all these things. So some that's a good example of some an innovation for how to break bread with one another is the mystery dinner. He's commanded the disciples of Great Commission. Uh but Paul um rejoiced that the gospel was proclaimed even if it was by these um these idiots. Yeah. Uh I have I have uh um I have other sheep which are not of this fold. Uh and I have to bring them two, and they will become one flock with one shepherd. And further on down it says, But God has composed so composed the body, giving more abundant honor to that member which lacks, so that there may be no division in the body, but that the members may have the same care for one another. If any man destroys the temple of God, God will destroy him, for the temple of God is holy, and that is what you are So it's a covenant among this whole body of believers that were promising to um to fulfill the Well it's the church, it's the local church. The Holy Spirit does that. Uh one is a flock of sheep, another is a body, another is a household or family, another is a building or a house, another is the temple of God So the Holy Spirit empowered Peter to preach this sermon. So um yeah, so you can go astray with with uh ministry ideas that are not from the Holy Spirit. Um everything in which we are experiencing the young folks don't know yet. Uh that's uh another analogy that we get in Scripture. Yes, so y yes, God is faithful even when people are not. He's talking to Jewish people and uh it seems likely that at this point these um Be careful about individualizing that when the scripture is really using that as an image of the church as a body. There's some scriptures that he's that that Alan's put together there that talk about the local church. So the church the church is built there by the Holy Spirit. And there's there can be a slippery slope there. If we look back through scripture, we can see the establishment and continuity of the local churches. I think it's to the missionary question. Was every single one of them that was there chosen to go on that missionary journey? They have a gift of hospitality. Correct. Just a half. We promise to one another essentially. Somebody comes up to you, uh you're one of your neighbors. So that's the word of God. And then when we get to verse 42, we get, well, how did that what did they do as a church, this very first church? How the church started, how it started to spread, and how we can see the continuous thread from Acts chapter 2. He he's looking them right in the eye and telling them, Be on your guard for yourselves and for all the flock, among which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers to shepherd the church of God which he purchased with his own blood. Yeah, so it's an entire congregation. They become the very first church. So uh the bottom line is there's lots of work to be done. So the first one is a flock of sheep. When did the church really come into existence? So did they babble in a language nobody could understand? That's the Old Testament and the New Testament that they're saying and and and acting out here right in front of the eyes of these people. For it was not David who ascended into heaven, but he himself says, the Lord said to my Lord, I'm not gonna check any homework, but um so uh he the homework that he put into your binder there is to read each The Great Commission tells us to do what? You will make me full of gladness with your presence. Continually devoting themselves to love. I have other sheep which are not of this fold. The other the next metaphor is the body, uh human body. If one member is honored, all the members rejoice with it. Even dumb people in the church can't do anything about that. But we just when I say we as we just realizing, you know, or taking note of it, but it's been done even in the biblical days If the foot says, because I'm not a hand, I am not part of the body, it is not for this reason any less part of the body. Okay. Um Rob. And that's what he means here in this this sentence that you've been baptized as a believer. That's where the Holy Spirit is given to us. The Holy Spirit works. So the word of God. Anything outside of that, faith and belief in Jesus Christ, our Lord and Savior A household or a family. Then you have to sort of like give a uh You know, notice that he mixed in, if you read in your Bible, uh most translations of the Bible use the small caps. All the way back to Jesus, the words coming off Jesus' lips to the disciples, there's an unbroken chain from Jesus' lips to your ears today of the Great Commission But now God has placed the members, each one of them in the body, just as he desired. And so what's the what's the danger that he's warning against? Notice that. Or what agreement has the temple of God with idols? Louder. Yeah, there were the the Pharisees and Sadducees and Jesus Day and there's still people that are gonna oppose the church all over. He calls the uh the elders from the church in Ephesus to him. Yes. So uh in Acts chapter two you had the Holy Spirit came uh on the the the apostles and they start speaking in tongues. So uh you can read it in Acts chapter two, the content of Peter's sermon right before these words. The Great Commission, uh what does it say? All are not teachers, are they? I mean we can take a look at it. Our church sends missionaries. Well w what does the um what what's the uh what's the venue for for fulfilling those one another commands Yes, desire, but also ability to do things within the church. So it was right after Passover. Moreover, my flesh also will live in hope, because you will not abandon my soul to Hades, nor allow your holy one to undergo decay. They said, What do we do? Uh he said to them, Oh foolish ones, slow apart to believe all that the prophets have spoken. Yep. Look at Acts chapter 13, verse 1 to 3. So he's talking to the elders of the church. And that spread the church apart from Jerusalem. And the Holy Spirit works that same way today. Now that we have the very first church, what did they do? This is Peter talking to elders the same way. Uh two or more parties. Louder. So each generation of Christians is commanded Yeah, contract that not cannot be broken? So baptism at this church I know is very serious. Alright, let's take a look at some of the scriptures. Well, there can there can be there can be a lot of different ways to do ministry as long as it really is focused on ministry And so the the church started spreading, uh Judea and Samaria, and the surrounding areas. But now there are many members but one body. Good news. And so what what's just happened before verse 37 Now when they heard this, Peter's sermon, they were pierced to the heart and said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, Brethren, what shall we do? That was not the plan. What else? So the Holy Spirit is uh the animating force for uh what we do uh in ministry. Um and so we send missionaries. The Holy Spirit. So the apostles here are preaching the word of God. Right, it was common knowledge. Right. That's a metaphor, and the elders are to be shepherds of that flock. Yeah. The scripture has a plural you there. So you said the membership covenant and the whole congregation said the membership covenant back to you. Um miracle of the Holy Spirit. So they had just heard Acts chapter 2 for the very first time. Now the Holy Spirit says, set apart for me Paul and Barnabas to keep going, keep spreading this gospel message out. Great Commission says that you're supposed to teach them to obey all that I have commanded you. Uh so we may have lots and lots and lots of uh missions worked in neo pagan culture right here in the United States of America. Um the aspect of uh individual individual is faith. Um so um homework. 42, I know is one of them, to memorize those verses. Is everyone in the Universal Church saved? But there's a lot of moving parts to that. Uh so that's part of it. Where does the Holy Spirit come in? Uh but what then there's the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. What is the the Holy Spirit's role there? Right. It's a membership covenant. What was the work that he had called them to? Okay, and primarily what? A building or a house. We make a promise, a binding promise on one another that we will fulfill the scriptural commands uh to uh Okay. And so they are hearing the word of God from the apostles. This Jesus God raised up again, to which we are all witness. Where somebody can bread together with the fellowship, it's just like, you know, a little bit of extra fun where you don't know where you're going, you don't know where you're meeting, you're meeting the I was at a church once and we had a monthly game night. Good. Now, the the the other thing about spiritual gifts is there there are always things that all of us are called to do We're gonna talk a little a little bit more about how the church is like a family a little later on, but that's a good analogy. So that's still the plan. So we've got other verses that talk about the church as a household. Uh but uh be aware that there are certain passages like these, the couple that I just read, that are very specifically plural. That's where we have one another together to uh to do these things with So as a preacher, of course, this is awesome. And so notice what the apostles' teaching is. Yeah, so basically living life together um is fellowship. Yes, Grace. Because if someone's coming to the church, you would think they're expecting to see something and hear something that's different. Um right. For example, the gift of hospitality is an important one. A lot of people miss that, I think, when they read that passage And so who who's in charge of making sure that a particular local body of Christ, like Old Bible Church, has the right mix of gifts? So teaching of the word. And uh there's one other thing I would add to this whole uh discussion of of missions is Other churches send missionaries. So everybody familiar with the one another commands? So it's a message. 3,000 come to salvation in Christ. The Holy Spirit does that. What was the content of Peter's sermon? Therefore let all the house of Israel know for certain that God has made him both Lord in Christ, this Jesus whom you crucified. The the this Christ this Jesus who you crucified, you know, he's pointing at them there in the fr in the front row. Very good. So what does it say? That's just not something that was that's not what they were brought up learning from the Old Testament. All are not workers of miracles, are they? So the church is comprised of many different members, each has a unique role. And so 2 Corinthians 6, also similar, do not be bound together with unbelievers. So teach about the local church. And so part of that great commission is to baptize them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. They devote themselves to four things, teaching of the word, fellowship, breaking of bread, and prayer. We'll make sure they come back. I was giving the young folks a chance. We have the Jerusalem Council. If the Holy Sylvia, who chose Paul and Barnabas Yes. Yeah, so it turns out it wasn't that I d I don't know. There's a definition in your handout, the electronic version or the hard copy version, and it says the local church is a congregation of baptized believers. Well Pastor Plumley wrote it, I think. So those are the steps. It can be more than two. So Christ died for your sins. And that's uh possibly a group of people that doesn't also get talked about where they theoretically know what Christianity is, but they have such a false idea There were Jews from all over the uh the Mediterranean world. So he preached the uh the death of Christ for our sins and the resurrection of Christ by God. It actually brought persecution and used persecution to spread the church out. Um and so what are you doing with that circle of influence? Um and they need help. Therefore I exhort the elders among you as your fellow elder and witness of the sufferings of Christ and partaker also of the glory that is to be revealed I heard I heard this word gospel. He's preached the sermon, and now we get the reaction to the sermon. And what else? I was just going to point out that one innovative book because it talks about um breaking bread from house to house and Oh yeah, so the great yeah, the Great Commission is to everybody. Uh yeah, that's been going on from the very beginning. Or can you are there ways to fulfill the Great Commission without leaving the United States of America? What do we do now that uh this that Jesus has died for us, and in fact we put him to death, we were right there with a hand in it, probably some of them hearing it Prayer. Yes. Uh sharing in the common faith. We teach other people, that's right. Well at least start with that. You remember uh I don't know who who's very recently been through the membership class, become member. Um so what is the gospel? And so how how did how was the first of this of the spreading out of Jerusalem accomplished? So the metaphor of the church is a flock of sheep. I must bring them also, and they will hear my voice, and they will become one flock with one shepherd. Alright, so you were talking about First Corinthians three sixteen. Okay, so um the Holy Spirit has uh a number of functions in the scripture, regeneration, that's uh part of the the very first part of the salvation. Yes. There there are there are people groups around the world that don't have the Bible in their o their language, that don't have any Don't close down the possibility that the Holy Spirit will call you to overseas mission, ministry, and missions. Where did they send them to? Uh now, so that needs to be done everywhere. Um and those people need to have missionaries go in in order to hear the word On guard for yourselves and for all the flock. What kind of a contract are we talking about here? It was going on and it was uh he's kind of bringing it all together to say this is what it meant, you know Okay. So this is the the story of the church and how it how it spread from that those 3,000 in Jerusalem at the beginning. It says make disciples, baptize them, teach them. His sheep hear his voice And so each of the spiritual gifts are like that. It was here in Acts chapter 2 So that's one. We know that because the word tells us that, and because it's recorded as the Word of God. Brethren, I may confidently say to you regarding the Patriarch David that he both died and was buried, and his tomb is with us to this day That's what the the Bible teaches, and so we are brothers and sisters Can I just say something? Um and so this is the plan from the very beginning that this church was going to go out from Jerusalem, Judea, and Samaria and to the ends of the earth. Now you are Christ's body and individually members of it. Honor all people. Yes. Yeah, yeah. So one night I suggest that you ever think about having a simple devotion that night. But there are many places that are not as fortunate as the United States in terms of having uh Go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, the Son, of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit makes sure that the Holy Spirit brings So the people that were around them heard what they heard their own native languages. Could just be having meals together. It's going to be one flock with one shepherd. Is everyone in the local church saved? Right. No. So the Holy Spirit chooses elders for the church, and their role is to be overseers and to shepherd the flock. So his ministry during his earthly ministry is who what's he talking to? You don't even know yourself. How how do you uh, for example, equip people to be the best disciple makers that they can It's a good message. Okay, so those are four things that they this this first church. Go and make disciples So ever everybody see that. There's plenty of work. And so um Yes, ma'am. So the uh so the Holy Spirit enabled uh uh communication from the Um so the Holy Spirit was working both sides of this Um so And now there were at Antioch in the church that was there prophets and teachers, Barnabas and Simeon, who was called Megir Uh the church will be here all the way till the day it's raptured. You, as the body of Christ, are a temple of God. Uh that's true also. Um so what we mean by baptism is water baptism as a believer Yes. Um and Peter gives them the answer. I am the Good Shepherd, and I know my own, and my own know me, even as the Father knows me and I know the Father. Uh at that dinner, we're keeping everything spiritually godly. Paul and Barnabas were chosen to go on that missionary journey. Uh when we're thinking about missions, so missions done reach people groups are very important. And when the chief shepherd appears you will receive the unfading crown of glory. So in that regard, we are the temple where God What is the Holy Spirit's ministry to the church? So uh the Holy Spirit regenerated 3,000 people. Um and uh so continually devoting to Still the plan. Somebody taught that person the words of the Great Commission. You know, the examples for missionaries that we have, for example, Togo, West Africa Um but because of a a ton of fire and brimstone teaching Um Romans eight, and we know that God causes all things to work together for good So that's right. Men of Israel, listen to these words. But this is uh uh persecution has played a pr a role in the church from So it's gonna be And I'm sure that there were others who were open to the call that weren't sent. The Holy Spirit chose the Reesmans to go, and not others in the church He's about to go back to Jerusalem. So Ephesians 2 once again, 1 Peter chapter 2. First Corinthians three, I'm sorry. For we are the temple of the living God. Desire? This is the the Word of God right here. Not by the prophet who's preaching, but by Uh teaching of the word, to fellowship, uh to breaking of bread into prayer. Uh yes yes, ma'am. But he is the good shepherd and the head of the church. If you're some of you it's been a little while since your membership When we make a covenant here, it's typically not just two. What does that what does that mean? Every single believer, everyone becomes a believer of the Christ, of Jesus Christ, has this indwelling Holy Spirit Gifts. So if you have your your uh If you look through through that sermon If the whole body were an eye, where would the hearing be? Love the brotherhood. So so what is this here? And I will grant wonders in the sky above, and signs on the earth below, blood and fire and vapor of smoke, the sun will be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood. Yeah. So what's the church like now? Now, what do you think about that definition? What else do they do? They weren't just gonna that was not the plan for them to just stay in Jerusalem. And and the process here, uh I've been here for twenty one years and the process here is that you do not get baptized What else? That's not how God designed the church. Uh w the the warning in uh Acts chapter twenty to uh the elders of the Now, does that mean that every single person has to be a missionary? Acts 15, 4. That was the plan's beginning. And at the end of that direction he says, be on your guard. All do not have gifts of healings, do they? Let me skip to the uh to the last one. So that's that's once again that's talking plural. The Holy Spirit regenerated 3,000 people all at once Breaking of bread. I said, really? And so it and the chain goes on and on and on and on and so all the way from then to today. Um now they're not we don't just send missionaries to to places where they don't have the Bible in their language A spiritual gift always involves service to others and bringing glory to God. And then finally, the last one is the Temple of God. Go, make disciples, baptize, and teach. Then there are a 3,000-person church they did Like she said, going to the uh dinners that we had with one another They sent them off on Paul's first missionary journeys where they sent them off to. And so that chain is unbroken from the first century to today. At least start with that. So there are lots of uh biblical metaphors for the church, and we're going to go over a couple of them here That's really a big step for them, for Jews to think about God being um Um uh I I have other sheep which are not of this fold. So there are Distributes gifts. And I'm we're not going to go through all of them in detail right now, but I just I do want to look at the the birth of the church And there are some people that have that gift. Third day God rose and Um and Peter gave a sermon So they did. So it could be an extension of fellowship here. So you we're we're commanded, now that we know what the words of the Great Commission are, we're commanded to teach others. What else besides desire? And so you'll see that in Peter's sermon. And then to memorize two verses in this section that are printed in bold Uh so what's the common faith? We started there in Acts chapter 3, but we see the church continually growing and expanding. And so he's making this analogy to the fact that the human body has all these different parts Is this what a church is? Uh but it's not um it's not uh i i it wouldn't be unlikely that there were people And then they did what? Well, what what is one thing that Jesus is commanding his disciples right there So the church is described as a flock, the elders as shepherds over that flock. Uh did everybody do the homework from So it must be right. Anybody have any thoughts about what you've seen in churches in the past? Acts chapter 2, backing up a little bit. And being together in the spirit Um Jesus Christ gave us the Holy Spirit to guide us. It was a salsa dancing club, essentially, within within the church. Why is this and what does it imply? And why do we say that? Yes, yes. Uh it's U Angelion in Greek. They need missionaries to go What would you have me do? And so Um and so Doesn't mean you won't act in different spiritual gifts, but it tends to be one that drives you. So then those who had received his word were baptized So I mean it was probably like even if they hadn't That's a good thing to have innovation like that. Yes. Um Fear God, honor the king. I said this may be the one and only time that you had to speak the gospel. Keep spreading the gospel What is what is Jesus talking about there? They're things that we're all called to do. What does that mean? Um and so Or you're not you're not doing it right. They spoke all kinds of different languages and the apostles stood up and started to speak Jesus the Nazarene, a man attested to you by God So uh not only are we saved from our sins, but we're also adopted into his family When they arrived at Jerusalem, they were received by the church and the apostles and the elders and they reported all that had got And so whose church is it? So yes, so they had the apostles there and many of the people in the crowd may have heard Jesus teach as well. Fellowship. Still the plan. All of their history don't intermarry with those Gentiles Um what is a covenant? Uh we answered the questions. That's not what we want And having a game night was good. He doesn't think he's ever going to see them again So everybody is called to teach. Brothers and sisters. So uh when you take baptism seriously and we take it seriously because the scripture seems to take it seriously. There's I think twenty-three of them in Scripture That's happening right here. All right. What is the apostles' teaching? I mean I don't know they might know but everything we are experiencing So the Holy Spirit decides those things So here's the big uh uh this is the big How how are you influencing the people around you who are unbelievers? Yes. One zoom. He designed us to be in fellowship with one another. It's one flock with one shepherd. So Pastor Hiplonley uh developed this curriculum over years and so it's got a well Give the young folks a chance. For anybody, the first time that anybody had ever heard it, they were hearing it. Fellowship. So you can do that anywhere. All do not speak with tongues. And so the next verse is the key verse that Alan's got there in bold Uh we're still uh the the um There's sec chunks of it that are quoted from the Old Testament So when we say brothers and sisters to one another And and yet God used the church in If the whole But we don't. Talking about the the temple and everything and I'm reading that column. So is everybody a foot? Um Or it could be the uh the the Lord's Supper. We're all called to hospitality Um he didn't say The idea behind it was Whose church is Hope Bible Church? Well, at times they don't even know what their spiritual gift is, but as they're These things in Acts are recorded. You know, I saw you there, John, I saw you there, Bob. Um and How do we do that here at this church? What is fellowship? It's good. He's writing to the church. Very good. We as the the church are the temple of God. And so we take that seriously. Yes. Repent and be baptized. U is good. Yes. So Was it not necessary that the Christ should suffer these Yes, Chris. Okay. All do not interpret It's um And if it's not then you're gonna go astray. We believe in believers' baptism Is everybody an eye? And so we need each other. Where does he live? So this is Yeah, yes. Send the over Angelion is message. What does that mean, speaking in tongues? We do that. Uh He's telling all these Jewish And yet Every person has that. It's a household. Yes, great. You were saying crucify him. So Fellowship is lack of So uh yeah. Um Yes Um That's that's a good point. He preached the gospel. Um And Um