Welcome formally to this uh new quarter as we study the um uh in depth our doctrinal statement. Last quarter we did the first two sections, the one on Scripture and the one on God. And the one on God, of course, was about the Trinity and and the nature of God, attributes of God. This quarter we're going to be talking more about God, but specifically God the Son and God the Holy Spirit. And so today we're going to begin with the section three there is section three of the ten sections in our doctrinal statement. fairly traditional categorization of of doctrines. So first of all, Jesus is deity. The Lord Jesus Christ, the second person of the Holy Trinity, possesses all the divine excellencies And in these, he is co-equal, consubstantial, and co-eternal with the Father. Co-equal, I think you're used to. Consubstantial you might not have heard very often. What does consubstantial mean? It means having the same substance. Now, when we think of substance, we think of material substance, don't we? But uh consubstantial is is a term that theologians for Since dating back to the early church, have used to describe the Godhead, Father, Son, Holy Spirit, the Trinity. uh having the same substance meaning the same uh essence, the same The same well all the attributes that we've talked about already. Um and In the very early church, there were a number of heresies that developed. And uh I I think God allowed those heresies to spring up to basically forced the church and helped the church to realize and separate truth from error in a very detailed way. And I mean it got down to words. Right? And and this this term consubstantial rose out of that. And um Uh it's basically in terms of our study of Jesus Christ, the the the point is Jesus is God. He shares in all of the attributes of God. And um You like Jesus said, he who has seen me has seen the Father. I mean there's no distinction whatsoever. There is a uh diversity of roles, as we've already talked about, in the Trinity but uh the same essence, the same uh attributes always has been, always will be God. Okay. So let's take a look at that first passage. Actually we we heard this song last night. Isaiah 9. 6. Did someone read that for us? For a child will be born to us, a son will be given to us, and the government will rest on his shoulders, and his name will be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Eternal Father Yeah. By the way, for what it's worth, um y there's no comma between wonderful and counselor. There was on the overhead last night. Somebody made an error. Wonderful is an adjective. Wonderful counselor. Well um musically it's okay to have pauses between adjectives and nouns. That's all right. But um it means wonderful counselor. Um Now, who's this speaking about? Jesus, right? And it refers to him as mighty God. Right? It also refers to him as eternal father. What does that mean about Jesus? Sorry? One being? Yeah. The Hebrew is actually Father of Eternity. Yes. So which means that he's always been. He's always been. And also ha has some uh connection to his role in creation that he's the father of origin because he was part of the creation of time itself. Yeah so he he's um how things began. Right. Yeah, I was gonna say um everlasting, you know from you know the beginning to the end, like you said. Mm-hmm. Yep. That's all what it's about. Um You know, when we think of Father, we think of our uh who we're from, who we're descended from, right? And so uh being our Creator Uh the scripture is clear that both the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit were involved in creation. And So this prophecy referring to the coming of Christ, the incarnation, the child will be born to us, but he's a child who has always existed. In fact he's he's um the reason we exist. Yeah. Let's go to that next passage there. Micah 5-2. It's another good Christmas related verse. Can someone read that for us? But I was reading you Bethlehem appropriate. From you one will go forth for me to be ruler in Israel. His goings forth from long ago, from the days of So how does that figure into the um birth narrative of Christ? Do you remember? He was born in Bethlehem. Born in Bethlehem. That verse was actually quoted, however, in Matthew. Do you remember the context? The Magi travel to Jerusalem, they make it to Jerusalem, and they ask the religious leaders and actually King Herod. So where is he who is born king of the Jews? Can you imagine how King Herod took that? I thought that was King of the Jews. But what was the answer they were given? The religious leaders quoted this verse. Where where is he to be born? Well, he's to be born in Bethlehem, and they quoted it. Bethlehem, Ephrah, too little to be among the clans of Judah. For from you one will go forth to be ruler in Israel. Now, they stopped there, unfortunately, at least the record of it in Matthew Um they knew he was to be born the king of the Jews, the Messiah, they knew he was to be born in Bethlehem. Bethlehem being the the um the place where David was born and raised and so he's the descendant of David. Um But look at that second sentence. His goings forth are from long ago, from the days of eternity. So just like Isaiah 9, 6, a child's going to be born who is from eternity. This one says is going forth or going forth from long ago, from the days of eternity. So here again, someone is is going to be born in Bethlehem Who is from eternity. He's always been. Right? Um Now I find it interesting that the religious leaders were very quick to say, oh well if if you're speaking of the Messiah, he's going to be born in Bethlehem. But they seem not to have understood That this is God taking on human flesh because who else is from eternity past? Right? Anyway, definitely referring to Christ. Okay, let's skip down to around the middle, Hebrews 1, 5 and 6. For to which of the angels did he Ever saying, Thou art my son, today I have begotten thee. And again I will be a father to him, and he shall be a son to me. And when he again went to the first point of the world, he said, and let all the angels upon God Right. So thou art my son, today I have begotten thee. That's a quote. Do you know where that's from? Psalm two. That whole psalm is messianic. In fact, if um If we had heard the entire Handels Messiah last night, this would have been featured. So when we get to the second half, we'll get there But Psalm two, so why are the nations in an uproar and the peoples devising a vain thing? The kings of the earth take their stand, and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and his anointed. Who is his anointed? Jesus. That's what Messiah means, right? Saying, here's what these kings are saying, let us tear their feathers apart and cast away Their cords from us. So they're really belligerent, uh rebellious toward Christ God and the Messiah, the Father and the Messiah. And verse 4: He who sits in the heavens laughs. The Lord scoffs at them. Then he will speak to them in his anger and terrify them in his fury, saying, But as for me I have installed my king upon Zion, my holy mountain. All you kings out there, you think you're big stuff, right? God's laughing at them. I have Installed my king upon Mount Zion, my holy mountain. I will surely tell of the decree of the Lord Um now hang on. This is a little tricky. You start with the the kings of the earth who are rebelling and scoffing and whatever, then you get God the Father speaking, you know, laughing at them and and um speaking about his installing his king. And then in verse seven, what you get is that king, the Messiah, speaking. You got several different players here in uh in uh So in verse 7, I will surely tell of the decree of the Lord. He, God the Father, said to me, the Messiah, You are my son, today I have begotten you. And that's the verse that's being quoted, right? Multiple places in the New Testament, but particularly here in Hebrews 1. And then verse uh eight, ask of me, and I will surely give the nations as your inheritance. Now this is what the Father said to him, and the very ends of the earth as your possession, you shall break them with a rod of iron, you shall shatter them like earthenware. Now therefore, O kings, show discernment. Take warning, O judges of the earth. Worship the Lord with reverence and rejoice with trembling, to homage to the Son, that he may not become angry, and you perish in the way, for his wrath may soon be kindled. How blessed are all who take refuge in him. So, what's interesting here is God the Father says, You are my Son, today I have begotten you. What does begotten mean? Usually when we hear the word begotten, we think someone has um been born. Right? Does it look like in this context it's speaking about the birth of Christ? No, it doesn't. What does it sound like? Coronation. More like coronation. It's all about his royal position, right? And indeed In the supplemental notes that Diane has, there's that extra PDF on only begotten. Uh well first of all let's look at begotten. Um that word begotten That's translated here begotten is the same word that's used for someone being born, a descendant of, and so on. However, more generally it means to bring forth, to um even show forth, declare. Um And so we read from Hebrews 1. 5. That same passage from Psalm 2 is quoted in Hebrews 5. 5 Where it says, so also Christ did not glorify himself so as to become a high priest. But he who said to him, You are my son, today I have begotten you, and then he continues his argument. So Hebrews quotes that twice, and if you go to Acts thirteen Verses 32 and 33 says, And we preach to you the good news of the promise made to the fathers that God has fulfilled this promise to our children In that he raised up Jesus, as it is also written in the second Psalm, you are my son, today I have begotten you. So there in Acts, the apostles are connecting the today and the begotten with the resurrection. God declaring through the resurrection that he has defeated sin and death. And he's opened the way for salvation through Christ. So the use of the word begotten there Is different from the term only begotten. You're used to the word only begotten in verses like what? John three sixteen. Right? God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life. That term, only begotten, in the Greek anyway, is one word. It's a compound word. It's not just begotten, it's only begotten as as a as a as a term. And it's used of course of Christ uh multiple places in in Scripture One of them I want to point to is again back in Hebrews, Hebrews 11, verse 17. uh says, you know, this is the the hall of faith that's outlined various various people through the Old Testament. And it says by faith, Abraham, verse 17. Abraham, when he was tested, offered up Isaac, and he had received the promises Abraham, was offering up his only begotten son. Hebrews eleven seventeen What's that referring to? The sacrifice of Isaac. Genesis twenty two. Genesis twenty-two begins Now it came about after these things that God tested Abraham and said to him, Abraham. And he said to him, Here I am. And he said, Take now your son, your only son whom you love. Isaac. It's very specific. And go to the land of Moriah and offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains, of which I will tell you. Your only son whom you love, Isaac. Now was Isaac his only son? No. Was he his first son? No. Was he the son of promise? Yes. Yes. He's the the your only um your only begotten son. And so it it Genesis, of course, is written in Hebrew. It doesn't have that term only begotten, but it's expressing it here in Genesis 22, and Hebrews 11 picks up on that. That by faith Abraham, when he was tested, offered up Isaac, and he who had received the promises was offering up his only begotten son. Only begotten here when used of Christ and and as a as a picturing of Christ, even when used of of uh Abraham and Isaac is speaking about um the relationship of the father to the son. It's unique. It's intimate. There's a closeness. It's a special relationship That is not true of anyone else in that father-son relationship. And in the case of Christ, of course, it's always been the case. From eternity past, that God the Father and God the Son have that unique special relationship such that God the Son is only begotten. There there is none like the Son of God. And um And we have a little bit of a picture of that with Abraham and Isaac. The scripture refers to God having begotten Christ. And it's even foretold messianically in in Psalm 2. But that's referring not to that special relationship within the Godhead specifically like only begotten It's referring to him showing forth to the world uh installing him as king even in the context of him being mocked by earthly kings. So I hope that helps a little bit. I'm going to give you some of these extra notes so you can see how both of these terms are used elsewhere in Scripture. And you can refer back to those. Alright. Well let's continue. We didn't read Hebrews 1, 8 through 10 yet, did we? No. Thy throne, O God, is forever and ever, and the righteous scepter is the scepter of his kingdom. Thou hast loved righteousness and hated lawlessness. Therefore God, thy God, has anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thyroids, and thou, Lord, in the beginning has laid the foundation of the earth and the heavens So the author of the book of Hebrews there is quoting from two different Old Testament passages to make his point that uh the sun referring to Christ the Messiah the Sun uh even from Um the Old Testament scriptures, it was it was clear that the Messiah would A Be God, it says, Thy throne, O God, is forever. That's taken from Psalm 45, 6 and 7. The second passage, Psalm 102, verse 25, Thou Lord in the beginning lay the foundation of the earth. So he was speaking of the sun. He was very much involved in creation. And he's he's God, his um uh his kingdom is forever and so um the fact that the messiah would be God incarnate was already announced um in the Old Testament, but I d you know you can't you can't fault the Jews too much because we probably would have um not been all that alert to the the the various passages and so on here. Uh but some were. Can you think of a few who were very much aware? You remember uh Simeon and Anna? Uh now they apparently had God's help, prophetic help, to put the pieces together. Um but it was very clear God had already been announcing uh the the the role and and the and uh ministry uh of the messiah. And that this was God in the flesh. That's that's key. Okay. Anything else on that one? We s we studied um uh the deity Uh evidence in Scripture for the deity of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, uh, last quarter when we talked about the deity, um, or the Trinity. But there are some supplemental notes beginning on page 15 that repeat that and provide the detail concerning Um God the Sun particularly, having all the attributes of deity Now I will mention next week we're going to look at um Something that's called the kenosis. That is the what it means in Philippians 2, where it says that Jesus Um didn't regard equality with God, the thing to be grasped, but did what? Emptied himself. Emptied himself. That's the kenosis. What does it mean that he emptied himself? Hang on to next week. Okay. So he has all these these attributes, but um In his humanity, Jesus of course was fully God, fully man, while on earth, right? Um took on flesh. Um he still has a glorified Human body, right? But while he was on Earth, confined to time and space He voluntarily entered that human existence which is confined by time and space. Uh even though he's eternal God, he's omnipresent, omniscient, and and all those things. So that's it shouldn't surprise us that that that's hard to get our minds around. But um Christopher is going to lead us in that next week. Easy peasy. Easy peasy. Okay. Let's look at number two on page uh fourteen. All the fullness of deity dwells in Christ in bodily form. He is worshipped by all the angels of God, given the titles of Lord and God. And is the creator of all things. So very much things that are true of God alone. Right? So we should all be familiar with John 1, 1 through 3. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God He was in the beginning with God. All things came into being by him. Apart from him, nothing came into being that has come into being. And of course, in verse uh I think it's 14, that same passage is uh making it clear who he's talking about when he says the word, where it says the word became flesh and dwelt among us. At the end of Christ's ministry on earth, after he was raised from the dead, of course he appeared to the disciples, and Thomas wasn't there the first time he met with them as a group. But and he says, you know, I'm uh I'm not so sure I can get my wrap my head around all this, right? Unless I see it myself, see and you know, put my fingers in his side and and so on, I won't I won't um I won't believe. Well then of course uh Jesus Knowing that, appeared to him too. It's like a week later. And Thomas then said, My Lord and my God. Um probably feeling a little sheepish. But he had the right response. My Lord, my God. And how did Jesus did Jesus rebuke him for calling him Lord and God? No, he accepted the worship of Thomas. Can someone read Acts twenty? This is uh um an account In the latter part of Paul's missionary journeys, where he's on his way back to Jerusalem and he meets with the elders from Ephesus, but not in Ephesus, at um Mycia, is that right? Somewhere down there. So be on guard for yourselves and for all the flock among which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers to shepherd the church of God which you purchased with his own. Yeah, so Paul is giving them counsel, um uh marching orders, kind of. But he refers to um The church as the church of God, which he purchased with his own blood. And so whose Specifically, who is Paul referring to there? To Christ, right? The church of God, which he purchased with his own blood Um you know we we sort of read that and say, yeah, that's a no brainer. But the idea that God purchases us with his blood. That would have been a very foreign concept to anybody who was not already introduced to the gospel. And the incarnation of Christ. Um, which of course they had been All right, let's look at Colossians. A couple of passages here. Colossians 1. 16. Can someone read that? For by him all things were created, both in the heavens and on earth, visible and invisible. Whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities, all things have been created by him. And for him. And then while we're at it, let's get chapter 2, verse 9, the very nice one. For in him all the fullness of deity dwells in bodily form. Which in and of itself is hard to imagine. A lot of pagan religions have concepts of men becoming gods. But the idea of God becoming a man um is a little harder for the people to conceptualized. And yet he did take on bodily form. But retained all the um either all the attributes or all the prerogatives of those attributes um Um yet in bodily form. Amazing stuff, right? Anything else here? Raise some thoughts? Questions? Yeah. I can't remember this Isaiah that says you should worship God alone. He's the only one to worship, but we have the worship of Christ, so Yeah, and uh as we read in Hebrews one Let all the angels of God worship him. So it's not just us who worship him, because he's he's God. Okay I like the timing of of this, uh speaking of the incarnation of Christ, because we're it's sort of in the Advent season, right? And um it's edifying to think through um not just the significance but uh um The grace of God that took the step of sending the Son, the only begotten Son, To earth as a human being, uh and not even as a um a fully grown man But as a baby. Um actually I want to touch on that a little bit in our uh questions at the end on page 17. What would be the impact on our salvation if Jesus were not fully God We were believing a lie for one thing. What's that? It'll mean we we were believing alive one thing. The entire Bible would have to be turned out a window Okay. Yeah, so it would be that would be inconsistent with scripture. But let's say um why was it necessary that Jesus be fully God. He would not have been capable of not sin. Okay, he would not be capable of not sinning if he were not fully God. Why was it necessary for him to be sinless? So that he could be over sin. Sacrifice. So he could be our sacrifice. Um why couldn't a man be a sacrifice? Okay. However, let's look at the second one here. What would be the impact on our salvation if Jesus were not fully man? Okay. He went through everything. He felt our pain. So we can actually relate to our suffering because we have been there. The software and the signal salvation at home But therefore it was awfully mad, there's no way you could feel the pain we feel right now. He can s he related to us. He went through those uh uh the same temptations we have, and yet without sin. Christ is referred to as the second Adam, goes back to the garden. Christ as a man showed that Adam didn't have to sin. And so he led a sinless life. But in Adam all were born sinners, he could not have a human father. Exactly. So, you know, often when we think of the ministry of Christ, the work of Christ, what we think of is his death on our behalf. And that's key. That's foundational, right? But that's not everything he did for us. A lot of what he did for us was his life, not so much his death. Right? So he lived a perfect life. He had to be come as a baby. Um the way I like to put it is Like Adam, he and Christ and Adam were the only two whose earthly existence began without sin. Adam blew it. Jesus didn't. And his perfect life is the very definition of righteousness. Not only did God put our sins on Christ at the cross, but he put Christ's righteousness, his whole whole his his um righteous life on our account. Right? So he had to be fully man to shed blood. Also. Without the shedding of blood, what? No remission of sin. No remission of sin. Now there is shedding of blood under the Old Testament law with the animals. But what was that role? More of a symbol to point toward Christ. Picture, what was that? A symbol to point toward Christ. A symbol to point toward Christ? Temporary. Temporary. What's the word actually used in the Old Testament? The yeah not quite the type. But what was accomplished by the shedding of blood of the animals? Like a covering of things to do. Yeah, atonement. Until what? Until Christ. The ultimate sacrifice would come. Right who is the Messiah? Christ. And you remember what John the Baptist said? Maybe we're going to get there this week or next in as we travel through John 1. Remember what John the Baptist said when he saw Christ? Behold the Lamb of God and take away the sin of the world. Yeah. Behold the Lamb of God, referring to Christ. The subst the perfect sac sacrifice, the one pictured by the Old Testament sacrifices, who covers over the sin of the world? Takes away. And Hebrews reminds us that that the reason those Old Testament sacrifices had to be done every year was because it wasn't the final solution. It was only a picture of what was to come. Right? So um The the annual keeping of the Day of Atonement, the um uh the regular sacrifices, and so on were partly intended not just as a picture but as as a conviction sin is heinous to God. Something has to be done for it. Um it it it should have been obvious that this uh animal blood sacrifice covering wasn't the ultimate solution. But when the ultimate solution came, it would not just cover over the sins, but um remove them. As far as east is from the west. Right. Uh I saw a hand. Um would Revelation five be a good example of all of that Maybe. Go ahead and read it. Then I saw at the right hand of him who was seated at the throne a scroll written within on the and on the back sealed with seven seals And I saw a mighty angel proclaiming in a loud voice, Who is worthy to open the scroll and break it sealed? And no one in heaven or on earth or under the earth was able to open the scroll or look into it And I began to weep loudly, because no one was found worthy to open this roll or look into it. And one of the elders said, Weep no more. Behold, the lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of Deva, has conquered, so that he can open this roll, and it's seven seals. So it's talking about how Jesus was the only one that was worthy because of the life and the death. Yes. Yeah. Um because that was the marriage contract of the earth That that is definitely connected. Definitely connected. But that's possible that it's referring to Christ um being the only one worthy to open that seal and whatever, because he had already accomplished his his mission by living that perfect life and and offering his own body in sacrifice. And Nobody else has done that and so he is able to open those seals and to to do all that. Right, but if he hadn't been the only man and the only God, he wouldn't have been waiting for the money. He wouldn't have been he wouldn't have accomplished what he had already accomplished. Right. Right. It's all connected. Uh the question would be, would it be right to say that uh in order for God to be fully man, it was for fulfillment of prophecy and for being able to represent us? Is that a good way of s of summarizing it? Okay. Then you have to ask yourself, could he have done that if he was merely a spirit? No. Right. The blood is important. It had to be you know, the the animal blood wasn't enough. It had to be human blood by God's fingers. And it had to be Without spot or blemish. Right? It had to be sinless blood. Um And so the only way God could have accomplished that would have been for God Himself to come. Take on human flesh, live a perfect life, and die a substitutionary death. And what was was actually tainted by sin, according to Rome. They killed each other. There was no death before Adam's sin. So their blood could not ever measure up. Yeah, well it certainly their blood couldn't measure up. Um yeah I'll have to look at that verse because um animals being distinct from humans in that they're not morally Accountable to God the way human beings are. But it said that all creation, because of Adam sin. And in the millennial kingdom, the animals lie down one another and they don't kill each other. There was no death until that, so yeah. It also depends on what they mean by creation in that context. Creation is all creation contaminated. Oh that's definitely true. Yeah. Yeah. Yes, that's a good point. Yeah. So the the first picture of this substitutionary death is in Genesis three, where God killed one or more animals to cover Adam and Eve's shame picturing the need for um a blood sacrifice as a as a payment for sin and that wouldn't have been possible. I mean that would it If if the animal blood was enough, then that would end the story. Right there. There would be no need for So it's also true, though, that, as I mentioned, what Christ accomplished was not just the substitutionary death, but also the perfect life. And no animal is going to do that. To to live a life completely uh righteous before God Um and we are the beneficiaries of his life. Uh it's it's the great um Swap, if you will. Our sins go to him and his righteousness comes to us. Wow. So the only way God God God set this plan in motion when? Before the foundation of the war. Yeah. It was always the plan there was never a plan B. Right? So um there was only one way, at least one way we can understand that that could be accomplished And that is for God Himself to take on human flesh, live a perfect life, die a substitutionary death, bear the wrath of God against our sins Rise from the dead, proving he's conquered sin and death. And all of that was Decreed put in motion before the foundation of the world. Wow. Was there any reference to like time? Like when the time that um Adam and Eve were created, how long they were there before they left the garden. Yeah. Um like how long it took for the pulse Well time time was the same then as it is now. Okay I mean the the stars, I mean the the sun, the earth, all the the things that were specifically created to give us some context for time Same then as it is now. Yeah, I'm not aware of any particular passage in Scripture that tells us how long it took for sin to happen. My guess is not very long. Yeah. Although the implication of um God walking through the garden calling for Adam is that and I think there's a specific verse that talks about That's a little bit more in Genesis. But um the implication is that it was enough time for them to form some kind of routine, but that could have been a week, it could have been a year, we don't know, but clearly there was already a pattern in place That the fall was struck in the We do know they didn't have any children. Yes, but I was thinking the children were more maybe issues also. What was that? She wasn't with the child when she lost the printing description because it says then that Adam laid with his wife and where she gave it to you. Right. So it w it was undoubtedly a short period of time. But we don't know how long. Sarah's Sarah's uh question or or point was that Jesus didn't die for everyone, but only for the elect. Um That is a very um uh strongly held position. Our doctrinal statement doesn't actually take a position on that. No, it doesn't. Um and there are good reasons Um many very faithful Bible expositors, uh theologians believe that's the case and other very faithful biblical God-fearing theologians, Bible students believe that's not the case. And so Yeah, we can talk about what we as individuals think, but we didn't actually take a position on that in the doctrinal statement. Um yeah. Not to muddy the water, but it's a judgment seat, great white throne judgment. All are guilty if God had not died for everyone. Could they say that? Yeah, so then it gets into the questions of the um uh Efficaciousness of the solution, the the sacrifice, the payment. Um And the reason by the way, the reason there are um uh two major views on that, I'm not sure that there are any more than two. Is that there are a lot of scripture passages that seem to be very strong on one side or the other of that question. And it takes a lot of careful review of a lot of passages to um um kind of settle can both where you settle. Ken both you were right. Um I I would propose for you a universal sacrifice but limited atonement because atonement means right with God. And only those that come to Christ are right with God. Actually, for what it's worth, I take issue with the word atonement when applied to Christ. Because atonement actually means covering. As we were just talking, the what what the animal sacrifices did in the Old Testament was atonement. It's very specific. Their sins were atoned for. It means covered. Right? The word atonement is not used of Christ in the New Testament. Propitiation, yes. Satisfying God's wrath. But he didn't cover over sins, he took away the sins. Doesn't it also say the blood covers your skin in the New Testament? Yeah. But the word atonement It well actually the word atonement is actually more recent than the Greek or the Hebrew that's being used there. Anyway There's a lot of very nuanced issues on that. It's not a simple answer. All right. Um the uh first question there on page seventeen, the interpretation. Assignment is to provide verses that teach that Jesus is eternal, that he is always existed. And we see that You know, often we would point to New Testament passages about that. But we saw a couple of examples today, even from the Old Testament, and there are others as well So next week we're going to continue looking at the role of Christ, the incarnation. get us really much in the mood for um this whole advent season. Timing works out great. Let's close in prayer.