All right, well we're on lesson ten. Uh we're continuing our our uh study of the attributes of God. And specifically last week we started uh looking at some of the significant attributes under the heading of goodness Right? And so prior to that, we s we looked at some of the key attributes related to God's greatness. And do you remember what the the main difference between those two categories is? The goodness attributes are You mean communicable? Yes. Communicable, that was the key word. In other words, God communicates or he gives to us to share in those attributes of his. So when we say we would be like him, it's in the sense of these moral attributes, the goodness attributes. Because the greatness attributes Uh omniscient, omnipresent, omnipotent, all those are reserved for God alone. Right So we're continuing our study of the various aspects of God's goodness, and we're today beginning with his justice. Just. God I'm on uh page seventy-seven in the notes. God is also most just and awesome in his judgments. hating all sin, and who will by no means clear the guilty. All sin will be judged, and his judgments are always righteous. So there are several words here, various forms of the word justice, judgment, judged, and so on. But also the word righteous. And I don't know if you remember, but um I think I may have mentioned earlier that The words uh just and righteous are basically interchangeable. It's basically the same concept Very often in Scripture, both the Old Testament and New Testament, you see them used in the same sentence as a way of emphasis Just and right, that kind of thing. So what does it mean to be righteous? What does it mean to be just? Basically, what it comes down to is it means doing the right thing. When we say that God is most just Um and these judgments are always righteous. That means whatever God does is right. He always says the right thing. So what's the difference between being righteous and being holy? Do they not work together? They well of course all of God's attributes work together, but yes, they're similar, they're related, but there's some differences. Right. Well when you're basically you're I mean that that purity, that moral purity, you can do what's right without being Okay. That's that's pretty much the core of it. Um the way I think of it is that holiness has to do with being. And righteousness has to do with doing. Okay, so you do righteous things and you be holy. Right? Um And so yeah, is it possible to do righteous things without being holy? She she said all all of our works are like filthy rags. So you we even if we well There's several layers to that. But I think of in the Sermon on the Mount, where Jesus said, unless your righteousness surpasses that of the Pharisees You'll not see the kingdom of God. Now, I'm sure that those who are listening to him there Said, whoa, who could be more righteous than the Pharisees? They always were doing, keeping the law meticulously, and going beyond If anybody could be righteous, it's them, and he wants us to be more righteous than the Pharisees. But what was Jesus giving at? The heart. Yeah, the heart. And so often he would directly speaking with the Pharisees and scribes and so on say um things like, Woe to you hypocrites, and and then give an example that said they they um Like uh you're like whitewashed tombs Jesus said, which what? They looked great on the outside, but then he said, inside they're just filled with dead man's bones. And so when Jesus was saying our righteousness needs to go beyond the righteousness of the Pharisees. He was thinking about doing the right thing, but doing it for the right reasons, with the right heart. Right? Not a hypocritical doing of the right things and not a superficial just for show kind of doing the right things. That's a Um what, a man-made righteousness? Even if it is doing the right things, it's completely like filthy rags if it's not done for the right reasons, from the right heart. And Jesus didn't pull any punches with the Pharisees about the need for the right heart. Um so yeah, justice is always doing the right thing. So when God it does something justly He's doing what is right. And so what would be some opposites of that? So if if a judge, who is called on to implement the law and to always do what is right, if a judge Uh is compromised somehow. That he w he would often not do the right thing. Because maybe there's a bribe, maybe there's some connection with the guilty and he kinda lets them off. Um But God's not like that. God always does what is right. And sometimes what is right is judging the wicked, punishing the wicked. But his justice goes beyond that. He's also doing the right thing when he uh is compassionate So let's look at some of these verses here, starting on page 77, looking at the attributes of God. Currently we're looking at his justice. So let's go down to the fourth one there, Deuteronomy 1017. Could someone read that for me? Okay, Diane? God is the Lord's Lord, the great, the mighty, and the awesome God who did not show partiality who would take a bride. So if he were to show partiality or to take a bribe, justice would be perverted. Right? He would not be doing the right thing. He would be sort of controlled by, influenced by, those who are affected by his judgment. And God doesn't do that. He's not affected in a way that would compromise doing the right thing. Let's look at the very next one there, Deuteronomy 32. Could someone read that? The rock, his work is perfect, for all his ways are just. A God of faithfulness and without injustice, righteous and upright is he. See how it says righteous and upright? It's just emphasizing that same concept. Righteousness means doing the right thing. Upright means You always do the right thing, right? Um and the um opposite of that is injustice Right? Injustice is not doing the right thing. Okay. Let's go down to the bold verse there, 2 Chronicles 19, 7. Can someone volunteer for that one? Now then let the fear of the Lord be upon you. Be very careful what you do, for the Lord our God will have no part in unrighteousness or partiality or taking of a Right. So that's a good reminder, right? That we we we can't We can't influence God to make judgments the way we want Him to decide them in our favor. Right? That just goes against His impartiality, his justice. How about the next one? Nehemiah 93. However thou art just an old that has come upon us, for thou hast thou Faithfully, but we have acted wickedly. Yeah, so in Nehemiah, of course, this is uh after or maybe while the um the the Jews were coming back from the Babylonian captivity, back to Jerusalem, and uh they were recognizing that God was had exiled them as part of the punishment that they deserved for acting so wickedly. But now that he's brought them back, they're acknowledging that and seeking to follow him. But in the process, it just they just compare God's faithfulness, that is his faithfulness to his character and his word, always doing the right thing Compared with them, we have acted wickedly. Just the opposite. And so they say you are just In all that has come upon us. What you did to us was right. It didn't feel good. We didn't like being in exile. But we acknowledge that what you have done is right. In fact, it's it's what you said you would do if we if we um Uh forsake you. Okay. Let's go down t a couple more to Job eight three. Does God pervert justice? Or does the almighty pervert what is right? Right. What kind of questions are those? Sarcastic. Rhetorical. Rhetorical. Meaning what? The answer is clear. You know what the answer is. What is the answer to these questions? No. No. God um does not pervert justice. To pervert justice is to do something different from what is right, which means it's wrong, right? To pervert justice. And it And in the same way, um perverting justice and perverting what is right, what's the difference between those? None. It's just saying the same thing again. Right? Okay, Psalm nineteen verse nine. Can someone take that one for us? Diane? The judgments of the Lord are true. They are righteous altogether. Makes sense. He what he judges, what he does, what he decides, everything he does is right, which makes him righteous altogether in his His um his actions, his word, everything is just everything he does is right and good. Now Psalm fifty one, of course Is part of David's prayer of confession after he sinned with Bathsheba and and uh Uriah the Hittite. Uh Psalm 51 against You and you only I have sinned and have done evil in your sight, so that you're justified when you speak and blameless when you judge. So again, there's this contrast. We are not righteous. God is. God always does what's right. We don't. And um so he's because of his his justice, because he always does what is right That evil, and because he's holy, that evil can't just be ignored. He can't just sweep it under the rug, as as it were, right? And so here David is acknowledging the justice of God's God's judgments. Let's flip the page seventy-eight, second one down, also from the Psalms, Psalm ninety-two fifteen. To declare that the Lord is upright, he is my rock, and there is no unrighteousness in him. Yeah, he's upright. There's no unrighteousness in him Everything he does is right. And when he says he's a rock, what's it referring to? Strength? Immovable. Immovable. Steadfastness he doesn't change. He's going to always do what is right. Dependable. Right? And similarly there in Psalm 119 Verse 137, can someone read that? Righteousness are thou, O Lord, and upright are thou judgment. Yes, again, righteous and upright are the way he's being described. Upright in his judgments. Because everything he does is right and good. Um doesn't mean everything he does is pleasant to us. But it's right. It's we would say justified. It's it's it's right. He does only what is right Then in the New Testament, if we look at Acts seventeen, thirty-one I'm on page uh seventy-eight now. Because you have fixed a day in which you will touch the world in righteousness. Through a man whom he has appointed, having furnished proof to all men by raising him from the dead. Right, so this is uh Paul speaking um at the Areoptagus in Athens. It's kind of uh making an evangelistic appeal to the philosophers there. And this is the sort of the conclusion of his his appeal to them Speaking of God, our Creator, he's fixed a day in which he will judge the world. How? in righteousness. He's gonna judge everything in that judgment is gonna be right Uh there may have been a lot of unrighteousness in our experience. God's gonna settle it all righteously. Um and of course that's through his son, the Messiah. Now I wanted to read through Romans 2 here, this long section here on page 78. You see how the the various aspects of this come together. And we know that the judgment of God rightly falls upon those who practice such things, and the such things are a list of of uh perversions and and and evil and and so on. And do you suppose this, O man, when you pass judgment upon those who practice such things, and do the same yourself That you will escape the judgment of God? Or do you think lightly of the riches of his kindness and forbearance and patience, not knowing that the kindness of God leads you to repentance? But because of your stubbornness and unrepentant heart, you are storing up wrath for yourself in the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgments of God who will render to every man according to his deeds. Now that all caps there is a direct quote from a verse in the Old Testament. So the Apostle Paul is is um um appealing for his readers to remember what God has already declared, even in the Old Testament. And so uh he continues Uh well let me go back a little bit. Because of your stubbornness and unrepentant heart, you were storing up wrath for yourself in the day of wrath and revelation in the righteous judgment of God, who will render to every man according to his deeds. How? To those who by perseverance in doing good, what what is doing good? It's righteousness, right? Perseverance um in in doing good, seek for the glory and honor and immortality To them, eternal life. But to those who are selfishly ambitious and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, wrath, what comes to them is wrath and indignation There will be tribulation and distress for every soul of man who does evil, of the Jew first and also of the Greek. But glory and honor and peace to every man who does good to the Jew first and also to the Greek. For there is no partiality with God. For all who have sinned without the law will also perish without the law, and all who have sinned under the law will be judged by the law For not the hearers of the law are just before God, but the doers of the law will be justified Justified. Now there's a word we haven't used yet in this context. What do you think it means to be justified? Given what we understand about justice? Declared righteous. Okay. For not the hearers of the law are just before God, but the doers of the law will be justified. For when the Gentiles who do not have the law do instinctively the things of the law, these, not having the law, are a law to themselves, in that they show the work of the law written in their hearts. their conscience bearing witness and their thoughts alternately accusing or else defending them on the day when, according to my gospel, God will judge the secrets of men through Christ Jesus. It's a pretty um foundational passage on the nature of God's justice. Um He's just not in the future as judge, sort of the final judgment, but he's just he's just and right in everything he does, everything he says. It's by his character. Okay, let's look at a couple more. Top of page 79. Later in Romans 9 verse 14, the very first one. Can someone read that? What shall we say then? There is no injustice with God. Is there? May it never be Yeah, there's is there any injustice with God? No. It's another rhetorical question, right? And then uh the next verse there, Second Thessalonians 1. Therefore we ourselves speak proudly of you among the churches of God for your perseverance and faith in the midst of all your persecution. This is a plain indication of God's righteous judgment so that you may be considered worthy of the kingdom of God. God for which indeed you are suffering. For after all, it is only just for God to repay with affliction those who afflict you. Yeah, so that's that's actually a little interesting. Um so the context there is about persecution. Persecution of believers, and it says specifically um suffering Um for the cause of Christ, uh for the name of Christ, and um So when people persevere and continue in faith in the midst of that persecution and affliction, that doesn't seem just at the moment, does it? We're uh those who are suffering in that way are subject to the injustice of those who are persecuting them and and uh afflicting. But what does it remind us? That God has the last word. And everything He does is right. Justice will be um Will be right, it will be complete, it'll be certain. It is certain. And it's only just for him to repay with affliction those who afflict you. So, what's the takeaway from that? for those who are persecuted? Yeah, have the long term view, not the short term view. Yeah, what we're experiencing now may be injustice, but that's not God's injustice. God will correct everything eventually. Right. But he tells us that he's the judge of everything that's right or not. Yeah. Right. And not to take our own vengeance, right? Right. Okay. So we talked about um justice and righteousness They're basically the same thing. They're often used interchangeably, sometimes together for emphasis. Righteousness and holiness, I thought used to be, I used to think that righteousness and holiness were basically the same thing. But they're not. As you see how they're used in Scripture, holiness is about being, and righteousness is about doing. Right? And righteousness and justice are basically the same thing. It's about doing the right thing. Okay, any questions, other thoughts here on righteousness? Can I go off the board a little bit? I don't know. How how far off the board do you want to go? And all that's how we were gone and everything. And I and God say that I cause war and I cause it to cease. I think that in the spiral spiritual guidance that God gives to us as we read it word that we should be more in prayer about what's happening rather than to think that uh man has the power of doing it Mm-hmm. Yeah, ultimately it's a spiritual battle, isn't it? Yeah, yeah, it is, yeah. Yeah, and um it's certainly complicated, but I think what we're seeing now is very similar to a lot of what we see in the Old Testament. Even the nation of Israel doing things, attempting things, not under the direct instruction of God, but of their own wisdom and and so on. But also you've got all sorts of uh God haters who are um Persecuting Israel. But you know what does the Bible say about Nebuchadnezzar? Yeah. King of Babylon, who took the Israelites, the the Ju those from Judah particularly, into captivity. That was God's God's work. That was God's just work to use um this pagan king Who eventually he would grab a hold of personally, God would, and humble him. And bring him to realize that there's really you know, he's not the ultimate king. God is the ultimate king. Uh God can do that even with pagan kings. And he can use pagan kings and has used pagan kings and leaders and countries to accomplish his purposes, and it's all just. Even though there's a b unjust people he uses to accomplish it. Yeah. Can I share um I don't know how we got on the topic last night. Uh our family was sitting around the dinner table And we talked about being a part of a jury, right? And my son Michael, 19 years old, got to sit on a jury last year And so we were talking about that experience. It's one of my lifelong dreams is to sit on dirty, just because I feel it's so foundational to our country. And I related that I've been deployed to a country where they had no rule of law whatsoever. And so just comparing you know those two. But what what struck me as as we're going through this I'm looking at Psalm 92. The Lord is upright. He is my rock. We we talked about God's immutability, right? His unchangeableness. Can we could you imagine a God who changed When it came to justice. And I just I sometimes take that for granted. God is just, but but my goodness, can you imagine if he changed his views on that? was not. I mean that would just be chaotic and just so grateful for that attribute that he was. Yeah it's it's very much fundamental to all of morality You know, the the current thinking out there is that morality is whatever you make it to be. You know, what's right for you doesn't have to be right for me. And can you imagine a God like that? You know, what is morality today, God? Yeah, it's so sad that people Don't understand that. Yes sir. On um God's justice as it relates to like the afflictions that we think we believe Um just curious. Um like in some of the Psalms of David, he's talking about how his enemies afflict him and he's calling after God to not Now as we live after Christ's time, having the same God sent his son to die for us tend to take on our inequity. Um when we face reflection, I'm just wondering shh what is our response to wait for God to enact his vengeance on those who have afflicted us in in that way? Or should we look back at the cross and say, well Lord, you've already we we're not deserving of any more than what you've already done for us. Or is it a mix of both Well, uh probably something of a mix of both. Um let's go to Matthew five. Do you remember the Beatitudes. Go to verse 10. Blessed are those who have been persecuted for the sake of righteousness. In other words, they're doing what's right, but they're being persecuted. Um for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are you when people insult you and persecute you and falsely say all kinds of evil against you because of me. Rejoice and be glad, for your reward in heaven is great, for in the same way they persecuted the prophets who were before you. So again, the instruction is let's not be short-sighted about what's going on here. Let's take the long-term view. But it's not just a matter of, okay, things will work out in the end, but it's also um Let's go to 1 Peter. 1 Peter 2, 18. Servants be subject to your masters without with all fear. not only to those who are good and considerate, but also to those who are crooked. For this finds favor, for if, for the sake of conscience toward God, a person bears up under sorrows when suffering unrighteously. For what credit is there if when you sin you are harshly treated and you endure? But if you do good and suffer for it and you endure, this finds favor with God. And then he says in verse 21, For to this you have been called, since Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example that you should follow in his steps. who did no sin, nor was any deceit found in his mouth, who, being reviled, was not reviling in return. While suffering, he was uttering no threats, but kept entrusting himself to him who judges righteously, who himself bore our sins in his body on the tree. So that having died to sin, we might live to righteousness. By his wounds, you were healed. So I think God is interested both in our having the long-term view that He is just, it's going to work out according to His justice eventually. But it's not just that. I think he's also saying our response to it now is to not lash back Out of a sense of our own trying to achieve justice, but rather enduring it with patience in a way that A follows the example of Christ, and B is a testimony to our persecutors. So God can use in his goodness and his righteousness and sovereignty, he can use our being persecuted to bring conviction on those Even now, those who are persecuting us. Now, it doesn't mean that everybody who's persecuting us will be convicted and turned to Christ and so on. But um whether they do or not, our response is evidence of what God has done in our heart. And they put it puts on display the fact that we're not responding like they're expecting we're going to respond. They want to see us lash out and kind of laugh at us, but when we respond in a Christlike way Well, let me read another passage. Romans twelve, fourteen. Bless those who persecute you. Sounds kind of like the Sermon on the Mount, right? Bless those who persecute you. Bless and do not curse. Rejoice with those who rejoice, weep with those who weep, by being of the same mind toward one another, not being haughty in mind, but associating with the humble. Do not be wise in your own mind, never paying back evil for evil to anyone, respecting what is good in the sight of all men, if possible, so far as it depends on you. Being at peace with all men. In verse 19, never taking your own revenge, beloved. Instead, leave room for the wrath of God. For it is written. Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. But then also quoting from the Old Testament, he writes, But if your enemy is hungry, feed him If he is thirsty, give him drink, for in so doing you will heap burning coals on his head Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. What do you suppose it means you'll burn you'll heap burning coals on his head? by responding in a in a gracious, loving way. brings invasion and that's really the best thing I can think of. Yeah. Will that always be the response? Not necessarily, or not necessarily immediately. But That's not up to us. That's up to God. And so it's clear from Scripture that our response is key if we face injustice here in this life. And it's partly for our um benefit, but ultimately it's for God's glory. And if he's using this and us as a participant in it to accomplish his greater purposes, sometimes in the lives of those persecutors, praise God. Interesting stuff. It's all about God's justice. Pastor, I was thinking about um I read the story The Hiding Place. Mm-hmm. the the story of uh Cory Tenbo who was uh a Dutch woman whose family hid Jewish people from the Nazis. Eventually they were imprisoned. And the thing that always inspired me about that story was her sister, Betsy. Her sister never her faith never wavered. She ended up not surviving camp. But one of the things that's uh always struck me was when her sister insisted that they pray for their captors. And Corey's reaction was You must be crazy. Why would we pray for them? They're they're cruel and heartless and but uh her sister said we were to pray for our enemies. And I was always kind of inspired by that story. Yeah. It's a real life example. Yeah. Yeah. Alright, well let's move on on page seventy-nine, move on to God's faithfulness. God is faithful to all his promises and covenants. His word is absolutely reliable. His character is completely dependable. His promises of blessings are always fulfilled. His warnings of judgment are real. And apart from repentance on the part of those who are warned, they are always carried out. His predictions of the future always come true. All those are aspects of God's faithfulness. So that first passage there in Genesis nine is referring to um uh right after Noah and his family um went through the flood and uh departed from the Ark And God says to them, When the bow, the rainbow, is in the cloud, then I will look upon it to remember the everlasting covenant between God and the living creatures of all flesh that is on the earth. So God had made this covenant unilaterally with Noah and with all his descendants that he would not destroy the earth by flood again. And the rainbow is a uh a constant reminder of that. And so he's remembering, right? He's he's going to be faithful to keep up his his word Um and this was unilateral. It wasn't something that he and Noah negotiated and and so on. It was God just said, this is what I'm committing to do And we know he's going to always do that because why? He is faithful to his word, his commitments. Let's go down several verses to Jeremiah 32, 40, about in the middle of that box there. And I will make an everlasting covenant with them that I will not time away Away from them, to do them good, and I will put fear of me in their hearts so that they will not turn away from me. Right, so God entered into several covenants with people at various times. I mentioned the covenant with Noah, the Noahic covenant. uh covenant with Abraham, right? Uh covenant even with uh David. And here in Jeremiah he's speaking of the context here is is um uh during the Babylonian captivity when all looked pretty bleak right Jeremiah at a couple places God revealed through Jeremiah that that captivity in Babylon would last 70 years, but only 70 years. And among the other things Isaiah or um Jeremiah and others prophesied was a not only a return to the land, but a future for Israel where he would write his law on their hearts. And here he says he'll make an everlasting covenant with them and not turn away from them to do good. He would put the fear of him, God, in their hearts So that's a promise. That's you can take that to the bank. That's solid. It's going to happen. God committed to that I did a study on the covenant and one thing that the author wrote was that he was the covenant maker, covenant keeper God and um and currently in Hebrews and Hebrews six, um sixteen it's actually speaking specifically about the covenant with with him really with himself. Um people clarify something greater than themselves and also just use you know um an OS sign up for compliment So when God desired to show him convincing to the areas of promise, the unchangeable characters are surface, guaranteed it was an oath, specified two unchangeable things and Which it is impossible for God to lie. We do have led um for refuge might have strong encouragement to hold back to the hopes that's a for us. comment he made with two unchangeable things. Which is impossible to buy to I really look in so um yeah. Right. So if he makes a covenant but doesn't keep it, then what does that say about God? He's not faithful, he's changing, he's not dependable, but He makes covenants because he commits himself himself to doing various things. In his mind, it's already done. He's outside of time. He's taking taking that all into account. But his faithfulness, it's his character. It's impossible for him to lie. He commits to it, it's going to happen. He says it, we know it's true. That's because he's faithful. Can you imagine? You know, uh a God who's not faithful, right? Um We're surrounded by unfaithfulness. Uh people who are not faithful in one way or another, not keeping their word, not even remembering sometimes, right? But we don't have to point the finger very far. We're the same way. Right? And to imagine a God who is completely faithful, he always keeps his word He speaks the truth, and that truth doesn't change. Uh he's faithful. Romans 11 reminds us here that the gifts and the calling of God are irrevocable. What does irrevocable mean? He doesn't take them back. He doesn't take them back. They're solid, rock solid. Right? Uh the next one there, 1 Corinthians 1-9. Can someone read that for us? God is faithful through whom you were called into fellowship with His Son, Jesus Christ, our Lord. So as part of God's faithfulness, he called us into his family through Christ. He's faithful to His character, his promises, his word, our relationship with him is one of the consequences of that. He followed through And then the next one here, First Corinthians ten, thirteen, is a favorite passage. Someone want to read that? Diane? And God is faithful, who will not allow you to be tempted beyond what you are able, but with the temptation will provide the way of escape also So here's this interaction between God's care for us, his faithfulness to us, and yet We um often face temptations, even persecutions, temptations to doubt, to not trust. But what's the assurance here? Because of his faithfulness, it's not just a matter of of us Hanging on to him and doing the right thing and just hoping for the best. No, he's hanging on to us. And because of his his faithfulness Um nothing gets by him and um he won't He won't let us endure anything that's outside of his will. And often he has purposes for the trials and uh And the frustrations and whatever bang. So this is a very silly but real example of him providing a way of escape. I can think of several times when I've been on the phone with someone and we're having a conversation and I'm about to fix my mouth to criticize somebody, say something that I No, I shouldn't. And then there is a call on the other line. And it's just enough time for the conversation to take a turn in the other direction or to stop and I know God that's you telling me that when this person gets back on the line, I need not do that I haven't always taken the way of escape, but many times I have. So sometimes we see it and just don't take that out opportunity to correct ourselves. Yeah, interesting. Yeah sometimes in those situations we just need a pause, put things on pause and or reset or whatever. to think not just in the in the moment, but think in the big picture, put things in context, take a deep breath. And sometimes God uh Well, he's promising, because of his faithfulness, to um not put us in a situation where we have no choice but to sin. Okay. The next one that's bold, a memory verse here. First Thessalonians 5, 24. Faithful is he who calls you, and he also will bring it to that. Yes. So what he will bring to pass has lots of contexts and applications, I'm sure. Uh, but it's all grounded in his faithfulness. And he hasn't just placed us here and then say, well, good luck. I hope you make it. He's faithful to the end. to lead us, protect us, and so on. Getting back to our the our reality of our own character, Second Timothy two thirteen, if If we are faithless, now what does it mean if we are faithless? When we are faithless. Since we are faithless. But certainly if we are faithless, he remains faithful for he cannot deny himself. And that's true really of all of God's character. He can't violate an anything of his character. He doesn't change. He's if he's faithful, he's always faithful. If he's right, he always does right. Right? It's just his character, his his attributes. Um we're not like that inherently. Um we tend to be fickle. Right, and to have changing uh thoughts, aspirations, uh, responses We're we're not dependable and faithful like God is. But the good news is let's flip the page to the homework here and particularly the application Provide scripture verses that indicate that or how we are to become just and faithful. So we're talking about faithful for the moment. Do you know of some passages that indicate that God wants us to be faithful also? The communicable attribute of God? So when you think about uh angulation Talking about the fruit of the spirit. Faithfulness is one of the things that is listed. Yeah, and what are those character qualities, those fruit of the spirit? But it's God's character Right? Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, gentleness, faithfulness, goodness, self-control. God's character is what the Holy Spirit builds in us. It's the fruit of his labor in us. And integral, that's the word I'm looking for, integral to that is faithfulness. But you can't separate these. We'll get there someday when we talk about uh the Christian life and and uh our sanctification. But um Unlike the gifts of the Spirit, which not everybody has all of them, right? God has given us one or maybe two or so But the fruit of the Spirit, the fruit of the Holy Spirit's work in our lives, is the same for everybody. He's building in us godliness, God's character. And it's not really limited necessarily to the things that are listed there, but they're evidence of the godliness that isn't there naturally in us, but he builds in us as we cooperate with him. Um so we can't say, well, he hasn't given me the fruit of patience. No, hey, wait a minute. That's God's character. He's building God's character in you. That may not come natural to you, but the Holy Spirit can build that in you. And in fact, he probably puts you in circumstances where you've got no choice but to be patient. He's building that in us for for uh uh it may be easier for some and harder for others. Faithfulness. He's building that in us. Any other verses about our being faithful? the Greek word of it and it um persuaded uh properly faithful and I was um referring So Paul is serving to God and then the court for the case of Christ for the sake of the state of God's life. And hope everything else is Godliness or whatever we just um how Paul is writing to tag it out um how we as a servant of God and the call of Jesus Christ for the state of our state by the faith of God the light um to what another Knowledge of the truth with the force of God. So I think this is a calling for um our faith with the force of God Um consistent, maybe another synonym. Consistent with God's character of faithfulness. Yeah. Matthew twenty-eight, nineteen and twenty three Great commission. God's commanding us to spread the gospel. Which requires faithfulness. I was reading Hebrews eleven one. Hebrews eleven following a list of all God's people of faith. And the exhortation in the beginning of Hebrews 12 is ultimately following the example of Christ who what we're still and remain things. Right. And that that cloud of witnesses from from chapter eleven, uh, but ultimately Christ himself. Good. Second Timothy two, two comes to mind too. Um where Paul encourages Timothy to Entrust the things that Paul has been teaching him, entrust these things to faithful men who will be able to teach others also. Faithfulness is is a part of our growth. And so he's saying men who are not necessarily all the way there, but men who are committed to doing the right thing. Men who are faithful and dependable. Um they've they've shown some progress in becoming Christ-like Teach these things to them so they can teach others also. Faithfulness is very key there. Uh what about just You think of some passages that indicate that not only is God just, but we are to be just as well? The first one that comes to mind for me is Micah 68. Very good. We read earlier from uh the Beatitudes And uh I actually quoted, but if you look at uh Matthew five, six Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be satisfied. But then in verse twenty He says, um I say to you that unless your righteousness surpasses that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will not enter the kingdom of heaven. So he calls us to be righteous, uh, but it's not just doing the right thing, it's doing the right thing for the right reason, from the heart, a heart of devotion to God, of worship to God. All right. Any other thoughts, questions? So our salvation. Yeah, there's the the twin the twin realities that our salvation doesn't depend on our works. It's all God's work. But also the second reality that God is faithful. And um He hasn't saved us. And then he's just hoping that we'll hang on for dear life and we'll continue. No, he's hanging on to us. He's faithful to bring us through to the final uh um fruition of that salvation. And because he's faithful, we know it's going to happen. There could be no assurance of salvation apart from the faithfulness of God. Um second Corinthians three, five, not that we're sufficient in ourselves because we're anything coming from us, but our sufficient to be from God who has made us sufficient to be ministers. the new covenant covenant, not of the letter, but of the spirit, for the letter says that the spirit gives like we have anticipation um for that So he initiated it, he fulfilled it, it's all his doing. Um that's encouraging. Not only encouraging, but it's it gives us assurance. That our salvation is secure. Not because of our merit, but because of his merit and his faithfulness And it's all for his glory, not ours anyway, right? Alright. I'm not exactly sure what the time is here. They haven't changed the clocks, but it looks like it's only an hour off. Yeah. So it's probably time for us to to wind down. Let me go close in prayer.