Well it's good to be back. Sorry I missed several weeks there, but uh uh had a good time with with family over in Asia. And um uh but it's good to be back. So I understand last week Pastor Christopher began you off on this quarter Uh where we're looking first of all at um doctrines concerning man. Um did you discuss last week what the theological term for the study of man is? We did. Okay. Anthropology. And I think if you if I don't know if any anthropology majors in here, if you take an anthropology class in college, for me it would be something I would sleep through, right? Um but if you look at scripture, now theirs a source of information about man. And if only those who study man in uh colleges and that kind of thing would um look to scripture to understand how we were created and and so on. Uh they'd be much more enlightened than they are. Anyway, we're on lesson two. And uh before I forget I noticed last night as I was reviewing this that I made a um It wasn't a typo, but neglected to update the footer. Now if you look at your Your notes on the odd pages it still says theology two, December 2023. But on the even pages it's right. I think the software had a mind of its own. But um anyway, I updated the PDF, and if you really want one that is correct, you can download it right now from or whenever you want. from our hopebook site. So anyway, man's purpose. Man's purpose. Man was created For the purpose of glorifying God and enjoying God's fellowship forever. Man was not created for self-indulgence, self-glory, self-satisfaction, or self-fulfillment. And yet, when you look at the world today and maybe even your own life, what are some of the things that pop out? Self-indulgence. Self-indulgence, self-glory, self-satisfaction, self-fulfillment, right? And because of sin We've lost sight of God's purpose of creating us. Uh you talked about creation last week, I guess, right? Um But it's good to step back and see God's perspective on why He created us. Um The second passage we have here from Isaiah forty-three. Everyone well, by the way, the context here, you don't see it necessarily from from this verse. But the context here in Isaiah is God is calling his chosen people uh who were most of whom were in exile, he's calling he's um foretelling When he's going to be calling them to return. But look how he refers to them. Everyone who is called by my name, and whom I have created, why? For my glory Whom I have formed, even who I have made. And he's speaking here I think mostly of the the nation of Israel that was was in exile and and departed. Uh he certainly called and um brought up the nation of Israel uh for his purposes, but um In the broader sense, this is true for us as well. It wasn't just Israel who he created for his glory. It was everybody who he created. Yeah. It's really everybody. Um, including those who are unsaved Now he's the the ones who are saved are more likely to be involved in glorifying God and serving him and and so on. But um Um God created humans uh not for their benefit but for his benefit. And not for their glory, but for his glory. And even unbelievers um bring glory to God when He displays His Yep. So God will be glorified even in spite of those who uh aren't participating in that directly and are choosing even to Ignore him or rebel against him. But anyway, uh that was God's purpose. See look at the next passage here from Acts 17. This is um Paul speaking on on uh Mars Hill where he said he made from one That is, Adam, even made Eve from Adam. He made from one every nation of mankind to live on all the face of the earth. having determined their appointed times and the boundaries of their habitation, that they should seek God if perhaps they might grope for Him and find Him, though He is not far from each one of us, for In him we live and move and exist. As even some of your own poets have said, for we also are his offspring. So in him we live, if it weren't for his sovereign will, uh we wouldn't be living. We wouldn't continue. It's not like we are self-propelling, self-generating, self-existent. Uh we live, we move and exist. We call that a common grace? That's common grace because it applies to everybody, not just the saved. That's right. That's part of common grace. the breath that we breathe, right? He sends the rain to shower both the righteous and the unrighteous. That's common grace for everybody. The next passage there, Romans 11. For from him and through him and to him are all things. He's the ultimate purpose. He's the ultimate uh focus. He's creator. That's his right. To him be the glory forever. And then the memory verse here from Colossians 1, for by him all things were created both in the heavens and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities, all things have been created by Him and for Him Usually we think in terms of things being created for us. And to some extent, he has showered us with many good things, right? But ultimately it's all for him and his glory. Second section there. By carrying out the will of God, man was to accomplish God's purposes for mankind and the world. This purpose involves ruling over God's creation and multiplying and filling the earth. So we go back to Genesis 1. Where God said, Let us make man in our image according to our likeness, and let them rule over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the sky and over the cattle and over all the earth. And over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. And God did that. God created man in his own image. In the image of God, he created him. Male and female, he created them. And God blessed them. And God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth, and subdue it, and rule over the fish of the sea, and the birds of the sky, and over every living thing that moves on the earth. So theologians have sort of categorized some of these purposes and responsibilities taken from this passage. uh to include three main things. One, two, and the three R's. To reign over creation. Not R-A-I-N, but R-E-I-G-N, right? To reign, to rule over creation, to reflect God's image And to reproduce godly offspring. I think we talked about it a little bit. Maybe you mentioned it last week as well, but it'd be good to review Um what do we mean when we say uh when scripture says that God created us in his image? I mean God looks like us. We look like God. Okay. All those attributes of personality. Kayla? Attributes. Right. And so distinct from everything else in creation, mankind are made in God's image. And a key part of that is not only the the attributes that God has chosen to share with us. But also to make that possible, he gives us spiritual capacity so that we're not just operating on instinct. But we're capable of having a relationship with God, our Creator, and we're also accountable to Him. Of course, animals are accountable to them too, but um uh we are morally accountable. Moral morality having to do with what? Right versus wrong Uh so it's interesting. Well I'm gonna get there maybe the next section. Yeah. Any questions or other thoughts so far? Yes. So God created us With a will and ability to make choices, subject to his overall boundaries and sovereignty. And because we're capable of making choices, moral choices, we're accountable to him for how we choose. Right. And so did Adam. Yeah. Right. And so that didn't take God by surprise, but it was clearly um So we are created in this image and likeness Why do we even have that process so we can hope we can do that? Um That's a very deep theological question. Why do we have Or why would even not so much us, I think, the question is, but why is it or how could it be that Eve and even Adam could have that simple To make simple choices, right? Well God didn't create us to be puppets He created us to be able to make choices within the boundaries he has set. And he made very clear boundaries. In fact, there's only one rule that he gave to Adam, right? Don't eat from that tree. Um and even though God knew what would happen, um He allowed them to make that choice. And of course, Eve was deceived, but Adam was not. Um but they both disobeyed. And One personally, I think one of the reasons God allowed that to happen, Scripture tells us that um He had already accomplished in his sovereign will the whole plan of salvation before there was a need for salvation. Um we're in Christ from before the foundations of the earth, those he has chosen. Why would he have set it up that way? Is a useful question. I think, personally, the reason he did it that way was to bring glory to himself. You know, a as you look as you look at all that he has created, you learn some things about his his attributes, his character, his power, right? His wisdom, his his um um Order, yeah, all those things that you see in creation. But the one of the things you don't see in creation is his grace. Um his being a gracious God is not something that you can conclude by looking at salvation or looking at creation. You see his power, you see his uh wisdom, but His grace was on display even in the day that Adam and Eve sinned by his being gracious. Because he had said, in the day that you eat of it, you will surely die. Did they die? Spiritually, on that day, they died, separated from God. Physically, they died later because of it. But he said, in the day that you eat of it you will surely die. Who died physically on that day? Animals. That he killed the first death in all of creation. occurred when God killed one or more animals and then used the skins of those animals to cover the shame of sinful Adam and Eve. That was his grace. And of course, that's only a foreshadowing of the ultimate fulfillment of his grace on the cross, right? You know, sinless angels, for example, would have had no clue about God's grace had there not been sin. But isn't that Satan's sin since Yeah. Satan certainly instigated that and he was the the author of that and tried to influence Um mankind because of it. But God had a better plan and it involved his grace. So what do you mean by sinless things? Well there are sinless angels and there are fallen angels. Also created perfectly and it's as well. Yeah, yeah. We don't know as much about um the initial state of the angels he created and how that all happened or whatever, but um I guess we can sort of conclude that there's a lot of similarity between the the the choice God allowed Satan and other demons to have. And the way he allowed Adam and Eve to have choice. But but there are differences too in that. Um Anyway, that that's that's a very uh natural but deep theological question. And it usually ends up with questions like, well what if God did or didn't do something? And it's hard to speculate. But um He has revealed to us enough in Scripture so that we understand that what his purpose is for us. were and are and uh how we're accountable to him to fulfill those. But yeah. worth pointing out is that when like prior to the fall um like man had no understanding of the difference between right and wrong. So Adam Eve they did choose to disobey God's word, but they did it like a toddler chooses to pick up something that they they've been told not to. They know that they're disobeying but they don't understand what sin is at that point and then it enters the world and then we're all fallen. Um but then I feel like the part of the difference there with the angels is the angel were created to have full understanding of spiritual spiritual matters, or at least better understanding than we do. So so Satan knew full well what he was doing. He didn't have that ignorance. We had that ignorance and we're given the opportunity to learn. Um but we're still under God's sovereignty. So where Satan he didn't need to learn anything more, he already knew what he was doing. So there is no forgiveness for him. we have that race because we were acting in ignorance and then we're trapped by then because we're born into it. Um yeah, but also the fact that that like God allowed sin to enter the world but but it does display his grace, but it also displays his wrath. There would have been no way for him to show his justice or his wrath if sin if the world was still purpose. So why he chose to do it that way is God's sovereignty and work. But it does illustrate this full spread of a attributes better than if the world Diane, you had a thought? Yeah, I was kind of on Grace's thought train. I was thinking because the angels had greater knowledge, that's one of the reasons why they there is no redemption for them. They can't be saved, whereas humans have the opportunity Yeah, um but as I mentioned, Eve was certainly deceived. But Adam was not. He understood full well. Yeah, but but Adam under Lisa and Eve were but I think Adam knew first God talked to Adam, God didn't talk to Eve because it's Yeah. Yeah it it There are some distinctions there, but Diane? And I know this is just speculation. We will only know when we get to heaven or we may never know. But even though Adam knew because God told him it still seems that the angels they're a little higher than we are. They have more knowledge. They were in direct presence of God and all of his holiness. So to me it seems like there would be a greater accountability. But didn't God love the bottom absolute Yeah. Yeah, but I still feel like it's different. But that's kind of a calculation. I I'm I'm sure there is some differences. Um It would take a bit more study to see what, if anything, we can learn from Scripture about what God has revealed, about how accountable angels were and so on. We're going to get to angels next quarter. Stay tuned. Yeah. Well, those are interesting questions for sure. But um let's go ahead and proceed on page 28 talking about Male and female. By the way, periodically we offer a class in Growing Disciples on biblical manhood and womanhood. And I would strongly encourage you taking that if you've not taken that before. We can touch on some of the issues here, but uh that's an opportunity to go into greater detail on on Something that actually is getting really messed up in our society today. Anybody notice that? Yeah. Well, number one, both man and woman were created in the image of God and are thus equal in God's sight, both sharing equally in the image of God. And yet, together they reflect God's image even better than either one of them could separately. Which is interesting. Man is not greater than woman, and neither is woman greater than man. So we already read from Genesis one the creation account. Uh but from Genesis two in the next Um verse here. Let me go ahead and read that. Then the Lord God said, Of course, at the end of every day of creation Genesis one is is a summary of the uh first six days of creation. And then the seventh day is mentioned in the beginning of of chapter two. Then the rest of chapter two is really an expansion of day six Mm-hmm. Yeah, and so we're gonna read on that, but I'll I'll take a question here first. Yeah. Um I'm not sure if it's a lot more Our next our next point, number two, is probably the place to d to address that. Okay. Our very next one. Okay. Good question. Well let me go ahead and read from Genesis two. Again, this is uh an expansion of day six. That's when man was created on day six. All the other things were created in preparation for God creating man and woman. And at the end of each of those days, God said It is good. You know, there's evening, there was morning, a sixth day, and then God said it was good. But at this point, God said it is not good for man to be alone. This is right after it it describes how God created um you know it God created most of the other things, you know, light and planets and vegetation, just by giving the command. Right? He didn't actually do that with man. How did he create man? Out of the ground. In fact the word Adam basically means mud. It's from the ground, right? Um and and that's why it says, you know, from the dust you were You were created and to the dust you will return. That's that's that's the word Adam. Um and so he created Adam more What should I say, personally? Rather than just speaking it, he he created him from something he had already created. And then we pick up in chapter 2, verse 18, it's not good for man to be alone. I will make him a helper suitable for him. Now prior to this also, he created Adam, he placed them in the garden, and he gave them, and he said, any tree Any fruit of of the garden you can eat except that one. The tree of the fruit of uh the tree of good and knowledge of good and evil. That's it. Anyway, it's not good for him to be alone. And out of the ground, the Lord formed every beast of the field and every bird of the sky. And brought them to the man to see what he would call them. And whatever the man called the living creature, that was its name. Now um you gotta realize that uh and this is emphasized particularly in Genesis six, where uh God created um kinds, and there has since been some some uh mushrooming of variations within those kinds, whether it's you know uh a a dog kind or a cat kind or a cattle kind or a bird kind And from the information that was in those original created beings, there was all the information needed for the variety that has happened ever since. And so it wasn't like he had to say this is the you know how today names of animals, let's say birds, you know, it's it's the uh yellow bellied to whatever such and such uh it's kind of a description of and those those are varieties within the kind called bird Um so it's not like he had to take a long time to name all these animals. Um and to some extent it's similar to the number of animals that went on the ark. Uh because they were kinds. It says very specifically in Genesis six and seven that uh there was two of each kind, uh except for the clean animals where there were more for sacrifices Anyway, so he names these. I always wonder how he came up with the name Hippopotamus, but that probably came later. And the man gave names to the cattle and to the birds of the sky and to every beast of the field, but for Adam there was not found a helper suitable for him. What was God doing here? Showing him that there was oh that he did not have that counterpart like the animals did. Yeah. So this wasn't a surprise to God that there was no one Like him. Like him, suitable, corresponding to him. But Adam needed to know that as well. And so looking at every kind of animal and naming them And they I'm thinking it doesn't say that, but I'm thinking it was very much like when the animals came to Noah, two by two. I'm thinking Adam was seeing that kind of pairing as well, male and female. Sometimes in the same time they were looking a little different, where the the male looks different from the female. And it would have been natural for him to say, Where's mine? Right? Was that a question? Uh I was just I was just gonna point out that the way that God paced this also illustrated to us further 'cause like obviously he was making the point to Adam, but it all illustrates to us the uniqueness of humanity. That God could have like you said, God made Adam out of the dust when he could just spoke him into existence, but he could have spoken both of them into existence. He specifically chose to have Adam be alone for a while and then very, very differently from everything else in creation, create one. Right. So it's helpful Illustrate uniqueness. Yep. Very unique. Okay. So the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall upon the man and he slept. And he took one of his ribs and closed up the flesh of that place, the first surgery, right? And God fashioned into a woman the rib which he had taken from the man And brought her to the man, and the man said, This is now bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman because she was taken out of man For this cause, a man shall leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave to his wife, and they shall become one flesh, and the man and his wife were both naked and were not ashamed. So God creates Eve. It happened while Adam was under divine anesthesia. Right? Um so Adam didn't have a first hand look at the process But he certainly saw the result. And I don't know if you're familiar with the teaching of Howard Hendricks, but I love his quote here. He says, What Adam really said here in the original Hebrew was, wow! This is now a bone of my bone and flesh of my flesh, right? Okay, so what's important here is that Eve was created not even like Adam was. Right? She was created from Adam. From Adam's side rib. Um and what's the significance of that, do you think? Echoing the trends a little bit? In what way? That they're like a one substance of the two people. Okay. And then they're brought back together and moved to again become flesh, but they still have different names Role and responsibilities in this relationship. So the the the point is um well her her her initial um uh overview was it's sort of like the Trinity. In what way? Well, um there's absolute equality between the man and the woman, both created in God's image. But there are also differences and differences in roles, just like within the Trinity. Now, my personal belief is I'm glad that God created marriage to be between two rather than three. But the general principle of there being Um at the same time, equality and even hierarchy by God's design of um uh rule oversight on the part of the the husband and submission and helping on the part of the wife Very similar to the hierarchy we see within the Godhead. That there's complete equality And yet, God the Son submits to God the Father. Absolute equality, but different roles. And you know a lot of people have complained over the years or suggested over the years that if if it's true that a woman is supposed a wife is supposed to submit to her husband, that suggests that she is inferior to him. And that Is saying that Jesus Christ is inferior to the Father because he submits to the Father, and that's heresy. It is possible for There are to be complete equality of essence and and uh stature and uh character and so on, certainly standing before God, and yet differences in roles. And actually we see that all the time. Example I often give is, you know, if I were if I were driving down I ninety five or Route 32 or something, a little faster than I should have been, and I get pulled over by a police officer, and he walks up to my door and I address him as, yes sir. Now he probably could be young enough to be my son, he or she. But I would why would I address him as sir? Because of his position, his authority his legitimate authority he has to do what he's doing. Right Does is he s am I inferior to him? Not as a human being, not in God's eyes or whatever, but he has a legitimate authority and a role Now, if he were to come into church, what would be my relationship with him? We kind of switch roles. It doesn't mean we're any different, but we have roles in each context. Right? Yes, won't you? I mean, Eve came out of that Adam, but they do they share the same DNA Well there's a good question. I'm thinking, I'm just speculating. There's nothing in scripture that explicitly suggests anything there. But I'm guessing that there's a lot of similarity, but God in the process of making Eve may have also created the rest of the DNA he wanted to create. only man and woman can produce phosphorus. What is clear is that all the DNA that's happened throughout history ever since has been from those two. And actually from the eight people who are on the Ark. Every everybody since. Um all the DNA that ever happened and ever existed came from those original ones. You know, these days husband and wife have two t totally different DNA, but then back then uh that's my question. Right. Yeah, I'm I don't know enough about biology to to say what must necessarily have happened or whatever, and it's all speculation as far as I know. But um what I do know is that um Adam and Eve had um a very wide range of attributes embedded in their DNA um so that every you know look at all the variet variety that we have amongst us, even as human beings. Um all of that variety was embedded in that original DNA. Adam and Eve together, um, and uh all the variation we see today actually traces back to Noah and his wife and their three sons and their wives. Um any any DNA that existed before the flood no longer exists. Um to the extent that there was anything different from what was already on the ark. But um you know how when you when you breed, let's say a dog, we had a collie whose mother Anyway, there there are like four main categories of collie coloring. Very wide range. There's even blue. Um you know you get uh brown and white and some black and you get maybe two of the colors Uh but anyway you arranged all this collie we bought, the father was a blue merle. Beautiful. The mother was somewhere in between the range. Her litter that our dog was from, Had like the whole spectrum. Right? And it really drove home to me what probably happened with Adam and Eve They probably had the whole spectrum within their own family, right? Um anyway, the mine just goes and have a hand raised her. Damn. Oh, okay. Well, and I think I I might be going off to the left a little bit, but I think that the biblical account Also validate something else. So God made one man and one woman. We are all descended from Adam and Eve Which goes to the point that there's only one race, and that's the human race. Exactly. We're always talking about this race, that We don't separate dogs. You've got German shepherds, you've got collies, you've got rot lamas. They're still all dogs even though there's a variation. Right. Yeah the differences that people are calling races are really ethnicities. Correct. There is another race other than the human race, that's the rat race. I'm just kidding. There's a movie called Rat Race from like the nineties or something. It's slightly inappropriate at times, but very, very funny. Rowan Atkinson is in it and he's hilarious. Anyway, what I was actually raising my hand about was just that uh Adam and Eastwood had been made with absolutely perfect EA and got and because there are differences between male DNA and female female DNA got probably the tweak atoms to make sure that you know the full uh female DNA was present in the Eve. But then there's also a lot of things that have crept up that are mutations or adaptations so God made our DNA to be flexible enough that when you know people go from the desert to Scandinavia their skin gets paler, their hair gets paler, they get more resistant to the cold, and then when people come come from like Russia to Morocco, their skin gets darker, they get more resistant to the heat, they get more efficient at office and by the D, things like that. But uh there's a lot of things that probably like there probably wasn't any red hair in like very, very, very own Bible times because that's a genetic mutation And that probably took a while to creep creep up. But there's probably things that we don't think of as genetic mutations that probably are. It's just that they popped up. you know, five thousand years ago. And so now it's normal, but it wasn't originally there. And we have no idea of we have no way of knowing what is original to fully pristine human DNA and what is the result of thousands and thousands of years of mutations. Was it ink call red? That's that is that's really the current thing like adding But yeah. Let's let's um Continue this and maybe get back to the question Kayla was asking by looking at um I'm on page twenty-nine, item number two. Though man and woman were created equal, they were not created identical. And Adam certainly noticed that. The Creator endowed man with a male body, intending man to act with masculine traits. And to fulfill his distinct role as a man. The creator-fashioned woman with a female body, intending woman to act with feminine traits And to fulfill her distinct role as a woman. Male and female together reflect God's image. So if you have your Bibles, the example I often go to is Isaiah 40. So if you go to verse 9, Get yourself up on a high mountain, O Zion, bearer of good news. Lift up your voice mightily, O Jerusalem, bearer of good news, lift it up, do not fear. Say to the cities of Judah, here is your God. Behold, the Lord God will come with might, with his arm ruling for him. Behold, his reward is with him, and his recompense is before him. So when it says God will come with might with his arm ruling for him, does that give you a picture of masculinity or femininity? Masculinity. What? Masculinity. Masculinity, okay. Continue, verse 11. Like a shepherd, he will tend his flock. In his arm, again it's using the arm here, in his arm he will gather the lambs. And carry them in his bosom and will gently lead the nursing youth. What's that make you think of? Femininity, right? The care, the nurture, right? Both that strength and that nurture, even though they tend to be accentuated with either men or with women as features, is they're not exclusive to either one. But there's there's a tendency in masculinity to be strong. I mean, men have greater upper body strength and they're designed to work in ways that that women aren't. Women are designed to work in ways that men aren't. It's just the way it is. But all that's from God. And even in terms of character and traits, his arm is used for both what we would think of as a masculine role But it's also in a feminine gentle nurturing role. All of that is coming from God. Now scripture of course r refers to God only in the masculine gender term, right? But masculinity and femininity both have their origin in God. And so when He created us in His image He created man and woman with different traits, but together, not just their physical traits, but even their their um their makeup as masculine or feminine, all of that's coming from God. Not only his his mind, his his omniscience and his creativity, but even his character. As we're seeing here, it it's on display and how he interacts with in this case people. the people want to be like God there uh and then this they are trying to imitate his attributes like transgender. Yeah. Interesting. Yeah, they yeah. Satan's distortion. Yeah. It's very similar to to what Satan tempted Eve with. You eat that and you can be like God. Yeah, people people tend to because of sin they want to Be in control. They want to be like God. Even though they deny God and they shake their fist at Him. Anyway, I hope that answers your question about masculine and feminine together. Uh but let's look at the first Actually the first passage here we've already read from Genesis 2, but let's look at 1 Corinthians 11. But I want you to understand that Christ is the head of every man. The man is the head of a woman, referring to his wife, and God is the head of Christ, God being God the Father here. So you see this hierarchy of within the Trinity But also within the created order that there is a hierarchy of responsibility and accountability and so on. The next passage from 1 Timothy 2, I don't think we read that earlier, but says, let a woman quietly receive instruction with entire submissiveness. But I do not allow a woman to teach or exercise authority over a man, but to remain quiet. This is in the context of the church, the gathered church. For it was Adam who was first created and then Eve. And it was not Adam who was deceived, but the woman, being quite deceived, fell into transgression. And so not only the created order but the order of events in the coming of sin. Um are reasons why God has said, okay, there there needs to be order, there needs to be recognition of roles and uh particularly in the family and in the church, uh those roles are uh at least the the the significant Um attributes of those roles are outlined for us in scripture. Pastor Allen, I think you jumped to item three. Passages under item three That's why. See I'm working from pages I printed out. Here it is. Since man Thank you. Since man was made first, he is the wife's head and her servant leader. This role was established at creation before the fall into sin. So that's the point. And we just read from from uh First Timothy two. Um If you read the creation account, there are multiple things that make it clear that God's plan, his created order, was for um Adam, man, uh to be the head of his family and the wife to be his helper, his his um uh Um And that's not because they were different in standing before God, but just out of orderliness and out of a reflection of God's own character in the Godhead. And created roles like that. Not only did I skip three, but let's go back to the last passage in section two on page 30. Where the point here is the difference between men and women First Peter 3 says, In the same way you wives, be submissive to your own husbands, so that even if any of them are disobedient to the word They may be won without a word by the behavior of their wives, as they observe your chaste and respectful behavior. And let not your adornment be merely external braiding the hair, wearing jewelry, or putting on dresses, but let it be the hidden person of the heart with the imperishable quality of a gentle and quiet spirit, which is precious in the sight of God. For in this way, in former times, the holy women also, who hoped in God, used to adorn themselves, being submissive to their own husbands Thus Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him Lord, and you have become her children if you do what is right without being frightened by any fear. And then you husbands likewise, live with your wives in an understanding way, as with a weaker vessel since she is a woman, and grant her honor as a fellow heir of the grace of life, so that your prayers may not be hindered. I wanted to go back to that because Uh there's often a lot of confusion about what it means that the woman is the weaker vessel. The primary intent of his using that terminology here is to reflect a physical difference between men and women. So that there's a physical dimension to this, but it's deeper than that. It's not just a physical difference. Do you think it's a good thing or a bad thing to be a weaker vessel? It can't be all that bad, right? In fact it's not. The term has more to do with um being Delicate, but uh the word I think is best here is vulnerable. Need of protection. You know, if you have a a a crystal chalice, very fine crystal And you have an earthenware mug, which is likely to be more fragile. And also more valuable. Right? In need of greater protection. God created the man to be able to protect his wife. More vulnerable because Because of the physical weakness, she can be overcome by some other man. Right? Needs to be protected. That's there's a physical dimension but it's also a a um uh emotional emotional is no eyes Satan and Probably couldn't that also have just been undermining God's created order that instead of going to Adam's ahead, that you went to Eve instead He he really shouldn't have been the one making the dish of the shot. Yeah, I I'm pretty sure that Satan could have come up with a plan to deceive Adam. But then I'll Oh well I was just gonna say I think like God had it happen that way so that he could illustrate the way a man is supposed to leave his wife by Adam not doing that. Yeah. This is what not to do, guys. Yeah, perhaps. But as you said, man's supposed to protect women, but then you know, I was kind of like I'm wondering when you read Gen Genesis when Eve ate and then he she gave it to him who was with her. So at the physical sense that he was with her and another So he dropped the ball. Yeah. And as was said earlier. He blamed her. He blamed her. This woman you gave me right. I think we should have said no. At the very least, yes But God gave Adam the rules and regulations first. He got them first hand. By being an idiot, he was supposed to relate it to his wife when she took that first bite. What do you do? She knew that she wasn't supposed to But God made the rules and regulations. You have to understand that too. He's the law. Eve you remember what Eve said to the serpent when don't even look Don't even touch it. And God never said that. But Adam might have. Not knowing what this woman was capable of, he might have said, Don't even touch it. Right? We don't know. Anyway, I wanted to highlight that. I thought that would be helpful. The other thing, by the way, and we're about out of time, it's one of my pet peeves. What's that? Um being out of time. If you If you go to Genesis two, eighteen. Genesis two eighteen. And I'm gonna read From the King James. I don't usually do that, but to make my point. Verse 18. And the Lord God said, It is not good that the man should be alone. I will make him an help meet for him. That's King James English. An elp That means a helper. Meet for him. What does meat mean? Suitable to be suitable? Suitable corresponding to what's that is that Two separate words in Hebrew. People have put together That's my pet peeve. People put together health and meat Do you remember in the Gospels where where um John the Baptist is is um Exhorting people in the King James to bring forth the fruit, meet unto repentance. If there's going to be repentance, it ought to show up in your fruit, in your work, right? It's corresponding to the the genuineness of your repentance. That's what meat means, corresponding to. Um and so in in um NASB and other translations, it says a helper suitable, corresponding to. That's And so, yeah, people have put together those two King James words, help and meet, as if they're one word. This is my help meet. And that's just made up. Sometimes they transform it into help mate. Which makes a little bit more sense, but it's also made up. What the verse actually says is a helper suitable. Or in the King James, an help. Meat for you. Anyway. Um We're going to have to wrap up here. But I think I covered what I wanted to from the interpretation and application sections. So unless any other questions or thoughts? All right. Let's pray.