Well, we are on lesson four, which turns the corner here to, you know, we've been talking about doctrine of Man, anthropology. Now we're turning to study the doctrine of sin, what we teach about sin. And you know what the theological term for the study of sin is? Far more theology Oh very good. It's not Sinology. Harmarchiology. They always have to pin it on some Greek word, right? Harmartia. Greek word for sin. I can remember that because it has harm. It starts with harm, right? Sin is harmful. So there you go. Harmartiology We're going to begin here. I'm on page 43. Everybody got a copy of the notes? Or does anybody need a copy of the notes? We're all set. Definition of sin. It may seem obvious to us, right? But let's take a look at it. What the scripture say. Sin is an attitude or action. That expresses independence from God and his standards. It is any thought, word, or deed with which God is not pleased. Sin involves both sins of commission when man does what God forbids and sins of omission when man fails to act the way God commands him to act. So let's take a look at several of these passages here. That second one from 2 Chronicles 12. has an interesting way of putting it. And he did evil because he did not set his heart to seek the Lord. So it begins in the heart, doesn't it? It's what's on the inside that's driving our behavior But particularly what it's uh illustrating here, he's not he did not set his heart to seek the Lord. What's that saying? He was seeking to be instead independent. Right? Uh it's not specifically talking about disobedience here, but just this attitude in the heart of independence. And uh let's take a look at the fourth one down. Could someone read the Proverbs twenty-four passage? Um being claimed to do evil, men will call him a schemer. The device is a folly of sin, and this offer is an abomination to men. Yeah, so here again, it's it's not primarily the actions. What is the sin here? Devising, planning. It's in the heart, right? It's the intent. It's F the actions follow, sinful actions, yes. But where do they start? They start in the heart, the intentions. Let's ski skip down a couple more to Matthew five. Someone like to read that But I think the that everyone who looks on a woman to lust for her has committed adultery with her already in the army Another example, right? So it's not just the the actions that are sinful, but it's what's going on in the heart. It's the motives, the intentions, the desires in the heart that are seeking our own way, seeking independence from God. basically trying to be God, replacing him, um doing what we want. Uh let's read actually let's skip back up to Jeremiah seven, twenty-four. The one right before that. And in the stubbornness of their evil heart, they went backward and not forward. So again, where's it starting? In the heart and it leads to things like disobedience, not even listening, inclining our the ear to um wisdom and truth uh walked in their own counsels, this independence, this self-sufficiency, right? Uh pride, all those things are rooted in the heart, in the sinful Okay, let's move down to Matthew twelve, thirty-one. Jesus says, therefore I say to you, any sin and blasphemy shall be forgiven men, but blasphemy against the Spirit shall not be forgiven. And whoever shall speak a word against the Son of Man, it shall be forgiven him But whoever shall speak against the Holy Spirit, it shall not be forgiven him, either in this age or in the age to come. Either make The tree good and its fruit good, or make the tree bad and its fruit bad. For the tree is known by its fruit. The tree is known by its fruit. So the fruit are what we see, but what's producing that fruit is inside, and that's what his his point is. You'll know them by their fruit. Right? You brood of vipers, how can you, being evil, speak what is good? For the mouth speaks out of that which fills the heart. The good man out of the good treasure, of his good treasure, brings forth what is good, and the evil man out of his evil treasure brings forth what is evil. So Like you said in earlier in Matthew, you'll know them by their fruit. You know it's an apple tree because why? Well some people it when they're experienced they can tell from leaves and bark and this shape and this kind of thing, but the the real thing that nails it down is the fruit, right? Yeah. Why does he this um saying his teaching blasphemy against the spirit and out of heal? Um so w yeah, he mentions blasphemy against the Holy Spirit, which um unfortunately Unforgivable. Unforgivable. Um the context there is um Seeing works of the Spirit, which some of his hearers were seeing, his works, his miracles, and so on, and attributing them to something other than God. Something other than the spirit at work. Um the uh specifically the Where uh he was accused uh Pharisees said it is only by the demons that he cast out demons. So that's what this was responding to. Right. So um they're they were explaining away the works of Christ, the miracles of Christ. By saying, no, this isn't this isn't a thing of God, this is a thing of um demons. Just and so what's it going on in their heart when they're saying that Um disbelief, pride, um rationalizing. So the the natural conclusion people should come to, they're coming to a different conclusion because of their hardened hearts. Right. Um and they're not giving the Holy Spirit um recognition credit for what he's actually doing, they're basically being independent. They're they're blaspheming, they're they're just s setting their their hearts completely against what God is actually doing. Um and it's so hardened that there's no th they're never going to be unhardened. That's what it's saying. I was gonna add so that is the well their heart is so hard and they will not be answered because that way the blasphemy against the spirit shawmak we forgive. Um I I think it's it's partly the seriousness of it. I mean you're accusing Um what God's doing as the work of of the enemies of God, and so that's that's pretty extreme. Um but I I think his point, and g getting back to um the question, his point is where is that coming from? It's coming from an evil heart, a hardened heart. And um Yeah. Another comment to that is for Jesus sort of seems to me laying the groundwork to say that those who are on elect, those who are or those who are still responsible for their sin. They're gonna be judged by their sin. Right. They're not gonna be forgiven. Right. Yeah, they're they're they're set in that. Now um Is God capable of softening a hardened heart? Yeah, I certainly did that in my case. But um He he chooses some and not others, and those who are hardened in their sin. Um think about the the things that they saw But the the the events that occurred during that time and yet they would not believe. Right. You see it right before your eyes. I mean we would dream of being able to do that. And and the point of those miracles was to say, this is of God, therefore listen to what he's saying. Right. Right? And They're not getting past the first step. And so they're not listening to what he's saying. Partly because I would imagine they felt threatened by his authority, his um appeal to widespread people, that kind of thing, and they they might have seen that as a threat to their position and power and all that sort of thing. So whatever's motivating them, uh it just reveals how hard They are, Jessica. And that was my point in in making the connection between what Jesus was hearing and making it clear about the consequences of that action. of blaspheming the Holy Spirit and then connection to what's coming out of your mouth and the actions that you're doing is from your heart. Right. It's it's either a good tree or it's a bad tree. Right. But bad fruit's not coming out of a good tree. Right. And so when you're saying it it's it's almost almost like telling the rest of the group what you see and what you hear as a reflection of where their heart is. Right. More of a warning as well as a kind of pronouncement as well to to kind of acknowledge who they are and what they're doing. doing and I think we we take it the same way. It's it's the fruit is an indication of where our heart is on a consistent Right. Yep. Okay. Uh similar point in Mark seven. He was saying that which proceeds out of man? That is what defiles the man, for from within, out of the heart of man, proceeds the evil thoughts, fornications, thefts, murders, adulteries, deeds, coveting, wickedness, wickedness. As well as deceit, sensuality, envy, slander, pride, and foolishness, all these things proceed from within and defile the man. Okay, so um it's it's okay. I mean we often refer to specific actions as sins. That's okay But let's not lose sight of the fact that it's not just the doing of something, it's even the the the motive of the heart that produces it. That's the main thing. Heart is desperately wicked with so hard. I mean I mean when we are looking at this, I'm looking at this. I think we're almost different things every day. Unfortunately, o I I mean right? Yeah. Who who all knows don't have that kind of who has like such a cured heart Right. So um apart from Christ, apart from salvation, that's us. Now, when we are saved, it doesn't mean that we're immediately sinless. And our hearts, even though we're saved, are subject to we we've got a lot of baggage in our lives. And Yet our salvation is not just about our eternal destiny. Oh, that's huge, right? But our salvation is also about our becoming more holy here and now and dealing with those hard issues. And Recogni recognizing the sin, seeing it for what it is, which we wouldn't even see apart from God's work in us, in our heart. to soften us, right? To to open our eyes to the truth about that. So understanding us first, and then he leads us into admitting, yes, that's true, confession. And then also um committing to forsake it Um which in our own power, our own strength, our own natural heart we wouldn't do, right? But That work of salvation in us is the Holy Spirit prompting us along these these steps to become more and more like Christ, more and more holy, not just in our outward actions. But in the heart attitude that produces them. Um and that's that process of sanctification becoming more and more holy. And so that happens at the heart level first, because that's where sin originates. It's in the heart attitudes and intent intentions. And so, yeah, we're struggling with that, but um our salvation in Christ includes the the Holy Spirit residing within us And guiding us through that step. Now that those steps. Um The reality of that though is that as we recognize how simple our heart is, how simple our uh motives, intentions, desires are. And we're convinced, yeah, Lord, you're right. That is selfish, that's independent of you, that's wrong, it's sinful. That's humbling, right? And that's a good thing. But that process can be very hard because God is bringing out that dirty laundry to be dealt with And um it needs to be dealt with, but he does it in a way that's gracious Um he may turn up the heat a little bit if we're resistant. Because he doesn't give up, right? Um But it's all because he's working to make us more like Christ. And it's not just the outward actions It's those those you know people can quota fake a lot of those outward actions, and it's not coming from the heart. And so he's working at the heart level which will produce the fruit, that's obvious that this is coming from a r um restored heart, a transformed heart. And um Many times that process, you go through it, as you're going through it, it doesn't feel comfortable because yeah, there's some dirty laundry we're taking care of here. But you look back on it and you realize God is so good to save me, not just in my position in Christ, but also my experience in becoming like Christ. Can I just say it is it's not an easy task because we were born sinners. We weren't given the choice of before we were born. But God is always faithful. He never does anything and have never done anything And he does deal with the heart before he deal with anything else. And that's what he's going to be dealing with when judgment day comes So um when I was very young I used to think that oh I love God now everything will be candy and sweet but we still go through trials and tribulations But when we have God walking with us in the spirit, it's a lot more un intense ghostly. And his word is the guide. It's the guide to everything. I have read the Bible from the beginning to the end and everything in there deals whatever you have to go through. Just remember that. That's why I call that book the book of life. It has everything in it. People just like us. Yep. Amen. So uh Let's flip the page to forty-four, the last couple of verses in this section. James 4. 17, you might remember, therefore to one who knows the right thing to do and does not do it, to him it is sin. Okay, so this is speaking about the actions, which of course flow from the heart, but it it's revealed by the actions. What kind of sin category is this? Sin of omission. First John 3, 4. Everyone who practices sin also practices lawlessness, and sin is lawlessness. What kind of category of sin is that? Commission. Commission. Things that we do that are wrong as opposed to things we don't do that we should do, right? Now, um 1 Thessalonians 5. 19, it's not on your notes here, it maybe should be. 1 Thessalonians 5, 19 says, do not quench the Spirit. Don't quench the Holy Spirit. What's that describing? Would that be those sins of omission? Would that be I think like when we're quenching that's when we're Doing something but it might not have been that intentional, deliberate or not deliberate Premeditated. Okay. Okay. Yeah, so what do you do when you quench a thirst? Okay, you drink water, but what are you doing when you're quenching a thirst? Satisfying it Putting it out essentially. What about when you quench a fire? Putting it out. Putting it out, right? Um when you quench the Holy Spirit, what are you doing? Mm-hmm. Kind of pushing him out of the way. I want my way. Ignore him. He's leading us to do the right thing and we're we're saying uh hold on there, I'm in charge here, essentially, right? That's quenching. the spirit. He's prompting us to do the right thing, and um we don't do it. And that that's a good example of a sin of omission. Ephesians four thirty It says, don't grieve the Holy Spirit. What was that what category of sin is that? Commission. Commission. He's grieved because we've done what was wrong. Right? So we can quench the Holy Spirit, we can grieve the Holy Spirit. We shouldn't do either. Uh fortunately he's residing within each believer to uh acts very much like a conscience. Right? We all have a conscience. What does that conscience do? It uh you've heard of a guilty conscience. What's that? W when does that happen? You do something wrong and it's convicting you, right? That's the Holy Spirit does that. Conscience can also prompt us to do the right thing or to avoid something that we know is wrong. Right? I just don't have a clear conscience about that. I'm not going to do that. Right? Holy Spirit does that too. He prompts us to do the right thing. And if we quench him Beware of the results, right? And he does convict us of sin. And that's a lot of that sanctification process, that dirty laundry that he's exposing to us is conviction of sin at the heart level. And um that that um if we keep on quantity And then as a result that we can uh see the less people need to space Well, um there's a distinction. Um those who are actually saved and the Holy Spirit is living inside them, indwelling them. Can't commit the sin of blasphemy of the Holy Spirit. The spirit is within them, they're genuinely saved, their heart has been softened as opposed to its prior heartened condition. The blasphemy of the Holy Spirit is describing sort of an extreme characteristic of a hardened heart, an unbelieving heart, not a Christian. What I think you're talking about is if we if we persist in um uh quenching the spirit uh seeking our own way. I know better. Everybody else is doing it, you know, rationalizing whatever it is that causes us to do it anyway. Then he does what? He convicts us after the fact. You know that was wrong, right? And gently, initially Prompts us to recognize it, to to confess it, to uh forsake it. Um if we're resisting that old process in a sort of repeated Um he turns up the heat. Turns up the heat. He he um He doesn't rest until he accomplishes the sanctification that he set out to accomplish in our lives. He won't just let us go off into evil as believers. He inter he intervenes with as much um force, if you will, as necessary To make sure that his saved ones are um Becoming transformed into the image of Christ. So that work of sanctification is primarily a work of the Holy Spirit. And He doesn't give up on us. Um we may make it harder, so to speak, for him and make it more hard than for us. It gets more intense the longer we So if you're not interested in being sanctified, then ignorance If you're if you're not at all interested in being like Christ, being sanctified, it's a pretty good indication you're not saved. Yeah. It doesn't mean we won't have periods where we're resisting and we're selfish and well you're right, Lord. You know, and we're dealing with that because um we've got so much baggage even in our hearts But he's working on that. And he won't give up on us. That's good news. Um Remember in John uh ten, Jesus said that um And speaking to about his sheep, no one can snatch them out of my hand. And the Father who is greater than I, no one can snatch them out of the Father's hand It's not a question of how well we're hanging on to God. He's hanging on to us. Right? And he's committed to our uh sanctification or becoming more like Christ because that's better for us and it brings glory to him. Yeah, he's committed. Yeah. I get I get that the conscience is a good thing, but in some cases not. I remember that whole thing let your conscience But when the conscience is informed by worldly principles and not godly principles, then you're going down the wrong path That's exactly right. So God has given each person a conscience as part of his general revelation, that general revelation in the conscience is enough to Um convince everybody, at least at the outset, that there is a right and a wrong The specifics of what is right and wrong need to be taught in many cases. Some cases it doesn't need to be taught. You just inherently you realize that's wrong, no matter how young you are, right? But that conscience can be seared, it can be hardened by continued uh sin by the influence of worldly uh thinking and all those sort of things, um, to the point where someone is so hardened That um it literally takes an act of God to soften that heart and heart. And the conscience is uh scripture refers to it being hardened, seared, um, which is a pretty um what um It's seared, it's it's it's done for. Um So yeah, God created the conscience to be good, but like everything else, it can be corrupted, but it can also be built up. And that's the role that the parents have, Christian parents have a role to build up the conscience, the values in their children. And the place for that is in their heart, in their conscience. So, yeah. But the Holy Spirit is never corrupted And fortunately we've got the Holy Spirit as believers to work with our conscience, but uh uh in spite of it sometimes to accomplish what is really right. Yeah, good point. Okay. Let's go on to item number two here. Sin is believing a lie and doubting the truth of God. It is living pridefully rather than for the glory of God. It is living selfishly rather than as a reflection of God's love. It is loving, it is the loving of the things of the world rather than the things of God. So another way of thinking about the manifestations of sin. So you've got reproduced here in this first passage Exodus 20, which is the Ten Commandments. You know, God was very explicit about uh what is right. and what is wrong. But look at the second passage we have here in Romans 14. But he who doubts is condemned if he eats, because his eating is not from faith. And, and this is the point I want to make, whatever is not from faith is sin. So what is faith? Believing, good. Trusting. Trusting, good. Following God. Following God. They're all wrapped up together there. The way I like to think of faith is it's taking God at his word. If God said it, you know it's right. I'm not debating whether it's right or not. I may debate whether I want to obey it, but if God said it It must be right, it must be true, it must be good. Taking God at his word. So what did Abraham do? God told him to pick up your things and go from here to over to here to a land you've never been at. And what did Abraham do? He believed God. And he credited to him as righteousness. Later, God told Abraham, take your son Isaac, take him over to the mountains of Moriah. And sacrifice them there to me. How do you think Abraham what was going on in his head when he heard that? Are you kidding? But how did he respond? He obeyed. He obeyed? Because he took God at his word. And part of that word was prior to that, God said, You're going to have a son, you're going to call him Isaac, in your old age, and it's in Sarah's old age And all these blessings and promises I've already given you are going to be through Isaac, your son. And then later he says, sacrifice him. And so how do you put those two together? He stepped out believing, taking God at his word. And as Hebrews 11 says, Abraham was thinking, well How do you reconcile these two, God's promises through Isaac and sacrifice Isaac? Well, God is able even to raise Isaac from the dead to fulfill his other promise to me. Just take him at his word. Don't feel obligated to explain God's will, but take him at his word. That's faith. Right? Can I just say this? When I say there are so many things that relate to believing in the Bible, take Paul. I mean he was killing God's people And when God wanted to change that, he did. And from that moment on he walked with God. So it's it's there's a lot of people think that there is no room in God's kingdom for them But they have to want that change. They have to believe. They have to trust. Who wouldn't want a God that's capable of changing anything in your life? I mean it's nothing that he can't do. Nothing. And when you read that Bible you see all kinds of people in there That he had changed, that he had heart, that he had give them a new life. It's just Just read that Bible. If you don't understand, that's the throw right there. Well I think you put the I think you put your finger on it. You know, we don't necessarily have to understand it any more than Abraham understood how it was all gonna work out. But we take him at his word. Abraham had to know God before Genesis twelve. I mean faith comes from hearing God. Unless he has to know who God is, how does he have a faith also just because he hears God then, Who are you? Yeah, we don't know a lot about his life prior to God's first um announcement to him to leave from Ur of the Chaldees. Um but Given his response. He understood what he was hearing and I I'm pretty sure it was an audible voice. I mean when you hear Abraham You know, you who's talking to me. Either you're completely scared or it's confirming what's already in your heart that I'm created by a loving creator and now he's speaking to me? Okay, I'm gonna listen. So um yeah it'd be nice to know what kind of priority The relationship or understanding he had. Uh because he wasn't living in an area that was yeah, that was known for worshiping the true God. Um but by God's grace. Abraham took God at his word. And that's what we call faith. Now um Look at the next passage here, Hebrews 11, 6. And without faith it is impossible to please him, for he who comes to God must believe that he is, and that he is the rewarder of those who seek him. So if we don't take God at His Word, what are we doing? We're doubting. Right, we're disbelieving. But when we understand what God has said And it's clear what the implications are and whatever. We just take him at his word. Does that mean that it's a blind faith? What is a blind faith? Faith without really any knowledge at all, right? Um do you have faith that when you step on a airplane to go from BWI to somewhere else that it's going to take you there safely? Do you have f faith that that's going to happen? Well I pray every time I get on the same training. It's a good idea. It's a good idea. Because There's there's nothing sure except God, right? However, why do people get on planes? Do they understand aerodynamics? Probably not. So there's evidence that it does work. Maybe not all the time. But you know it reminds me um I got back to Baltimore after a trip years ago and the pilot you know how they often come on and say thanks for riding with us and everything he says um all that he says Now prepare yourself for the most dangerous part of your trip, the drive home. I can attest that understanding the aerodynamics doesn't help. It doesn't help either. But it would be a blind faith if it's something that just had no connection at all with empirical information, what you can see and and so on. But um When it comes to God's Word, we understand enough of God's character that He is good. All that he does is write. He's all powerful, all-knowing. That's a pretty easy God to take at his word. Right? If he was like us, it'd be a lot harder to take him at his word because we don't always live up to our word. Or we can't follow through or we forget or whatever, right? Um but the more we know God, the more readily we're going to take him at his word. So like at Abraham, right. No, otherwise otherwise it's of the landfate Yeah. So presumably he he knew something or there was enough in that interaction. What was recorded in Scripture might not have been the entire interaction that God had with him But um one way or another uh he had enough understanding about his creator who's now communicating with him that he took him at his word. Yeah. This aspect of being prideful kind of comes out in the sense of um You know, the idea that we're gonna have this faith in God requires a matter of humility, of understanding that I am made. And I think as sinners Yeah, we should have enough kids, of course. You know, they want to be God. We want to be God. We want to be the one in charge. In charge. And so it's a matter of humility to understand that hey I'm I'm created, I'm there's there's something greater than me that's right. I'm I'm accountable. Right, and I'm accountable for that. Exactly. Good. Yeah. Well regarding I mean regarding Abraham, I feel like faith comes from God. So I enough and everybody has already a general knowledge that God exists So I feel like it it doesn't necessarily have to be the case that um he he knew about God prior to God communicating to him. Uh I feel like because you know all of us were unbelievers And some of us maybe had no knowledge of the gospel prior to our to prior to God calling us. So it could be the same thing with with Abraham, you know. Yeah, possibly. Um but part of what's accomplished in the conscience that everybody has is an awareness not just of right and wrong But an awareness of looking at the um the rest of general revelation like all of creation And Romans 1 tells us we're without excuse because of all that testimony. The testimony in our heart, in our conscience, the testimony of all God has created, there must be a God I must be created. I'm not just um uh arising from you know, nothing. And the conscience would lead someone to put two and two together and realize I'm accountable to that God. And that's largely what Romans one's telling us. And yet their hearts were hardened to not worship him and and and so on. It's possible and and you look at look at uh civilizations that are very remote uh from um Any other religion, let alone Christianity, and they inherently have a religious kind of devotion Uh partly because that that conscience is it's uh making it clear that they're they're accountable, that the they're not in they're not in charge of all the things they see happening in in creation, the thunderstorms and the tidal waves and and and so on. Um yeah, all all all those phenomena that there's a creator out there that's bigger than they are and we must be accountable to him. That's that's kind of built into the conscience. Now apart from special revelation, they're likely to get some wrong conclusions, right? They start worshiping the creature rather than the creator. But um um Nonetheless, you're right. God says that faith comes from hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. So um the more we hear, read, understand what God is saying The more ability we have to take him at his word and it grows us in our faith. Just to add a little bit when they when God goes to Abraham, he in that moment he knew King God was presenting to him so he was not already something that he didn't know. Now he got he saw God or he understands the presence of God so that's already and God was spoken with him so So in that moment that was an encounter that made him knowledge about that and he was hearing that so of course very Yeah, you know, th there are lots of times when I know I would have preferred to have a lot more detail recorded in scripture about encounters like that and and so on, but um that's part of the The thing, even for us, there was a whole lot that's laid out for us in Scripture. A whole lot more than Uh particularly in Old Testament times, people understood. You know, we have the benefit of a lot more history, a lot more revelation. Um and God has revealed to us what He's chosen and what we need, even though our curiosity would say, nah, I'd like to know more. Um but it's it's a life of faith. We take God at his word proceed. Yeah. just sort of point out we're all talking about Abraham like he was a pagan who was living out in the middle of nowhere and knew nothing before God showed up. He was descended from Noah. He pro there was probably stuff passed down through the family that maybe nobody else is taking seriously and God like stirred up faith in Abraham said he did take that step seriously, but he wasn't starting from zero. Right. Right. He wasn't in a vacuum. He had a heritage. That's um when it says that it was counted to Ham as righteousness, that's not the first time God had dealt with uh Abraham. We had seen a few chapters before how God took And and there were incidents and all that. So he was very well acquainted with God and what God was doing in him and all that before it was accounted to him That's true. Yeah, he already had a track record, didn't he? Right. Yep. And he was Um you know it's interesting as you study the life of Abraham, we're getting off the topic here, but as you study the life of Abraham, you look through Genesis, there are some very high points of very much faith based responses taking God at His Word. But there are some times where he actually blew it, right? Big time. Yeah. Um and the whole Hagar thing, right? Um that's such an encouragement It is. And that's why it's there. Right? Yeah. So we're no better, right? Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Well anyway. Let's go to item number three. Wow. Sin is disobedience to the revealed will of God. It is lawlessness, breaking the commands of God. Romans 5. 13, the second one down here is particularly helpful until, and we're going to get to this again, until the law, that is the Old Testament law. Sin was in the world, but sin is not imputed when there is no law. So what does the law do with regard to sin? It it gets specific, right? So it it's like uh I was mentioning with a conscience, you have this general idea that there is right and wrong and maybe some obvious things That must be right and that must be wrong. But what does the law do? It gets more specific. Here's what God wants. Here's what is right Um and now you have a a basis for judging uh am I in line with that or not? Right? It's not as nebulous, it's specific. And so it reveals what is sin, what is not. And in fact, if the law and the whole sacrificial system and everything, if it did anything, it just drove home the point That sin is pervasive and it alienates us from God. God is holy in in ways that we just can't fathom. He's just so beyond sin. He's so pure Um and that sin needs to be dealt with in order to have any relationship with him. That's what the law was trying to communicate. Yeah, but they had conscience. They had general revelations. They had the example of Adam and Eve, who were, I believe, repentant Um so there and it's just like in Romans one, that um you know uh people go astray with our hearts hardened, but there's no excuse because they can see from the creation that there is a creator. And that they're accountable to him and they're going their own way nonetheless, there's just no excuse. And it was so evil that God chose to uh wipe them all out and start again. Partly as an illustration of his plan of salvation, his grace. And his sovereign choice, in this case choosing Noah and his family. Yeah. Also like following and more. Yeah. It may have gotten down to five, yeah. Yeah, it might have been five. He makes no mistakes, and that's how we This uh fourth verse here in James 210, whoever keeps the whole law yet stumbles in one point, he has become guilty of all Does that sound extreme? Why would that be true? Uh what kind of what do you mean by perfection? Holiness. Holiness. Yeah. Who's holiness? God's holiness, right? And so if God is for the sake of extreme a thousand percent pure, if there is such a thing And we are ninety-nine point nine percent pure. What happens? God can He will no longer be pure if He accepts us. Right? And God is pure. Any sin whatsoever will be or is a a violation of his character, his will, and stumbling on just one point has the same result as if you disobeyed every single thing Because it's about the absolute purity of God. Not the absolute corruptness of man, because we're in all sorts of stages, but um it doesn't take More than just one exception to holiness to be unholy, impure. And it all gets back to God's holiness. Okay. Original sin. Simple topic for fifteen minutes. Page 46. In Adam's sin of disobedience to the revealed will and word of God, which we call the fall. Man lost his innocence, incurred the penalty of spiritual and physical death, became subject to the wrath of God, and became inherently corrupt. So you've got recorded here for you the first 19 verses of Genesis where we see that how that unfolded, and we've gone over that before. But the point here is that all the sin we see in the world today had a common origin. in the historical account that's recorded for us here in Genesis three. And then, as was uh mentioned earlier, and by the time we get to Genesis six, the next passage here, uh This is just before the flood. Then the Lord saw the wickedness of man, was great on the earth, and that every intent of the thoughts of his heart, again, look at the heart was only evil continually. Man, that is strong. Only evil continually And apart from God's grace, that's exactly what would happen. In fact, it seems like we're headed that way more and more and more all the time, right? Um that's the nature of sin. And um it's just pervasive. In Psalm fifty-one we see the the prayer of David after he um sinned with Bathsheba and killing Uriah He admits that he sinned. He admits that ultimately it's a sin against God. Against thee and thee only I have sinned and done what is evil in your sight, so that you're justified when you speak and blameless when you judge. Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity, and in sin my mother conceived me. Now, he's not saying that it was sinful for his mother to conceive him. He's saying that my sin goes back to my conception. Um um and um I admit that I'm Corrupted to the core um as a um descendant of Adam. The point here is that he was sinful before he had any choice about anything Right, in the womb he was sinful. And um, Top of page 47, we go to Psalm 53. The fool has said in his heart, There is no God. They are corrupt. They have committed abominable injustice. There is no one who does good. God has looked down from heaven upon the sons of men to see if there is anyone who understands, who seeks after God. Every one of them has turned aside. Together they have become corrupt. There is no one who does good, not even one. And again, it's it's including those who stumble on only one little point, and those who stumble on every point, and everybody in between. I think most of us are in between. They're all unholy, all um ineligible for a relationship with God. Because he is pure. Now, Romans 5 is going to help us a lot here. Paul says, therefore, just as through one man sin entered into the world, who's that? Adam. And death through sin. So death is a consequence of sin. And God warned Adam about that. And the day that you eat of it, you shall surely die. Right? And so death spread to all men because all sinned. For until the loss, sin was in the world, but sin is not imputed where there is no law. Nevertheless, death reigned from Adam until Moses, even over those who had not sinned in the likeness of the offense of Adam, who is a type of him who was to come. A type. A foreshadowing of him who is to come, who is he referring to here? Jesus. So what's what's similar between Adam and Jesus? Similar. Why is Adam a type of Jesus? What? They're sinless to start with. They're sinless to start with. Okay? Um for two different reasons, but uh they're sinless to start with. Adam is a type of Of him who is to come, he's not a type of us because we were inherent inherently sinful from conception. That was not true of Adam. Right? But the free gift is not like the transgression, for if by the transgression of the one the many died, much more did the grace of God and the gifts by the grace of the one man, Jesus Christ, abound to the many. And the gift is not like that which came through the one who sinned, for on the one hand, the judgment arose from the one transgression, resulting in condemnation, but on the other hand, the free gift arose from many transgressions resulting in justification. For if by the transgression of the one death reigned through the one Much more those who receive the abundance of grace and the gift of righteousness. Notice that righteousness is a gift. It's given to us. Good works is given to us. The gift of righteousness will reign in life through the one, Jesus Christ. So then, as through one transgression there resulted in condemnation to all men Even so, through one act of righteousness of Christ, there resulted in justification of life to all men. For as through the one man's disobedience the many were made sinners, even so, through the obedience of the one, the many will be made righteous. And the law came in that the transgression might increase. But where sin increased, grace abounded all the more. That as sin reigned in death, even so grace might reign through righteousness to eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. So So the question, in fact, it's the question on your on your uh homework, is man a sinner because he sins, or does he sin because he's a sinner? We sin because we're sinners. I would suggest that they're both true. Nobody's off the hook. Even if someone doesn't believe in original sin, I don't think they can believe that they're sinless themselves. Um Judgment, if you look at Revelation 20 of the Great White Throne, judgment's going to be based on the deeds of the people. And nobody can claim Um that they're clean, that they're sinless. Um why are we not sinless? Well it's Because of original sin. But even if you don't believe in original sin, which is um clearly taught in scripture You can't get around the fact that we're all sinners because we sin. So both are true, I think. Yeah. I I I presume by the way um that wasn't true of Noah? Yeah, but yeah. But yeah, everybody else, right. Okay. So that's that's my question. But I mean that Noah was right. Exactly. That favor is the word for grace. So it's not like Noah was less exceptional? He he he was probably exceptional from a human perspective. He wasn't as corrupt and and so on as he could have been. But he wasn't sinless any more than we are. And it took God's grace to choose him and his family to repopulate the earth. obey him. Yes. And he these what God comes to Again taking God at his word. But for what and he was a testimony for the people Because he was for one hundred years building an earth, like a time was that destruction is coming. So but they don't believe in him and they didn't repent and so it's the opposite that we can in John when he goes to this town and he said destruction is coming and they repented. So we have these two examples, one didn't repent for 100 years, seen this man yet in this vote and they don't care and in the other side is these people that just journal says destruction is coming and all of them repented so that's everybody Right. Yep. Definitely. Yeah, um and Yeah. And but it doesn't mean that either one of them was sinless at all. Yeah. Right. Real quickly, number two, Adam's sin was transmitted to the entire human race because when he sinned, the whole human race was in Adam. Hence, every child of Adam is born into the world with a sinful nature, and even more technically, um Every child of Adam from conception, not just birth, there's nothing magic that happens at birth, really, is conceived into the world with a sinful nature Yeah. Um I think we read most of the verses here, but on page forty-eight I wanted to highlight again The verse 18 that's in bold here in Romans 5. So then, as through one transgression there resulted in condemnation to all men Even so, through one act of righteousness, there resulted in justification to all men. That doesn't mean that everybody is saved because of Christ's work. It means that it applied um uh widespread, just like the the death, the the sinful nature applied Widespread. Okay, wrap up, page 49. Therefore, man is now utterly incapable of choosing or doing what is acceptable to God apart from Divine grace. In this state, man is totally depraved. So we're going to talk more next week about total depravity. But the point here is not that man is as evil as he could be Rather, the total part of it is every part of our being is corrupted by sin, tainted by sin. Not just our hearts. It's primarily our heart, right? Um, but Our flesh is dying physically. I mean even the the creation around us is groaning because of our sin. Um but Think of our minds, even our ability to see the truth and understand it as truth That's fallen, our ability to do that. Our logic. Things that we just assume are rock solid Um everything about us is tainted by sin and uh needs to be redeemed. And that's that's what total depravity is. It's it's um it's not that we're as evil as we why aren't we as evil as we could be, or as evil as people were at the time of the flood God's grace. Yeah, God has a way of restraining evil and allowing evil to to meet his purposes, I guess. But we'll talk a bit more about that next week. But I wanted to f uh uh wrap up with Romans eight, six through eight. Um Here on page 49. For the mind set on the flesh is death, but the mind set on the spirit is life and peace, because the mind set on the flesh is hostile toward God. For it does not subject itself to the law of God, for it is not even able to do so. And those who are in the flesh cannot please God. It's not a matter of people choosing not to please God. They're incapable Of pleasing God. Incapable of subjecting themselves to the law of God. That's our sinful condition before Christ, before coming to Christ. Completely lost, helpless, hopeless, depraved. Um And with no again we're gonna deal with this more next week. With with no ability to get out of that condition. Or even to understand that condition that we're in. You've probably seen a lot of unsafe people who are just clueless, right? About things that are very fundamental And that's just a a a manifestation of um the depravity that comes from sin. Yeah, because of one person's sin, that's the condition everybody's in. And it has um maybe different manifestations in different people's lives and some are maybe more evil than others, but they all have this consistent problem of uh being tainted In every aspect of their being by sin. And um that's the bad news But there is good news. And we'll get there. Let's close.