So a couple things there, right? Alright, so he's telling the disciples, again, I'm about to leave you, but I'm going to give you a helper. But I tell you the truth, it is to your advantage that I go away. I I I had two bowls of ice cream last night. Not that that's a focal point, but you know, if we're doing a social event and I grab a Diet Coke, sometimes I'll get, hey, you don't drink, and and that's an opportunity, that's a window for me. Let me give you an example. And yet, what a neat opportunity to see the Holy Spirit at work there. How do we get illuminated? 2 Timothy 225. And you f you get filled up by what? No, don't like that very much. as far as drinking, I just I had no desire to drink any more alcohol. Like what you just said as an aspect and which since the spirit grows within us, then I think that it passes has to be So Alex, did you have a point? Through some prophets because they did not seek to know God. So we had the brothers that never even converted. That's what he wants to do. Your job is to share the word, but it's the work of the Holy Spirit. I feel like has has helped me, not that I've you know transformed in my family working, but I'm still working progress too. it's it's something that creates fear in a lot of people, you know, when there's a call that goes out, Hey, who wants to go hand out water bottles and evangelize and they're like, not me you know, but seeing it in a very real way That's what that means. I said that last time and we ended up taking the whole hour, so we'll see what happens. um about all the aspects of the Holy Spirit. It's pointing towards glorifying Christ. We're going to see today. What is the Holy Spirit doing? This passage in John 16, 7 through 11 has always puzzled me a little bit, but we'll get there. Do you remember one of the roles or aspects of the Holy Spirit we studied last week? And so it's easy to say what this is saying is simply that the Holy Spirit convicts people of sin. What does it mean to convict? So when we talk about convict here, it's laying out all of the evidence to say you are guilty. Though I did regret it, for I see that letter caused you sorrow, though only for a while. Lord, how can we do the Great Commission if the law if the world hates us? polling up in the cascular for seven years and nothing changed. It's a demonstration of the work of the Holy Spirit in us. you know, it didn't change our friendship as far as them accepting me. And it's sitting right here. It is the grace of God that sends the Spirit to convince man, there's that word, convince, of his desperate need of Christ. Yet he himself is examined by no one, for who has known the mind of the Lord that he will direct him, that we have the mind of Christ. Come into my house and stay. And he was saying, For this reason I have said to you that no one can come to me unless he has been granted him from the Father. It is only through the work of the Holy Spirit, through regeneration. Right, here's the evidence and here's the verdict. And rendered guilty. We saw that Jesus wa confronted the self-righteousness, the hypocrisy that was happening during his time, the religious leaders. So the Holy Spirit is going to continue that ministry of confronting the world's self-righteousness. So really the application question, and you guys have answered that very well, how should the necessity of the Holy Spirit's role in drawing someone to Christ affect your evangelism? A little bit of a twist on that, right? But what else? We know the basics though, and you need to understand the basics and be able to bring them to the Word. Scripture says, don't worry about what we're going to say, but the Holy Spirit will tell us what to say. true we gotta put it in front of preparation. Uh I I just realized his death on the cross and it was real and yeah. Right, to understand context and the meaning, the definition behind words in its original setting. I think when Christ is saying, do not worry what you will say because you cannot know the situation, you cannot read the individuals until understand yes Ms. And there needs to be um a confidence in the Lord, regardless of our um level of ability. The gospel message might be the very simplistic one that you had when you first started, right? So when when you get the answer to that, let me know. people are going through you may not know the people directly or have that connection to them to call them um but you know that they need help in in one way or another for example like my has tried even though they're unmarried, I don't know that they're safe or not. days and just really, you know, honing in on the fact that there's still something that can be can be done. driving I'm at work, I'm in the middle of something with my kids, but you can do it anytime. beginning it's it it's not being ashamed of that, but that is what has the power to say yes. what convicted us to kind of just your experience or it's a really great story that might motivate someone for a while, but like really just honing in on Right, and and that's a beautiful, wonderful story of the miraculous work of God in our life. Right, that might just be the Romans Road or something very simplistic, but have we have we trained ourselves to be quick with that, to be able to do that quickly? Yeah, yeah, that's that's a great point. You know, everyone was coming together with their gifts and talents to present this united evangelistic opportunity. The gospel message preached by Larry, and afterwards to see people individually sitting down and going through specific passages, right? And then dwell in Acts one and two. The elect. You can give them as much first aid, as much IV, as much fluids, and what's going to happen? God. Alright, so now we're on the other side of this as a believer. uh revelation, not revelation, but truce about some of the passages we're going to cover today. That's the focus today. Alright, if you will, let's uh go to item number one. that the Holy Spirit plays, which is really quite exciting. The Holy Spirit today is convicting the world of sin, of righteousness, and of judgment. And 16, but this idea of the Holy Spirit. Right, that's going to empower you. And it is through God's truth, God's revealed word. Right? When the helper, right, the Holy Spirit, comes, whom I shall send to you from the Father, that is the Spirit of truth, who proceeds from the Father. He will bear witness of me. So you have these elements of sin, righteousness, and judgment. in this verse and you can turn to your Bibles if you want. And righteousness and judgment, concerning sin because they do not believe in me, concerning righteousness because I go to the Father and you no longer behold me, and concerning judgment, because the ruler of the world has been judged. Well yeah, he convicts the unbeliever of sin. He's not trying. What did Jesus do in the sense of righteousness while during his time of ministry? So when we talk about sin, what he's convicting the unbeliever, trying to convince them of through evidence, is here's the measuring stick, right? Because I go to the Father and you no longer behold me. He did that time and time and time again. That that judgment system has already been proven false. So the Holy Spirit is confronting that worldly judgment or that standard against God's standard of judgment. So that's what the Holy Spirit is is convicting or convincing the unbeliever of. How am I going to do that, Jesus? The gospel message has to go out. that that he's demonstrating again that that that's our place. And so he's not demonstrating that, well, you know, you get saved and you just be on a better earth kind of place. There's this time that the world hated me. Right, that sorrow leads to death. without regret, leading to salvation. Let's skip Acts 2 and let's go to the bold, Romans 1. So what what is the um it's self-explanatory, but what's being done here? Right? Um these folks drink are um speaking in different tongues, which were really just separate languages, um the manifestation of what looked like flames Right? Google. Um but you need to know, like I think Peter says, uh be ready at all times to give an account for the whole day is in you. Or maybe some Timothy, like be uh a a good workman. better to be humble and say that instead of make something up and then be a negative you're you're actually doing more damage The reliance is totally on the Holy Spirit. a note in there and I'm sure I had the gospel message in there. I did. Um but to the point made earlier, that's that's the Holy Spirit's job. to his sinful condition and to the truth of the gospel. All right, and some very familiar passages. For who among men knows the depths of a man except the spirit of a man which is in him? Now we have received not the Spirit of the world, but the Spirit who is from God, so that we may know the depths graciously given to us by God, of which depths we also speak. We've talked a lot about this, but I'm I'm wondering if we can see if you can summarize the interpretation there. Right, because we know that's the only way you can be right before God. You will be judged against God's standard. And remember, the great commission was go out and make disciples. comforted to know that regardless of what we preach of in in faithfulness of course that it's the Holy Spirit that uh converts someone. It's kind of a self-focus. You're ready at all times. John John, can you do that there's there's another aspect where you have to be prepared like study to show yourself approved. um the verse that we just looked at is the Holy Spirit will bring to remembrance those things that we have learned and you know um you know so that For sure, the gospel is the gospel. Right. he says. you are in the situation and the Spirit will give you the wisdom in that moment to speak to that moment. or um all those things, like I take great comfort knowing that whatever I say mem you know, figured all this stuff out. something to be able to share gas home. knowledge. and knowledge and all that stuff. Different circumstances, prayer, preaching the word, um our life, tithing to other things, right? to do his work. All right, any other um does anyone want to share any other examples of just evangelistic um faith, repentance and forgiveness is actually a gift from God. It's encouragement to you because you can spend years and years telling the gospel to someone, but if the Holy Spirit does not awaken that person then it's just issues at all. It is a gift of God. an encouragement to us of how we can just simply talk to people whether we're out and about, we're out or you know, their family members, whatever you know, Christ died for me. done a good job of really doing that sharply and concisely. uh is knowing your gifts, knowing how he's gifted you. And uh you know, so uh hearing these things, like there's I don't know, thirty people in this class with thirty thirty different sets of gifts called in thirty different ways to ministers of the lost world. and seeking God to to open your eyes to your gifts and be dependent on how on that to the Spirit to use you in that And to be a part of that and witness to your point, you know, not everyone was this bold, you know, here's the gospel, let's sit down. Can I erase your writing? But what did we talk about today regarding the role of the Holy Spirit over here? So the helper, we know that the the helper, the Holy Spirit, the Spirit of Truth, is convicting them, right? to the believer. Where a person was an unbeliever and became a believer. And at that point, we have the indwelling of the Spirit. What do we need? And so to be filled is simply meaning you're making a choice to be controlled, to yield to the conviction of the Holy Spirit. And of course that's a battle all through our sanctification, right? Right, they had been with Jesus for three years basically, and now he's about to leave them. We see what happens with with the role of the Holy Spirit. Die on the cross, right? That is the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive because it does not behold him or know him, but you know him because he abides with you and will be in you. Primary in all of that is is Scripture, right? But everything that I've talked about, the promises that I've given you, I'm going to give you something else in my absence, the helper, the Holy Spirit, the comforter. But the helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things and bring to your remembrance all that I said to you. Conviction. podcast that I listened to from John MacArthur on this, and he talks about many of the prophets, even Jesus being a prosecutor You are being measured against the law and you are guilty. That's the evidence that the Holy Spirit is laying out when he convicts the unbeliever of sin. Right? Challenge them? He was the fulfillment of the law, right? Okay? So there is a judgment that we think is fair based on a a secular or worldview that is governed by Satan, right? It's the gospel message. That's why I go back to the spirit of truth. But to your point, yes, there will be a day when we do go be glorified, and we won't have to worry about that. Right? I'm going to pick it up in verse 8. Isn't he? For you were made sorrowful according to the will of God, in order that you might not suffer loss in anything through us. Through the gospel, right? And we will defend to the death, you know, the the uh exposition of God's work uh word from the pulpit, while we have growing disciple classes to teach the word, while we have a theology class, while we dig in deep. That's the Holy Spirit convicting. what I'm saying. I think it puts the burden on you to know what you're talking about. Um making up an answer is not the correct response. um evangelistic ministry. a sense in that what you just described a a um a requirement or or or for for us to be vulnerable so to speak for people to see Godwork and the Um the list goes on and on, right? And he was going through a a difficult time. awakening of that person, often a term we call regeneration, right? There is none who does good. And the path of peace have they not known. to see God in our sinful, degenerate state. is that the Holy Spirit is convincing, convicting the unbeliever, right, of their unbelief. And yet the only way for that person to become a believer is if the Holy Spirit regenerates their heart, transforms their heart. And they may come to their senses and escape from the snare of the devil, having been held captive by him to do his will. Alright, so it's the work of the Holy Spirit regenerating our lives. Not in words taught by human wisdom, but in those taught by the Spirit, combining spiritual depths with spiritual words. Or for they are foolishness to him, and he cannot understand them because they are spiritually examined. Whose heart the Lord opened to pay attention to the things spoken by Paul. No one is good before God. My my buddy that I just talked about, right? You know the gospel. It's very complex because you can uh like Paul like Paul when he was dragged before the authorities at times appealed to uh the No, I'm a I'm a a Greek citizen. to know what to say. Yeah. You're commanded to seek to know the Lord more. to to somewhere up here, don't lose sight of the im you know, the focus is the Holy Spirit, right? um by involving ourselves in the word, by involving ourselves in prayer, and involving ourselves in the ministry of the word and the gospel, sharing it, um, we are blessed. Yeah. Sharing the gospel with your children. um a good friend of my sister's recently her and her um significant other had a baby and the baby passed away at four months old. And then my other thought was just again on the simplicity of the gospel and sharing the gospel with people because even in the verse that we read at the beginning please look him up on YouTube. the the sciences, theologies and I have you know these highly intelligent coworkers that I'll have debates with, but that's not everyone's call. That same helper is given to us to do what? on what happens and what sequence. Right? Right? Right? But you can choose not to be controlled by the Holy Spirit. And you no longer behold me in concerning judgment because the ruler of this world has been judged. Men and women. And so he he knew me through all of that and um I was very blessed with with a core set of friends that even though I was transformed back up Christ and say, hey, hey brother, here's what Christ has done in my life. I have in my notes. Sin. Any thoughts on that? Seeds have been planted for which they may later become converted. s seek these things at death. the bare bones of the gospel, God would absolutely use that to save that person without any preparation and everything like that In such an important ministry as is uh sharing the gospel. The gift of repentance, the gift of faith and the gift of forgiveness. Um but kind of seeing that play that because I I personally had not seen that before even though I've been in church my whole life. It's just encouraging way you can just present the gospel to people because it's hard to do that. In cooperation with the Holy Spirit, right? So that's something other mistake helps us to do. No, I love that. And as we've talked about, to take the focus off of us and back on God. John fourteen. If you love me, you will keep my commandments. Good. There is no doubt an element of that in all this, right? Right? The Catholics apply, you know, works to salvation. And if you don't, the judgment is hell, is death. So my question to you is, in light of how we just described John 16, 7 through 11, how might this change our view of the Holy Spirit in our evangelism? But essentially like if you if you can't if you don't know uh if you're talking to somebody who's intelligent and can ask good questions and you don't have the answer Obviously we talked about the words of Scripture and then various circumstances of life. Um for them it might seem like foolishness. The poison of ass is under the lid, whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness, their feet are swift to shed blood, destruction, and misery are in their paths Even when we were dead in our transgressions, made us alive together with Christ. Absolutely. So that kind of confused me a little bit. That is sometimes most powerful. And and Lawrence to your point, you know, we know our our sanctification, it's a synergistic effect, right? The verse where Christ talks about do not worry what you will say, that is under persecution. the the knowledge that some of these men had being over Jewish territories and at other times when he was wrongly accused he said Um so so for me, I think like the temptation is to become um to lose confidence All right, any other Lawrence. To do what? Zealous, yeah, yeah. development for us to continue to keep the world so to help to free like you mentioned. All right, so we've covered uh basically six aspects of the Holy Spirit and at the end of the lesson, and again this might be a short one, so I might give you some time to get out and get some more coffee before uh the service starts, but And he, when he comes, will convict the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment, concerning sin, because they do not believe in me, and concerning righteousness, because I go to the Father Because you have not accepted Jesus Christ as your Savior. It's to make sure that God's truth is going out. The Holy Spirit is convicting him. And these passages are familiar, but let me start with um a definition that we often this um idea of the spirit Same type of theme, but we'll read that. I know that if someone, a brand new baby Christian, turned around to the person next to them and shared what they knew, which was To not be bold because I'm afraid I'm not prepared enough. aligned up with the truth of God's word, certainly. um examples of of things we're discussing here that might have played out. If they don't have that gift from God, yeah, because God knows his own, his own sheep. and regeneration. Right, being positionally placed into the body. Of all of these, which ones do we play a part of? Yeah, because it's really important because I I think we we grow up with this connotation that you know you have a cup and you get filled up. This often I learned after our small group, that always is also great with zeal in us. Right? It was the time of Pentecost. So we see all this and and Paul or Peter again being um the prosecutor says this in Acts 2 after after he gets up and he he explains what happening. Right? in which you formerly walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, of the spirit that is now working in the sons of disobedience. kind of uh lay out the evidence that you are guilty. And then judgment. We know total reliance on the Holy Spirit. Right? Dangerous in a sense. But to me I feel um the more I am focused on just this is not something that I can do no matter how much I study or learn because of how we studied and we're all prepared and you know, now I can share the gospel if I'm prepared. Where you can have confidence in your knowledge, but then the temptation of the flesh is also to be lazy. Uh one of the verses answered my question that I posed like a couple weeks ago or three weeks ago where I said what was the role of the Holy Spirit with respect to your Silly. Eight different aspects, but you can see how that all wraps together. If you have your Bibles, let's go to 2 Corinthians, this idea of a worldly sorrow That actually does the final work. Among them we too all formerly lived in the lust of our flesh, indulging the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature children of wrath even as the rest. Right. Right. it it drives me sort of wonder why why does God involve us in this at all? We talked about this last week. Again, laying out the evidence, rendering the verdict. Through our prayers, you know, praying for those our family, friends who are unbelievers. I I wrote that and and life goes on. I was going to pass to Alan's class more time. Yeah. Several weeks. Alright, so let's let's make sure we understand those. For good, the Holy Spirit, to those who believe. I don't know how many of you this passage has always puzzled me a little bit. And um it's a it's a um think of a lawyer who's doing a prosecution and he's trying to convince No, that's a great point, Glenn, because you know he he always gives the final hope, right, that there will be a day of glorification, you will be with me. Dead, dead, dead. Ephesians two. The the time can necessarily give us uh insight that we never heard before. I I love that Iowa because it it's, you know, how do we pray? And so just my prayer has been that, you know, God would, you know, make Himself known to them that, you know, He would call them, you know, to Himself and not say that they would be God. Revealing truth as we go through scripture. All right, let's jump over to chapter fifteen, verse twenty-six He came to prosecute through the truth. Does that make sense? So let me ask you guys something. Right. Be filled with the Holy Spirit. To quench that is simply not to yield. So we the Holy Spirit is convincing through evidence and rendering a final verdict. dealing with a chronic illness or uh the loss of life, the loss of a loved one, loss of a baby Now, all of that points us to the second item here. And we know that. What what is so critical in our evangelistic method? The gospel, the truth. Yeah. Regenerated, right? At some point their their heart is regenerated. That's what the truth does, to bear witness of Jesus Christ. Right? Again, let's go back to convict. I don't know all about all the fossils and I don't know all about all the stuff. It's a guarantee. Don't get drunk with wine. Is where we will start. Knowing the power is not of me. One of the things that the missionary said to me was that it helps me not to be discouraged because sometimes you are Yeah. Yeah. So when we talk about, and I'm going to kind of time phase it or maybe logically phase it is probably a better way to frame that. He's still convicting us. We need to be in the Word. Absolutely. He is convincing by laying out all the evidence to a final verdict. Yeah. Uh I I think in some ways there's a great blessing to be found in in that in in the act of prayer. We are filled with the Holy Spirit. And then we'll wrap it up with like I said kind of a pop quiz to bring all this together. We've talked about the helper. Concerning sin, because they do not believe in me. I have a buddy I went to high school with. Right. And I believe if and I'm I'm kind of speaking this anecdotally from my own experience, um, is because in those circumstances Right. Right? He's laying out the evidence. Ultimately, for what sin, though? Very similar, but to what you answered earlier. Convict. Let me close with this. He's going to be leading them. They have been indwelt with the Holy Spirit. Green. It all happens again that faith and repentance. He confronted their self-righteousness. But convict in the sense of laying out all the evidence, rendering the verdict, not making them feel sorrowful. Please. Good. Some some plant the seeds, some water, right? You know what it meant to you. Uh yeah, I if I just wanted to read the verse I referenced earlier from Second Timothy two fifteen and then I Be diligent to present yourself, approved to God, a worker who does not need to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth. Faith is also a supernatural gift of God. So let you know let's bring it close to home. But I think it's really encouraging to see him go out and speak to people and just present the gospel just very simply, very humbly and just always putting that forward and that basically New testament the Holy Spirit dwells in the elect. Yep. Yeah. And she prevailed upon us. So what I started doing is to ask for the Holy Spirit to speak for me, but ask that God please give us my You know, Christ died for you and being willing to share that with someone and being bold to share that with someone, even though it might seem silly to them. So that's the sense of the helper. This is monogistic. Sorry. How he do does that is the second part of that. And so it's a dependence on the spirit but also a preparation like Glenn was saying, you still have to know the word. So I think uh that's a great way to to kind of frame up um no w no matter where you're at in your walk, from the very basic element By going into the Word, by praying, and what happens? That's that nuance there, that difference? Again, Satan has already been judged. Yeah, Johnny, that's really important, right? So last week we talked a lot about the Holy Spirit in the believers' life. If you're leaving us, I'm going to send you a helper. Um that's a great point. There is not even one. And a woman named Lydia from the city of Tira, a seller of purple fabrics, a worshipper of God, was listening. Um how should the necessity of the Holy Spirit drawing? And don't be discouraged that you're not a theologian and know every you know doctrine to the end detail. Yeah. I when you say that, Alex, I think of the uh the hotel ministry, hope for the sojourner that we had a couple months ago Well in John fourteen seventeen the distinction between dwell wood and present him It's a pledge. But what kind of a spirit is it? So again, it describes the helper as the spirit of truth, and his goal is to bear witness of Jesus Christ. It's where we see this transition of the Holy Spirit act in a different way than he did in the Old Testament to the New Testament. You know, it's not what it means to you individually. Um I don't know if all that makes sense. And you need to, but there's no guarantee they're going to be believers. But the Holy Spirit is empowering that effort, right? Through the preaching of God's Word. That Bible is sitting right there. And they need a new heart. Hey Chris. That's what they need for conversion, to be born again. Don't be controlled by something else. Even the work that He's doing in us through sanctification, what's the focus? Um uh the aspect of Jesus leaving and sending the Holy Spirit and he explained kind of how how that works, I like the aspect also Excellent. You know, go back to the item one there, the second half of that. And that just boy, you know, that just really touched me because he never got rid of that. Uh as it is written, there is none righteous, not even one. We need to study. Because again we've talked about six aspects. But um I just think that there's a caution there and I I think that when we start to think about how we have to convince someone Um we've talked about eight aspects of the Holy Spirit the last several weeks. Um the context of what's going on here in John is that it's getting close to the time where where Jesus is gonna So go back to what is the role of the helper. That's the result of that. So good, that's what convicted me. And the culmination of all that is what? Yep. I don't want you to think of it as time thing. I should only have had one. He's laying out the evidence. That's a great point, Glad. It's been twenty, thirty plus years. We need to be in the word. Okay, we talk about an indwelling, good. And again, what we're trying to do is introduce this idea of what's going on with the role of the spirit. It's just one chapter over, John 16, 7 through 11. It's just a worldly sorrow. I feel like it would um help me to be bolder. We shouldn't be thinking that way. I don't even remember. Right? You guys talked about that and not ourselves. Yeah. What is the focus of the Holy Spirit? He he makes them feel guilty. And yet they didn't see it. So for her as a missionary, that is what is put in front of her. We are continually demonstrating through all aspects of our lives, but it really comes down ultimately to scripture. First Corinthians. That's you know back to Alex's point, you've got to be in the word so you know the word so that in season you're ready. But whatever I say that God is gonna use that and it's not because I um did all this studying and So it's so important that we have to ask for that gift. He's laying out the truth, even to the believers. Io, did you have a comment? We're just being obedient. Romans 3, 10 through 18. They had all the Bible, went on the Bible, you went to Bible school, but they still never give it And that happens what? We are placed into the church body. He is. Jesus is leaving. But guess what? Yeah. He was going through a divorce with his wife, not a believer. Heather, can you read that for me please? Can someone maybe try and summarize what does that word really mean in this case to convict? So regeneration. But the sorrow of the world produces death. That is truth as well. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. You know, that was part of the message here that he was telling them is the world hated me, the world's gonna hate you. We're going to grow in that, right? Um, and I know that you don't mean I I know you don't mean that you have to like be some PhD or Israel was had judgment coming on them specifically in To be controlled by the Holy Spirit. Again, we go back to the context of John fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, what was happening. If you have your Bibles, please open to John. That's why this is so important. Yep, against the standard, God's standard, and render a verdict. It doesn't talk about sins, it talks about sin. One second. So we are commanded, but there's also you need to be dependent on the work and the power of the Spirit and not be lofty in your What happens? Are we ever commanded to be indwelt? And he's trying to explain all this to them and he's trying to encourage them. Um I don't have to convince anybody. Good. There is no fear of God before their eyes. Righteousness, a right standing before God. It may be very simple. And also the aspect of timing. Alright. Right? Yeah. Yeah, we we had a really good discussion and I would encourage you to go back to listen to that take button I have believed Um let's finish let's finish the the passages here. Right, I was on fire and wanted to see my friends get saved. The one aspect, don't worry about it. Yeah. That's the wrestle we do in this world, unfortunately. Again, the context, remember what's happening here is Jesus is telling them, I'm about to leave you I'm going to send you a helper. And to be open to that kind of ridicule. We ended up going to college together. And something I behave but never actually came to me was the fact that Yeah, the passage if you cite it, John fourteen. All right, just gonna summarize what we've studied about the Holy Spirit the last Right? And what do you remember what that meant? I think it's wonderful to see all these aspects of how the Holy Spirit is working in our lives. And I'm getting this from some commentary, so I didn't get this all myself, right? They were very accepting of me. Now he is still not a believer. You will not try me this way. And I love that to be praying specifically for our children. What is the baptism of the Holy Spirit? This is all the work of the Holy Spirit. So Roman saw the legacy do not be split both in Greece in the year. It should be on page 73. And yet think about it, how much attention as you read scripture do you give to the Holy Spirit? Does that make sense? I just have to continue to be obedient. They need to be transformed. I I see those as actually working together. Sometimes our our reach maybe maybe we even hear about circumstances that are So that's a great point. And I only drew it wide because we have different elements in there. And if I go back again to item one, the Holy Spirit today is convicting the world of sin, of righteousness, and judgment. You can't do that as an unbeliever. He's illuminating. And that's going to be very important when we talk about evangelism. He's leaving. We're finishing up a uh a parenting class next week. Um maybe some opportunity to really talk about some application. It's a spirit of truth. And so that has been an opportunity through um being in the military and and even in my current job Their throat is an open grave, but their tongue they keep deceiving. Anyone get discouraged trying to evangelize a family member for years and years and years and years. But just, you know, it it hit close to me being a mom, you know, the fact that someone could just lose a baby like that. Alright? And I will ask the Father, and he will give you another helper, that he may be with you forever. And think about that's what the Holy Spirit is doing here. You are guilty. What is that? Acts 2 37. Fast forward, you know, a couple years ago I still kept in touch with with both of those guys, but one in particular But to us God revealed them through the Spirit. And I gotta I fall with his feet and believe in that. And uh or you know, whatever. That we will never be separated from Christ again. He's telling everyone. That's what's going to happen to the unbeliever. They were hypocrites. Again, the truth was preached, and it pierced their heart. To be filled again though is is choosing to yield to the Holy Spirit, to be controlled by the Holy Spirit. We're going to talk about two more today. The word, and we're gonna see that. I I'm I feel convicted. What should do or that community does not accept God yet, what should do is continue to do that, knowing that it's a polling school Being transparent, being available, um, and understanding that. And that's the truth at work, right? And in John 6, No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him, and I will raise him up on the last day And I think uh to to Lawrence's question Okay. At the point of conversion. And that's what brings him sorrow. For though I caused you sorrow by my letter, again, Corinthians is all about sanctifying the church. Glenn, did you have something for somebody over here? But that's in a sense that's what we're supposed to do and catch that aspect of not being By grace you have been saved. The Holy Spirit, the helper, has gone forward to do that on our behalf. And and Glenn, just a slight nuance. I mean we know you could use donkeys if you wanted to. Right? We're just being faithful, right? Left to himself, man does not seek God That's what's happening at the point of conversion. Be controlled by the Holy Spirit. So in regards to sin, it's again being measured against the law of God. But also I I wanted to just piggyback on the aspect of By God's great design and providence, we we are instruments that He uses as part of His creation, made in His image Miss Elise. So you can see the contrast there between the intent is not to produce a worldly sorrow, but a godly sorrow that leads to repentance. All right, if you go to your homework, page 75 And the second part of that, again, righteousness Is the gospel message. We begin our process of sanctification. So what did he do? And so you're always trying to be good enough. We need a sorrow that leads to repentance. It's the act of God in which he imparts new spiritual life. And we can be very specific to your point. Same with judgment. Right? Right? So that's the influence that's happening on the unbeliever. Alright, so let's go to our passage here on the top of page 73. For for if I do not go away, the helper shall not come. The gospel is going out, the preaching. If you turn over to the next page, top of page 74, just some supplemental notes. Just think of it as a logical sequence as we walk through this, right? On the surface, it can seem as simple as When she and her husband I'm sorry, and when she and her household had been baptized, she urged us, saying, If you had judged me to be faithful to the Lord That's all you need. And it's also being humble. The helper, the Holy Spirit, is going to come and do the same thing. It is basic sense. The Holy Spirit is validating that truth. He prepared a place for us. For I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek. Work is being done behind the scenes that you're not aware of. We quench the Spirit and then our glass gets, and that's not what it means. So I'm excited about that. What does this really mean? Right? And this is what he's going to do. And I know you knew that, but it is the truth found in Scripture. And it's a gift. And sealing. And the ultimate sin, because what does it say? And then what happens in uh Acts 2? That's what regeneration is. Can I have some? So I absolutely agree. But Io did you have a comment? But how often do we tie that to scripture where you can now walk somebody through your testimony but then bring them to the word They have faith and repentance, which is what? Same with the righteous now, righteousness. The world standard has already been judged. Yep. The indwelling. And it's what I'm trying to get at is we have a role, right, in trying to evangelize that person. Now when we talk about the order of salvation, we don't have time and it can be debated We are sealed for that time of glorification. They knew the law, but they didn't know the law. Romans 10. It is only through the work of the Holy Spirit that can regenerate. Still not saved. I'm kind of talking in circles, but No understand. Good. Nothing. Right? Does that make sense? I'm going to ask what Ms. You know, like if you don't know the truth to answer that question is Sure. So important. Um like uh in a personal example, like I I love diving deep into What else did we talk about today that has to happen to the unbelievers? Illuminating. He uses the lives and prayers of believers, the words of Scripture, and various circumstances of life of the believer, right, to convince unbelievers of the truth of the gospel. That's often our understanding of conviction, right? What did he do to the religious leaders concerning righteousness? But um I remember two of my my good buds in college, I gave them as I graduated, I gave them both a Bible. But you cause us to persevere, right? I am bringing this to Caesar, which are two very different approaches with very different consequences. You don't have to like make a special time to to have that impact. Yeah, I'm I might have missed this because I don't think I was here when we went through that lesson, but in being still are are we saying that that's like a choice because we play a role in it? Okay? They've been with him for three years, and he's telling them, I'm about to leave you Right? The righteousness, the standard, no one can be right. So this idea of regeneration, how might that impact our evangelism as well? I'm always afraid I don't know enough. Does that mean uh we have a cup and we're being filled up and then we lose it? Illumination. You will be judged based on a godly standard Alright? It's it's understanding the context of the moment. They were probably devastated, discouraged, hopeless maybe. Yeah. Right? By grace you have been faithful faith, and that love of yourself Um I like something you said, and I think you said it this way, but we we all have a testimony So I think that answered my question. What also happens, and I'll call this period right here, think of this as the point of conversion What also happens, the indwelling. This is the work that needs to happen. So really eight aspects, uh characteristics, if you will, roles You can read it, but you can't understand it. It's almost like the lawyer and judge combined. Even so, the depths of God no one knows except the spirit of God What must we have? And this is uh I'm pretty excited about it. But let's start in John 14, in verse 15. For though I cause you sorrow by my letter, I do not regret it Now when they heard this, they were pierced to the heart, and said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, Brethren, what shall we do? It is only through the imputation of Christ's righteousness on us. And to not seek after God. Okay? You shouldn't do that, of righteousness. For sure. He uses lives so our lives, how we demonstrate our behavior in front of our kids, our community at work When I have opportunity to share the gospel with him, I'll do that. It's knowing that it's the Holy Spirit that ultimately enlies someone. Lawrence. Sure. Right. So does that, real quick, does that make sense though? Jesus Christ. You will ultimately go to hell because you are not believing in Jesus Christ as your Savior. It's the Holy Spirit. We are demonstrating the standard. Alex, can you read that for me? Don't get discouraged Alright, we talked about the helper that is coming Right? The baptism. I feel guilty. I now rejoice, not that you were made sorrowful, but that you were made sorrowful to the point of repentance. We can do all this, the Holy Spirit convicts, but what has to happen? But even if they don't become converted at all, at least we were faithful to them. Yeah, good. He challenged their self-righteousness. And the second part of the item one up front, right, how is that done? Nothing has changed It's not too late and that my impact for them would just be to continue to pray as often as I think about the whether I'm And sealing. Um bent woman comes to serve a little, but because if we just create that um Now think about that. Mm-hmm. How did you just handle You know, I I personally We were roommates. Right? I mean like our testimony is great, but if it doesn't go back to the gospel But we will go over that. So there will be no excuse when the time of judgment comes. The standard is God's righteousness. Is that fair The Holy Spirit's work in the world. But that's really not what this is saying. It's a little bit different than just feeling guilty about their sin. So faith comes from hearing, and hearing by the Word of Christ. Uh I can't remember So I think that's just beautiful Right. All you need to do is just hey this is what it meant to me. It's saying, Lord, I don't understand this verse. It's the work of the Holy Spirit. Right? Sir. They must be regenerated for the work to happen. Okay. You know, I go back to how does the Holy Spirit convict Illumination. And concerning judgment, because the ruler of this world has been judged Sure. It's it's uh it's just wonderful. You don't ever lose the Holy Spirit. Am I good enough? Okay. So that should make us bolder that it's the Holy Spirit that's working in that person's life. The spirit will tell you what to do. Um I think what you're saying is you know you can share your testimony. I would say. To be baptized? College said. Um, but it was another opportunity in that time of crisis to to bring That's the Holy Spirit convicting him. And you were dead in your trespasses and sin. In that w as we study and so forth and we get to a certain situation Look, give them the faith. Unbelief. Jesus Christ, the author and perfecter of our faith. Sanctification. Can you see how if the Holy Spirit simply made us feel guilty for some sin So again, explain what John 16, 7 through 11 means when it says the Holy Spirit convicts the world of So in our preparation to engage the world Yeah please. And that's the confidence we have as we evangelize. Alright, and who does all that To conform us into the image of Jesus Christ. And that as he leaves, so shall we. And I said, I I really encourage you to get a Bible. And that's the work of the Holy Spirit. So all that is important in us growing in our understanding. Sure. You could just send out a sea of donkeys. You know, I yeah, I was just going to go back to item one again, all the different aspects of how he uses us, right? So um there are some people in families that they have parental pastors, like pastors That's not your job I'm sure you all have heard of um Ray Comfort in in his ministry and those that have So the Holy Spirit illuminating your mind, Lawrence. You're deciding to go after the lusts of the flesh. Better not perfect, but better. But until then, I send you a helper. There is none who understands, there is none who seeks for God. Um that's that's And it was sweet to see though Our ability to go and evangelize is all about the Holy Spirit doing his work to convict That's the hope that he gives No? And so um Good, thank you. And it can just be very simple faith Where the Holy Spirit is certainly plays a role in illuminating our mind Remember, the disciples at the time, they were given the great commission. I talked about the spirit of truth. Just keep praying. And um so I I just always pray even for my children, Father Lord, yeah. Like I said, just one other a different aspect I would think of being dependent on spirit is And everything that He does. He's a prosecutor. I'm gonna do the work. I don't have it in my hand, but He is saying that in the context of when you are dragged before the authorities is what I just think that there's a question there. So it's in the same way that repentance is granted by God, that Acts eleven eighteen and seven So what else happens? That's why the word has to go out and be preached. For the Spirit searches all things, even the depths of God. You know, there were some in the behind the scenes that were helping pass out food and others Yep. Okay, good estimate. So many of us are present or shy away from being zealous. We're going to actually start in fourteen Right? And concerning righteousness Right? Why does he want us to be involved? So I just want to maybe see if we can't summarize some of that to help put it in perspective So if you were It's not about just pleading to a jury. Lord, give them the gift. Wherever we're all What is the indwelling? There is assurance. Again, uh I think some meat This week is really a focus on what he does in the rest of the world, right? He uses the lives and prayers of believers, the words of Scripture, and various circumstances of life to Alright, let's jump over to verse 26, 14, 26. And I'm going to try to not talk as much today, so if I could have someone read that. That's what's happening here when we talk about I'm a pretty good person. What was happening in Acts 2? Are you there? Alright, so again, just re-emphasizing this theme of Not believing in Jesus Christ as your Savior. That nothing can separate us from the love of God. So what role or aspects of the Holy Spirit did we talk about there? I'm going to give you a little uh pop quiz if you will It's the gospel. Okay. A gift, as Io said. So starting in verse 15. All right, so keep that in mind. Um sometimes when we go out to evangelist But he who is spiritual examines all things Alright, we got two more aspects now. Does that make sense? And it's pretty succinct, right? Um there was a uh uh I came from a Catholic background, and I know when I was saved, uh for me personally one of the manifestations was um I don't have enough Parenting, right? And that's what the Holy Spirit is doing to convince the unbeliever For the sorrow that is according to the will of God produces a repentance However, I also And so I agree there's a there's a harmony that has to exist of Glenn? I my colleagues You won't find it. But if you look at that word, it is really a legal term Yes, Alex. And I got saved the summer before my last year in college. He didn't give it to Thrift. There is none who seeks for God, right? So um And even if you're up here That's how we often think of conviction He had to go away though An indwelling, and we talked about a baptism. Because we know it's the work of the Holy Spirit. But that gospel message is very simple. You do not have the premonition to know before time Yeah. So we all work together and use our gifts. I'll be honest with you, I'm getting ahead of myself. All I have to do is be So understanding truth is really important in our We keep working on it. You know, I think it That'd be my encouragement and to myself too. I'm not there either When it comes to sin, he's laid out all the evidence. So that's what's happening in John and we'll be in 14, 15 Here is the standard. But until then What shall we do? Good. But a natural man does not accept the depths of the Spirit of God So Now while the Holy Spirit is walking through us All done by the Holy Spirit. Right? And again, if you're leaving us, well how how can we handle that So perseverance, right? Right. You know, Lawrence, you talk about he dwells within. How all that fits together, those eight pieces of the Holy Spirit? Jesus was about to lead them. Does that make sense? He has all the evidence laid out. Police is going to do the rest. Yep. Sure. In the act of the ministry, the act of the graces that he's given us There's one more word I'm looking for If I go, I will send him to you Yeah. Born again. Um Alex and then we'll come over to Glenn. Holy Spirit was dwelling with I'm gonna be okay. Um So I love the fact that what we just discussed up in Item 1 in John 16 And no one can be right. Give them repentance. And what is sealing? To quench the Spirit simply means to make him sorrowful Good? It's the Holy Spirit that gives that illumination. Do you remember? Will he ever be saved? Right? You can spend years Think back to those six other items that we talked about, the Holy Spirit. But here he's saying, um you're gonna be with me and see I have to go and demonstrate that and Alright, 2 Corinthians 7. I need to study it more. You still have to be able to speak truth and speak it clearly to an audience that can understand If a person is dead The only command is right here to be filled. Um the further spirit and several We shall leave and be with him. Sorry, getting ahead of myself again. Until then, I keep praying. Yep. Then there's another aspect where Paul says, and I think Um kind of go along with this conversation He laid out all the evidence and rendered them guilty He is the prince of the air, he's the prince of this world. How is the spirit convicting the unbeliever Yeah. So good. Alright, come close. We saw all these manifestations of Our glass is always 100% full And it starts with our understanding of the word conviction You need Christ's imputation of his righteousness on you. Um But back to kind of the theme over here Um sinful that we are and and sure prone that we are, why does he want us to evolve? I love that. Even that is from God. So we're working our way this way. And yet This is what you're supposed to do. He says, no, I got a Bible. And that we don't have to it's not up to us to convert Then there's another aspect where you've got to study to show yourself So the helper is an encouragement to us as well, of course. And for all we know. Alright, so today we talked about the helper That's a a worldly sense of judgment, if you will. You are you are the prosecutor and the judge Right? Here's the law. Knowing that he's working through And you know, just to imagine how devastating that is for, you know, a couple that Good. Right? I don't know. Bottom line is this person is dead Encouragement and perseverance. And That's excellent. Why? So Paul's pretty direct. That's why we here at HBC have such a high view of Scripture. None. But God, being rich in mercy, because of his great love with which he loved us. Wouldn't that be something? That should be an incredible encouragement to us And that's why a good hermeneutic is so important. Um, when they were seemingly healthy and had no like Also, though You know, really putting that forward and just the last piece, one thing that I I don't know that I've Only the Spirit of God can awaken a spiritually dead person. We just talked about that. Right? Very little. He will convict the world concerning sin. That's in the Lord's hands. And you're like, nothing's working. That's beautiful. So I think that's a great point. And this all happens at the point of conversion. No. It's through man, through the preaching of the word. It is impossible That's what this is talking about when we talk about conviction. We need to simply continue to be obedient So with that, um we got a couple minutes. It's a command. All have turned aside. Right? That's really the what And if you don't do it, there will be judgment. And that happens at the point of justification. I think I agree. So we're starting over here and we're going to move our way this way. And why So we are commanded to And I think that Elise, did you have something? What is he doing? The evidence has all been laid out To unbelievers. Unbeliever, being convicted by the Holy Spirit. Go out and make disciples of the world. I still have the one you gave me That's when we receive That's a lot about the Holy Spirit They're not drunk No one pursues God That's the role we play. Glenn, would you mind reading that for me? Good Yes. Just give them that gift Um we can be Paul is a prosecutor. Good Yielding, be controlled by the Holy Spirit. And what it's saying is he's already been judged. You are guilty. I think the temptation goes both ways. Together they have become useless. What are your thoughts? An NASB with a That's not God's standard of judgment. Dan Like we can