Well, welcome to our seventh section as we're walking through the uh the various doctrines categories. Section seven is what we teach about salvation And um of course the theological term for the study of salvation is what? So curiology. Yeah. Again, based on the Greek word there. Um I forget if if I mentioned it here in a previous quarter or um but anyway it it deserves uh repetition even if I did and that is Um and you probably noticed this, that people generally, including us all too often, um Have this general concept of our relationship with God such that you know God is up here, we're here, and there is this separation between us. Um and most people in the world think, well, if I just do enough good, I can kind of jump up to where God is or he'll condescend and and be able to reach down and get me. But I I need to do what I can to be acceptable in his sight. Well the problem with that, well two problems with that, and we've actually covered what they are. The first problem is people have too low a view of God. They think he is here when really he is so far out of reach because of his holiness that it's a completely different story. Not only that, but people tend to have too high a view of themselves. And so we by God's standards and in his sight are way down here. And my hands are not far enough apart to illustrate just how big that gap is If an unbeliever were to actually comprehend those two things, what would be the first question that comes to his mind? Yeah. What's the solution to this? Is there any solution? It seems hopeless. And it needs to feel hopeless. Right? Most people don't feel hopeless because they're blinded. Right? Um We have the opportunity to explain that there is hope. There is a solution. Not something that we can even possibly do, but something that God has done. And that's our topic, salvation. Salvation from God's wrath. Right? Eternal punishment, separation from God forever. And of course we call um We call that message good news. Can you think of any better news? There's a solution. God has provided that solution and It doesn't depend on us. Man, that is fantastic news, right? So let's dig into this. And th that's why we studied in in depth the doctrine about God, gaining an appreciation of how he's so perfect, holy Separate from sin. And then we looked at man, right? And saw even though we're created in God's image, we are um Not like God created us. We are separate from Him. We're sinful. And that sin needs to be paid for. And so that brings us now to the solution: God's salvation. So I'm on page 61. And that first item there is that salvation is holy of God. That means everything about salvation It's God's work, God's initiative, God's provision. Holy of God. By grace, what is grace? Unmerited favor is a good summary of it. What's the difference between mercy and grace, by the way? Everybody hear the difference there? Mercy is not getting what we deserve. What do we deserve? Eternal separation from God. God's wrath. Grace is receiving from God what we don't deserve. Grace means gift. It's freely given. No strings attached. Not deserved, but no strings attached. It's grace, God's grace. On the basis of the redemption of Jesus Christ, the merit of his precious shed blood at Calvary, and not on the basis of human merit or works. of any kind or degree. So that's sort of an overview of what we're going to be talking about in more detail as we go along in the next few weeks. Holy of God, it's not Christ plus something else. Which is what uh cults would tell you, even if they point to Christ, they're thinking it's Christ plus something else. And that something else is typically what we would do. Right? If our works were necessary, there would have been no need for Christ to sacrifice on the cross. If it depended on us. The merit of his precious shed blood at Calvary, not on the basis of any human merit or works of any kind to agree. Let's look down to the second passage here in Acts sixteen thirty-one. And they said, believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, and you shall be saved, you and your household. So what work was required here on the part of people who were asking how thing they could be saved? Not a work, but rather faith, believe. Right? Paul writes uh two more verses down in Romans 3. We maintain that a man is justified by faith apart from works of the law We'll get into what justified means here as we go along. But in this context, just think of justified being just a synonym of saved. A man is saved. as um by faith apart from works of the law. Because again, if if works of the law or any kind of works were sufficient to gain us right standing before God, that's justification of right standing before God. Then there would be no need to send Christ. We could do it ourselves. And we could boast about it. Let's go down to the last one here, Galatians 2. 16. Nevertheless, knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law, but through faith in Christ Jesus, even we have believed in Christ, we, meaning particularly the Jews. have believed in Christ Jesus, that we may be justified by faith in Christ and not by the works of the law. Since by the works of the law shall no flesh be justified. Galatians is all about one question. It's actually a controversy that came up in the early church. And the question is, what do Gentiles need to do to be saved? And there was a group of people, Jews in the early church, Who made the rather uh logical assumption that Gentiles, non-Jews, had to become Jews in order to be Christians. Uh they're called Judaizers. Uh you have to become Jews first before you can in other words, you have to have Christ, but also what? The works of the law. And Paul just hit that question real directly, firmly, uh with no No ho no no holds barred as as they say. And um And so that's that's the whole book is is about that. Let's go to the next page. Our memory verse, Ephesians 2, 8 and 9. For by grace you have been saved through faith. That not of yourselves. It is a gift of God, not a result of works, that no one should boast. Because if we could be saved by our works We could boast about that. I was good enough for God. Right? And can anyone really say that? Well, one person could. Jesus. And that's the whole point. He became our substitute. Titus 3. He saved us not on the basis of deeds which we have done in righteousness But according to his mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewing by the Holy Spirit, whom he poured out upon us richly through Jesus Christ our Savior. So these are just a few of the passages in in the New Testament particularly that emphasize that Our salvation is a gift. It reflects God's grace, not our merit. Um and one way I like to put it is even though we might assume that God raids on the curve, Lord, you know I haven't I haven't killed anybody. I haven't um uh uh I I wouldn't no one would characterize me as evil, right Lord? Does that pass any muster with God No, because really anything we could conceivably have done that was right Doesn't in and of itself um change the fact that Everything else about us was um abhorrent to God In fact, Scripture says that even our our good deeds, even our righteousness is like filthy rags before God. It may seem right By our standards, but when it really boils down to it, even if we do so if we even if we do the right thing for the wrong reasons, that's evil in God's sight. Jesus said in the Sermon on the Mount that e if um unless your righteousness surpasses that of the Pharisees You'll not enter the kingdom of heaven. And I'm sure that floored his hearers because who could be more righteous? What is righteousness? Doing the right thing. Who could be more righteous than the Pharisees? And so that I'm I'm pretty sure he said it that way to get them to think that same question. How then can anyone be saved? Right? Because if those guys aren't making it, what hope is there for me What was Jesus getting at? You can be doing the right things for the wrong reasons. It's all superficial rather than from the heart. And so he told those Pharisees, you hypocrites, you'd like whitewashed tombs. You look good on the outside, but on the inside you're full of dead men's bones. And yes, you were obeying the law to by your own strength, pretty well, but it was meaningless to me, God would say. Because you're not doing it from the heart. Your heart is selfish, evil, sinful. It's all about you. You miss the point completely. And so Jesus said, unless your righteousness surpasses us, now is our righteousness able to surpass theirs? Not in our own strength. But as we'll we'll see here as we go along, the righteousness that God's looking at in our case is not our righteousness, our good works, but whose? Christ's Yeah. Okay. Let's go to section two. Salvation in Christ is complete. Forgiving all our sins, providing for the resurrection of our bodies, and restoring the restoring of the world to paradise. So first of all here, skip down to what, the fourth one, First Peter one. Could someone read that for me? First Peter one, three through five? Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who according to his great mercy has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. To obtain an inheritance which is imperishable and undefiled and will not fade away, reserved in heaven for you, who are protected by the power of God through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. Do you sense the finality of that? The sureness is that word? The surety of that? It's gonna happen. It's an inheritance reserved by God for us. It's a done deal. Right? All too often people think What's necessary in salvation is us to hang on to God with all our might. But in reality, God's hanging on to us. And no one can snatch us out of his hand, Jesus told us. It's a done deal. And it's it's a living hope. It's it's um it's all about our eternal destination that's secure, but it has implications even for now, very much so. Okay, having read that, let's go back to the second one here in Romans eight. Could someone read that one? Bob? Uh for I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that is to be revealed to us. For the anxious longing of the creation waits eagerly for the revealing of the suffering sons of God. For the creation was subjected to futility, not of its own will, but because of him who subjected it. In hope that the creation itself will be set free from its slavery, to corruption, into the freedom of the glory of the children of God. For we know that the whole creation groans and suffers the pains of childbirth together until now. And not only this, but also we ourselves, having the first fruits of the Spirit Even we ourselves grown within ourselves, waiting eagerly for our adoption as sons, the redemption of our body. For in hope we have been saved, but hope that is seen is not hope, for why does one also hope for what he sees. But if we hope for what we do not see with perseverance, we wait eagerly for it. So You can think of that as an illustration that even though uh at the moment we're we experience uh challenges um uh all sorts of uh trials and and so on, that doesn't diminish the certainty of our future that's secure in Christ And he's given us um some evidences of that, including the Holy Spirit Um but it's it's a done deal. Our future is secure. It's our salvation is complete. And um This might be a good time to introduce the three aspects of salvation. I mentioned earlier justification. Justified means to have right standing. We're justified before God. We have right standing before Him. It's a legal status. And that justification is something that he declares it's a one-time thing. It's not a process, it's a one-time thing. He declares that we're righteous. On what basis? the basis of Christ's righteousness offered in our place. So that's justification. Most people, when they think of salvation, that's what they're thinking about. Justifying, being right, having right standing with God. The second aspect of salvation is sanctification. Now the sanct there means what? Holy. Yeah. You think of like um uh sanctuary or inner sanctum, right? Um Sanctification has two different aspects. It also has, I mean, the first aspect is a one-time thing. We're going to talk about this in a few weeks So because we're in Christ, we are sanctified, we're holy, we're set apart for God. That's our position. That's positional sanctification. What we usually think of, and what Scripture is usually talking about when he uses the term sanctification is a process. the process of becoming more and more holy. I like to think of sanctification as being holyfication We're becoming more and more holy by God's work in us as believers so that our experience matches progressively matches up to our position. And because we have a position of being holy, every believer is a saint. The same root word. It means holy one. And the Holy Spirit takes up residence in us because our position in Christ is holy. Our experience gradually matches up to that, progressively, and that progressive sanctification is a process. that we'll talk about in more detail later. So there's sanctification. I'm sorry, uh justification, sanctification, and the third And this is what really comes up here. The third aspect of salvation is what? Glorification. Glorification, where we are we go to be with him in glory. That's when our experience matches up completely with our position in Christ, holy. And so you can think of those three aspects: justification being salvation from the penalty of sin. Sanctification, particularly progressive sanctification, is salvation from the power of sin over us. And glorification is salvation from the very presence of sin So salvation is complete. It's salvation from the penalty of sin, the power of sin over us, and salvation from even the presence of sin. That's the future that's being spoken of here. It's complete. And it's a done deal in Christ. Man, that's good news. Okay. Number three, bottom of page 62. Salvation is received as a gift. By personal repentance from sin and faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. That faith and repentance are really two sides of the same coin. If someone is genuinely repentant, he has saving faith. If someone has saving faith, he's genuinely repentant. There are just two sides to the same coin. And we'll talk about those in more detail in a future lesson. But uh could someone read that first one there in Luke twenty four? Okay, great. And he and he said to them, Thus it is written, that the Christ should suffer and rise again from the dead the third day, and that repentance for forgiveness of sin The sin should be proclaimed in his name to all the nations, beginning from Jerusalem. Um which is about Jesus' teaching of the disciples during those resurrection appearances. That's what this is, one of them. So what was Jesus emphasizing about the message? The message needs to include the necessity of repentance. Uh we're gonna have another section that's devoted entirely to um faith and repentance. But let me introduce it here by, well let me just ask, what does it mean to repent? Yeah, so it's a pretty simple picture. Uh it gives the the the uh kind of the picture of turning. The word repentance is metanoia in the Greek, which probably sounds like paranoia. Well the noia is about your mind. Paranoia is sort of being double-minded, coming alongside once, you know, parallel. Metanoia means a change of mind. So um what is the change of mind in view here? That in our hearts, in our minds Our attraction, our affection is not for sin anymore. That was we were all about sin. We're enslaved to sin But with a a changed mind, we're forsaking. So a good par in my in my vocabulary anyway, a good synonym for repent is forsake. You're forsaking you're and you're you're forsaking where does it start? In the heart. Right? It's not just an outward show of change. But it happens in the mind and the heart, which are uh synonymous in scripture. Um And so we've changed our our our affections, our devotion to sin, and replace that with what? A devotion, affection for Christ. And so that carries the connotation of turning. But literally it means a change of mind. That's where it starts. Okay. Jesus said that repentance for forgiveness of sins should be proclaimed in his name to all the nations. And so the apostles Did that. That was their marching orders. And then top of page sixty-three, John three thirty-six. He who believes in the Son has eternal life. But he who does not obey the Son of God The Son shall not see the life, but the wrath of God abides on him. So the default Position, condition is experiencing the wrath of God. And the only ones who don't experience the wrath of God are those who believe in the Son. And what I find here is interesting, you see it elsewhere as well, that um he says, he who believes in the sun will have eternal life. He says has. It's present. When does eternal life begin? The moment of salvation, right? Same thing in in 1 John 5. Do we have that here? I don't think so. John writes again. But the point here is that Yes, we do have an inheritance we long for. We saw that in some of the verses here. But our salvation, eternal life, begins at the moment of salvation. And um the Apostle John wrote in the first epistle of John, chapter five But the witness is this, that God has given us eternal life. We haven't earned it. God has given us eternal life, and this life is in His Son. He who has the Son has the life. That's what he's saying here. And he who does not have the Son of God does not have the life. These things I have written to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, in order that you may what? Know that you have eternal life Because it doesn't depend on our works. If it depended on our works, what would be the natural question? Have I done enough? Are they are they do they meet muster? The answer is always no. So if it depends on us, there can be no insurance. But because it doesn't depend on us, it depends wholly on the work of Christ, God's grace. We can know that we are saved. We can know that we have, not only will have, but have at the moment eternal life. In what sense do we have eternal life now? What are some of the evidences of our having eternal life from the moment of salvation? Yeah, God's working in us, right? He's bearing his fruit. We're going to be talking about this. The fruit that he bears is God's character. Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, gentleness, faithfulness, goodness, self-control. Right? He's bearing his own character quality, his own attributes, at least the ones he shares with mankind. With us. He's at work in us. That process of sanctification, becoming more and more holy, that's evidence of God working in us. Right? And that eternal life. Jesus actually defined what eternal life is in his high priestly prayer. Remember what he said? And this is eternal life. Do you remember? That they would know me. Knowing God personally is synonymous with eternal life. So we have the privilege of not just meeting our Maker when we die, but we meet Him here at the moment of salvation and we walk with Him. We grow in our knowledge of Him, the intimacy of that relationship with our Creator, that's eternal life. Life, true life, is fellowship with God. Eternal life, when does that start? At salvation. When does it end? It doesn't. It's eternal, right? Yeah. Good. Okay, let's go down to Acts 1730. Someone read that for me? Next to last one in this section. Therefore, having overlooked the times of ignorance, God is now declaring to men that all everware should be So God is declaring that everybody should repent, forsake sin, and replace that with adhering. To Christ. So everybody's doing that, right? No. Unfortunately, no. They're not. And so we're going to talk a bit here about what's involved in someone even being aware of the need to forsake sin. And turn, yeah. Or if I'm sorry, a Abraham, sorry. Um because it says all everywhere should repent versus like the line of Abraham. Oh yeah, yeah. So it's it's not just the Jews or the line of Abraham. It's for the whole world. In fact, even the promise to Abraham was that uh the whole world would be blessed through him. So this is kind of fulfilling that. Yeah. Yeah, good point. Okay, let's go to number four. There is salvation in no one besides Jesus Christ. All those who die without Christ die in their sins and without salvation. Sounds rather exclusive, doesn't it? It should sound exclusive because it is exclusive. God doesn't grade on the curve. There are no other ways to God. People would like to believe that. They think it's more comforting to think, well, there must be other options And I can get in through plan C or Plan Z. But that's a low view of God and a high view of man. It's exclusive but at the same time inclusive because anyone can be saved regardless of their ethnicity, of their socioeconomic, it's all tongues tribes Yeah, and not only does God not great on the curve, but there are people who would have, if greater than the curve, gotten Is there anything lower than an F minus? Um who Incomplete. Incomplete, yeah. Uh and not even present, right? Um It it's anybody. Yeah, by God's grace. Okay. Let's look at a couple of these passages I'm thinking you will be familiar to you. Skip down to John 14, 6. Jesus said to him in answering, um, I think it was Thomas, maybe? Philip maybe, who asked him, so where are you going? Show us the way. And Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father but through me. Does that sound exclusive? Yeah, it is. There's only one means of salvation. Why is there only one means of salvation? Yeah. So what is the problem? Our sin separating us from God. God is holy, he can't just sweep it under the rug. He's just, it has to be paid for. So either we pay for it, which is eternal damnation, or we get someone else to pay for it But I can't pay for your sins because I have my own to pay for. What's needed? Someone who does have who has no sin of his own. Who's qualified to be my substitute? How many of those have ever lived? Only one, Jesus Christ. Not only was he qualified, but he actually did it. Right? Yeah. And also if Jesus was man only and perfect, he could only do that for one other person, right? He had to be God, he had to be infinite, he had to be able to do it for And fortunately he did. Let's go to the next one here, the other memory verse, Acts 4. 12. Someone read that? Or recite it? And there is a salvation from no one else, for there is no other name under heaven as been given among men, by which we must be saved. And what is that name? Jesus Christ, indeed. Okay. Five, the purpose of salvation is to conform man to the image of Christ and unto the doing of good works. Obedience is what is expected of servants of Christ. So flip over to page 64. The first one at the top there. We read earlier, Ephesians 2, 8 and 9, for by grace you have been saved through faith, and that not of yourselves. It is a gift of God, not as a result of works that no one should boast But the very next verse is this, for we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works. So we're not saved by good works, but we're saved so that we would do good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them. So is God interested in good works? You bet. That's righteousness. But our righteousness is not the basis of our salvation. Righteousness is the result of our salvation, and even that is not our righteousness, it's the righteousness of Christ. So um and also Alan that they were prepared beforehand that he had in mind us to It it um this is not plan B or plan C. This is God's original intent. Yeah, that he uh about name of the Um some people who have never heard? Never heard, I think. Very well. Well Romans one describes them and it says they're without excuse. Because what God has given to each person Through general revelation, remember we talked about general revelation at the very beginning, that includes what? Everything we see that God has made. This couldn't have just happened. There must have been a creator. And if there's a creator, I need to be accountable to him, or I am accountable to him. But also, God's given us a conscience, helping us to understand that there's a difference between right and wrong. And our conscience, by God's grace, prompts us to do what is right and warns us against doing what's wrong. And if we end up doing what's wrong, what does it do? It convicts us that as a guilty conscience, right? Just on the basis of those two things. Just being able to observe God's creation and the inner workings of the conscience that He has given us, people know that they're accountable. To their creator. And yet, like Romans 1 says, they suppress the truth in unrighteousness. And um they're without excuse now Does that mean we don't have to go out and share the good news with people around the world? By no means. Yeah, we definitely need to be sharing the good news. Because God uses special revelation and news about Jesus Christ to um Draw people to himself and complete that salvation. Yeah. Okay. Uh top of page sixty-four, the next passage, Titus 2. 14. Who made himself for us that he might redeem us from every lawless deed? Yeah, so we're zealous for good deeds not as a requirement for salvation, but as a result of salvation Right? And let's go down to the last one. First John three, one through three. Someone wanna read that? Okay, Diane? See how great a love the Father has bestowed upon us that we should be called children of God. And such we are. For this reason the world does not know us because it did not know him. Beloved, now we are children of God, and it is now Not appeared yet or as yet, but we shall be. We know that when he appears we shall be like him, because we shall see him just as he is. And everyone who has this hope fixed on him purifies himself just as he is pure. Can you imagine what it's gonna be like to be just like Jesus? We should be like him. There's probably several um dimensions to that. But um Our experience is going to match up with our position. We're going to be like Christ, holy, completely separate from sin. And uh even our bodies will be glorified like Jesus' body was after the resurrection. Okay, number six. The believer's union with Christ is the cause of all other aspects of salvation. So um I think we can kind of highlight here these first couple of passages. John 15, Jesus said, I am the true vine, my father is the vine dresser, every branch in me. So he said, I am the vine, you are the branches, right? So any branch that's in Christ, that's the key term. Who is in Christ? Look at Romans 6, the next passage there. Or do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus Have been baptized into his death? Who has been baptized into Christ Jesus? Those who are saved. Those who are saved. Is that referring to water baptism? No. No. What's it referring to? Spiritual baptism whereby the Holy Spirit places us into Christ at the moment of salvation. Right. Um and We're new creatures, we are identified with Christ. That's the symbolism of of water baptism. It's a testimony that someone has been baptized spiritually and is making a public profession that is now identifying with the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. And um that water baptism doesn't save anyone, but it's it's a it's a testimony That I am in Christ. I've been baptized by the Holy Spirit into Christ, or as Some passages make reference here, particularly in First Corinthians, I think. Um but we've got that Next page. 1 Corinthians 12. 12 to 13. For even as the body is one, that is our physical body is one, it has many members, right? Arms, feet, legs. And all the members of the body, though they are many, are of one body, so also is Christ. For by one Spirit we were all baptized into one body. Into what body? The body of Christ, the church, whether Jews or Greeks, whether slaves or free, we were all made to drink of one spirit. Okay. Now look at the last several passages here. Ephesians 1. 3, blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ. And skip down to Ephesians 1:13. In him, this is referring to Christ, in him you also, after listening to the message of truth, the gospel of your salvation, having also believed, You were sealed in him, in Christ. Colossians 2 9. For in him All the fullness of deity dwells in bodily form, and in him you have been made complete. And he is the head over all. Colossians 3, 1 through 4. If then you have been raised up with Christ, keep seeking the things above where Christ is. And later it says, for you have died and your life is hidden with Christ. So we are in Christ, we are with Christ. We are in his body, the church. That's true of us if we're saved. We're placed into that body at the moment of salvation. And so all the benefits of that are because we're in Christ. And so when God looks at us, what does he see? The righteousness of Christ. So our sins have been transferred over to Christ on the cross, but it doesn't stop there. His righteousness, his good works are Um imputed to us, put on our account. Man, that's good news. Any questions so far? Okay. Yeah. I guess just hearing that like it it makes so much sense I think to us and why are there For example, like in Catholicism, why is there this belief that so much more has to be done? Like if we in general have the same scripture, why is like the interpretation so Yeah, the problem is um not a difference in interpretation of scripture. In terms of what the words are saying. I believe the fundamental difference is um Not taking scripture into account and putting something else in its place, like tradition. um the wisdom of and the words of men rather than the words of God. And so typically Um anybody here coming from a Catholic background? I'm Catholic. Yeah. So so um typically when someone in the Catholic Church uh actually reads the Bible and seeks to understand it, um they realize, whoa That's not really consistent, or or maybe I should say the things that I'm hearing, the the the experience, the the ceremonies, the rituals, the teaching that I've been exposed to Doesn't seem consistent with what I'm seeing in Scripture. So the problem isn't interpreting Scripture, the problem is whether or not it's even being used. Or if something else is put in a higher position. Uh like tradition or the precepts of men. How much does the the additional books, the apocrypha have to do with their belief system, the books that they use that we don't include in the Bible. Uh I never understood that exactly. I've never read them, so I don't know what's in them. Some but I think not crucial. So yeah. I had a very similar question. Um and it really didn't get answered until I really studied through she history and like how all that happens. And you know, from how the church the the the early church started, Catholicism grew out of it as like a source of government. Men started to use um the Bible as like an excuse to create a source of government and then they also limited it to where the common people couldn't even read it right so the word couldn't even be distributed so the early Catholic Church would use that as a way to gain power. And then you know, they wanted to then they became very you know very you very you see a um a parallel between the Pharisees and the Roman uh empire. You see that same you know parallel between the Catholic Catholic Church and the Soviet Empire itself in England um and and throughout the West Europe. And then whenever you you see Protestant in them start to grow From that with Martin Luther, Calvin, all of that, you see that being brought over to the States. And then if you studied American Christian history, it's absolutely fascinating. It tells you like where we got all of these extra uh denominations which really just went from lack of scripture to going on instead of you know looking at scripture going on well what do we feel is right very interesting stuff I guess it just seems like because you know, we all have access to I mean however many Bibles we could possibly gather, there's apps on our phones. I I guess it's just is it a matter of I don't know like laziness and and and not not laziness in the sense that, you know, you're just like lazy, but to your point of just tradition, like we Catholic, Christian, but whatever you wanna call it, like we could just read the Bible, right? It's not like anyone is not able to, doesn't have access to it. There's a limitation Like you could just pick it up and read it and discern it for yourself. But is it possible that I don't know within maybe Catholicism it's it's you know, what the Pope has to say or what the priest has to say is over maybe what the Word of God says and there's not as much of um I guess uh Encouragement to like read the Bible for yourself and know what it says. For sure. Yeah. Um And and that's interesting. You know, you you you you illustrate just how freely available scripture is for us in our own language. Um One of the um very consistent results of the Reformation uh was a realization that the common people need to have the scriptures in their own language. So they can just read it for themselves. And a lot of people lost their lives just in the translation of it into the common language. Sorry. Tyndale. Tyndale was one, yeah. Um but there were just common people who would be um Teaching the scripture and doing their own translation, who and there were laws against that And it gets back to the power thing that Lauren was talking about. But we take for granted that we have the scriptures in our own language today. And so again, what excuse do we have? But on top of that, like scripture teaches that we need the Holy Spirit to help us understand these scriptures. So even though the scriptures are available, people who are blind and who have not been saved, this book is considered foolish It's considered like a fairy tale. You're actually considered uneducated if you believe that scripture is true and actually sufficiency of scripture is still a doctrinal um fun like fundamental doctrine That most people still don't agree with. There's like partial sufficiency where like, oh yeah, the original copies or the original manuscripts were were sufficient, you know, were But these there's so many iner like there's there's the inerrancy and the sufficiency is still under attack. So it's very interesting that yes, people could sit down and read it, but if you do not have the holy spirit And you are not one of God, you cannot understand what scripture is talking about. Exactly. Yeah. Good points. Um Okay, so where we're at here is that Our position before God is that we are in Christ. That's how we're characterized. We're in him. We have been placed into Christ, into the body of Christ. the church um at the moment of salvation. And um that changes everything. Yeah. Okay, so we've got a couple of minutes here on page sixty-six. Um I may have Actually, I think Christopher may also have mentioned this, that um when it really comes down to it, salvation is by works. That's not heresy. The distinction is it's by the works of Christ, not by our works. And so here when when you look in scripture of various places where God reveals what's going to happen in the final judgment, on what basis are people judged? Based on their works. And if they're depending on their own works, guess what happens? What's the judgment? Eternal separation from God, right? Um But Jesus Christ is the only one whose righteous life, his good works, pleases the Father. He was sinless. Everything he did was right, pleasing to the Father. This is my beloved son with whom I am well pleased. And I love this. Listen to him. Right? Second Peter one one, next to last at the bottom there. Peter opens his letter. Peter, a bondservant of the apostle Jesus Christ and of the Apostle of Jesus Christ, to those who have received a faith of the same kind as ours Notice that they received the faith, right? They didn't generate it themselves. They received the faith the same as ours by the righteousness of our God and Savior, Jesus Christ. And Jesus in 1 John 2, 1, is referred to as our advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ. the righteous. Why is it important that Jesus is righteous as an advocate? He doesn't have his own sins to to disqualify him for standing as an intermediary, an advocate for us before the Father. What is Jesus' advocacy for us? He's one of mine. Right. Um So the good news here, uh number three Jesus' righteousness is imputed, that is, it's put on our account, imputed to each believer, and the believer's sin is imputed to Christ. So it's not just our sins being placed on him in our place, but his righteousness, his good works, his right standing before the Father It's placed on our account. So when God looks at us, what does he see? He sees the righteousness of Christ. Um and the beauty of that is that that doesn't undermine his justice because his justice and his wrath have been fully satisfied in Christ. It doesn't compromise his holiness because our sins have been paid for. Now we have right standing with him without any sin to our account. Does that mean we don't sin at all? No. It means that um we're becoming w we're not sinless, but we're sinning less and less as he makes us more like Christ. Uh and one day we'll actually be free from the presence of sin. And then, number four, God enables the believer to do good works of righteousness through the enabling of the Holy Spirit. Not as a prerequisite for salvation, but as the fruit of genuine salvation. So he's saved us, as we've seen, he saved us four good works that he prepared beforehand. Right. Matthew 5, 16. Jesus said, Let your light shine before men in such a way that they may see your good works. And glorify your Father who is in heaven. Wouldn't that be great? People could look at us, they could see Our righteousness and realize that's a work of God And that they would glorify God because of what He's doing through us. The very first passage at the bottom of page 66 Jesus' righteousness imputed to each of us. Philippians three. Now this is where Paul is is saying um You know, notwithstanding my all my credentials in in Judaism, you know, Pharisee of Pharisees, the tribe of Benjamin, and so on. But he says, more than that, I count all things to be lost in view of the surpassing value of knowing Christ Jesus, my Lord. For whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and count them but rubbish, so that I may gain Christ, and may be found in him. Not having a righteousness of my own derived from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which comes from God on the basis of faith. So the righteousness doesn't come from my heart, my motives, my good intentions. My righteousness comes From Christ. The righteousness which comes from God on the basis of faith. Um The last passage in that and top of page sixty-seven. Second Corinthians five twenty-one He made him who knew no sin to be sin on our behalf. Familiar verse, right? But how does it end? So that we might become the righteousness of God in him. Where does that righteousness come from? From God. The account of Christ is put on our account. Man, that's good news. So if someone tells you um, Something to the extent of salvation is by works. You say, well, technically, there is a sense in which salvation is by works, but I got good news for you. It's not our works, it's God's work. Let me tell you about it. I think one of the hard things when we were living in Utah and we were um we had some Mormon friends was they believed that their self- salvation was in Christ. But then they added to it. Yeah, it's Christ plus a ton of things that they added to it. Right. Um so they agreed with everything we were saying and of course they We have um a lot of different definitions for the same word. Um but I think to me like that's something difficult in um speaking to someone who has knowledge of the Bible and maybe has some background where they would agree with everything I'm saying, but they have added you have to do this and this and this and this and this. And it to them, yes, they agree, but there's more. So I think that's sometimes the greater challenge is to to um help them to see that this extra stuff isn't needed and that's where they fear that they've lost their salvation because they didn't do the extra Yes, the initial part, but then they didn't do enough out of that. Right. Um it's another example, um, and there are others of Um substituting other teaching for the scriptures. Not thinking that that's what they're doing, but if you read the scriptures what God has actually revealed, um you find that this other teaching is inconsistent with it. So which do you believe And you we were bringing up the Reformation and I think that that's something that Martin Luther was trying to do. He wasn't trying to like take over the Catholic Church and get away from it. Right. Right. So what it really reflects is the human perception of that Christ's death and resurrection wasn't enough. Right. And you know, on the surface level it doesn't look like that, but if you really dig into what these teachings are saying is that, well yeah, Jesus saved you, but it wasn't enough. You know, if God what God does is not sufficient, so you have to, you know, close that business. But as we've been seeing, um it doesn't take long reading the New Testament to realize that its clear teaching is that the sacrifice of Christ It was not only necessary, it was sufficient. You can't add to it. Well Yeah, once for all. Exactly. Yeah. Let's close a prayer.