So welcome to Theology One. Maybe we should call it 101, right? Um All right, well, as you may have already seen in the little intro to the class. Uh this is part one of what will end up being a four part series where we are going through uh All of our doctrinal statements, the detailed doctrinal statement, plus some supplementary material in each of the topics as we go through. And the focus is not just understanding what the Bible teaches in these various areas, but the focus is on, okay, what does this mean to me? What do I do about it? How do I apply these topics? And we'll introduce that a bit here today. So we call this theology. What is theology? The study of God. Theos is the Greek word for God. And so anytime we study God, we're talking about theology. Now we tend to use that word more broadly to speak of all doctrine, you know, theological concepts, right? uh the truth about God, what he has revealed, and we're gonna look at that in ten different categories uh over the course of um the next year. And yet the word theology technically, we call it theology proper, is what we teach about God, because that's what the word means, even though we generally apply it to all doctrine. See what I mean? So when you hear the word theology proper, now we're talking specifically about what by what the Bible teaches about God. Okay? But we call the entire class theology, and it would be theology one, theology two, and and so on. Okay, so if you look at the table of contents, we're going to cover two of those ten categories this quarter. One of them is bibliology. What do you suppose that means? Scripture. What what what the Bible teaches about itself, about scripture, the Bible. And then we'll spend the greater part of our time in the second topic, which is what we teach about God, theology proper. Okay? So let me ask you a question. Why would you sign up for a class like this? I suppose there are several Uh answers to that. Maybe curiosity, um wanting to dig deeper Um what do you all think? What what were some of the motives you had for signing up for a class like this? Okay, so a hunger for understanding Uh scripture, God and so on, correct? Yeah, just um I find that every time I dig into the basics again, the the main facts and uh truth In scripture, it grounds me and it makes I just feel like I can go to a deeper level in each of those areas and understand it better every time I go through it and it just Um like I just it grounds me. It just makes me feel really solid and I feel more confident in the Lord and I know him better. And And you know, that summarizes why God gave us the Bible. Right. He didn't give it to us just to um uh fill our minds with information. He filled it or he gave it to us to yes, to inform us. But also to change us. And the the idea, God's intent, is that we would uh understand his word in such a way that we would worship him properly, we would uh obey him faithfully, uh trust him, and so on. And so uh Um there's lots of very practical you know, a lot of times people think of theology, oh that's try, that's theoretical and and whatever, but no, God intended his word To change us, to make us more like him. And the more we understand what he's communicating to us, the better we'll be able to apply it. in all facets of our of our lives. Very good. Any other reasons for taking the class? I was expecting Corinne to say that because it's her husband was teaching some of it. Well that doesn't influence her at all. That doesn't influence her at all. Okay. So Christopher is is going to be teaching some of the lessons, so we're going to be team teaching it and um uh that'll be fun. Any other Yeah, for me it's a refresher. A refresher? Okay. It's easy that things to get dusty and cobwebs in there and uh okay, good. Good. Well, turn to page five. And beginning our first actual lesson is going to be next week. But I wanted to give us some orientation today. And beginning on page five is an overview That was primarily written by Pastor Leith, our founding pastor And it's helpful to get the big picture perspective on the value of a class like this by going through this. So I wanted to read through significant parts of this just to make it real and practical, and then have some conversation. About it. So beginning on page five, this preamble to our doctrinal statement, God values truth That statement should need little defense. Jesus, in his high-priestly prayer to the Father, petitioned the Father to sanctify them, that is, his disciples and ultimately us. In truth. Sanctify them in truth. Thy word is truth, he said. The Lord understood the absolute necessity of truth and requested the Father to use truth to set apart his disciples for the purpose of bringing him glory. Christian leaders are commanded to, by God, to speak the things that are fitting for sound doctrine. And the careful attention to biblical detail in this doctrinal statement is presented to our local church with joy and great anticipation. The Apostle John wrote, I have no greater joy than this, than to hear of my children walking in the truth. In the statement of faith is created uh the statement is created to be a guide of what we teach at Hope Bible Church. It represents the consensus of opinion and conviction of the elders of the church concerning what the scriptures teach. It is provided for the general instruction, unity, and guidance of our people Concerning those articles of faith taught in the scriptures. It is not expected that one must agree with the entire statement of faith before becoming a member of the church. Only the basic doctrines that we list later are necessary for membership, and the full explanation and the scriptural basis for which are found In the entire class. Rather, the detailed statement is a challenge to each member to search the scriptures and see if these things are true. The the upshot one of the upshots of that is to recognize that Any doctrinal statement is man's summary, hopefully, of what the Bible says. The summary is not what's inspired. It's God's word that is inspired and without error and is truth. Uh but it is helpful to categorize topics and uh teachings and summarize them in a way that people can can get the big picture better. Um and so that's that's the point here. Good stuff. What's the page six So Pastor Lee put together a bit of uh analysis of many of the trends in the modern church. Of course when he wrote it, it was uh over twenty-six years ago. But anyway, sound doctrine is the basis for Christian living, and that's one of the reasons we call this applying the great doctrines of the Bible And so as we read earlier, the Apostle John wrote, I have no greater joy than this, to hear my children walking in the truth. We live in a day and a time when truth, especially theological truth Is unpopular and often maligned. Rather than rejoicing in the truth, today's pseudo-love wants to avoid, reject, or minimize truth. Paul also reminded us that love rejoices with the truth. Historically, Protestant churches were diligent in their explanation and defense of scriptural truth. Their statements of faith were lengthy and detailed. And such is not the case in churches today, more often than not. Since churches in the past valued the words of God and their meaning. They sought to include truth rather than exclude it in their summaries. They required the congregation to think the thoughts of God after him. And to be molded by the truths of Scripture. The Bible teaches us to guard through the Holy Spirit who dwells in us. the treasure that's been entrusted to you. 2 Timothy 1. To contend earnestly for the faith which was once delivered for all the saints, Jude 3 and to instruct certain men not to teach strange doctrines. 1 Timothy 1. Valuing truth requires carefully explaining it and defending it. This study should help you to explain and defend the deposit of truth entrusted to the Church. By itself, a statement of faith is insufficient to this task, but without one, it becomes more difficult for the church to be the pillar in support of the truth, which is what the church is called in 1 Timothy 3. All who desire to draw near to God and to worship Him through Christ should learn to love God with all their mind by studying His great word. This book of the law shall not depart from your mouth, but you shall meditate on it day and night, so that you may be careful to do according to all that is written in it. For then you will make your way prosperous, and then you will have success. That was God's word to Joshua. And then in Philippians we read, Finally, brethren, whatever is true, let your mind dwell on these things. When most Christians seek a closer walk with God, more victory over sin. And answers to their counseling problems, many have forgotten that all these are dependent upon sound Christian theology. Without thinking rightly about God, His Word, salvation, man, the church The minds and hearts of Christians will never become satisfied. There is no substitute for sound theology in the spiritual growth of Christians. This is one reason the church devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching in the very early church. Detail and precision in theology leads to obedience and victory in Christian living sloppiness and foggy thinking about God, man, sin, and salvation results in Christians who are easily led into temptation and easily misled in their decision making. So it's the whole point is it's practical. It's um it's to be applied, not just to uh think in our heads about what is right and what is wrong, it has moral consequences by God's design. That's why he revealed his truth to us. Through our Christian bookstores, or though our Christian bookstores are filled with Bible study tools and books on virtually every topic, the church is more ignorant of the Bible than it was a generation ago How can this be? Preachers, Sunday school teachers, radio preachers, and authors are flooding our ears with messages. The problem is, isn't that we lack teaching? The problem is that we lack the right content to what we are being taught. If Christians were tuned into the right doctrine and to knowing their Bible well, most of those books and radio messages would become obsolete. Our distraction away from doctrine and careful Bible study has hurt our faith weakened the work of the Holy Spirit in our lives and kept our minds from becoming renewed The result is a weak and worldly Christianity in the mindset or in the midst of lots of religious activity and messages. We have not heeded the apostles' teaching in Ephesians 4, where he wrote, be renewed in the spirit of your mind. And put on the new self, which in the likeness of God has been created in righteousness and holiness of the truth. So if any of you n notice that, um maybe you've been in um various churches over the last so many years. Um That there is sort of a de emphasis of of uh sound doctrine. Um Um w we don't claim to have um uh the inside track on on uh sound doctrine. Uh we stand on the shoulders of many people over the years who have been faithful in studying the scripture and teaching it properly and and we're the beneficiaries of that. But um that needs to be guarded because unless it's guarded it will fall away and in will come lots of error And uh there was lots of error even in the early church, and what preserved sound doctrine was an adherence to the word. And we need that in every generation. Any questions so far? So when he says, I have no greater joy than my children be walking in the truth The answer is really both. Um it's Jesus of course is the way, the truth, and the life, um, but it's also speaking generally about what is true. Yeah. Um uh what is true about Christ, what is true about scripture, all of doctrine. Yeah. Okay. The church's mission and methods of ministry flow out of biblical theology. Now you you may have uh heard us speak of our philosophy of ministry. Um we didn't just make this up. It comes from Scripture. What are we told in Scripture about the ways we should conduct ourselves as a church? And so ministry, uh approaches to ministry, um uh philosophy of ministry needs to be grounded in Scripture because that's one of the reasons God gave us Scripture And he was very explicit about many of these things. Now that doesn't mean that the um The detailed methods have to be all the same in every church, but the underlying philosophy, the the approach, the goals, should be grounded in Scripture. Yeah. So um the church's mission and methods of ministry flow out of biblical theology. It's no secret that the modern church in America Does not have a common widespread approach to ministry. Great differences of opinion exist about what to emphasize in various ministries of the church, including Worship, evangelism, missions, fellowship, discipleship, counseling, and preaching, just to name a few This vast confusion is the result of a departure from a carefully formed theology. Pragmatic thinkers in the church try to solve how to do church While bypassing the struggle to understand sound theology. The result is a man-centered approach to ministry rather than a God-centered and biblically driven. ministry. Um some pastors, churches um tend to think the way to operate a church is like you would a business. And um that has no biblical basis. Now there may be some interesting principles that may have applicability, but if they violate scriptural principles, guess what? What what rules scripture? Right. Most notable is the incredible emphasis in the church today on entertainment. Where does that come from? It's it's it's out there in the world. We're bombarded. With an entertainment mindset everywhere, right? And so it's often been brought into the church. God is thought to be honored when man is happy. So people approach church as what's in it for me rather than what's in it for God Little thought is given to the fact that much of the song, dramas, and media presentations themselves dishonor God's truth and misrepresent God's character. Also, there is the church's amazing departure from expositional preaching. Rather than giving the congregation the powerful word of God The congregation is appeased by storytelling, psychology, and sermonettes. Evangelism is now geared to seekers rather than to sinners. Counseling is considered a job of secular professional experts rather than the duty of pastors in the congregation Families are divided up into age groups on Sunday morning rather than being kept together as the unit God made them to be. Clearly, a deficiency in theology will result in a deficiency in ministry Though activities may abound in a church, real spiritual fruit is harder to find. So it's very easy for churches to institute programs And they may be well intended, but they can easily uh lose sight of their biblical moorings. And just we do it because we've always done it and um don't really think about uh biblical principles involved sometimes. Then true Christian unity depends on sound doctrine. Today, Christian organizations and churches are seeking unity through the lowest common denominator of biblical truth. Large evangelical parachurch organizations are encouraging unity by reducing the significance of theological disagreement. Rather than churches being led by careful theological thinking, churches are following these parachurch organizations into theological weakness. By removing great amounts of truth from their doctrinal statements, these parachurch organizations have been able to broaden their appeal and cut across denominational boundaries This has given them greater name recognition and popularity in American churches. Along with this popularity has come a greater financial base, a larger ministry, and the ability to continue to influence the American church. The value of these organizations and what they have accomplished cannot be denied. However, despite their faithful work for the Lord, in most cases. There is the present danger that the evangelical church in America will end up pursuing unity at the expense of truth. Such a tendency reveals the sin of becoming man-centered in ministry rather than seeking to be God-honoring. These parachurch ministries and the local churches who follow their lead not only reduce the truth to in their doctrinal statements, but they also end up stripping away the meaning of the truth that they do include in their statements. The meaning of the gospel itself is made less clear when the supporting details vanish. Whenever the implications of a doctrine are not stated, then the doctrine itself is weakened and rendered less meaningful. Four examples will be given The first two are biblical examples. In Galatians 2, Paul describes his confrontation with Peter concerning Peter's withdrawal from eating with the Gentiles. Though Peter was not teaching anything wrong, just his action alone sent a theological message to the church that Paul discerned was an attack upon the truthfulness of the gospel itself. Likewise, in 1 Timothy four, Paul warned against men who taught to abstain from certain foods and from marriage Paul called this teaching a doctrine of demons and showed that it attacks the nature of God, challenging his wisdom, his goodness, and his generosity. Today, Christians would think of those two insights by Paul as picky or divisive Paul saw those both were attacks upon the things he was attacking were themselves attacks upon the more important doctrines and had to be opposed. The next two are modern examples. Today, in certain evangelical, certain evangelical leaders, many of them parachurch leaders, are openly affirming that the Roman Catholic Church holds to all the essentials of the gospel. They say that instead of evangelizing Catholics, evangelicals should be c considered them brothers who simply disagree on less essential issues. Such thinking compromises the essential doctrine of justification by faith alone, which the reformers fought. To bring back into the church. It shows an utter disregard for careful theology and will result in the meshing of the true gospel with a false gospel of human achievement. The last example has to do with leaders who claim to have had visions from God, giving them direction for the church. Since these leaders appear to be committed to Christ, and since they seem sincere, their so-called visions are being accepted by evangelical churches as from God. It appears that the church has forgotten the doctrinal revelation ceased after Christ's apostles died. The result of this error will be a weakening of biblical authority And hazy standards as to what constitutes a message from God. These examples show that rather than ensuring unity Weak doctrinal statements are opening the church up to every form of lie that Satan has thrown as the church for 2,000 years. Thus, these churches and organizations will fail in their quest for unity, but will unknowingly lead Christians into error and defeat. Unfortunately, they compromise God's truth by relegating much of it to a rather insignificant status. In some cases, these churches and organizations actually believe that doctrine is the enemy of progress in Christianity. Christ taught the opposite. He said that when his followers were sanctified in the truth, then unity in the body would come. Paul emphasized the same thing in Ephesians four. So um You may have seen some examples of that. You know a a parachurch group is is an organization that's not a church But in most cases uh wants to come alongside the church or at least do some form of ministry. Um And some of them can be very helpful, very good, and literally do come alongside churches to be a resource and so on. Um others kind of take on a life of their own sometimes, however, and um the the point that that he made here that Uh most parachurch organizations they'll have a doctrinal statement to say, yes, we're definitely evangelical or whatever they are Um but you'll see it's very short. It's really just the kernels of things so they can appeal to a broader audience. Now, given what they're doing, that may be strategic and and helpful, but you're probably going to bring in under that umbrella a wide variety of of um uh beliefs and teachings and understanding of scripture that uh when it really comes down to it are incompatible with each other. Uh and that's sort of a a uh an explicit de-emphasizing of the need for sound doctrine. And one of the sound doctrines that we'll talk about in a subsequent quarter is the doctrine of the church. Where could you go to in Scripture to get a good understanding of the role of a parachurch organization? It ain't there. Right? So it's not that they're inherently evil, but they do need to conform to Scripture. And scripture shows very clearly that God is working through his church. And the best parachurch organizations will themselves come under. the authority of the church, uh not work their own agenda. And it all comes down to doctrine. Having our our uh understanding of doctrine be biblical and not just practical. Well, what about the benefit to families? Not only does sound theology undergird the church's walk with God, ministry, and unity, but also It's the backbone of strong families. Fathers and mothers are commanded by God to know the Word and to teach it diligently to their children. And you see that both in the Old Testament and the New Testament. They cannot know the Word of God properly if they have not wrestled with and investigated sound Christian theology. Family devotions and seasonal lessons are enhanced by a family's grasp of the truths of God. And so choices of schools, curriculum, teachers, videos, and other educational tools should be guided by the parents' understanding of doctrine. A husband's impact on his wife's spiritual growth is proportional to the truth he can use to enhance her sanctification. And the prayers and faith of a family through trials and difficulties are strengthened by a proper understanding of God and how He works. Certainly, if the man of the house makes the study of doctrine in every area of theology his priority, it will enhance the blessing and joy of his family. How blessed is everyone who fears the Lord, who walks in his ways. Your wife will be like a fruitful vine within your house, your children will be like olive plants around your table. Behold, for thus shall the man be blessed who fears the Lord. Well, why churches used reduced, that is, shortened, narrow doctrinal statements Churches that choose to use short doctrinal statements have various reasons for doing so. Some churches simply value Christian experience more than truth. They define true Christianity through a common experience rather than a common belief. These churches fail to understand that true Christian fellowship is the result of common belief, not an enemy of it. They also fail to understand the importance of the mind in spiritual growth and unity. Some churches want total agreement on every point of doctrine within their doctrinal statement from every member of the church. In order to get this, they must put in the doctrinal statement only those items that will be believed by everyone in their church and in their tradition Their desire to have total agreement in their statement of faith is good. However, it requires Christians to be um more mature in the faith to truly have made all these decisions about what they themselves believe. Thus, younger Christians must either be excluded from membership or trained extensively before becoming members. And those Christians who disagree on just one or two points are excluded from the church, though they agree with the majority of the statement. This results in a church losing its opportunity to reach people to teach them the way of the Lord more carefully. Thus, neither truth nor unity is served with this model. Other churches do not have a unity of mind on many issues, and therefore they avoid those issues to preserve a false unity in the church. These churches build a poor foundation, which usually divides the church in later years. Their concern for unity is good, but their method is unscriptural and it actually leads to disunity. Other churches simply use a doctrinal statement to exclude certain con contrary teachings from their church. Their doctrinal statement is not an attempt to define what they believe, but an attempt to keep certain teachings out. This approach is not helpful in winning people over to the truth Via teaching ministries of the church, it excludes people without giving them a chance to learn. Also, this approach does not sufficiently challenge the congregation to grow in what they understand about the faith. It helps to produce a c complacency toward truth, since they will think that there is nothing more for those in the church to learn once the statement of faith is signed. Then there are some churches who want to grow in size They choose only the absolute fundamentals of the faith that would define them as a Christian church, and they welcome all beliefs that can accept those fundamentals. This is sort of like a parachurch group might do. These churches would be embarrassed to have a detailed doctrinal statement. To them, a lengthy statement would not only be, would not be user-friendly, but would send the message of exclusivity to visitors. They have fallen into a man-centered approach to ministry and have excused their lack of vigilance in defending Christian truth. With these people, there is a strong degree of spiritual naivete about how Satan works to neutralize the Word of God. In seeking not to offend man, they have chosen to offend God. Finally, there are some churches that are locked into their doctrinal statement due to their bylaws. Improving the statement of faith in these churches would require a high percentage of consensus that a vocal few keep uh the improvements from occurring. The elders in these churches need to regain spiritual leadership and change their bylaws to be truth friendly Um so that the doctrinal statement can be what it needs to be. Okay. Any thoughts there? Any um experience you all have had along any of these lines? Yes, John, I just want to go back to your section on the benefits of the family Deuteronomy six. I just taught a custom survey class last last quarter and it was just amazing as we went through Deuteronomy We saw this Shima, if you will, to to pass on to the generations. And then as you study the kings and the leaders of that nation just Time and time again, within one generation, they have forgotten the doctrine of the words. It's so very important to continue to pass that on. Yeah, and it just emphasizes how it's not just head knowledge, but it's application. It's all about application. That's Ellen. I also asked you you mentioned this was written twenty six years ago. A little more actually, yeah. Yeah, you were there at that time too, but this is all still very applicable. Have you seen any new trends or or things kinda come and go? You know, it seemed at one time the secret sensitive was such a big thing that it's kinda maybe faded a little bit, maybe not. But um I don't know if you've seen new approaches or I I think I think the um a lot of the same drivers are in place uh for um mega churches and and so on. Um People are more concerned about size and and and growth in numbers than they are about uh doing ministry the way the Bible tells us to do ministry Unfortunately. Um again it's not it's not like we're perfect at that, but we're our intent is to to try to um understand the scriptures and apply them faithfully as best we can. And learn as we do it but um not seek to apply man-made methods, which unfortunately is still pretty common. Now the other aspect of expositional or expository preaching is not just not just that what's being preached is the word uh rather than opinions and stories and whatever. But also, in addition to that, it's the entire word. And so we don't just pick and choose. If if it's in there, we preach it. And it's all for our benefit and and application and and so on. Um Rather than avoiding things that are maybe a little less comfortable topics to bring up and whatever Um we need to speak the truth in love, but um it is the truth nonetheless. Okay, I wanted to go to page ten. Um the very last paragraph there, the purpose of this class. One final note, as just suggested, the scripture passages referenced in this doctrinal statement are not exhaustive. As you study a doctrinal point, you will often know of or find additional verses that could have been included Don't assume that their exclusion from this doctrinal statement means that they have less to do with the doctrinal point that the verses relative to the verses that are included So this is not a systematic theology in the sense that it's not exhaustive. It's it's um the verses given here are illustrative of the doctrines but are not the most comprehensive listing of verses that are related to the topic. If your careful study leads you to conclude that Well no, before that. We encourage you to supplement these verses with others from the broader context of Scripture. And if your careful study leads you to conclude that a part of this doctrinal statement should be reworded, either to be clarified or to be made more faithful to the Word of God We ask that you share your study with the elders who will give it serious consideration and, if appropriate, make the necessary changes. And so 2 Timothy 2 gives us all a word of encouragement here. This is written to Um Timothy in his role as a pastor, but really applies to all of us, be diligent to present yourself approved to God as a workman who does not need to be ashamed, handling accurately the word of truth Which of course uh it admits that there is a lot of inaccurate handling of the word, and we need to be careful not to do that Okay, so I wanted to provide a little bit more overview here for you. On page eleven. Uh part of our doctrinal statement be it begins with this listing of basic doctrines. And it covers all ten of the categories that we'll be covering over the next uh uh four quarters. I'll let you read those uh on your own. But it's it it's it starts in well they're they're listed in the same order in which we're going to be talking about them. So the ones about Bibliology and theology proper are the first um four bullets, I guess. And then we'll talk specifically about um Jesus, you know the the formal study of Jesus is called Christology. Christology. Duh, of course, right? Not Jesusology, but Christology, right? And what about the study of the Holy Spirit? Pneumatology. Yeah. Based on the the Greek word again, pneuma meaning spirit or um wind or breath. Um Then we'll talk about the study of man after we've studied the the doctrines about God. What's the study of man called? Yeah. Anybody take an anthropology class in college or something like that? You're probably not going to get God's view of anthropology in a class like that, but that's what anthroposis man. That's in in the Greek. And then after having discussed man, God and man, the next obvious topic is sin. Yeah. That's that that one's probably not as easy to connect, but it's again the Greek word. It's called um homartheology. Uh and y you can remember harmarchiology because sin is harmful. Harmarchiology. That's not the reason it's called that, it's the Greek word. And then the study of salvation is next. You got the study of God and man and sin, and that logically then leads us to the doctrine of salvation. Called Soteriology. Soteriology, again, the Greek word is the basis for that. And then we talk about the doctrine of the church. uh how God designed the church, uh what it is, uh how it functions, and so on. That's called ecclesiology. Not because it's based on the book of Ecclesiastes, but the church is is um the word for church in the Greek is the basis for that Um and let's see, after the doctrine of the church, then there's the doctrine of uh angels and demons. I will spend a little time on that. And then, oh that's by the way, that's called Angelology. Go figure. And then last things or end times And that's called what? Eschatology. The the esch the the there is uh makes reference to last things. Yeah, last things. Okay. Got a little fun quiz here for you on page twelve. What we have here is you remember um back when you were in school you had these little matching exercises where you can match the one side with the other side What we've listed here is on the left is a doctrine, one of the doctrinal points in each of the ten sections we're going to cover over the next year. And then on the right, you've got various applications. And the task here is to match the application to the doctrine. So one way to think about it is because of such and such doctrine, therefore, what is the application? Or you could go the other way around, actually I find this easier. If you start with the application, this is a good application because such and such is true. So either way you want to do it. But go ahead and fill that out and we'll talk about it. A couple more minutes. Let's go ahead and and and walk through these. If you didn't quite get them all, you're probably weighing which one's better here So, number one, the Bible has no errors and was verbally inspired by God. What application would we draw from that? Okay, letter F. Need to study the words and not just the themes of scripture and to study them in context. Okay. How about number two? God is faithful, therefore what? I should trust God first, not after Yes, letter D. I should trust God first, not after all else fails. How many of us usually get that wrong? We trust God after everything else, or we try everything else And then oh, maybe I should ask God. Um so God is faithful. D These, by the way, are not the only applications for these doctrines. And we may find as we go through that there may be more than one application on this list that fits with some of these doctrines. That's okay. Number three, Jesus Christ was resurrected bodily, not just as a spirit. Therefore what? Yeah, letter H. So because of the resurrection, we can look forward to our own resurrection. Right? We'll be like him. And uh if Jesus' bones were still in the grave, would we still worship him as the Lord of life? Now he's defeated both sin and death. So letter H. Number four, the Holy Spirit makes us more and more Christ-like. Therefore, what? G. I need to live a holy life, okay? Oh I put V2. See how I says some of these apply to various doctrines? B is I need to confess and repent from my sin about which God convicts me That process of convicting of sin is something the Holy Spirit does. And why does he do it? Because he's mad at us? No, he wants us to make us more like Christ. Right. Okay, number five. All humans are descendants of Adam and Eve and are therefore created in the image of God. Okay. Letter I. I cannot harbor prejudices against people of other ethnic groups. Uh number six, mankind is totally depraved. Therefore what? Yeah. So because mankind is totally depraved, um unless God draws them to himself according to Scripture, they're not going to come So I need to ask God to draw sinners to himself. Uh letter C. Seven, salvation is the work of God, not the work of man. Therefore what? Hey, yeah. You can have assurance because if if it were based on our works we would never know For sure that we're saved. But Scripture teaches that we can be sure because it's based on Christ. Number eight, Christ instructed the church to practice church discipline, which if necessary, should result in the removal of unrepentant sinners from the congregation. Therefore, what? E. I need to speak with a fellow believer privately if I sense he or she may be Uh needing correcting. And number nine, Satan has already been defeated, therefore Yay, right. I need to stand firm against the devil. We're commanded to, in fact. Uh and number ten, the return of Jesus Christ will be soon, therefore Yeah, you remember 2 Peter 3? Since these things are gonna happen in the future, therefore what kind of lives should you live? Uh it should prompt us to live to be serious about um our relationship with the Lord. So that would be G But if you had a little some of the other connections here, that's fine because it's all interconnected anyway. So I wanted, before we end, to give you a quick walkthrough for lesson one. You see starting on page thirteen that um the the doctrinal statement is is um so this is uh Section 1 or Article 1, Section A is about revelation. And the verses that are cited here in the doctrinal statement are listed In full. The text of them is listed in full. And there's a space on the right of each of them for you to write some notes. uh connections, questions, just use that for your own study. And then you've got various Uh other sections are all laid out the same way. And then starting on page 17, there's some supplemental material to provide a bit more uh background and context on some of the the issues that we talked about. And then on page twenty-two, could you all turn to page twenty-two? There's homework. Okay, so one reason we didn't start with that first uh and jump right into the first uh section of this doctrine statement is this works best if you work through the topic beforehand. And then we can use our time together in the class to talk about it. So the homework, and it'll be similar each week, it says read all the verses in each subsection. And then underline or maybe use a highlighter to highlight the words or phrases in that text that teach the doctrine being studied. So, you know, what are the key words or phrases in that portion of scripture and just uh indicate that in your notes That's what we're getting at for this particular section, okay? That uh doctrine. And the same verse may be used for a different location, but then it would be a different part of that verse that's really focusing on the doctrine that we're studying at the moment. So highlight those and use the space at the right of each of the verses to make your notes and so on. And then, I don't know if you noticed, but as you walk through here, beginning on page 14, for example, the verse at the top is in bold. And then if you go to page 16, there's another verse that's in bold. And the recommendation here is to use those as your memory verses. while you're going through here. And they're they're kind of key verses in the topics uh in question, so they're good for memory. And then we have a section unique to each lesson called Interpretation, where you're given some questions to help you interact with the text of scripture. and to understand and be able to interpret some of the key topics. And then of course, application. That's what it's all about. And so uh the applications will be keyed to the topics of uh that we're covering in that particular lesson. And um Hopefully those applications will be in some ways sometimes immediate, in other cases maybe long term. And uh it's all good. Any questions? This is what we do, okay. Yeah, so the thing to do is to read through, follow these instructions for lesson two, which is really our first doctrinal statement. And so read through those things, highlight, underline, make notes, questions. If you've got questions, jot them down there. We'll talk about them in class. And work through the Interpretation and application stuff. Okay? Let's pray