It's a real joy to worship with you. Enjoy that time of singing. We concentrate on the Lord. It's just a real joy to be part of Hope Bible Church to look back and see you all singing and worshiping genuinely and knowing the fellowship we have in this church. I'm just uh I'm just grateful to be able to bring God's word each Sunday to you. We come today to 1 Corinthians chapter 14. We come to instruction about Christian worship, about prophecy, tongues. Edification and orderliness, because this is what the chapter is about. This chapter that we arrive at is both controversial and practical. I think it's fairly easy to understand, though it has often been confused. So let's do this. Let's read all the way through the chapter to begin, and then we're going to come back and focus on the first 12 verses only today. But let's read the whole chapter to understand what is on the heart. of the Apostle Paul. Follow along, please, as I read. Pursue love, yet earnestly desire spiritual gifts But especially that you may prophesy. For one who speaks in a tongue does not speak to men, but to God, for no one understands. But in his spirit he speaks mysteries But one who prophesies speaks to men for edification and exhortation and consolation. One who speaks in a tongue edifies himself. But one who prophesies edifies the church Now I wish that you all spoke in tongues, but even more that you would prophesy. And greater is one who prophesies than one who speaks in tongues, unless he interprets, so that the church may receive edifying. But now, brethren, if I come to you speaking in tongues, what will I profit you unless I speak to you either by way of revelation or of knowledge or of prophecy or of teaching? Yet even lifeless things, either flute or harp, in producing a sound, if they do not produce a distinction in the tones, how will it be known what is played on the flute or on the harp? For if the bugle produces an indistinct sound, who will prepare himself for battle? So also you Unless you utter by the tongue speech that is clear, how will it be known what is spoken? For you'll be speaking into the air. There are perhaps a great many kinds of languages in the world, and no kind is without meaning If then I do not know the meaning of the language, I will be to the one who speaks a barbarian, and the one who speaks will be a barbarian to me. So also you, since you are zealous of spiritual gifts, seek to abound for the edification of the church Therefore, let one who speaks in a tongue pray that he may interpret. For if I pray in a tongue, my spirit prays, but my mind is untruthful. What is the outcome then? I will pray with the spirit, and I will pray with the mind also. I will sing with the spirit, and I will sing with a mind also. Otherwise, if you bless in the Spirit only, how will the one who fills the place of the ungifted say the Amen? That's your giving of thanks, since he does not know what you are saying. But you are giving thanks well enough, but the other person is not edified. I thank God I speak in tongues more than you all. However, in the church I desire to speak five words with my mind. so that I may instruct others also rather than ten thousand words in a tongue. Brethren, do not be children in your thinking. Yet in evil be infants, but in your thinking be mature. In the law it is written by men of strange tongues, and by the lips of strangers I will speak to this people, and even so they will not listen to me, says the Lord. So then, tongues are for a sign, not to those who believe, but to unbelievers. The prophecy is for a sign, not to unbelievers, but to those who believe Therefore, if the whole church assembles together and all speak in tongues and ungifted men or unbelievers enter, will they not say that you are mad? But if all prophesy, and an unbeliever or an ungifted man enters, he is convicted by all. He is called to account by all. The secrets of his heart are disclosed. And so he will fall on his face and worship God, declaring that God is certainly among you What is the outcome then, brethren? When you assemble, each one has a psalm, has a teaching, as a revelation, as a tongue, has an interpretation. Let all things be done for edification. If anyone speaks in a tongue, it should be by two or at the most three, and each in turn, and one must interpret. But if there is no interpreter, he must keep silent in the church and let him speak to himself and to God. Let two or three prophets speak, and let the others pass judgment. But if a revelation is made to another who is seated, the first one must Keep silent, for you can all prophesy one by one, so that all may learn and all may be exhorted, and the spirits of prophets are subject to prophets. For God is not a God of confusion, but of peace, as in all the churches of the saints. The women are to keep silent in the churches, for they are not permitted to speak But are to subject themselves just as the law also says. If they desire to learn anything, let them ask their own husbands at home, for it is improper for a woman to speak in church. Was it from you that the Word of God first went forth? Or has it come to you only? If anyone thinks he is a prophet or spiritual, let him recognize that the things which I write to you are the Lord's commandment. But if anyone does not recognize this, he is not recognized. Therefore, my brethren, desire earnestly to prophesy, and do not forbid to speak in tongues, but all things must be done properly and in an orderly manner. And in an orderly manner. This chapter speaks of, as I said, important and practical concerns for a local congregation, particularly their time gathered together for worship We clearly see through these verses, I think all of you would have seen this, a contrast and comparison made between prophecy and tongues. To determine which one would be better for edification, or how could it, how could they both be used for edification? In fact, the term edification or a word related to it, is used four times in verses three through five alone. It is used again in verse 12. In verse 17 and in verse 26, all throughout the passage. It's about edification. We also see a lot about the importance of the mind, of the Christian mind, of thinking about the Word of God. Being able to understand the revelation, being able to understand the mystery, being able to understand the prophecy, the utterance, the understanding is crucial. And of course, it's connected to edification We also read about how orderliness fits into all of that as well. We read about the proper roles for the gifts. We read of standards for prophets, standards for women in the worship service related to teaching and learning. In verses 1 through 12, where we're concentrating today, we learn much about edification. And I think in this we see the heart of the Apostle Paul. He's really concerned here with love, he's concerned with edification, he's concerned with speech. that will build up, not hurt, not ruin, not destroy, not tear down, not confuse. And that's what's crucial to him In short, here is the message of verses 1 through 12. The church is to value prophecy for edification's sake. The church is to value prophecy for its ability to edify. itself. In verses 1 through 12, there are two comparisons about edification. The first comparison is this prophecy is greater than tongues. Prophecy is greater than tongues. The second comparison is understanding is greater than confusion. Understanding is greater than confusion In other words, it's better to have prophecy and understanding than to have tongues and confusion in God's church. That's what we're going to focus on today. Look back to verses 1 through 5. Verses 1 through 5 Paul says, pursue love, yet earnestly desire spiritual gifts, but especially that you may prophesy. Verse 1 really serves as the bridge from chapter 13. into two commands or two directives that he is giving here the beginning of the chapter. The first command or first directive is pursue love. What does this mean? This means to be vigorous in the pursuit of love, follow after it hard, keep going after love with perseverance. The second command is earnestly desire spiritual gifts That is, by the way, the same directive as we saw back in chapter 12 and in verse 31, and we see later at the end of this chapter, chapter 14 and verse 39. Earnestly desire means to have a strong desire for, have an intense desire for spiritual gifts. Yes, spiritual gifts are secondary to the pursuit of love. We saw that in chapter 13. Spiritual gifts take a back seat in importance to love, but that doesn't mean they're unimportant. They're still profitable and useful to the church in the present time. And the gift to desire in your congregation more than the other gifts here is what? It's prophecy. This gift has greater value. This is the one you should want your congregation to be blessed by. Please remember the ranking that Paul gave the spiritual gifts back in chapter 12 and verse 28. He said, God has appointed in the church first. Do you remember? Apostles and second what? Prophets. Third teachers. And then he goes on, the last of that list is tongues. Verses 1 through 5 really are designed to tell us why prophecy is a greater gift in the church than the gift of tongues. These verses focused on the greater ability of prophecy to edify the congregation. And so edification takes center stage in Paul's thinking here, and edification and the building up of the church is obviously related to what love accomplishes that we've studied in chapter 13. Look now at verse 2. Verse 2 shows the inadequacy of the gift of tongues. For one who speaks in a tongue does not speak to men but to God, for no one understands, but in his spirit he speaks mysteries. The tongue speaker communicates nothing of value to the congregation. He is speaking a foreign language to them. No one can understand what he is saying. And because they cannot understand, they cannot be edified. And therefore there's no value to the congregation because edification is the value. If they wanted to edify, they must use a language all of the people would be able to understand. When it says no one understands the tongue speaker there in verse 2, that is referring to no one in the congregation at that time while he's speaking It does not mean that no one in the entire world can understand the tongue speaker. But as the context here indicates, no one who is present there at the church worship service can understand him. No one had the linguistic background to understand the tongue's message, and so it remained useless for edification. At this point, probably in your minds, you're wondering, and it would be beneficial for us to define biblically what the gift of tongues actually is. I guess I don't need to tell any of you that there's a lot of confusion about this issue. There are whole churches that claim to be speaking in tongues. The question should arise is what is coming out of their mouth? What the Bible describes as and labels as the gift of tongues. Many, of course, assume that is true. That must be proven. It appears that there is a poorly conceived idea of the gift, and that idea is dominant in many churches. In fact, I think that most folks, at least that I've talked to, and it appears to be that way from all that I've seen, they just take for granted that uh excited, ecstatic kind of a speech With nonsensical repetitive syllables, and that's what it is. It's been tape recorded many times, and that's what it is. They assume that that sound, that ecstatic utterance With those kinds of syllables actually is the Holy Spirit's gift of tongues. I think many likely conclude that because they see many people doing that in a church and they hear about Jesus being proclaimed. It seems to be an unusual phenomenon. They're not used to hearing something like that outside of a Christian context. And so they conclude that must be from God, and that must be what the gift of tongues is. But again I ask, are the ecstatic utterances going on in thousands of churches this very morning and have been doing so over the past one hundred years, because it's only been about the last hundred years that the tongues movement has been here in America. Is that really the Holy Spirit's gift of tongues? If it is, please notice way down in verse 39 that we are given a command. What does it say? Do not forbid to speak what? In tongues. We would have no right as a church to forbid that if that truly was a gift. So if you didn't realize this was an important question, I hope I've drawn you in a little. To assume that that is the gift without an honest and insightful investigation would certainly be folly and would be disrespectful to the Lord. So, what does the Bible say? What does it teach? There are literally tons of books and articles written on what the gift of tongues is, how it should be used, why you should speak it, why you should not speak it. and on and on and on. I could overwhelm you for weeks with all of the information on this. And I decided I would not do that this time. But uh I would hope that you would agree with me that when we go directly to the scriptures, look at it in a straightforward manner. It's not going to be hard to figure out what this gift of the Holy Spirit actually is. The first arrival of this gift was on the day of Pentecost, so I want us to go Back to Acts chapter 2. And those of you who have been here for a while know I've taught on this passage before, but it's worth bringing back the information from that chapter into what we're doing now. Come back to Acts chapter 2 for a few moments. I'm going to read verses 1 through 4. This is the first arrival of speaking in tongues, the first time the gift of tongues has ever been uttered It's on the birthday of the church. It couldn't be any earlier than this anyways. This is the day the church was born. And let's read what it says. Verses 1 through 4 of Acts 2. When the day of Pentecost had come, they were all together in one place, and suddenly there came from heaven a noise like a violent rushing wind, and it filled the whole house where they were sitting. And there appeared to them tongues as of fire, distributing themselves, and they rested on each one of them. Verse 4. And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit. And began, here it is, to speak with other tongues, as the Spirit was giving them utterance. In verse 4, it says they began to speak. Lalane is an infinitive form of a very common Greek verb that means just to speak. And that verb is laleo. With the filling of the Spirit, they began to speak, not in their normal language, but with other tongues. Heterice, glossis, other, that is, different tongues, other than the ones that they normally spoke, the tongue that they knew. The word glosa is the normal word for tongue. It actually, in some context, was just used for the physical organ in the mouth, the tongue. It commonly would refer to what that bodily organ produced, that is, a language, and so the language was called the tongue, the tongue. To speak in other tongues then simply means to speak in different languages from the ones that they knew. And this is meant to be something that is a miracle. Simple gibberish that anybody could do would not have impressed anybody, I hope you understand. This was a miracle, it was a sign. This group of mostly uneducated disciples from a region of Galilee that was not known for its education miraculously began speaking in all kinds of languages they had never known. And likely would have had no opportunity to know. Foreign languages, other tongues to them. They were not speaking in some ecstatic gibberish. Where the syllables were repeated over and over, no matter what that is. The text is so clear about the nature of the gift of tongues, it is really hard to understand how anyone could miss it Luke records each of the people's languages that these disciples spoke in. Look down in verses 9 through 11. In verse 80 says, How is it that we hear each each hear them in our own tongue to which we were born? Parthians. And Medes and Elamites, and residents of Mesopotamia, Judea and Cappadocia, Pontus and Asia, Phrygia and Pamphylia, Egypt and the districts of Libya around Cyrene, and visitors from Rome, both Jews and proselytes, Cretans and Arabs, we hear them in our own tongues, speaking of the mighty deeds of God In fact, Luke equates the tongues they spoke with another term for language, which is found in verse 8. If you look back at that, how is it that we hear them in our own, and that word there is dialect? Due to the feast of Pentecost, Jews from all over the Roman world were assembled in Jerusalem. They came from all over. Guess who knew that that would happen? The Lord God did, right? And he, God, planned this outburst of praise to occur in the languages where all of these people came from for that feast in Jerusalem. And he wanted it to happen from the mouths of unlearned Galileans, so it would quite clearly be a miracle, and they would give attention to the words That would be spoken by these men. That's exactly what happens later in the chapter as Peter then has their attention. He preaches that Jesus Christ is crucified, raised from the dead, and is Lord. It was meant to be a sign to these unbelieving Jews, and it worked. The age of the Holy Spirit, promised by their own Jewish prophets, had arrived. Wake up, Jewish people, realize what is happening. This is an amazing, amazing time. And here is an amazing miracle, a reversal of the Tower of Babel, in a sense Letting you know God is among you and bringing you a message that is for all people. The sign really got their attention. If you look at verse 7, it says, they were amazed. And marvel, saying, Behold, are not all of these who are speaking Galileans? That was not a compliment, Galileans. How is it that we hear them in our own dialect in which we were born? So I would ask at this point, If you're trying to figure out what the gift of tongues is, honestly, what else really needs to be said Is it not straightforward? Was there anything unclear about that? How did such a clear presentation of a gift get confused to where it is today? Well, because rather than taking the straightforward reading of a text, people in their interpretation get confused and some of them get tricky. They want to justify their ecstatic speech. They believe their experience is from God. They want to find within the text of Scripture something that shows indeed that that is of God. So they can say, see, we're practicing this And they move from personal experience, listen to this, personal experience, then they move into the Word of God, and the Word of God then is seen to be a justification for what their experience is. Beloved, though we can all be in danger of doing that ourselves, that is exactly the wrong way to approach the Word of God. Reverse that, and you'll have the proper way. We are to let the Word of God Teach us and inform us and explain to us what our experiences, good or bad, are from God. The Word of God gives us the insight. Now, some have tried to justify ecstatic language as the gift of tongues by claiming that the miracle on the day of Pentecost, are you ready for this? was not at all in the speaking of the disciples, but was in the hearing of the unbelieving Jews. That though the disciples were speaking in ecstatic speech, the multitudes heard it in their own language. That's creative. That's very creative. Of course, it misses the point that the Spirit of God descended on those men, that the tongues of fire were over them, and that the text directly says they spoke in other tongues. And you can see how people twist that to say, no, no, it wasn't another language, but if you were there and God wasn't working on your heart, all you would have heard is the ecstatic utterance. That's creative, but that's flawed. The reason they heard them speak in the other tongues is because that's exactly what they were doing. They were speaking in other languages. Others have tried to tie the gift of tongues to 1 Corinthians 13 and verse 1. And say that the tongues that were spoken on the day of Pentecost were angel languages. But of course, if you look in Acts chapter 2, there is no mention of angels there on the day of Pentecost. They're not there. I doubt too many angels speak Egyptian and Roman dialects in heaven. And so again, just a little bit of application, thinking through the context, one can see You don't know why that is even raised as a view. Most people involved in the debate about tongues today have conceded That the tongues that were spoken on the day of Pentecost were indeed real human languages throughout the world, as the text states, unknown to the disciples, but known throughout the world. However, many still try to establish a biblical basis for their ecstatic speech, or even to use that ecstatic speech and call it a private prayer language. How has that come about? And how do they do that? Well, they concede that Acts chapter 2, the tongues there is real foreign languages. But they still think that there is another kind of gift of tongues. Another kind of gift of tongues. I don't know if you've heard this before, but it's fairly common. Two different kinds of gifts of tongues. They don't really sound anything like each other. The tongues in the book of Acts They say, well, that was real languages, but the tongues in 1 Corinthians 14, those would have been nonsensical, ecstatic speech. That is a rather strange way of handling the Bible. Just think. We don't think that there are two different kinds of gifts of prophecy, do we? We don't say that one gift of prophecy is intelligible and another one is non-intelligible. We don't conclude that there are two different kinds of gifts of apostleship. Two different kinds of gifts of mercy. That would be interesting. Some who are merciful and some who are what? Not merciful? And they have the gift of mercy? Or two different kinds of gift of service, or of faith, or of teaching, or you can go through the list of spiritual gifts. Why do they make an exception for the gift of tongues? Why do they think they're two entirely different kinds of gifts of tongues? You know, the words that are used in the book of Acts to describe the phenomenon. And the words that are used in 1 Corinthians to describe the gift of tongues are exactly the same. They are exactly the same. The only other times that the gift of tongues are mentioned explicitly in the book of Acts would be in Acts 10 and verse 46. It says this. For they were hearing them, speaking with tongues and exalting God. And then the next place in the book of Acts where it is mentioned is Acts 19 and verse 6. It says when Paul had laid hands on them, the Holy Spirit came on them, and they began speaking with tongues and prophesying. The exact same terminology is used by the author of Acts, Luke, speaking in tongues. In the Greek English, it's the same However, in Acts chapter 10 and in Acts chapter 19, Luke makes no explanation of what the gift sounded like. Doesn't explain what the gift was. Why didn't he? Well, because like any author, he would rightly assume that if you started to read his book, you would start where? At the beginning You would open up the book of Acts and you would not start in chapter 10 or chapter 19. You would start in chapter 1. And when you passed chapter 1, you would get to chapter 2, and in chapter 2, you would have an explanation of the gift, and by the time you got to chapter 10 and chapter 19, there was no need for an explanation he had already told. everybody what it was. Using the exact same terminology, it has to be the same phenomenon. Same author, same book, same words, no changes. But Is it different from what the Apostle Paul describes as the gift of tongues in 1 Corinthians? Some believe that it is. Please think with me still about this a little more. Would Luke, who was a traveling companion of Paul and had a lot of experience sitting under his teaching, And who wrote the book of Acts after the Apostle Paul had written the letter of 1 Corinthians? Would Luke use the exact same words of the Apostle Paul in 1 Corinthians 14? to describe an entirely different phenomenon without providing any explanation for his readers Well, the basic rules of interpretation would make that very unlikely. And anyone who takes that position is standing on very shaky interpretive ground. And that's why it's not convincing Furthermore, there is additional evidence within 1 Corinthians chapter 14 itself that they are exactly the same phenomena. We're going to get to this later, but just for now. 1 Corinthians chapter 14 and verse 22 says the purpose of the gift of tongues as described even in that letter, was to be a sign to unbelievers. That is the same way that tongues were used in the book of Acts as a sign to unbelievers. Same terminology, same purpose must be the what? Same gift. That's Acts 2 and the contribution the book of Acts makes. Let's turn back now to 1 Corinthians 14. Turn back to our letter, 1 Corinthians 14 and verse 2. As we read here now, every time you see the gift of tongues written down there, remember that tongues literally means languages. It just would remove so much confusion if you just thought languages, the gift of languages, every time you saw the word tongues in a chapter. No one was able to understand the gift of tongues in their assembly. Why not? Because no one was present there to understand the foreign language, the foreign tongues. Well, that's actually inaccurate. There was one person who could understand it. Who is that? God. God could understand it. Since God was the one who was giving the message, though, in the first place, he was giving the tongues utterance for the benefit of people, it was really pretty useless to address it to him. He didn't need to hear it It wasn't intended for him. It was a spiritual gift intended for the church and as a sign to unbelievers. And so that was an improper use of the gift. That is Paul's point that he develops as we go through the chapter. It is improper to not use the gift for edification. Notice he writes, but in his spirit he speaks what? Mysteries. In his spirit he speaks mysteries. Of course, some people see the word mysteries and they run in all kinds of directions, injecting ideas into that word that again are not the way the Apostle Paul uses that word. They try to prove anything weird at all that comes out of people's mouths. And, brothers and sisters, there are a lot of weird and strange things that are coming out of people's mouths in worship services that are being attributed to the Holy Spirit, including barking and chicken scratches and all kinds of things that are out there And so they say, ah, the mysteries, that's what we're speaking. But how does the Apostle Paul use the word mysteries? What did he mean by the use of that? He uses it enough in his writings we ought to be able to know what he means. Well, Dr. Robert Thomas of the Masters Seminary writes this about that. Everyone in everywhere in Paul's writings mysteries were truths about God and his program that for a time remained hidden But were at that moment revealed through the inspired writer. And he cites Romans 11. 25, Romans 16. 25. First Corinthians two seven, thirteen two, and fifteen fifty-one just as examples of where he used this term. The divine mysteries making up the contents of tongues Messages were the same as divine revelations and prophecies referred to in chapter 14 and verse 6. The only difference being that in the present case, successful communication did not transpire because of a language barrier. Tongues in themselves, under normal circumstances of Christian worship, were helpless. to communicate their own messages. Even though those messages were important revelations from God. Truths from God that otherwise could have been known remain hidden in that case The speaker alienated his listeners from the substance of his message by his decision to use tongues rather than somehow speaking to their understanding. That was the deficiency of tongues in a Christian gathering, and the reason for it's a low place in the list of chapter 12, verse 28. End of his quote. Now I need to stop here and also clear up some other confusion. Many folks, and I think that you'll hear this for yourself at some point, try to say that these mysteries or these tongues here in 1 Corinthians 14, 2. are really the same thing as what Paul describes in Romans chapter 8 and verse 26 as the groanings of the Holy Spirit. The groanings of the Holy Spirit I won't have you turn there for time's sake, but here's what he says. In the same way, the Spirit, the Holy Spirit, helps our weaknesses, for we do not know how to pray as we should. But the Spirit himself, the Spirit Himself, you see, he's talking about the Holy Spirit intercedes for us with groanings too deep for words In other words, we don't always know what to pray for according to the necessary request of the moment. But the Holy Spirit understands our weaknesses and he intercedes for us. The latter part of the verse expresses what the Spirit does during those intercessions. How or in what manner does he intercede? The answer is he does it with groanings too deep for words. In that same Romans 8 context, Paul said that the natural creation groans awaiting for its day of liberation when the curse will be reversed. It says that believers groan within themselves waiting for the resurrection of their bodies. The groaning is sort of the aging of the human body. And then it says the Spirit also groans on our behalf. That verse is not about praying in tongues. Tongues has nothing to do with the context. It is about the Holy Spirit praying, not us praying. And where he groans, not where we speak words. Furthermore, the very concept of a prayer language that would be needed in order to communicate with God more effectively is contrary to the entire New Testament's teaching on how to pray effectively. Listen, beloved, God hears just fine in the language in which we pray with this morning. Our problem is we don't know what to ask him all that well. The Holy Spirit steps in and in some groanings that we don't even hear. They're too deep for words. Literally the word means it's unutterable. It can't be put in the words He intercedes for us and covers us, praise God. Too deep for words is a la laitoise. It literally is unexpressed, wordless. The related ad adjective, alalas, means in Mark 7, 37, someone who's dumb or mute, they can't speak. So this is not speech. It's not speech ecstatic or otherwise. It's something the Holy Spirit is doing, talking to God on our behalf. And I just say that because when you go to each passage and you look at it and try to understand it, you realize what's going on is that folks are going to the Word of God to try to find something that relates to an experience they had to give it a biblical justification. And it just doesn't work. That doesn't make me mean. I don't hate people that are speaking in what they call tongues. I had a time in my life where I earnestly tried, and I was part of a Pentecostal church, and I love the people of that church It's just to say that this confusion is not at all what is the will of God. And so we need to make sure we don't fall into that. Alright, let's move on in chapter 14. Reasons for prophecy's superiority. Look at verse 3. Verse 3. But one who prophesies speaks to men for edification and exhortation and consolation. Prophecy is better because it communicates better. It communicates effectively. It edifies. What is edification? It's what? It's building up. You know, the church often is spoken of as a building And a building needs to be laid properly and its foundation it needs to be built up properly. Well we in a sense are a building and we have to build it up properly. We have to make sure that we're being edified. You can look at 1 Corinthians 3, 9 through 17 or Ephesians 2, 19 to 21. It speaks of the church growing up as a building. Truth gets taught. Faith in the people gets developed, and then the church matures. The church is edified. The church is built up. There are two ways that edification is said to happen there in verse 3. One is exhortation, the other is consolation. What is exhortation? It's what is needed in preaching, the ability to move the human will via the mind to do what is right, to strengthen the soul for obedience towards God. People in exhortation are moved toward a godly goal. In consolation, it's very similar, but it's softer. It's something that's soothing to the soul. It's comforting to someone who's hurting. A troubled heart, a confused mind, a hurting person needs consolation. That's what Philippians 2:1 talks about. If there's any encouragement in Christ, if there's any consolation of love, and he goes on to talk about that in the congregation. And of course, behind exhortation and behind consolation, that's not even mentioned here, but is mentioned in many other verses, is the need for teaching and doctrinal instruction, which tells us what we are to exhort and console in. Dr. Thomas again, I'll quote him, he says, What the gift of prophecy did for the early church, the gifts of teaching, Romans 12 7, and exhortation Romans 12, 8, have done since the completion of written New Testament revelation. Modern-day teachers and exhorters take truths from the written word That have come to man through the gift of prophecy, and make good use of them in the ongoing growth of Christ's body. I think at this point it is worth our while to remember what the gift of prophecy actually is. There's much confusion about the gift of prophecy today as well, and I don't believe that there needs to be. I'm reproducing here a little bit of what I preached back in chapter twelve. And so if you want to go back and get a longer explanation of this, get the message from there where we cover two foundational gifts. But the the In Greek, the word that is used for prophet is prophetes, and it means one who stands and gives forth the Word of God. One who speaks or proclaims the Word of God standing before men. We saw the prophets were ranked just underneath the apostles. The prophets had not been with Jesus through his many years of ministry. They could not recall the teachings of Jesus as the apostles could, and so they didn't have all of the message that the apostles had, but nevertheless their message conveyed true and real words from God to men You guys know 2 Peter 1. 21. For prophecy never came by the will of man, but holy men of God spoke as they were moved by the Holy Spirit. That means the prophecy never has any mistakes in it. The spiritual gift that corresponds with the office of the prophet is prophecy, prophetia. To exercise the gift of prophecy is to prophesy, to proclaim. The action of a prophet is prophesying, and the product is prophecy And many today try to make a distinction between a prophet and prophecies, but Paul and Peter didn't do that. We went into explaining that before when we covered that gift. What exactly is the gift of prophecy? Well, it involves preaching, it involves proclaiming, it involves words of exhortation, but it always involved more than that. Someone like myself who is simply exhorting you and teaching you this morning does not qualify as a prophet. You had to also receive direct revelation from God and prove that you had received direct revelation from God by doing something that only God could do, which was what? Predict the future. If you predicted the future, and if what you predicted came true, that was the evidence, that was the proof that God had trained the nation of Israel to know that a true prophet was among them. In fact, he told them in Deuteronomy if what they said and they predicted does not come true, take them out and stone them. I didn't send them. They're not speaking for me. The only examples of New Testament prophets at work in the New Testament always involves prediction, and I gave much evidence for that again back in that previous message. The New Testament prophets were the same as the Old Testament prophets. Numbers 12, 6, God said, If there is a prophet among you, I, the Lord, make myself known to him in a vision, I speak to him in a dream. They got divine revelation, they gave forth that revelation, they predicted the future, and along with that they exhorted the people to obedience. That's exactly what you see the Old Testament prophets doing, even the written prophets. A preacher or teacher of the Word of God takes the prophecies and the written page, studies them prayerfully, and proclaims them In that sense, prophecy is active and working in the local congregation today, but it's not new prophecy from this man or any other man. It is from the prophecies that were delivered by the New Testament apostles and prophets. What I teach is not infallible. What a prophecy says in Scripture is. And someone today who believes they're giving a prophecy and says it might not be true. I don't know what to say about that. Now look on at verse four. One who speaks in a tongue edifies himself, but one who prophesies edifies the church. This verse deals with the question, who is it that should be edified? Should self be edified? Or is the point of spiritual gifts to edify the whole congregation? And here we will clearly see that edification is for the edification of the church, not of self. What kind of edification Would have happened if you spoke in tongues in the assembly. Answer? Self-edification. Was that good? Some people actually think Paul's saying that's good. That's the best that could be done with that gift. Paul's not trying to defend that. His whole point is that that's no good. The church received no benefit from it. Prophecy was far better. It could edify the whole group. That is why prophecy was of greater value and to be desired more than tongues. It appears that there was some benefit for the tongue speaker himself as he spoke in tongues. We're not exactly told why. Maybe it was related to a very limited understanding of part of what he was saying through his gift. It doesn't say though that he understood much, if anything at all. Maybe it's just the knowledge that God was working through him and that edified him in some way. But if he wasted the worship service time by having people listen to him, he was clearly not seeking the good of other people. He was simply seeking the good of himself, trying to show, listen to me, I got this gift, listen And woo, there it goes. See? See? Now you know I'm special. I got the Spirit of God. He was seen as prominent. He was building himself up. That's not a compliment here. Building self-up is never complimented in Paul's writings. I mean it was part of the problem the Corinthians had. Even when we get knowledge and knowledge puffs up, he says, but love edifies That is the wrong kind of building up, building up a self. Remember back in love, the love chapter, chapter 13, verse 1, tongues without love was useless. Certain kinds of building up are inappropriate. Self-aggrandizement in the body of Christ is wrong. Some believe it is the right use of tongues to use them in private edification. To them, I would say, first, all ecstatic utterances are not tongues. Secondly, even if someone did have the actual gift of tongues, he should still not use it for himself. I guess I should have stayed at home this morning and used my teaching gift for myself You should have stayed at home and get and used your giving gift for yourself. Just give to yourself. We understand in all of the other areas that that's inappropriate, but when it comes here, somehow people think it's appropriate To sit at home and speak in tongues is equivalent to sit at home and serve oneself. This is the whole point of the spiritual gifts. The entire point from chapter 12 through 14, the whole context has been about edifying the body. Look at verse 5 now. Now I wish that you all spoke in tongues, but even more that you would prophesy. And greater is one who prophesies than one who speaks in tongues, unless he interprets so that the church may receive edifying. Verse 5 continues the comparison of prophecy in tongues, but here Paul clarifies something. Paul starts with an exaggerated or hyperbolic statement. I wish you all spoke in tongues. Beloved, this is a wish. He knows it'll never come true. He already taught that God purposefully did not give the gift of tongues to everyone. Remember chapter 12 and verse 11, chapter 12 and verse 30, he clearly said not everyone is going to get it. This is hyperbole. He's removing any doubt about his personal feelings towards tongues so they wouldn't get the wrong impression. Paul says, I'm not against tongues. Tongues are from God. You might remember this too, back in chapter 7 and verse 7, Paul said, I wish that all men were single as I am, and not married. He wasn't really trying to say, you know, I want all of you to never get married out there. He was just saying being single is wonderful. I wish you all were like me. That's what he's doing here again He's not opposing the divine will. He knows it's not the divine will to give everybody tongues. He knows it's not the divine will that everybody is single. Notice he also says this: I wish even more that all of you would prophesy, and not everyone is a prophet. He knows that. He said that. He declared that in the previous chapters. He's just trying to say he's not deprecating tongues, he's elevating prophecy and edification. And he makes it clear, greater is one who prophesies than one who speaks in tongues. There it is. It couldn't be plainer, it couldn't be clearer. Prophecy is greater because prophecy communicates God's word to the minds of the people in the congregation, resulting in its building up and edification. Tongues can't, because nobody can understand it. Unless, and there is the exception Unless, in one circumstance, where tongues can be just as useful as prophecy, one situation where tongues get elevated to where it is then equal with prophecy, and that is what? That's what? If there's an interpreter, one who has the gift of interpretation. Now Everybody can understand what was going on when the foreign language was spoken. Now, everybody hears it in their own language. Now they're edified. Without the supernatural ability to interpret, the gift of tongues was useless to the body of Christ. The only thing he was to do was to keep silent. Again, the bottom line is: will you hear God's word? Yes or no? If no, don't speak. And mentioning the exception of verse 5, that having an interpretation is needed, Paul in verses 6 through 12 goes on to develop that thought. And we're going to cover this very briefly. I'll just get started now. The second is that understanding is greater than confusion. Verses 6 through 12. Let's just look at verse 6 for a moment. But now, brethren, if I come to you speaking in tongues, what will I profit you unless I speak to you either by way of revelation or of knowledge or of prophecy or of teaching? Paul imagines in the future where he would finally come again to the Corinthian church. They were actually anticipating a time where he would arrive if he showed up in the town and he came into their meeting place and he was speaking a foreign language, the gift of tongues What profit would that bring to the Corinthians? Answer none. I mean he was an apostle, but he still wouldn't be able to bring and benefit them from his gift if he came to them speaking in tongues. Instead, the prophet would only come if there was an interpretation of the tongues, and through the interpretation, he spoke either revelation, knowledge, prophecy, or teaching. Those four things would bring content in language they could understand. Verse 7. Yet even lifeless things, either flute or harp, in producing a sound, if they do not produce a distinction in the notes, how will it be known what is played on the flute or on the harp? Here we see how useless indistinct sounds are. This shows again that the tongue, since it was a foreign language, could not be understood. The flute, you know, was a wind instrument, the harp was a string instrument. You could enjoy those instruments and make a melody. You could sing along with it. It could make you happy. It could make you sad. But it couldn't make you anything if you didn't understand the tune and know what it was about. Verse 8 takes it to another illustration. For if the bugle produces an indistinct sound, who will prepare himself for battle? You can just see the soldiers out in the field. And there comes something out of the trumpet. You don't know what it is. Was that charge? I don't know. Was that get ready? I don't know. Was that retreat? I don't know. I don't know what to do. We're in confusion. And that's the point. It would be confusion Verse 9, so also you, unless you utter by the tongue speech that is clear, how will it be known what is spoken, for you'll be speaking into the air? You're speaking to God, you're speaking to the air, you're not speaking to the church, that's your point. No one knows what you're saying. It's a foreign language. You can't be speaking to any of us. The only place left to speak is to the air and to God. And that's not him saying you should be doing that. First hand, there are perhaps a great many kinds of languages in the world, and no kind is without meaning. If then I do not know the meaning of the language, I will be to the one who speaks a barbarian, and the one who speaks will be a barbarian to me. Now, a barbarian in their day was anyone who didn't know the Greek language. Because the Greek language was the language of the Roman world and everyone culture knew it. And so he says, you know how it's like. If someone came into town Corinth and you tried to talk to him and do some business with them, the guy's a barbarian to you. And frankly, you're a barbarian to him. You guys can't understand each other. And here, Paul again is demonstrating that when he speaks about the gift of tongues, he's speaking about a foreign language. That's what he means. It's right there. All of these languages were in the world, they were just foreign to them. The frustrating thing of talking to someone you can't understand is what he wants to imagine. Look at verse 12. Verse 12. And this brings it to our point of application. So also you, since you are zealous of spiritual gifts, seek to abound for what? Edification of the church. That's his concern. That's what he's all about here. The whole gifts and prophecy teaching and all the explanations and confusion and everything in the midst of all that, the thing the Apostle Paul was trying to say is Your spiritual gifts are to be used in love to build up and edify the body of Christ. We want to focus on the building up of the body of Christ at Hope Bible Church. This is what we're doing. When we think about how do we improve our worship, we have to build up the body of Christ to know how to worship properly. We want to know how to improve evangelism. Guess what? We have to be Built up in our understanding of the gospel, walking in the Spirit of God. We have to have a love for the gospel in our hearts. And when we have that and we get organized and we work together, evangelism improves. We want our discipleship of singles and our discipleship of women and men and youth and everything and our families to be strong, and how do we do that? We build up the body of Christ. Every area of the church, every ministry is going to be built up when the body of Christ is built up. Edification of the body, build up the body, build the body to maturity, make the body strong. That's what Paul dedicated his life to. He preached the gospel, formed the church, planted the church, put elders there, equipped them. Gave them the word of God, taught them and taught them and taught them, and then they grew up and they became strong and mature. And that brought glory to God, and that was satisfying to Him as an apostle, and that was a joy of love among the people. So desire those things, work for those things, want those things. Make that be your aim. What your involvement at Hope Bible Church is about is that you want to be a blessing to other people. You want to build up the body with your gift, with your love. The body can grow, the body can rise up and meet the challenges. We can have leaders and send out missionaries and develop ministries and accomplish outreach. When we're godly and when we're believing and when we're stronger spiritually. And God knows our society needs strong churches. So the message to us is value the building up, value the exhortation, value the teaching that comes from those ancient prophecies. We are valuing the gift of prophecy when we listen to the prophecies. Paul wrote under the inspiration of God. So did John and Peter, the writer to Hebrews, Matthew, Luke, and the others. We turn our ears to those prophecies. We turn our ears to that revelation where those mysteries that God had kept hidden are revealed, and we value that You should listen intently to messages, to sermons. You should be listening carefully to what God is saying to you through the message on Sunday morning. When you go to class, get there on time, be prepared, learn, study the Word of God. You men go home and lead your families in the study of the Word of God. Value the prophecies, the teachings, so that it'll build up The church and your family. Value what has been written down here for us. Want it for the church Many of you are here and you're supporting Hope Bible Church because you want to support a church that's committed to expository preaching, and that is what we have been since the beginning. It builds up. We are all to value the pulpit ministry here at Hope Bible Church. We all are to value this ministry. Since the beginning of this church, this is how God has been primarily developing, planting, and building up this congregation. No matter who stands behind here, as long as we are taking the Word of God and we are proclaiming it to the minds and hearts of people and you want to receive it and you're applying it, that is God's method for building up the church. I think every one of you knows how important it is for us to be opening the Word of God each Sunday, and from this, this is what God has chosen to use to build up Hope Bible Church. And you know that. And you need to value that. And you need to long for that. Years from now, when present leaders may be gone, you need to demand that from anyone who comes to this pulpit. You need to require that because you value that and you see what that has done in your church and you want nothing else. It should be in your heart as a conviction The word of God is powerful, but it it loses its power when it can't be heard, when it's not understood. The whole point of an exposition is to make it plain to our ears. So we will hear God speaking to us. And it changes our lives. It changes the way our church is. It builds us brick by brick by brick, that doctrine. This is what God has been doing. This is what God wants to continue to do. We need to pray for it, value it, because really we're valuing God speaking through his word. In this book. Amen? Our Father and our God, we just pray that you would take these very inadequate words, Lord, and help our people to study more and hear even louder and more clearly what you're saying in this text. Lord, for there's so much in it. I'm not sure it was done justice this morning. I just pray, God, that we would uh continue to study, learn, and understand how you have chosen to speak to local congregations today. And this would be something that we all support. And in our own ways, even apart from the teaching ministry and preaching ministry of the church, we'd all be seeking to edify, to love, to pray for one another. To intercede for each other's needs, to be yearning for each other's growth. Lord, help us to realize we're in a battle down here in the world. We're in a battle. And we need to support and build up each other. Lord God, we pray you'd work mightily, mightily in our church. We yearn, O Lord God, for you to work in a greater way. We lay ourselves before you saying, Lord, work in this body, work in this body. Well, we need you, Lord Jesus, and your power. And all God's people said. Amen.