Well, um yeah, you're not going to need the notes today. Uh we'll make sure everybody has uh the link. Uh uh to get those um in time for next week as we go through the the gospels. But today I'm gonna take a little um side tour and give an overview of Galilee. A lot of the events we've already looked at and will be looking at took place in Galilee. And I thought it would be helpful context-wise for people to have more of a picture of where things are at and how they relate and so on. So to do that, I'm going to share my screen, and you all should be able to see it Right about now, except I'm gonna get rid of that. And Let's see what happens when I do this. Pastor Allen, was that a postcard you buy at the gift shop? That one? Yeah. Uh no, I took that. Maybe I should put it in the gift shop, huh? The HPC gift shop? Yeah, yeah. That's of the Sea of Galilee taken from uh the location that's Most often associated with a Sermon on the Mount. There is a this is on the grounds of a fairly large I think it's a Catholic Church that was put there. It's on the Mount of Beatitudes, as it's called. Anyway, I I wanted to You all can probably can you see the the control strip at the top of the screen like we do here? Regions and routes. Um it says mute and stop video security. If that doesn't come through to you, then you're fine. We're just seeing it. Okay. Um So Israel, when we think of this drill, we think of uh mostly the northern part of Israel But I wanted to give a little overview of the diversity of the land in Israel and where various things took place. One of the most striking features of Israel is the Jordan Rift Valley going down through the Sea of Galilee, down to the Dead Sea, and All of that is very much below sea level. The Sea of Galilee actually is a lake. Um and it's the uh the lowest uh freshwater lake in the world. It's like seven hundred feet below sea level, something like that And of course the Jordan River drains down into the Dead Sea, which is also not really a sea. A sea is something that uh ma maintains its level at sea level because it's connected to the oceans and so on. But these are not connected to the oceans. Um a lake has an inlet and an outlet which the Sea of Galilee does The Dead Sea is basically a big pond, big drainage pond. It's so low that everything just drains into it. And it evaporates a lot, and so you get a lot of uh salts and and so on. uh accumulate there. So the Jordan Rift Valley, the Jordan River running between them Over on the western coast, there's a region called the coastal plain, much of which is where the Philistines were. And now is uh Gaza Strip area in there. As you move eastward, you get into some foothills that are called the areas called the Shifela. It's completely different geography, uh transitional between the plains and The hill country. The hill country is the taller mountains, that's where Jerusalem is. And uh much of the tribe of Judah was in the hill country there. And so the Shefala are these rolling hills, kind of the foothills of the larger um mountains. Continuing east, once you get past the hill country, the transition between the mountains and that are very much above sea level And the Dead Sea, which is very much below sea level, something like fourteen hundred feet below sea level or something. Um There's obviously a lot of drop-off there, and it's also because of the the prevailing winds and everything, it's also desolate, and that's the wilderness. Particularly references in that we've already seen where Jesus was tempted in the wilderness and that kind of thing. So as you go south of there, you get the Negevs. And you don't see here all of what is now Israel or even was Israel back in Jesus' day. But it's mostly desert kind of uh terrain. Negev means south, and so obviously that's the south Further north, you get the Sharon Plain. So you got the coastal plain, Charon Plain, very similar in that they're coastal. To the east of that is the Sumerian hills, where it's it's just again. Some plateau, some mountainous, some hills, and so on. That's of course where Samaria was And then you get Mount Carmel, which is not so much a mountain peak, but a ridge. And it goes all the way to the point at the Mediterranean Sea and goes perhaps even farther into the Sumerian hills. It's quite a quite a ridge there. We'll talk a little bit more about that in a minute. So just north of those is the Judge Rio Valley, which is sort of like an arrowhead pointing left, right? Correct. Uh where uh the word valley there is kind of the shaft of the arrow and you've got these these uh Parts of the arrowhead, if you will. Jezreel Valley, very fertile, and turns out to be quite a crossroads. And we'll talk about that in just a second. Further north is the plain of Asher. Again, it's a coastal plain, not very wide. Then we get Lower Galilee. Lower in the sense that it's south, the south part of Galilee, but more importantly, it's lower in elevation than Upper Galilee. Now, Lower Galilee doesn't mean that it's a plain. Lower Galilee actually is quite hilly and and and but it's more habitable than Upper Galilee. There's hardly um been uh a lot there. And then the Hula Valley, again you get down into the the valley that feeds into the Jordan River and you've got that moisture coming in from um uh uh Mount Herman, just off to the right, and that becomes a very fertile area as well. To the right of that was the area called Bashan. Nowadays you might think of it as Golan. You might have heard of that. And further south of that is what was called Gilead, now forms the bulk of what is modern-day Jordan. So that's a view of the Jezreel Valley. Again, you can see it's very fertile. And uh pretty extensive. And uh just gives you an idea of how the area around Galilee uh is today. All right now, to understand more about how uh these different portions of of Israel um fit in with the rest of the world, you remember the Ferbal Crescent, Mesopotamia, and uh Israel here uh between the the Sea of the Galilee and the Dead Sea and so on. Um and so most transportation would be either on what was called the King's Highway, which was whether it's it's going through some of the Syrian desert or even going up and around it. And then down through Israel and then down to Egypt. Or branching off earlier to get to the coastline And uh that's called the via Maris, the way of the sea. Uh those two routes And maybe slight variations of them to the north were basically international highways. Israel just existed in the middle of that And that had some advantages and disadvantages. But when you look within Israel, you see these two routes, the King's Highway off to the east, the Via Maris on um the west along the coastline. And in between those, not so much an international highway, But a very common route within Israel among the Israelites was called the Way of the Patriarchs, or sometimes called the Ridge Route. So they would start at the Jezreel Valley and take kind of the high road rather than the VMRis, which was the low road, right? And the high road, which was not all that useful for getting to Egypt. which is why international travels travelers didn't do it. But it was very much a a central route within Israel. so that you could avoid the crowds on the interstate, if you will, and take the local roads within Israel and get to from place to place. Okay, now I mentioned the Jezreel Valley. Let's look at it a little bit closer. There's a spot on Mount Carmel. You see that red dot there? Called Mukwaka, which means the scorching. In memory of Elijah's doing battle with the prophets of Baal on Mount Carmel And um there's a um uh I guess it's uh Not really a monastery, but there's a there's a facility there run by the uh Carmelite monks Which has a fantastic viewing platform on its roof. And it's probably very close to where Elijah actually had this battle with uh the prophets of Baal. And of course he called down fire from heaven, right? That's why it's called the scorching Mukhaka. Well There are three main mountain peaks that mark the sort of the eastern edge of the arrowhead. of Jezreel Valley. Mount Tabor at the top. You see the little triangle there? And Mount Morah. You remember Mount Mora? In connection with King Saul. I'll talk about him a little bit. And then also Mount Gilboa. Which again is a bit more of a ridge than just a single mountain peak. As uh Tabor and Mora were just single mountain peaks. Anyway, if you see those three here on the map, and if you're standing at Mukraka, That's what you see. You see Tabor, Mora, and Gilboa. And they're sort of at the far uh eastern end of the arrowhead And we're standing up a little bit closer to the tip of the arrowhead, looking at um uh across the Jezreel Valley. Okay, so uh you've got the Jezreel Valley and then Mount Mont Carmel. What is Mount Carmel? It's basically a roadblock for the International Highway. Except for the fact there are three ways through. One is the Megiddo Pass. Why do you think it's called the Megiddo Pass? It's located next to Megiddo. Why is Megiddo there? To protect. It's a defensive fort and community, very strategically located. That is one of the main ones coming through for the VMaris. There is another pass, the Jyopnion Pass, that's near Mukraka, where we were in the earlier slide. And there's a one at the south called the Dauphin Pass. Why? Because it's near Dauphin. Dothan is where Joseph went to look for his brothers who were mint mining with cheap, right? So there are these one main way, but two other alternative ways to take your international route from Syria or wherever it is up to the north all the way down to Egypt. And Israel and the Jezreel Valley, particularly then become very strategic because if you can control the Jesreel Valley, you can control all of that traffic. Which has lots of military implications, but also, as it turns out, lots of tax implications. There's always a tax angle, right? Okay. Well, let's look then at some of the places around Galilee. We mentioned Megiddo. What do we remember from McDo? It's going to be very central in in times events. Large armies are going to assemble in the Jezreel Valley around Megiddo, and that will be Ar Magiddo, Armageddon, will take place. It's been very strategic location. It's going to continue being a very strategic Location. As you stand at Megiddo looking across the Jezreel Valley, it's not quite as high as as um uh Macraka was. But um you see it's it's right there in the center essentially of uh the Jezreel Valley. Jezreel itself is a place. It's just east of Megiddo. It's kind of right at the intersection of the arrowhead and the shaft of the arrow. Jezreel is where King Ahab lived, had his palace. And if you're standing in Jezreel, you see Uh uh this perspective of the Jezreel Valley, again, it's um um Rather extensive. I kind of like that picture too. Okay, so continuing eastward At the very end of the shaft, if you will, of the arrowhead of the Jezreel Valley is Beshan. Which initially, I mean, from biblical perspective, its significance is this mound on the upper right-hand corner which is where ancient Bijshan uh existed. There was uh uh fortification there and so on. Uh that's perhaps most notable because that's where the Philistines uh took Saul's body and posted it on the wall of the uh of Betjan. That was what it was. Well after that period, uh this this whole um city of the decapitalis was built at this location. It's a rather strategic location. And it has lots of the the Roman sort of features, you know, the amphitheater and and even has a um uh heated uh saunas and various things that they installed and it was quite a quite a thing. That was not Beijan, it had its own name in the decapolis But but the original city you're saying was an Israel a um Israeli city. Yes. Yeah, and that that was on this mound, which was more defensible. Um just to sort of the north the the upper right hand um of the screen there. Okay, so then let's look at Mount Mora And several places here are significant. I mentioned King Saul. He went to visit the witch of who? Of where Endor. Endor is on the sort of the northeast edge of the slope of Mount Mora. Two other interesting cities would be Nain Uh Jesus healed a a um or uh brought to life, right, a son of uh of a widow And then Shunim, that's where the Shunammite woman was from. And as you look at Mount Morah from Uh, let me just double check here It's kind of looking from uh west to east, sort of, not quite. But Nane is sort of in the the the slopes, the the lower slopes of mora Shun is around this other side of of the uh of the slope. Then we get to Nazareth. Nazareth also overlooks the Jezreel Valley, but from the north And this is the view from Nazareth looking down into the Jezreel Valley and this sort of um Single round top mountain to the left. That's Mount Tabor, very distinctive mountain that just sticks up out of nowhere. And Again, you see the very fertile Jezreel Valley there. Another view of Mount Tabor on the left and uh The valley further to the south, looking across the Jezreel Valley from Nazareth We talked a few times about uh the synagogue. Here is a reconstruction of of well not so much a reconstruction but a um It's not necessarily at a synagogue site, but it's a r reenactment of what a synagogue, a typical synagogue for a village, might look like And on the inside, uh there's seating around and uh the scrolls through there and and so on. Uh Synagogues came in lots of different sizes and shapes, similar orientations within them. This one is rather small, others are quite large Then we go to Sepphoris. Now, Sepphoris isn't exactly mentioned in Scripture But uh it's interesting in that it's very close to Nazareth and there's uh extensive uh ruins here. Uh Sepphoris was apparently being built um at the time of Christ. And so it was like a big construction project. And and um Here's an example of of some of the ruins there. And what's interesting Uh if you remember from Matthew 13, where the people say, Is this not the carpenter's son? Is not his mother called Mary and his brothers James and Joseph and Judas And um that word carpenter, the carpenter son, we think of carpenter like A craftsman of wood. But in the Greek, the the term is actually a craftsman. It could be of wood, it could be of stone or brick, or something. It could be a stonemason. And when you look at the building materials they had there, Israel's full of rocks. There was a lot of stonemason stuff going on. There's a little bit of wood carpentry going on. but far more stonemason. And so it's possible that Joseph was more of a stonemason than a wood carpenter. We don't know for sure, but given the context, that's quite possible. And it's also quite possible that if that's true, he would have found ready employment at Sephiroth. It was very close to Nazareth. That may have been why he settled in Nazareth, in fact, because there was ready employment. We don't know. But it's an interesting possibility. Pastor Allen, is all of the stone in Israel, is it generally a soft stone? So it's um it's it can be cut and shaped. uh versus versus granite, um which is more difficult to to cut. Yeah, good question. And we're going to see some examples of this in a little bit, but there are various kinds. And each kind has its own pros and cons, as you say. And so for the most part, people tried to make use of what was locally available. And if you have the resources, you could Even like today, import materials from wherever it is if those if the benefits of those materials suited your project. Of course, that's more expensive And so when you go to build the temple, right, um you're bringing in materials from places that had the kind of um stones that were needed for building the temple. If you're just building houses, you're more likely just to use what's locally available. Well, one of the interesting things about Sepphoris and the ruins that are being excavated and so on there is that they were very elaborate with mosaics. And so some of these were picturing scenes of various things, some are just geometric designs. Some of them revealing sort of the the mythologies and the false religions and so on that uh prevailed. This is all um um mosaic. And fairly major streets have been uncovered that went through Interesting place. A lot of active excavations and so on going on there, uh even now. Well, just north of Sephiroth is the Beitnatofa Valley. And that's a view of that valley from Sepphoris. That would have been very familiar to Jesus. And on the upper end, the upper side, the northern side of the Beitno Tofa Valley, is uh what um uh experts believe was the original location of cana. However um In modern times, there is a Cana to the south of the Beitno Tofa Valley, just to the east of Seferis. And um That's a very thriving uh community. Um in fact there's um a very uh encouraging uh church there made up of Arab Christians And uh you can get uh the sergeants and the biglers to uh to tell you more about that Here are some water pots that are remembering the turning of water to wine in in Cana. They may have been, the actual ones may have been much larger. We don't know. Okay, now we're going to go further to the east to around the Sea of Galilee. And uh Not only in making that transition, but a major feature around the Sea of Galilee is Mount Arbel. So if you're standing on top of Mount Arbel and looking down at the Sea of Galilee, you see this This is a very fertile uh plain. This is on the western edge of the Sea of Galilee. And so as you move your way uh from right to left along the Sea of Galilee shore Uh you get the towns of of uh Magdala and Capernaum and so on. We'll look at those in a minute If you're down on the Sea of Galilee, that's what Monarbo looks like. Very distinctive And to the right of that peak, you see another set of peaks go up a little bit. There's a pass there, and the international route. that we talked about, that goes down into the Jezreel Valley, has to go through that um Arbel Pass. Again, a very strategic place defensively to to uh control that traffic. And if you can see it sort of off to the right, you see that little downward slope, that's Mount Arbel, from the eastern side of the Sea of Galilee. All right, well, let's take a look at some of the towns and villages around the Sea of Galilee. We'll start at Tiberius and work our way around. Tiberius was named obviously after Tiberius Caesar, and it's one of the few places that are mentioned in scripture that are still very much active today. I mean Tiberius is is a place and it's a very uh bustling city The uh original Tiberius that was in um biblical times is a bit off to you you see where all the development is here in the middle. Well just to the left of that is where the original Tiberius was And so there are references there in John 6, for example, there came other small boats from Tiberias near the place where they ate the bread after the Lord had given thanks. And so that would have been, you can see from this view here some excavations that are being made in the sort of the lower center, where the more modern city of Tiberias is further to the north. And sometimes, in fact, in John 21, the Sea of Galilee is called the Sea of Tiberius, because that was a principal city, I suppose, in their It was a common name, partly because of Tiberius Caesar. So after these things, Jesus manifested himself again to the disciples at the Sea of Tiberias. And he manifested himself in this way. That was after his resurrection. Okay, so let's go north to Magdala. What do we know about Magdala? Well not a whole lot, except that um Jesus was going throughout all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom and healing every kind of disease and every kind of sickness among the people. And in Luke 8, it mentions Mary, who was called Magdalene, from whom seven demons had gone out. And so Jesus was going from village to village to their synagogues, preaching, healing, and whatever. What's being uncovered in this photo is the synagogue at Magdala. And so it's very possible that this is one of the ones that Jesus taught at, healed people, perhaps even healing Mary Magdalene. We don't know. But um it's the kind of place where he would have gone and and uh ministered I have a question. Yep. Um the synagogues, as I understood stand it to be were places of teaching and I believe they only taught the men and the boys becoming men. So why would Mary have been in the synagogue? Not necessarily in the synagogue, but when he was there, people would gather, right? And so um He could easily have met her, cast out the demons, not necessarily in the synagogue, but probably not far from it, in the community. Okay. I also noticed your wife i i in the picture of the other synagogue. Yeah, they they made allowances for some women there. Uh modern, that's the modern times Modern times. Now you notice that these big timber supports here are not part of the original. That's just a huge covering to protect it from the elements and so on while they're doing the excavations. Okay, so let's move a little bit further north to the Mount of Beatitudes. Now we don't know for sure this is where the Sermon on the Mount took place. But a lot of experts like the way the features here fit the description in the Gospels. What you have here is a fairly large open area, open amphitheater. And people have actually Try this. You can go down a little bit down from this upper slope that we're standing on down a little bit so that a bit of the the amphitheater, if you will, is behind you. And so what you would say then gets projected and people can hear the person who's speaking, who doesn't have to be shouting all that loud. over a long distance, but uh here in this amphitheater. Um so it it's tended over the time, over the years, for people to assume that's where the Sermon on the Mount took place. And so behind me, when I'm taking this picture is this big Catholic Church that commemorates the Beatitudes, the teaching. So uh whether it is the right place or not, we don't know, but it's it is a compelling uh place. And just around to the other side of that is where I took that picture Okay, uh then we're gonna move up to Tabga. Tabga. It means I think seven springs. And it was apparently a very a favorite fishing spot because Um springs would come in and the fish liked uh the water that was being added to the Sea of Galilee here. Um And it could well have been one of the favorite places of Peter, Andrew, James, and John. Uh places also where Jesus went, like when he appeared to them after his resurrection, may well have been at their favorite fishing hole, and it could have been here. Now, toward the northern end of the Sea of Galilee are three cities. Matthew 11, 20 Uh um Professor Plumley I'm sorry inter Why does it say minus seven hundred degrees? Is that a longitude-latitude thing or is it in the Sea of Galilee or is that how hot it gets? That's not a degree, it's a foot, seven hundred foot below sea level. Oh, it looks like a a degree thing on my computer. Sorry. So anyway, Matthew 11 says, then he began to denounce the cities in which most of his miracles were done, because they did not repent. Woe to you, Corzine. Woe to you, Bess Saida, for if the miracles had occurred in Tyrant Sidon, which occurred in you, they would have repented long ago and sackworth and ashes Nevertheless, I say to you, it will be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon in the day of judgment than for you. And you, Coperna? Will not be exalted to heaven, will you? You will descend to Hades, for if the miracles had occurred in Sodom, which occurred in you, it would have remained to this day. Nevertheless, I say to you that it will be more tolerable for the land of Sodom in the Day of Judgment than for you. Why? Because they didn't repent after the teaching and the ministry of Christ in their midst. Three cities. Now, what's interesting about this is of these three, the only ones that have miracles recorded in Scripture is Capernaum We're not aware that Corosine or Besseda themselves were the location of any of the miracles that are mentioned in Scripture. But Matthew 11 says this is where most of the miracles happen. And of course we know that not everything that Jesus did was recorded in the words of the gospel writers. And so there may have been a whole, and undoubtedly were, a whole lot of miracles and such. That were not recorded. Now, of those three, we know where Capernaum is And we know where Corizine is. They're not entirely sure where Beth Seda actually is, but they're pretty sure it's right there. Now, what do these three have in common other than that's where Jesus did a lot of his ministry? They're right along that major international highway. Now, think about the strategic nature of Jesus' ministry. He's doing miracles along this international highway. Word spreads. People are coming through the international highway and they're taking news of what's happening in Israel to them as they're going north or south. And so there's testimony of Jesus going on without him having to go anywhere. It's because the word is being carried by the travelers. Another strategic thing about that is because this is the international route, Capernaum becomes for Israel a major toll booth. And uh the collection of these tolls or even taxes, even among travelers coming through, um makes Capernaum very strategic. And that's where you find people like Matthew, the tax collector. Now whether he collected uh tolls I don't know, but um wouldn't surprise me. Okay. The right hand side? Yes. The Kings Highway would be off our map way to the right of this. It would be in Jordan. Uh up high, Jordan is up on high plateau, this is down low. So there's some people that would maybe for some strategic reason uh chose to take the King's Highway. I don't know that they would be able to totally avoid tax collection by doing so. Yeah, I'm I'm sure they had uh uh similar Uh tollbooth either way. Yeah. Okay. So then let's go ahead and look at Capernaum. Now here's a synagogue that's only partly destroyed over time. Built on the site of the original synagogue in Capernaum. And We know that this is not the original. The nature of this, the architecture of it, and whatever, is very much after the time of Christ. But, and here's Kirk, where there's these different stone materials, the original foundation here, this darker stone, is the local basalt. It's very dark. It's a volcanic stone. And there are a couple of volcanoes further to the east in Golan. What's built on top of it, this lighter stone, came much later. But the foundation, it's built on the same foundation. But as you can see on the left they're pretty much lined up and on the right they're not so much lined up. Perhaps the geometry was a little bit more perfected in the in the subsequent construction. Um but the that darker level basalt foundation is almost certainly the foundation of the synagogue in Capernaum, where Jesus ministered many, many times. And so that's interesting. The lighter stone looks like a limestone, which is in the category of marble, but it's a it's a soft, soft marble. Right. Yeah, and it was definitely imported. Okay, so as we move around, we can get to Corzine And here again there are excavations going on. What's being excavated is not uh a terribly extensive area. It may have been More of a village than a bustling city. But again, it had a synagogue. This particular synagogue, again, dates from a later period But it's typical of the um the synagogues, even to the extent that it's facing toward Jerusalem. Um it's very interesting. And uh there's a lot of that same basalt in uh corasine as well Well, from there, I want to take us up to Caesarea Philippi. Caesarea Philippi obviously is named partly after Caesar. Partly also after Herod Philip. And it's at the foot of Mount Herman which is the tallest mountain around. It's often snow capped even m most of the year. And the melt-off of that provides a lot of the water that drains into the Jordan Valley. Now, the thing about Caesarea Philippi Is that you get a lot of the water and so on coming off of Mount Herman. There are springs there as well. And it was developed For a couple of purposes. One as a resort A resort that Roman soldiers would frequent And because it was a resort that Roman soldiers would frequent, the morality of the place was not very good. And um Um the other reason, the other interesting thing about Caesarea Tilibi It wouldn't hurt, thank you. The other interesting thing about Caesarea Philippi is that they built here a sanctuary to Ton, the the What is it uh half man, half goat, uh legend uh um sort of like that that um mosaic that we saw earlier in Sepphoris. And so this is this all this great worship and everything that they've they've pictured as to how it might have been, it was actually connected into the wall of this this canyon where there was a spring of water coming out and it was all it was pretty elaborate And so you've got two things going on here, idol worship, uh false religions, the the debauchery of a military play zone, you know, when they have time off. This is a place where Jews didn't want to be seen, didn't want to go And here in the, this is some of the foothills not too far from Caesarea Philippi. Where I'm reminded here that Jesus came into the district of Caesarea Philippi, and he was asking his disciples who the people say that the Son of Man is. Um now stops there for a minute. Why would Jesus have gone to the district of Not into the the resort necessarily of Caesarea Philippi, but in that district, that that area. Why would he go there? To get away from the crowds of people, he needs to build into the lives of his disciples more privately. And he was forever looking for a way to be more remote. With them. And you know, he'd cross over the sea and the crowds would follow him, right? But here he knew that the crowds would not be following him. And so he's having this interaction with his disciples Thank you, Pam. And he says, Who do the people say that the Son of Man is? And they said, some say John the Baptist. But others Elijah, Jeremiah, and so on. And Peter, of course, says, no, you are the Christ, the Son of the Living God. And Jesus said to him, Blessed are you, Simon, because flesh and blood do not reveal that's you, but my father who is in heaven. Now, you get through that episode in verse 20 says, then he warned the disciples that they should tell no one that he is the Christ. From that time, Jesus began to show his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things from the elders and chief priests and scribes and be killed and be raised up on the third day. So we're going to see as we progress through the Gospels more that Jesus repeatedly made that uh claim, uh revealing to them uh the nature of his death and so on. Um but a very critical time for that was here in the district of Caesarea Philippi. Okay, we're going to come back south a bit. We were a little bit north. Coming back down on the eastern edge of the Sea of Galilee to Kirsi. Now, you don't hear the word curse in the Gospels, but there is an event that is associated with the place now called Curse. So when he came to the other side of the Sea of Galilee, into the country of the Gadderines. Two men who were demon possessed met him as they were coming out of the tombs. And of course he he um Uh heal them, he he sent the demons that were in them into the swine And it says in verse 32, he said, Go, and they came out and went into the swine, and the whole herd rushed down the steep bank into the sea and perished in the waters. And so you can visualize here the possible location where they went down the cliff Now, what's missing here is when you get to the bottom of the cliff, you're not actually in the Sea of Galilee. Why is that? Because the Sea of Galilee is a lot lower now than it was back then. Why? Well, there's a lot of irrigation going on, a lot of water being used for for human consumption, and it's drawn down the level of the Sea of Galilee relative to what it was in Jesus' day In fact, because of that, there's less water being dumped into the Dead Sea. And if you look at your maps in your Bible about the Dead Sea, there's this little Lissan peninsula that comes out from the eastern side And there's a upper part and the lower part of the Dead Sea. Well, if you look at that today, it's not an upper part and the lower part of the Dead Sea so much as two completely separate bodies of water. The Lasan thing you could drive across it now because the water level is so low. Um and there are other places where you can see the the little plain area that used to be underwater is now completely not underwater. And so that's presumably what's happening here. And um This is not the exact same location, but this is actually what's called today Kirsey. There's a little park there. And of course Another church has been built there in commemoration of this whole event. So it's possible that that this is the actual location as well. Oh well, I think that's all I have. And so I am going to Stop sharing and get back together. So it has just a couple of minutes. That was an excellent presentation of that area. Beautifully done. Spoken by someone who's been there multiple times. Yeah, I thought it would help to kind of picture some of the the places where these events were taking place and how how they fit together and how strategic they are Pastor Allen, just from having taken a course on other cities and the development of cities, there's always a uh kind of basic functional reasons as to why a city came about. It was because of like proximity to fresh water or to food or to travel paths And or maybe for defense reasons. But if there was always like a a very functional reason for a city. It was never happenstance. That's that's true for a lot of American cities as well, the the older Yeah, and in fact it's it's not usually either or. I mean you you must have water and you definitely want to locate in a strategic way defensively And so take Megiddo, for example. Its location is strategic at this pass. And if you can control that pass between the Jezreel Valley and point south then um um you you control a lot of the the traffic flow. Well it's not naturally gifted by water, but you need water. And you can't change the location of the pass. So you dig down. And you go to Megiddo and there's this huge um um staircase that takes you down, down, down, down, down until you get water. And um that was pretty common It also meant that the water supply was not exposed to your enemies. So Anyway, uh I hope that helped. And um I'll go ahead and close in prayer.