Well, we have the great joy this morning of having Ken Sandy minister the word to us. Again, many of us enjoyed his teaching yesterday. working through principles of relational wisdom and peacemaking. Ken Sandy has been serving the Lord in this arena for uh over forty years. He founded Peacemaker Ministries. He wrote the book The Peacemaker And uh in the last uh decade has been uh serving, uh having founded the ministry of uh RW360, Relational Wisdom 360. The first, as as he would say it, the first thirty plus years of his life was dealing with conflict, and then he wanted to turn and see how he could help prevent conflict in people's lives. But today he's going to focus on encouraging us with the reality that the gospel of Jesus Christ transforms life and how we can uh reflect that transformation in our lives. Uh uh Ken is married to Corlett uh and they have uh two grown children, uh one of which is in Virginia, so he when I heard that that that was true Uh and he mentioned he always loves to come to this region. I'm like, that's who I want to get to come to our conference. That'll be that'll be easy. Anyway, come Ken and minister the word to us. Uh the officers may be handing out pamphlets, uh so just uh receive those as they make their way throughout the congregation. Good morning. It is a privilege and a joy to be here. I know it is no small thing to turn your pulpit over to somebody. It's a significant honor, and I'm very, very grateful to be here. Um you're receiving a pamphlet. Now I want you to leave it closed for a while. We're going to open it up, gonna point out a few things you can do with it But let me set the stage for it to begin with. I want to set the stage by telling you about a little baby named Alicia. Alicia was born prematurely. Worse yet, she was born at the end of a very long newborn intensive care unit, NICU unit shift. And the two nurses in there were exhausted, not as attentive as they should be. They failed to properly hook up the life support system for this little newborn, and as a result, Alicia died within three hours of her birth. Now when I heard this story as an attorney I thought, wow, there's there's a great case. Um no question about liability, the only question now is damages. A million, five million, ten million, how much are you gonna ask out of this? And in our culture today, we often look at catastrophe as a monetary opportunity. Well, recognizing its legal exposure, the hospital did batten down the hatches, they circled their wagons, they called in their attorneys, and they put the two nurses on leave. Now, of course, Alicia's parents were devastated. They grieved over the loss of their daughter for several days. Well-meaning friends came by to comfort them, which was appropriate, and One of them actually pointed out, boy, you've got a great lawsuit here. You could really make a lot of money off this situation. As the parents prayed about this situation and sought the Lord, however, they sensed God was leading them down a very different path. They somehow found the names of the two nurses and their addresses. And two weeks after Alicia's death, they went to each of these nurses' apartments one at a time and knocked on the doors. The nurses open the door and immediately recognize who was standing in front of them. Now how would you feel if you were that nurse? And here are the parents of the little baby who your carelessness caused her death. Well, the nurses were stunned. They were afraid. The walls went up. And both of them basically said, I can't talk with you. The attorneys told us not to talk to anyone. Each of the nurses got the same response from these parents. They said, you don't need to say anything. We want to tell you that we forgive you We know that you did not do this on purpose. We know this was a terrible accident. And we do not want you carrying this guilt for the rest of your life. Well the walls came crashing down, the tears started to flood out. You see, our legal system stops people from doing what they need to do most in situations like this, which is to conf And to seek forgiveness. And our legal system says no, make no admissions. Make no admissions. You expose yourself to liability. But with these parents offering this gift of repentance, the walls came down, the tears started to flow. And both nurses basically said, How can you forgive me? I killed your baby. I killed your baby. That offered forgiveness opened the door for much, much needed forgiveness. Now, this young couple had really prayed about this conversation. They'd sought advice from their pastor, who was a trained peacemaker. And he gave them some good advice and they planned their next words very carefully. When these nurses said, How can you forgive me? I killed your baby, their response was this. We are Christians. We have sinned against God thousands and thousands of time and countless times against other people. But God has forgiven our sins by sending his son Jesus to the cross to pay the full penalty for what we did. And since we have been forgiven so much, we want to share that forgiveness with you. These nurses fell into their arms and they just wept together. They just wept together. Now amazed by that astonishing display of forgiveness, it wasn't long before both of those nurses found even greater forgiveness in the arms of Jesus Christ. Both of them came to faith in Jesus shortly after, and not long after that, they started telling other people about the love of Christ. Now, the parents did actually retain an attorney. But they didn't pardon me. They didn't have the attorney go and just threaten a lawsuit and demand a lot of money. Instead, the attorney acting on the instructions of his clients said they were interested in finding out what went wrong and changing it so other children would not be injured in the future. It made it safe for the hospital to do a sincere objective evaluation of their NECU policies. Instead of defending them and shifting blame, they took a hard look at themselves. They were identified weaknesses in the management of that particular unit, they got different equipment, they've instituted different training, and as a result of that, future babies would be safer because of this incident. Now years later, or months later I should say, some people asked this young couple, they said, you know, didn't you let the hospital off too easily? you could have received a very large award through this thing. And the parents responded basically saying, No, we knew that no amount of money could bring Alicia back and we did not want to put a dollar sign on her head. Our faith tells us that God brought Alicia into this world for a very special, although a very short mission to lead two people into glory. And those key people are now telling others about Jesus. They said our faith tells us that instead of seeking blaming, we should pursue understanding. Instead of seeking punishment, we wanted to seek correction and change. And that made the hospital leaders open to change and future babies are now safer because of that He said, most importantly, though, even though our hearts still ache at the loss of our daughter, we find great comfort in knowing that we will see her again in heaven someday. possibly surrounded by a crowd of people who God used her to bring to a saving faith and eternal life. Now that's a true story. Pretty astonishing to me. When I heard it, I was astonished. And to me, it is one of the most vivid illustrations of the last verse that Pastor Gabe read from Ephesians today. Be kind to one another, tender-hearted. forgiving one another as God in Christ has forgiven you. You know that word tenderhearted leaps out at me in this situation When people have done us great harm in a situation like this and those nurses, their carelessness, not doing their job properly caused a great, great, great loss. And yet these parents, as they prayed, their hearts were moved to think of these poor individual single nurses sitting in their apartments grieving and burdened by the shame and the guilt and the regret of what had happened. And their hearts were tender toward these people who'd done them a great wrong. And that's the heart of Christ, how tender God is toward us. As sinful humanity, instead of looking down on us and seeing just our sin and the offense of our sin, the tenderness of God is what moved Christ to come into this world to save us. Now, as we reflect on this remarkable story, I want to ask a couple questions. If you had lost a child like this, would you have seen this as an opportunity to share the gospel? Or would you then, like most people, see it as an opportunity to bring a lawsuit by getting the lottery today and making a lot of money? Or simply to just hold on to bitterness and anger and actually secretly wish something hurtful to the people who would hurt you. Now, I want to be clear on something. I'm not saying that lawsuits are always wrong. I am an attorney, and I think we've got a good legal system, and it's there for a purpose, to restrain sin. to restrain wrongdoing. And sometimes if people are not willing to repent and change, there's a necessity, whether it's a criminal action or a civil lawsuit, sometimes that's what's needed to get people to realize they've done something wrong and to change The courts can also be instruments to bring out a biblical concept of restitution. If someone has wronged you and harmed you, our system says they should do what is necessary to repair the damage, restore you to wholeness. And that's a legitimate thing to pursue, and sometimes it takes a lawsuit. But what we need to think about is that rather than rushing immediately to the most extreme remedy of a punishing lawsuit Should we not first consider the possibility of this being a way to live out the gospel and display the mercy and forgiveness of God? To make that our first attempt. Now the other person may not respond and other things may be appropriate But first we do need to realize that we should always seek the road of grace first. I love Ezekiel 33, where God said, I take no pleasure in the death of the wicked But rather that they turned from their ways and live. That's the heart of God. It's not punishment, but it's actually repentance and restoration. Let's bring this a little bit closer to home. We probably are not, I hope, experiencing something like the death of a little baby, but think of people who you've attended in the past. Or people who've offended you. Did you offer them this kind of forgiveness? Are the people who've offended you who have experienced remarkable, astonishing, amazing forgiveness? Or are they still burdened by the coldness and the weight of your unforgiveness? Maybe God today is actually putting on your heart someone you need to go to. The same way those nurses or those that couple went to those nurses. You see, the gospel should transform radically. Radically. radically how we deal with these problems in life. We should be so different that the only thing the world could say about us is, wow Wow! How could you do that? Why would you do that? People should be astonished and amazed. Because conflict is everywhere. We have opportunities virtually every week, if not every day sometimes, to display the transforming power of Jesus Christ in our lives. Conflict is on our streets, it's in the workplace, it's in our homes, it's everywhere. And yet in the midst of all this conflict, you look around, all of us can see there are oases at peace There are actually peace people out there who are tender-hearted and merciful and kind and gentle. And we look at them and we see how they do peace. There's marriages that thrive. There's Businesses that prosper because they deal with relational problems in such a constructive way. In many cases, the source of this peace is found in one person. That's Jesus Christ. It's Jesus who came into the world, as Luke 1. 79 and Ephesians 2. 14 says, to guide our feet onto the path of peace. and to tear down the walls that divide us. That's the mission of Jesus is to bring peace and restoration. Now this mission of peace is often referred to as you know is the gospel. The good news that God did not want to hold our sins against us, but instead sent his son into the world to die for our sins on a cross, to pay the debt in full and to be raised again into new life to give us new life. As John three sixteen through seventeen tells us, God so loved the world that he sent his only son into the world. He gave his son that whoever believes in him should not perish. but have eternal life. For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him. And there's so many verses that talk about the implications, the things that flow out from that gospel message. As these and other Bible verses indicate that through faith in Jesus we can be reconciled to God who we offended so deeply, we can be adopted into his family. It's not just I forgive you and See you later, but I forgive you what come into my arms, come into my family, let me embrace you and love you and care for you And he also through through the gospel empowers us to love others as God has loved us And eventually to have the gift of enjoying God forever and ever and ever. It's an astonishing gift. Now when we believe this message and trust in Jesus, God begins a supernatural process in us where he is transforming us more and more into the likeness of Jesus himself. That when people see us as we grow in our Christian faith, they would more and more not see us, they would see Jesus in us. They would see Jesus in us. 2 Corinthians 3. 18 says, As we behold the glory of the Lord, we are being transformed into the same image from one degree of glory to another. People should look at us and see Christ in us. Now, one of the most wonderful aspects of this transformation is that God calls and he empowers us to be part of Jesus' mission to promote peace and reconciliation. all over the face of the earth. 2 Corinthians 5. 17-19 says, Therefore if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old is gone, is passed away. Behold, the new has come. All this is from God, who through Christ reconciled us to himself and gave us the ministry of reconciliation. That is, in Christ, God was reconciling the world to Himself, not counting their trespasses against them, and entrusting to us this ministry of reconciliation. We are ambassadors of Christ, as this passage goes on to tell us. Ambassadors of Christ. Did you know that a United States ambassador is one of the few employees that is on duty twenty four seven. Our ambassador to Great Britain isn't on duty Monday from eight to five and Monday through Friday eight to five, the weekends are his to go out and do whatever he wants. He is representing presenting the United States of America, his conduct on Saturday and Thursday night and Sunday afternoon reflects on the United States of America. And he is on duty 24-7. The same is true of us. Our faith calls us to be on duty as ambassadors for Christ 24-7. Every human interaction should be calculated to represent our Lord well. Now, through the gospel, God has not only given us eternal life, but He's also transformed us into new creations. With new purposes and new powers. We all have now new purposes and powers. And one of these ways is to reflect the gospel with this kind of an attitude. God saved me by sending his son to die for my sins. Since God loved me that much, I will love other people Since God forgave me that much, I will forgive other people. Since God reconciled with me, I will reconcile with others When the gospel is right there in front of us in all of its beauty and glory, all we can do is want to live it out. Turn right around. We would be like people. Thank you. We would be like people who just got word that we won the lottery and there's a billion dollars in our bank account and all we can think about is who can I share this with? It's more than I can spend myself. Who can I share this with? That's what the gospel should do. And the way we can embrace that work in our lives is by trusting the message of the gospel. believing that Jesus died on the cross to pay for our sins and praying that he would dwell in us so fully. And by meditating on and delighting in the gospel every day so deeply it would just stream out of us To put it simply, when we reflect much on the gospel of Jesus Christ, we will reflect much of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And here's the struggle many of us have. We're like somebody, a tourist that comes out to Big Sky Country, to Montana, my state And if you're in central Montana and you're standing at the base of the Rocky Mountains, they tower over you. They just completely capture the skyline. All you can see is these beautiful, glorious mountains And that's how new Christians are often when they come to Christ. They are so amazed and overwhelmed with the gift of forgiveness in Jesus. I've always preferred doing mediations with brand new Christians. They're the most teachable, humble, and eager to forgive. They they feel rich and they want to give that grace to other people. The hardest people to do mediation with sometimes are Christians who've been in the church for 40 years. They memorize all the thou shalt and all the thou shouldst, and they've forgotten the gospel. They're like people who saw the Rockies at one point, then they turned around and started walking east. And the mountains get smaller and smaller and smaller until they disappear over the horizon. And we resort back and we live by the law, the things that vindicate me and condemn you. And so we need to stand at the foot of those mountains every day. Every day we need to just be amazed at the glory and the wonder of Jesus Christ. I love what Tim Keller talks about. In his book, The Prodigal God, he said, All change comes from deepening our understanding of the salvation of Christ and living out of those changes that understanding creates in our heart Faith in the gospel restructures our motivation, our self-understanding, our identity, our view of the world. It's the gospel, the gospel, the gospel. Don't ever treat the gospel like a plane ticket, the old paper plane tickets. You get you get this ticket when you come through the door of faith. Okay, I'm now saved, I'm in the in the family of God, I'm part of the church, great. And I put it in my pocket, and then I live by the law until I come to another door, and it's I'm about to die, and I pull it out again, say, Oh, I'm not worried about death because I believe in Jesus. But between those two doors, we often forget that the main thing to motivate us and delight us and spill forth through us is the mercy and grace we have from God through the gospel. Now let's get really practical. Let's get practical. Take out your pamphlet. If you've got a pamphlet. I always, whenever I'm preaching, I want to say, so what? So what? What does this mean? Now if you open it just partway, the first fold, and you just see this much, you'll see basically the essence of what I've said so far. A little bit more compact, but it's here But what I want you to do is open it all the way. And inside this pamphlet, you will see a little chart. That I want to encourage you to use for some self-examination. And what you'll see in this chart and call there's 12 lines that just describe in the first column different circumstances in life. Daily life. When I realize a conflict exists, when others treat me or behave like an enemy, there's just twelve just common relational dynamics of life. In the second column, it's a brief description of how we are inclined to respond to that situation apart from the transforming power of the gospel. So you'll see, for example, down when number three, when others may be hurting, in the second column, I'm often so focused on my own goals and needs I overlook their needs. But in the third column, you'll see how we can respond to those situations when we're transformed by the gospel. And this is something you can use. You can go before the Lord, just use it perhaps as a devotional tool, and just say, Lord, am I still stuck in the second column in some areas? Because I deal with a lot of people who I think are true, regenerate, born-again Christians whose behavior is described by the second column rather than the first the third column. Now I want to quickly say there's unsaved people out there that by God's common grace can actually act very loving and very forgiving at times. But we cannot do it consistently apart from God's transforming grace. And they're all actu they're actually regenerate, saved Christians who are not living in the third call just because they're still stuck with some sinful behavior. They have not been able to appropriate grace to overcome. Now let me give you just some a few practical examples. In fact a couple of quick caveats. You'll notice down in the left hand corner of that fully extended pamphlet there's a couple of links One of them says, it has our URL, it says peacemaking and abuse. If you are in an abusive situation, physical, verbal, emotional, sexual abuse, You do not immediately apply these things because that is a situation that has danger and harm threatened in it. And you have a a different set of things you need to do to create safety and promote repentance in the person who is creating danger for you. So I just want to give a caveat. Abuse situations have to be handled with more delicacy And the first goal is to bring safety to the people involved before you start working through these kinds of issues of confession, forgiveness, and restoration. So just keep that in mind. I'll come back to some of the other links there in a moment. Let's look, I just want to walk through about three or four of these examples, just to give you a taste. And oh I know, by the way, one more thing down there, you'll see a link. It says this six pamphlet uses. You can download from the internet a Bible study That has an extended view of this pamphlet with all the Bible verses in it. So you could use it and just over the next 12 days, just one one of these things a day, go through one of these situations, read the Bible passages Pray for God to really help you see how those passages can help you move from column two to column three. Because that's our goal is to live in that column three, transformed into the image of Christ. Let me give you a few examples though. I'm just going to talk about a few of these. Number one, that line number one In daily life, apart from the gospel, I'm preoccupied with my own desires, plans, reputation, and convenience. I think many of us can relate to that. But when I'm transformed by the gospel, I find my greatest joy in pleasing God and serving other people. As John 8. 29 says, this is Jesus speaking, he who sent me is with me, has not left me alone, for I always do the things that please him. So that's part of the transforming power of the gospel. You wake up in the morning, it's not about how to do things that please you, accomplish your ends, but it's basically say, Lord, what do you have in store for me today? How do I bring you honor? How do I serve other people? How am I mindful of making that my top priority? The phrase I often use when counseling people is what would please and honor God in this situation? Now I've got a challenging situation in my life right now. A colleague from the past, we're very close, did ministry together, has ghosted me. If you know what that word means, it's like I have disappeared. And what used to be a very close friendship with emails and lunches and coffee and how you doing and here's something of interest and actually ministering together It's like I've disappeared from this guy's radar. And my human reaction is, well you ghost me, I'll ghost you. And that's that's what I want to do in my flesh. Apart from the gospel, that's what I would do. Because we are sort of wired. You reject me, I reject you. That's how we're wired. It's a sa it's a protection mode. We actually do that, protect ourselves from further rejection. But as I as I look at these scriptures, I look at Jesus And I I look at his love and compassion and kindness to me in spite of all the years that I ignored him before I came to faith And even all the years that I still have not walked consistently faithfully with him before since I came to Christ, and he's so merciful and compassionate and kind, even though at many times I've essentially ghosted him And yet he still reaches out. His grace, I wake up in the morning, I can take a breath. I can stand up on these legs. I've got food and water. I've got it. I mean, all these blessings just come pouring out of heaven. in God's mercy. So how can I receive all that kindness and grace from God and not still be willing to turn around and give it to my brother? And so I continue to pray for him every day. And not, Lord, help him to see how awful he is. No, Lord, bless him. Give him a good day. Draw him near to you. Help him to know the glory and the wonder of your love for him in his kind. Pray blessings upon him And when I find articles that I think I know what his interests are, and I'll I'll just shoot him a little text and say, hey, saw this article today. I know you have an interest here and shoot this to him. This man is actually a pastor. And I saw something recently that I knew that he had opted out of Social Security years ago, something pastors can do, which generally is a big mistake. because they don't have enough money when they retire. And I saw that the Trump administration is thinking reversing that ruling, letting pastors opt back in. This is a major financial benefit. And so I shot this to the the pastor. And said, hey, I thought this might be of interest to you. And that finally touched his heart. First time in two years. That he's responded something. He said, thank you. That was very thoughtful of you. This could be a big help. What I was doing there basically was Romans 12, 20 through 21. If your enemy is hungry, feed him If he's thirsty, give him something to drink. If he opted out of Social Security, let him know that he can get back in. Okay. So it's taking an effort, it's saying, God, I don't want to do this, but I know this is pleasing to you. And if Jesus' whole life was how can I please the Father, I want to imitate him. What would please you? So maybe there's someone in your life. But you'd rather treat this way, but you know God is saying no, treat them this way. Let's skip down a bit. Skip down to number three. When others may be hurting, apart from the gospel, I'm often so focused on my goals and needs that I overlook others' needs I can be so focused and just zeroed in on what I want to do that I am oblivious to other people's needs. But when I'm transformed by the gospel, When I'm transformed by the gospel, I become sensitive to the needs and the struggles and the hardships and the challenges of other people. They're important to me. I respond to them with the kindness Jesus has shown to me. My life was changed by someone doing that for me. When I got out of law school, I was uh clerking for a federal judge in Billings, Montana. He was 85 years old, sharp as attack, and he would fly around the country sitting on the federal courts of appeal. And one day we were invited to fly to come back to the D C Court of Appeal and I was as his clerk, I traveled with him and uh back back here in DC. And the weekend before there was a conference in Wheaton, Illinois by sponsored by the Christian Legal Society that I wanted to attend, so I asked the judge if I could fly out a couple days early, go to the conference Satur or Sunday afternoon, hop on a plane, fly to DC and be with a judge on Monday morning. He said, Fine. So go to this great, great conference. And Sunday afternoon that we've gone completed most of the conference. There's only one keynote address left to be done. And I'm packing my suitcase to take it down to the Fourier so we can get on the bus to go to the airport. And I realized my absolute whore, I failed to include a white dress shirt. I had some brightly colored short sleeve polos which really don't look good under a three piece suit in the federal court. I mean I was mortified I was I I just went through my suitcase like three times. I can't believe I did this. I was just racking my brain. I didn't know what to do. I closed my suitcase, went down to the foyer and Billy Graham Center there and I was just standing there just what are you gonna do? And I actually had decided I would probably just call in sick on Monday. I just didn't want to embarrass my judge. And I just didn't know what to do, and I was just standing there with this distressed look on my face probably about two hundred people milling around like your foyer out here, but you know, a lot of people just filling it, getting ready to go into the auditorium for the last keynote. The last speaker was a litigator from Los Angeles named Fred Cassidy. This was 43 years ago, folks. 43 years. And Fred was walking through the lobby. Surely he was thinking about the keynote he's about to give to a whole bunch of attorneys. And um he passed probably about five feet from me. There were some people in between us You got about two steps beyond us. And he stopped, and he pivoted, and he walked back through the crowd. He said, Are you okay? Are you okay? We have a God-given capacity to read people's facial expressions. their tone of voice, their body language. People often send the most significant messages to us through those avenues. And on that day, Fred's side-looking, he wasn't walking through there, I wonder if anybody is distressed today. That wasn't his conscious thought. It was like a side-looking radar Now I happen to believe the Holy Spirit was supercharging it that day. You know, he can really heighten those things. But in any case, Fred had a capacity, and he glanced over here, you saw a distressed look on the face of a perfect stranger. And he said, Are you okay? And I said, No. And I poured out my dilemma to him without hesitating. He reached in his pocket, pulled out a set of car keys. He didn't know my name. They said there's a there's a car on the parking lot, there's a mall just a mile down the road, you need some money. I will never forget that I love what Maya Angelo says. People will forget what you say, they will forget what you do. They will never forget how you make them feel. Feelings are what impress memories into our mind and they stay with us for a long time. That man's kindness to me at a Christian Legal Society conference motivated me to join the Christian Legal Society. Which led me to establish the ministry that I've served for the last 43 years. That man's kindness changed the course of my life. And folks, people have the same impression of us as Christians. When they meet us, if they find exceptional kindness and sensitivity, they will attribute that kindness to all Christians They say, wow, you Christians must be really nice people. But if we're insensitive and unforgiving and harsh, guess what? Boy, you Christians. Your behavior as an individual can reflect on the entire body of Christ and more than that on God Himself. So just cultivating that that that ability to read voices and to read facial expressions. Let me go down and may just give you two more very brief ones. Number six. Apart from the gospel, my top priority when I'm in conflict is to vindicate myself win my points and make myself look good, just and right. Can anyone relate to that? That's our fleshly nature. I've got it worse because I'm an attorney. I will advocate for myself, okay? I'll give you an opening argument and use leading questions to back you into a corner. But when I'm transformed by the gospel, my top priority is to honor God. To honor God by mirroring his reconciling, loving character and his transforming work in my life. When I I came to Christ just shortly before law school and when I came back to Billings and because I was didn't have a lot of money at that point, I was living hold of my parents. And which was generally wonderful because I love my folks, we got along well. But I was really impossible because I was determined I was going to drag my dad into the kingdom of God, whether he wanted to be there or not And we got into these long discussions, we're both lawyers, my dad was a judge, and we're arguing and debating, and one day we're having this conversation And I just got so frustrated, and by the way, frustration is a nice word for angry. I got so angry I threw up my heart and said I'd give up And I walked down, you know, went to my bedroom and I was downstairs to close the door. I was going, Okay God, I I know, I know, I wasn't honoring my father the way you command, and I know that wasn't the most constructive thing to do, but he drives me nuts. He just won't listen And I yeah yeah, I know I should go up there admit I was wrong and ask his forgiveness, but God if I do that just gotta think I'm a fool It was one of those moments that where it wasn't an audible voice, but it was a very strong impression that I had that I believe was the Holy Spirit impressing onto my mind. And basically it was this. Ken God, or your your dad already knows you're a fool? You've made that really obvious the last half hour. The question is, does he know that I am real, I'm working you to change you? That's the question. Instead of focusing on my self-righteousness, God wanted me to reveal the goodness and transforming power of His Spirit in my life And I swallowed hard because I had to fight against pride and walk up there and say, Dad, I'm so sorry for what I just did. And my dad, even as a non-Christian, was one of the most forgiving people I've known in my entire life. He forgave me, so I know I can be hard too, and everything else. But he started seeing something supernatural going on, he was proud, arrogant Son. He was seeing a change in me. And as he also saw the things going on in our ministry, reconciliation of disputes and things like that, he began to realize there's a supernatural power here. There has to be a God In an hour and a half before my dad died, he put his trust in Jesus. Was little by little seeing the transforming power of God in my life and in other people that he began to meet through me Your behavior, even humbling, you know, in our flesh we want so much to impress people with our righteousness. God says, no, no, impress them with his righteousness. I've given you enough examples. There's others that you can you can come up with on your own. You think of, I'll just refer to one quickly, number 11, when others hurt me deeply. Apart from the gospel, I dwell on their wrongs, indulge in self-pity, lash back, or avoid having anything to do with them. But when I'm transformed by the gospel, I forgive just as God has forgiven me refusing to dwell on their sin or let it stand between us. And again, that's at Ephesians four thirty-two. Forgive one another, be tender hearted as God in Christ forgave you, the same way those two nurses years ago. were forgiven by that couple and came to know the forgiveness of Jesus Christ. So I encourage you to download the Bible study that's available through that URL down below. where you can actually study the scriptures that back up all these transformations. I can tell you life gets so much better when you're living in that third column. It's a sweet place to be. Your conscience is clear. You've got peace before God. And you can touch the lives of people so much more effectively there There's one other use I want to just quickly mention to you. You can download another thing. There's a URL down there that says six uses of this pamphlet. And I encourage you to download that because I know there's probably many people in the room this morning who go out into the work world Monday through Friday, who have co-workers who you really like and care about, who you would help out in lots of different ways, and but you also may know that they don't know Jesus If they got in a car wreck on the way to work tomorrow, they would be separated from God for eternity. And many Christians really want to share the gospel with their friends and co-workers, but we're Frankly, we're just afraid sometimes. They'll think we're weird or they'll be offended or something like that. So I want to make it easy for you. I want to make it easy for you to share the gospel with other people. Just go to our website and buy a 10-pack of these pamphlets. They're very inexpensive. Take it to the office and put that pack in the drawer. When you go to work tomorrow, you just take one of them out and just put it on the corner of your desk. And then you just say, Lord, if there's anyone here today in the office whose heart you are preparing to meet Christ, please bring them into my office today. And an hour later a coworker walks in and is asking for a paper or something they had from you, and they happen to notice this pamphlet sitting in the corner of your desk. They go, What's that about? You go, oh That's the power that totally changed my life. You can take it if you want. And if that coworker walks out of your office holding this, she's walking out with the gospel of Christ in her hand. And if the Holy Spirit is preparing her heart and she reads that, her heart can be open and she can come to know Christ. And then you open your drawer, you take out another pamphlet, you put it on the corner of your desk. And over time, four or five or six of your coworkers may take that pamphlet, come back and say, Hey, could we talk about this? Can we have lunch? So in a very low-key, non-threatening way, you've opened the door for a conversation to share what Jesus is doing in your life, to witness and say, here's how he's transforming me. Yeah, I'm still on this number four, I'm still stuck over here, but God's really helped me over here. And you just share your journey with this person. And who knows, they may just come come back at one point and say, Well, where do you go to church? Say, hey, I'm down at Pope Church. Why don't you join me Sunday? You could start four or five or six or seven people in your office who are showing this interest and say, hey, let's do a study on peacemaking or something like that, brown bag lunch, something. You could transform your workplace. Because what normal person would not look at column number three and say, I'd really like to be that person? And the message we give to them is, so would I. And we can't be that person until Jesus Christ comes into our life. That's the hope we have to be transformed By the gospel of Christ. Let me pray. Father, we thank you so much for your mercy, your kindness to us, your patience and forbearance. Lord, over many years as we stumble and struggle along and fall on our knees, yet you pick us up like a loving parent, so patient. And you keep walking us down this road, this sanctification, transformation into the image of our Lord Jesus Christ Lord, I pray that as people go home today and really reflect on these things, that the scriptures would speak to them and give them hope and encouragement about how we can change. And the blessings of that change, the peace, the clear conscience, the restored relationships. And Lord, also the opportunity to reflect so beautifully. You're transforming grace to our coworkers, our family members, our next door neighbors. Lord, that they would be drawn to you as well. Lord, use us, please. To reflect your grace, to draw other people into the very loving arms of Jesus Christ. We pray this in his name. Amen.