It's our privilege once again to open our Bibles to the letter of James, chapter one Today looking at verses thirteen through eighteen, continuing with the theme of trials But also with temptations today. Trials are not a favorite topic of most I commend you not only for hearing this series, but for responding to it, as far as I can tell, so positively. Many of you have shared with me the series is focusing your thoughts on godly things and strengthening your faith. We Christians really need staying power and strength and fortitude if we're going to rise up and do all that God has commanded us to do. Do you want to see us increase in our service to God and our outreach in our discipleship and ministry? Would you like to see that? Well You'll see that only as the people are able to do that, and we know if people can't handle their trials well, they're not going to stand during their trials and serve the Lord Jesus. So I think this series is very much needed to develop our people here and continue to pray that it will work its effect in you. Last time, last week, we learned the blessed truth that there is indeed a future reward To those whose faith becomes approved by God. That's what verse 12 is all about. Now many people today say they have faith in God, but God tests that faith, and he will either approve it or disapprove it. It's not those who profess to believe in Jesus, but those who persevere in their faith in Jesus through a trial-filled life that God will approve. The reward is at the end. It is a crown. We are crowned with life with eternal resurrected life It is reserved only for those who prove that they have a faith that endures and indeed that they love Christ. It is not a crown given to those whose faith goes disapproved. So really, this issue of perseverance in belief and faith throughout all of life is no secondary issue for you and for me. It is one that we ought to be focused on, and we ought to understand that we have come to put our faith in Christ. We must indeed focus on Christ all the days of our life. And you might ask, with all that we have learned about trials so far, what else could James proc possibly instruct us about the same topic. Well, I think that there is here in his mind, as he wrote, one more issue that he wants to address about trials. There's one potential area of deception related to our trials that James wants to make sure does not lead astray his Jewish brethren who had faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. James understands and he recognized that with each external pressure, each trial sent from God, each unsolicited difficulty that we encounter in life, there is also the flip side to the trial. And that flip side is called what? Temptation. Temptation goes right along with the trials of life. Temptation is one of those terrible realities of life. Temptation to do evil, to sin, to fail morally, to miss the mark with God. If we're honest, mostly we humans, when we are attested by God, like when we face the loss of a loved one. Or we encounter a sickness either to ourself or someone we love, we encounter financial difficulty and struggle and maybe ongoing. There's some tragic accident that comes into the world that you live in. Even just relational strains as we try to deal with difficult people, people that are not maybe like us. Our initial response is not to respond correctly to that trial, but rather we often, rather than learning, we fail to respond properly. Rather than being built up in endurance as God intends for us in going through that trial, instead we stumble and we fall. In some cases, we fall pretty badly. We prove that we are spiritual weaklings. When it comes to wrestling with sin, we're wimps. We don't know how to beat it. And we give in. And often we give in very quickly. We don't stave off sin, we give in to sin. We get lured away, not into faith and trust and obedience and endurance, but into anger and into lustful passion, into jealous thoughts. In the pride and hatred, into despair and friction and bitterness and a host of other worthless evils. They enter so quickly into our lives. And if we're honest We're like that's what happens when a trial hits my life. That's the reality of what happens to me. Well praise God for the Bible, this book of brilliant insight from God, for it informs us that lurking behind every trial sent from God to build us up is a temptation that seeks to tear us down, and we get alerted to this and get taught how to respond to it. Anyone who's been through a trial knows, and you can understand this, The temptation always accompanies a stressful and hard situation. You feel it more and more. When are we most impatient and sharp with our words? Is it not when we get tired and worn down? And we feel life is pressing against us, too many things to think about and deal with, and then we respond in an unkind way. When else are we most unkind? Is it not when others have been rude to us? When they have not taken into consideration our rights and our needs When are we often most covetous and we give in to that, unsatisfied with life? Isn't it when we see others getting things and not us and we feel neglected? But if that is so, if that is truly the case, that temptation comes to us dramatically at times of trial, what does that then say about God? Is God to share in some of the blame for our acts of evil? You might be aghast to even think the thought, but the truth is that thought does come into the mind. And with many it comes into more than the mind, it is indeed what they say. After all, some might reason that we would not have gotten angry or fearful or whatever other sin it was If God had not allowed that external pressure into our lives at this time and in this way without any warning? And so that is a remaining question. James doesn't want to leave it unanswered. This is a masterful discourse on trials, and so he completes it, I think, by entering into this issue of temptation. How are we ever going to be able to consider a joy when we encounter a trial? How are we ever going to be able to focus on eternal reward as we were taught in the last passage And even to maintain unmixed in faith where we don't doubt God, if our minds are always wondering, am I the only one to blame for this sin here? Or have I been kind of set up here by God? Or divine forces working against me, and hey, I couldn't have helped it. Who really is to blame for the evil that we do when we are in the midst of a trial that we did not choose? Is God to blame, or are we to blame? Or both of us? Or is it the devil? Or all three of us? Or none of the above? Yes, strangely there are some who pretend evil doesn't even exist, so I guess you don't have to really worry about it There are those of us, however, who see evil constantly in the world around us, and we need a solid answer as to its source and origin. This is not a philosophical question only. This is a personal question because you see evil inside of you. What is the origin of that? Where does it come from? Well, James realizes that there is the real possibility that someone who's weighed down with the pain of life and then is giving in to sin will become deceived in that state and start blaming God. For an unbeliever, I'd say that's the regular and that's the norm. And so look at verse 16 of this passage. He says, Do not be what? Deceived. You're going to be deceived by sin. You're going to be deceived by sin. Don't be deceived, my beloved brethren. So this section Verses thirteen through eighteen seeks to keep us from being deceived by providing an insight into the source of sin and evil within us. Let's read the whole passage and come back and look at it Starting with verse 13, let no one say when he is tempted, I am being tempted by God. For God cannot be tempted by evil, and he himself does not tempt anyone. But each one is tempted when he is carried away and enticed by his own lust. Then when lust has conceived, it gives birth to sin, and when sin is accomplished, it brings forth death. Do not be deceived, my beloved brethren. Every good thing given and every perfect gift is from above Coming down from the Father of Lights, with whom there is no variation or shifting shadow. In the exercise of His will, He brought us forth by the word of truth, so that we would be a kind of first fruits among his creatures. Now this whole section really is a defense of God James is defending God against man's accusations. It's a type of a theodicy. A theodicy is a defense of God, the defense of the God of the Bible against any accusations that would come Into our ears, we would hear it, we'd need a defense against God, or in our hearts, and we would need that as well. A theodicy really seeks to show that God is right and man is wrong. That God is not only right, but that He's very good and He's glorious, and not in any way can He ever be accused of anything. He is worthy of all praise and adoration. God is being defended here by James for that purpose. A proper biblical theodicy sees God as an absolute control of all things. Yes, even evil, but never advancing evil. Rather, it is created moral creatures with the possibility of choosing good or evil that advances evil. Evil, by the way, is not a thing. Evil is not a thing created by God. It doesn't have its own existence. Evil is the absence or the perversion or the corrosion of the good that God gives and the good that God created. Evil is twisting. It's twisting the truth. When we twist the truth, we call that a what? A lie. And so that's what it is. Lying which is sin is just the twisting of that which is good Evil is the warping of love, and the warping of love we call lust. Evil is the ruining of worship of God, and the Bible calls that what? Idolatry. Evil always flows from the creature, never ever from the creator. However, man doesn't always think that way because man has a fallen mind, and so his reasoning processes are affected by the fall into sin. And he's developed all kinds of smart arguments, he thinks, against the existence and the goodness of God, but his arguments are self-contradictory and they're arbitrary and they have no basis Certain arguments do seem rational and just to educated people, but that's only because their minds are controlled by sin, and they don't have any way of challenging their own assumptions. And that kind of education is flawed at its very base. For it is their pride that renders them incapable of and unwilling to challenge any of their foundational assumptions that they bring in their accusation against God. In short, we can say that man's human education is already prejudiced against the true God of the Bible. So how can he reason properly? Fallen humans would sooner find fault with the God of the Bible than with themselves. And any fault that they find in themselves, they believe it's really more the fault of somebody else. Society, parents, you name it. So James is writing this section to vindicate God against any false ideas that might arise even in the minds of believers, in your minds, as you wrestle against sin and deal with trial. And James does this by focusing us on the unchanging holy and righteous and benevolent character of the living God. We can never legitimately pin the blame for our sin and our evil and our depravity on God, the Holy Creator No matter how hard anyone tries to twist or turn any of these things, no evil and no guilt will ever stick to God. And James provides four reasons. These aren't the only reasons the Bible provides, but we have four here. Four reasons that God is not the source of evil in our lives. Four reasons That God is not the source of evil in our lives. The first reason is that God does not tempt anyone. That's in verse 13. The second reason is that God cannot even be tempted by evil. That's also in verse 13. The third reason is that man tempts himself. We're doing a good enough job at it. Verses fourteen and fifteen. And the fourth reason is that God gives only good things in his nature. Verses sixteen through eighteen. We'll go over each of those again Now I want you to take notes on this because I think you need to take this back home and think about that as you as you take notes on this. I think it helps you to to filter this through your mind and think about it more beyond today. First. First reason. God does not tempt anyone. Okay. Blame evil on God because he doesn't tempt anyone. Look at verse 13 again. It's so direct. Let no one say, when he is tempted, I am being tempted by God. For God cannot be tempted by evil, and he himself does not tempt anyone. Again, we saw a word link between verses four and five to understand that James's thought continued from the early part of the letter on into the the rest of uh chapter one, but James does that word link again between verse 12 and verse 13. And it is the word tempt and the word test. If you were here at the beginning of our series, you know that we noted that they are exactly the same word in Greek. Test or tempt. Only the context tells us whether parasmos is a positive thing that God gives us a trial or a negative thing, a temptation to bring down. The two concepts are closely related, but they have a very important and key distinction, which James is bringing out here. Douglas Mu in his commentary lets us know how they go together. First, we'll talk about that. He writes, Financial difficulty can tempt us to question God's providence in our lives. The death of a loved one can cause us to question God's love for us. The suffering of the righteous poor and the ease of the wicked rich can tempt us to question God's justice or even his existence. So the underlying question James is addressing is: if God brings the trials, does he also bring the negative side of the trial, the temptation? Well, as you can see, James wants to answer that question quickly, and he does so directly and abruptly, I think. Let no one say when he is tempted, I am being tempted by God. Don't say that. Well, it's hard to misunderstand his answer, don't you think? Such a thought as God tempting us to evil is intolerable to a godly mind. Get it out Let words such as these never be found on anyone's lips. No one should say these out loud. No one should say them to themselves quietly. At the end of verse 13, notice he again plainly writes: God Himself does not tempt anyone. No one who has ever been tempted has ever been tempted by who? God. And therefore, no one should say, I am being tested by God, because he just doesn't do it. Being tested by God expresses the preposition apa. Which more accurately is translated tempted of God or tempted from God. The emphasis of that preposition is on the origin of the temptation. It is not from God, therefore it is not of God, so temptation certainly can never be by God. God does not directly or in any way promote temptation. Not even to the smallest degree does God tempt a person to sin. In fact, as you think of the rest of Scripture, God concerns himself constantly with communicating the opposite that he helps the godly to escape temptation When the disciples asked Jesus, teach us to pray, in Matthew 6. 13 and Luke 11. 4, he taught them to say, Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. 1 Corinthians 1013, we're getting to that whenever we get back to 1 Corinthians. No temptation has overtaken you, but such as is common to man, and God is faithful. Who will not allow you to be tempted beyond what you are able, but with the temptation will provide the way of escape also that you may be able to endure it. 2 Peter 2. 9. The Lord knows how to rescue the godly from temptation. In fact, God gives the Holy Spirit to reside in our lives so we have power to resist temptation. Galatians 5. 16 says, walk by the Holy Spirit, and you will not carry out the desire of the flesh. There you go. There's your power It's holiness, not sin, that God wants from his children. 1 Peter 1. Like the holy one who calls you to be holy yourselves also in all your behavior, because it is written, You shall be holy, for I am holy. That's what he wants. That's what he says. In every test that God provides, there's a deliverance as well and power to combat it. Because he wants us to be holy, not sinful. Because he's holy. And so get all of that deception out of our mind. Yes, it is true, God tests Nin. But God never tempts Nin. Even though it's the same word, the clarity of this is, I think, astonishing in the passage. God allows us to encounter the tests, but he's never using them to tempt us and bring us down. Maybe an example will help. In John chapter 6 and verse 6, the scripture states that Jesus at the time of the feeding of the 5,000 tested Philip Philip, one of his disciples. He told Philip, I want you to feed the crowd of five thousand. And you know, Philip looked at uh what do we have here? You know, we have the two fish and the five barley loaves. Um bad idea, Jesus Philip's lack of faith in God's power to provide and an understanding who was in his presence, the Messiah in the land of Israel, giving signs of the millennial kingdom. His lack of faith in God was sin. But it's not Jesus who tempted him to disbelieve. Jesus simply tested him to reveal his lack of faith that was there. And then to show Philip how nothing is impossible with God to build up and strengthen his faith. You see that? That's so important because Because that's what Jesus was intending to do. So you may be asking if if test and tempt are the same word, then what really is the difference? And the answer is intent. What God is intending to do, what God is working in you to accomplish. You know, John 10:10 says the thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. That's his intent. Why is he there? To destroy. And Jesus said, I came that they may what? Have life and have it abundant. There's his intent. That's what his work is accomplishing. This is what he is working to do. He's working to build up And so we can always say the Lord is trying us, but we must never say God is tempting us. Do people actually say that though? Do you think? In so many words, yes There are groups these days who insist that they are not to blame for some habit they have in their life or some lifestyle. God says it's a sinful lifestyle or sinful habit, but they say they can't help it. It's not of them. It's increasingly common to hear people blame genes or the brain or chemicals For what the Bible calls sin. Is there something difficult in reading what God has said? If something is sin, why would it then be caused by the body that God created? That is tantamount to accusing God of making them practice something that is utterly opposed to his creative acts and his holy word. Too often the general populace, and yes, even naively Christians do as well, believe that science has proven these things. For God's sake, how could science prove that? It doesn't even have the capability Every scientific study is only as good as the assumptions that are brought into the study. If the assumptions are wrong, the outcome is wrong. Everyone should know that. Challenge and test the assumptions of the things you hear Besides, one study done today is refuted by another done tomorrow. Why? Because someone challenges the assumptions of the first study, sets it all up again, and lo and behold, it comes out another way. And we have to remember, beloved, that there is no scientific study that can ever measure the impact of the human spirit on the human body. There's no way that can even be evaluated by science. You don't know why things are the way they are in the body because we don't understand the relationship between the spirit and the body. And for someone to assume we don't have a spirit is a wrong assumption. We have to remember that people who are in exactly the same situation, whether it is their upbringing or the so-called chemical situation, they respond to life differently, even though the other things are the same. Why is that Because there's a choice within a person. And that's what God holds them accountable for. No sin is ever caused by the body. If you think that, you're thinking wrongly If it were, we might think God is the cause, for he gave us the body. Alcoholism, I guess, is one example among many today, it's being called a disease. There's a stubborn fact about getting drunk. You can't get drunk unless you what? Dream. That is a stubborn fact indeed, isn't it? It's an interesting one, but it's it's a stubborn fact that just doesn't go away from any study. And different people respond differently under the same kinds of upbringing with alcoholic parents and all the rest. Oh, there are um other examples of how people in so many words say, God set me up for this. I think I'm being tempted by God. Frankly, I think all of us do this a little bit. Think about it. When we go through tough times, you know. Doesn't God know I can't handle this problem? He doesn't want me mad. Why did he bring this into my life? We sort of think that way. At times, just a little bit. How can you expect me not to covet That car that so-and-so drove up in, or that beautiful house that I drive by, he didn't give me anything. It's God's fault. Keep bumping into this tempting woman in the office place. If he doesn't want me lusting, why is he always putting this woman in my way? Whose fault is it? It's him. It's his fault. He's bringing me down. See? We can think that way. How can he expect me to attend church on Sundays? I'm in a tough financial situation. I have to work on Sunday. Did you ever hear of trusting God? There is a great danger in this way of thinking, and that's what James is addressing. R. Kent Hughes writes, It is impossible to walk with God if we question his goodness. Do you believe that? It is impossible to walk with God if we question his goodness. We will hide from God, avoid God, get angry at God, but we won't put our hand in his hand and say, Lead me. I trust you. I know where you're taking me, and it's a good place. You know, Satan is the one who planted the idea of God being to blame. You remember when? Back there with Eve in the garden, right? You will not die. You eat that. God knows when you eat it, you're going to be like God. You'll know good and evil. What's the message behind that really? God's holding the best stuff back from you. Oh, sure, he gave you all of this, but there's so much better, and he's keeping that for himself. You need to try this. Trust me. Well they did. Adam questioned God's goodness in the garden when he said to God, The woman you gave me. She gave me the fruit and I ate. You gave the woman to me. None of this would have happened if you hadn't given me the woman in the first place. It's all back on you. A little bit different than what he was saying at the end of chapter two. This is now flesh of my flesh and bone of my bone, and he was all excited about it. Now it's all God's fault. It's all his fault. You tempted me, God. You brought it all down. This is on you, not on me. Has anything really changed? I mean as a fourth grade teacher I used to love the excuses the kids would give you, you know, if they're caught in something and just excuse after another coming and the parents were worse My little son would never really do that kind of a thing. You must have misunderstood him. Just pass the buck. Pass the buck. Pass the buck. Some people today like to use the doctrine of predestination to exempt them from responsibility. God's fixed everything, so I can't help it. I'm not to blame. How can an unsaved person probe the mysteries between a sovereign God who created all things and knows all things and can do whatever he wants and a human being in his spirit? We we don't even understand those things. How's an unsaved person supposed to do that? How do his eternal decrees work out through our real choices in time and space? We don't know. We just know that they do. Predestination is a doctrine about saving foolish men from their own certain evil choices, to guarantee that they're going to make at least one right choice, and that is to trust in the Savior. It's God rescuing people from damnation and their own wrong decisions. Those who are not saved get exactly what they choose. They don't want God and they don't get God. They don't want God's rules and they don't get God's rules. They get life the way they want it and all the consequences with it Blame shifting is such a part of the sinful nature. There's no astute observer of humanity that can deny that. Humans are so skilled at covering up the truth about themselves But uncovering the truth about other people. Gossip. See, it's not just the politicians who live in the spin zone, It's everybody. You have people at work who uh won't own up for what they're not getting accomplished, it's the boss's fault, it's that other department that didn't do their job, it's this person or that person. Am I right about this? Don't they always do this? It's just amazing the excuses we come up with when we're caught for doing wrong. It shows how much lying is the part of our thinking. Well, if it's that much a part of our thinking, then we're going to be deceived and we're going to lie about God as well. And let's not do that Well, James wants to press this point by giving the second vindication of God also in verse thirteen. And that is that God cannot be tempted by evil himself. Verse 13. For God cannot be tempted by evil. This is the second reason The word for there expresses the reason why no one should ever say that God tempts them. God would not tempt anyone, for he cannot even be tempted by evil himself. That's the connection That's uh not tempted comes from a verb that is used only here in the New Testament, a parasmas, that is untempted or not tempted. Now you might be wondering what's the connection to our temptation. It's simply this: God would not tempt anyone to evil because evil itself has no sway over him. Evil does not influence God. He is not under the control of evil. Evil does not control his thoughts or his decisions. And so he has no reason whatsoever to advance it, you see. There's no evil coming into God, and therefore there's no evil that can come out of God. Nor would God want anyone else to do evil, because it's not like him. It's not even possible for God to be tempted by evil, much less to get into it. God is impeccable, He's untemptible. And therefore, he tempts no one himself. Evil and God are mutually exclusive. Dr. MacArthur has a great illustration on this. God and evil exist in two distinct realms, he writes, that never meet. He has no vulnerability to evil and is utterly impregnable to its onslaughts. He is aware of evil, but untouched by it, like a sunbeam shining on a dump, is untouched by the trash. What a glorious Lord we worship, people. He is holy and undefiled and high above in the heavens. He has no personal experience with evil. Compare for a moment the true and living gods to the false gods of other religions, the gods of the Romans and Greeks that they encountered in those days. They would not only incite humans to engage in sin, but they would indulge in gross immoral acts themselves. Zeus was quite a conniving God, as the stories are given, and the chief god of the Greek pantheon there and He was engaged in many illicit affairs with mortal women. His wife, Hera, always spying on Zeus and being jealous, and oh, these gods with these Basically, sinful human characteristics. Just gods made in the image of sinful man. That's all it was. But the true God of heaven is not like this at all. The God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Savior of mankind, is pure love and pure holiness. In Exodus 15 and 11 it declares, Who is like thee among the gods, O Lord? Who is like thee? Majestic in holiness, awesome in praises, working wonders There's no one who has his character. There's no one who does wonders like he does. There's so many that say all religions are the same. What are they thinking? I think they're willfully ignorant. They want to be ignorant of the differences between religions. What is the very base of a religion? Is their concept of God. If their concept of God is different, then those religions are basically different, not the same. Your concept of God is the very foundation of a religion. And they certainly aren't the same. Where is there a God in all the other religions of the world today who's like the God of the Bible? Where? People find superficial ways in which they're the same. You analyze their character and their motives and who they are, and they're completely different. Some don't even believe God is a person. If you want to give a strong defense, a strong apologetic for Christianity, then just spend time talking to them about who the true God is and what he's done in your life. Tell them who he really is, what he says about himself in his word, the beauty of his radiant person, the grandness of his moral character. He really speaks for himself and the differences become obvious Those who come to faith in Christ are those who first consider Him and see in Him and in His followers an excellence of character, an integrity of living. They don't find that anywhere else in all of the world. God is pure and he's uncompromisingly holy. He never, never tempts to sin. And so James gives this profound vindication of God in a few words. God cannot be tempted by evil, and he himself does not tempt anyone. Nevertheless, temptation is real. It's not imagined. The pull or tug within us to evil is felt. So what then is the source of temptation in us? Well, James answers it with the third vindication of God Third, man tempts himself. Verses 14 and 15. Look at him. Man tempts himself, but each one is tempted. When he is carried away and enticed by his own lust. Then when lust has conceived, it gives birth to sin, and when sin is accomplished, it brings forth death. In verse 14, that opening word but sets up the concepts. It is not God who tempts man, but it is man and man's lust who tempts himself. Notice how specific and personal James makes his teaching right here at this point. He says, each one is tempted by his own lust. That's so personal And we're to pick up on that. This stresses not only that temptation is universal to all of mankind, but that the process of temptation is very individualistic. Every human is tempted, and every human is tempted by himself. That present tense of the verb is tempted points to that continuous nature of the temptation. It's ongoing. We not only tempt ourselves once in a while, we do it quite regularly. And we don't really need any help at all in tempting ourselves. Unfortunately, we do a fine job with it. Some want to search the universe to find the true culprit? For the evil that we have in our hearts, well, we don't need to scan the heavens with a telescope. We need to scan the heart with a spiritual microscope. Far from finding a source of enlightenment inside of us, as some religions teach, the more carefully we look inside, the clearer we will see that there's darkness and sin there. Jesus said so. He said, when you look inward, you'll see all kinds of sin and deception, not light, not truth. Your own lust is the true source of individual temptation. He says it right here. And let me tell you something, you will never find your way out of any temptation until you are willing to admit what he wrote right there. And that is that I am tempting myself to sin. This is my fault. I'm the one to blame for the sin inside of me. You're never going to get anywhere in your struggle against sin, anywhere, until you admit that foundational truth. It is not God It is not my parents. It is not society. It is not my environment. It is not my body. It is me, my sinful nature. And I'm responsible for that. You get nowhere apart from this doctrine right here. Blaming others for your sin is not only wrong, it will trap you in a never-ending cycle of temptation and sin, temptation and sin. Because you're willingly ignorant. The true enemy of your soul is right there inside of you. 1 Peter 2. 11. Beloved, I urge you, as aliens and strangers, to abstain from fleshly lusts which wage war against the soul. There's a battle going on inside of you. Lust, often this word epithumia has to do with a sexual drive, sexual lust. In 1 Thessalonians 4, 4 and 5 it teaches that we should know how to possess our own vessel in sanctification and honor, not in lustful passion. But that term is often broader than just that. In fact, epiphumia by itself is actually a neutral term, interestingly. It simply means a strong desire of any kind. Any strong desire can be called an epithumia. Again, only context is going to tell us how to understand it. Epithumia actually is used in a good sense in a couple of Locations in Scripture. In Philippians chapter 1 and verse 23, Paul writes, I have the desire to depart and be with Christ. That word desire is the same word. I have this very strong desire to go and be with Christ. That's a good desire. In Luke 22, 15, Jesus said, I have earnestly desired to eat this Passover with you, my disciples, before I suffer. It was a strong, strong desire, and it was a good desire. So not all human desires are evil, but usually the word is translated lust, for it carries an evil connotation in the context. And that is because though desires are part of human the human race, man's strong desires are usually for evil because we are so tainted with evil. A few examples. 1 John 2. 16 For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the boastful pride of life is not from the Father, but is from the world. Second Peter two eighteen It talks about false teachers who are enticed by fleshly desires, by sensuality. Jude 16 says false teachers follow after their own lusts. These are all negative ideas. These desires, these lusts are entirely unprofitable. That's why we're told to forsake them in Ephesians four twenty two. In reference to your former manner of life, lay aside the old self, which is being corrupted in accordance with the lusts of deceit. There's nothing good about those lusts, they're deceitful, they don't help, they destroy. That's why the false teachers are enticed by that. What makes them evil is when our desires go contrary to God's desires for us. When our will rubs itself stubbornly against God's will, then our strong desires have become lusts, sinful lusts. Please notice, too, very importantly, I think, that the word lust is in the singular, not the plural. This is speaking of the principle of lust and sin within us, not just the separate acts of lusting. James does not say your lusts tempt you, though that is true. He emphasizes that your lust, an indwelling principle, tempts you. The singular principle of lust is the evil operating power within you, and it is tempting you. If you want to blame something, it's not the outward lure, it is the inner lust. Now, how exactly does man tempt himself through lust? Well James tells us. In fact, he presents two pictures here, and I I think he does this so we can graphically understand how it operates on our hearts. I think this is so instructive. Really, both of these illustrations are so helpful. Just listen to them and think about how this works out spiritually in your own situation. Think about the times where you're being tempted and you're entering into sin and why you've fallen again and again. And think of these illustrations and how they work with you. Notice verse 14 again, it says, each one is tempted when he is carried away and enticed by his own lust. Here we have two verbs, two participles. The first one, carried away, translates a compound verb ex elco. It means to draw out or to drag out, and thus to be carried away, pulled away. Much like a fish who would be caught and dragged out of the water, you see. The fish once hooked could be dragged along at the whims of the fishermen. That's the first illustration. And then second is the verb translated enticed. This verb also is used with fishing, for luring fish. Dangling something before the eyes of the fish to attract them to that place of no return, the juicy worm, or whatever it is, in a more sophisticated way today The inner cravings prompt that fish to bite, but instead of pleasure, after they bite, they're surprised by the hook concealed within. He is lured away from life within the sea to a sudden and unexpected death. It is a deadly enticement. James was not a fisherman. This is James, the brother of the Lord, not James the son of Zebedee. But he was close enough to the Sea of Galilee to be acquainted with fishermen. He understood these images. The point of the image is to show that there is a power and a deception to lust within us. Human lust is an evil influence. It does draw us away. It does entice us into something harmful. And so deception to lure us and evil desire within work hand in hand and they work to bring us down and bring us to death. The enticement fools us. It puts before our eyes a phony pleasure, or in our mind. It's a mirage of sin, the paradise of sin. How wonderful it would be if But it's a non-existent paradise. It doesn't exist anywhere in the universe. It's just a mirage. That's all it is. But the human sinful will kicks in and craves it and wants it And that craving, that strong desire, that lust becomes a powerful tug upon our wills. It can cause a man to do something he thought he would never ever do. It can lead a woman to pursue things she thought she had no intention of pursuing at all. It is so strong it can actually drag a person away from his declared principles, his positions that he lives by. No one is immune from this Oh, this truth is so important to understand for ourselves. Why is it people start out, they make a commitment, they're going to do something, maybe it was a diet. And then they go on an eating binge. Why? Why does that happen? Lust. Why do some people enter a store determined only to get one thing and they leave with a whole bunch of fancy things? Lust of the eyes. Why do some people pray early in the morning to resist temptation and by afternoon they're already giving into it? Lust of the flesh. Each one is carried away and enticed by his own lust. That's what's happening. We often hear on the news someone saying, after a tragedy, I just didn't think that person was capable of that. I know that person. They don't have that character. We had a massacre this past week. Did you hear about it? He was a very normal person, we're told. What happened? They can't understand. He doesn't fit the profile. Well he fits the biblical profile of a man capable of lust and pride and sin and wickedness. And that's in anybody. See, people don't want to even admit that they have that same evil principle inside of them. So they call someone like that a monster. They're clearly not human like me And they're denying that it's in them. They're denying their sin by saying that other person is so much different from me. No, he's part of Adam's race, and so are you. Difference we have is we have the power of God's Holy Spirit and a new nature within us to combat that. Lust is powerful, people. For lust Esau gave up his inheritance for a pot of stew. You know how irrational that is? For lust David committed adultery and suffered years and years and years of family turmoil, rape of a daughter, the murder of a son The rebellion of a son, and his also being slaughtered and killed in battle. For lust many a woman has broken apart her family. Because she just can't be happy at home, you see. For lust, a young man has thrown away his education and been plunged into jail and lost his life. Don't blame God Don't say, God, you abandoned me when I got into this difficulty. You started taking things in your own hands Someone started drinking or smoking or drugs or doing whatever to cope with it. Don't say God is the one who led you into that immoral relationship. You couldn't find comfort. Your wife or husband didn't understand you. You were intensely bored. God didn't pull you into sin. God just tested you. And you failed the test. The problem is right there inside of you. That's the message of Christianity to us. That's what it means when we say we're sinners. It's your lusts that tempt you, it's your lusts that draw you out, it's your lusts that entice you, it's your lust that is to blame You know, uh some people at this point have good enough theology that they say, oh, I know it's not God. But uh gee, I sure don't want to take all the blame Maybe it was the devil that made me do it. Yeah. The devil made me do it. It's not my fault. Pin it on his pointy tail. Well we'll get into what we should think about the devil next time, along with um how destructive indeed lust is when it leads to sin. We'll get into all of that next time. Next Sunday, Lord willing. Well, let's uh close our hearts and ask God to uh impress these words upon us. Father, we uh Can act like we've confessed we're sinners, but if we don't accept the guilt and blame of our sin, we really are not confessing that we're sinners. And there are many like that today who say, Oh yeah, I sin, but so does everyone. And they're passing the buck. There's no blame, there's no guilt, there's no conviction. We pray each person would be truly convicted. Not because of an emotional message, but because they know the truth about themselves. Take your Holy Spirit's power and impress that upon our people today. And any that are unsaved, help them to see that. Turn to Jesus. to be saved. And for the rest of us, help us learn that we live the Christian life the same way we gained it, and that is by your mercy. And we have to throw ourselves upon you daily, hourly, every moment. Protect and guard the minds and thoughts of your people, for we ask it in Jesus' blessed and holy name. Amen.