Well today we have reached the end of our series on trials, but not the end of our trials. As preparation for real life, I trust by now you see the value of this instruction from James 1 for your life. Every day you will be dealing with trials, and every day you will be dealing with temptations. Now last week we began looking at the relationship between trials and temptations. We noted that always accompanying any trial is a temptation, that is, an enticement to sin. To doubt God, to disobey the Word of God, to indulge in some selfish attitude. So we ask the question, where does that temptation originate? Where does it arise from? Where does it come from? If God is the one who brings the trial into our life, is it true that he is somewhat responsible then for the temptation as well? Well, James wrote verses 13 through 18 of chapter 1 to answer that very question. These verses vindicate God of any accusation or hints of promoting evil. So let us once again read this important theological text with practical implications, that we may hear a full vindication of God once again. Verse 13. Follow along as I read. Let no one say when he is tempted, I am being tempted by God. For God cannot be tempted by evil, and he himself does not tempt anyone But each one is tempted when he is carried away and enticed by his own lust. Then, when lust has conceived, it gives birth to sin. And when sin is accomplished, it brings forth death. Do not be deceived, my beloved brethren. Every good thing given and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights, with whom there is no variation or shifting shadow. In the exercise of his will, he brought us forth by the word of truth, so that we would be a kind of first fruits among his creatures. Embedded in this brief text, we find four reasons why God is not responsible for our evil. First, God does not tempt anyone. So says the beginning of verse 13. Second, God cannot be tempted by evil. Last part of verse 13. Third, man tempts himself, in verses fourteen and fifteen, and fourth, God When he does do something, he gives only good things. Verses 16 through 18. Now last week we covered the first and second reasons in verses 13 and 14. We began the third one: man tempts himself. In verses 14 and 15, we noted that James uses two images to illustrate how man leads himself into evil. We only got through one of those two images, the image from the world of fishing. Our own lusts, so James says, is described as drawing us out and luring or enticing us away from what is right. Those are fishing terms. Drawing out and enticing. The lusts of man draw a person away from righteous living, away from principled living, and lead him directly into sin. The lusts Act like a lure, deceiving the person, promising bliss, of course, and producing not bliss, but only a what A snag. Just like a fish that's snagged by hook and it's a pain in her mouth. Boom, they're snagged and it hurts. And it looked like they were going to get something shiny and wonderful, and all they got was a lot of pain Well, we left off at the end of the message last week with the question about the devil's role in temptation. Because we know that many who fall into sin, ourselves included, would like to blame not ourselves, but the devil Let's pin the blame for all of our evil and wrong that we've done on his pointy tail. Let's make him the one who is to blame. Well, that's an easy out But don't you find it interesting that James doesn't even raise the issue of the devil, at least here in chapter one. It's not even mentioned. No satanic temptation is even in this passage here Some of your translations, particularly King James, may seem to indicate that only the drawing away is done by our lusts And that something else is the enticement, but both actions are done by the lust in this context. The lust does both of those. And the devil is not mentioned, he has no activity at all in this passage. Now, that doesn't mean the devil's inactive. Keep your finger there in chapter 1 and flip to chapter 4 of James, and you'll see in verse 7 that he does indeed mention the devil in his role. Or more or less our role with the devil. Chapter 4, verse 7, he says, Submit therefore to God, resist the devil, and he will what He's going to run from you if you resist him. That's very, very interesting. Very, very powerful verse. So James knows that there is a devil and that the devil has a part in temptation. We can't ignore the devil altogether We can't pretend that he does not instigate sin. He is the tempter, after all. The devil is described in Scripture as running the entire world's evil system. In John's writings, it's called the cosmos A system that generates a lot of false teachings and enticing images, false impressions, false religions, justifications for sin. And in that system, as he operates and works it, his main tool, his main power is deceit. He can't actually generate an evil desire inside of us. He can't do that. But he knows that if he deceives us, if he fools us, our own evil desires will kick in and follow. We like to say that sin grows and flourishes in an environment of deception. Where there's a lot of deception, there's inevitably going to be a lot of sin. It's just the way it is. And so through deceit, the devil manipulates our own will against God. That's how he works. And that's one reason that Jesus called the devil the father of lies in John chapter 8. Ephesians chapter 6 and verse 11, Paul urges Christians to stand firm. against the schemes of the devil. Interesting, he doesn't say stand firm against the devil like James says. He says stand firm against the schemes of the devil. The methoduo of the devil, his methods, his battle strategies, his X and O game strategies, cunning ploys designed to catch believers off guard. In older English, the wiles of the devil. The devil is a schemer. He is a master deceiver. He's a spiritual strategist. He instigated David, you may remember, to number Israel's troops in 1 Chronicles 21. It directly attributes that to Satan's temptation. Thus David was trusting in man, not in God, and that angered God. Satan spoke through Peter to try to dissuade Jesus from going to Jerusalem and to the cross, of course, to pay for the sins of man. He filled two churchgoers, Ananias and Sapphire, with lies against the Holy Spirit And God struck him dead in Acts chapter 5. In Revelation twelve and verse 9 it teaches the serpent of old who is called the devil, and Satan deceives the whole world. Present tense. The whole inhabited earth is deceived by this one spiritual being. Now you don't get that way without plenty of schemes and plenty of power. In 1 John 5 19 it says the same thing. We know that the whole world lies in the power of the evil one. Listen, it's not simply a principle of evil, but a person Jesus confronted this person in the wilderness. He was actually tempted by this person. But of course, the devil fled from Christ because he stood his ground. 2 Corinthians 11, it says, Satan disguises himself as an angel of light. You know, some people in their theology teach them that they don't have to worry about the devil anymore. That Jesus took care of that guy on the cross, took away all of Satan's power, and now Satan is out of the picture altogether. Well, of course Christ defeated the power of Satan on the cross, but he is not out of the way yet. Peter tells us in his first letter to be alert, because your adversary, the devil, prowls about like a roaring lion seeking someone to devour. Now, if you knew there was a roaring lion prowling about, wouldn't you be concerned about that? Doesn't sound like Revelation chapter 20 in the millennium, where the devil is bound and removed from the planet and deceiving the nations any longer. We're not in the millennium yet. Paul didn't think the devil was out of the way either. He tells us, stand firm against the schemes of the devil. That is a needless command if all we have to worry about is the flesh and the world. Paul knew the devil's schemes. They were constantly going on around him. He wrote about the need for the church to forgive somebody in 2 Corinthians 2 and verse 11. And he wrote this, in order that no advantage be taken of us by Satan, for we are not ignorant of his schemes. He works, and we're not ignorant of him. See, precisely because we are a church of God Not perfect by any means, but trying to do the work of God, we will attract the attention of Satan. You better believe it You come in here and you sit down here and you think it's just about listening. If you want to do anything for God, you'll be a target of His. He wants to bring you down. You're a problem to his strategy He wants you out of the way. He wants you dismantled. He wants you discouraged. He wants to mess all this up. So don't be surprised. In 2 Corinthians 11, 3, Paul said, I'm afraid lest as the serpent deceived Eve by his craftiness, your mind should be led astray from the simplicity and purity of devotion to Christ. Be alert. Paul's concern for the churches. Though James recognizes the power of the devil, he knows there's a devil and he's a tempter. He's saying that the blame for following temptation now is not primarily the devil's. He'll get his punishment, for sure. Whose blame is it? Whose blame is it for a sin? Your listen. And why is that? Because if you as a Christian resist the devil, he will do what? I don't know, we believe that. He has control over the unbeliever. And there are many unbelievers in church. He has control over them, maybe even more so, because they think they're fine with God, but they're really unbelieving. He has control over them. He has no sway over any believer. All the devil can do is plant the suggestion in your mind, but in order for it to have any effect, you have to say yes to it. And you don't have to say yes to it, because you know the truth. You're not deceived. Well, we're not to blame necessarily for the trial coming upon us. Those are things we fall into, as James said earlier in the chapter. But we do have responsibility for the sin after the trial comes. That's what James is driving home right here. Remember the trial that you fall into is a test of your Christian faith Your faith has to rise to the occasion. It has to step forward, so to say, in the trial and say, God is not abandoning me. You devil, I'm not listening to you. You're wrong about that. God is not putting joy out of reach for my life. I didn't get the short straw in life. God is not leading me into a pit of despair. God doesn't do that. God gives everlasting life. Again, I say a Bible-built faith says God is the bringer of this trial into my life to benefit me. To mature me, to bless me ultimately with the crown of life, everlasting resurrection life If your faith in God is exercised like that, built firmly on scriptural truth, you're not going to listen to the enticements of the devil, the world, or your indwelling flesh. You will say, God is not tempting me. My lust, my own evil is tempting me. And I choose to believe God in the midst of this trouble. I don't want to sin against the one who's a lover of my soul. Who loves your soul? Doesn't God? God wants your eternal joy and bliss. He wants you to be happy now, but sometimes that means we have to mourn over our sin. and suffer temporary consequences so later we get greater joy. God wants you to win out over evil. He's got a plan for you to win out over evil. My enemy is my lusts. That's my enemy. Hates me and wants to bring me down. Further proof of that is in the second image Of how man tempts himself. And it is the image of childbirth, very interestingly, the image of childbirth. Look at verse 15. Then when lust has conceived, it gives birth to sin, and when sin is accomplished, it brings forth death. Verse 15, please notice, is a continuation of verse 14. The first word there then shows that James has a sequence of spiritual events in his mind. He writes three sequential events going on inside of each person. First there is lust, then subsequent to that sin, then subsequent to that death. The first event is one's own human lust, luring the person away. That is first mentioned in verse 14. And now notice in verse 15 that James changes the image of the lust from a fishing lure into a child being conceived in the womb. He writes, when lust has conceived. So now we're talking about lust inside the womb, so to say But he still means that first event. He's still talking about the lust. The thing conceived metaphorically refers to the lust. Lust Lust is the thing inside the womb. And then the second event happens. Obviously, when conceived and it fills up and you're pregnant, then lust has conceived, then it presses forth and it gives birth to what? To sin. The lust having been conceived in the womb presses and pushes to be expressed outwardly and results in the birth of a frankly hideous and ugly child called sin. And then the third and the final step is also in verse 15, when sin is accomplished, it brings forth what? Death. After sin is born, when it is fully expressed, when it grows up, so to say, it brings forth death. So this is a very serious matter we should be listening to. The tragedy of where our lusts leads us to is death. That demands we pay careful attention to what James is writing right here. This passage is not only a vindication of God, it's a cold, stark look at the real human experience, what you and I have to deal with all the time. There's misery in life. It's right here. This is being described Lust, sin, and death are very much a part of our experience here in this world. Let's take a little bit of a closer look here, these three steps. The first step again. This initializes the whole process is lust. The lust, again, is in the singular, not in the plural. It refers to a strong evil desire in general, not to any particular kind of a lust. We hear lust and we start thinking of the things that are on our conscience that are wrong, but he's talking about the general principle of lust. Each of us expresses it in our own ugly way. Again, as we mentioned last week, it is not that every single desire that we have is strong enough to be classified as a lust. There are a lot of weaker desires that we have, faint wishes, not dominant desires, they're not lusts Nor does it even mean that every strong desire we have is wrong. We noted that last week that the term epithumia has in some context a positive meaning. It could just refer to an earnest desire to do something good, but not usually in Scripture. And by the way, James is not saying that it's wrong to have a natural attraction to things that are beautiful, or to want some comfort in life. or to have some pleasure. Sometimes people misunderstand this and they say nothing that is enjoyable, nothing that is happy, nothing that is beautiful should ever be the preoccupation of my mind. That's not what he's saying. He's talking about pushing it too far and going beyond. Can we enjoy the beauty of a sunset, the beauty of a waterfall, the beauty of a forest? Can we enjoy those things? Were we meant to enjoy them? Of course we were That's only natural. Lust goes beyond a mere attraction or an admiration, and now it has to have. It's got a strong desire. You know, it's important for you, when that starts to happen in your heart, that you admit what's happening. This is a lust. This is now a lust. This is no longer a light. This is a lust. I'm saying I have to have this. This is starting to be in my thinking too much. This is controlling my action. I have to have this. This is taking precedence over other things It's a desire that controls. It's a force that is combating me doing the will of God, me serving God, sacrificing for God, loving other people. It's getting in the way of that. It's a love. Everybody has this lust inside. Everybody. Even though it shows up in different people in different ways, it's there. Some of us show uh show lusting when uh we're walking through a mall Right? So you can pop up anyway, walking through a mall, flipping through a catalog at home. Lust starts to happen in the heart, lust of the eyes. Can happen right there Smell good food, that's fine. Appreciate it. Can have a good meal. We're supposed to give thanks for our food, yes? Of course it tastes good and smells good. Hopefully it looks good. Of course, we're supposed to give thanks and appreciate it. But when you get fixated on it, when you pile up more than you need, that's a lust. That's indulging. Every sinful lust is harmful. It's no wonder the Word of God tells us to flee from it and to realize its dangers. 2 Timothy 2. 22, flee from youthful lusts and pursue righteousness, faith, love, and peace with those who call on the Lord from a pure heart. Peter teaches in 1 Peter 2. 11, beloved, I urge you, as aliens and strangers, to abstain from fleshly lusts, listen, which wage war against the soul. There's a battle for your soul, your lusts are battling against it. Clearly, the lusts are the enemy of your soul. The power for overcoming lust is Christ. Galatians 5:24 says: those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with his passions and desires. Lust no longer has sway over a believer. Don't let it lie to you. It has no sway over you at all. No matter what you feel, it has no power over you. Yet we're still exhorted in Romans 13, 14, put on the Lord Jesus Christ and make no provisions for the flesh in regard to its lust. Why do we keep returning the lust over and over? I'll tell you why. We don't nip it in the bud. We do make provisions for the lust. We allow it to settle in, we allow it to buddy up next to us, we think it'll be fine, and then it gets us Nip it in the bud. Make no provision for your lust. Wherever you're weak, wherever it keeps getting you, take extreme measures. Get rid of the lust. Though strong passion, contrary to the will of God, cannot lead to fulfillment. That's the promise. You'll feel better if you do this. It never leads to fulfillment, only to the next step. What's the next step in the process? Lust leads to sin. After lust is conceived in the womb, it gives birth to sin. The word for sin here is harmatia. It's a common New Testament word for sin. It means missing the mark, falling short of the target. So when you sin, you're not on target with God, your decision, whatever you've done, your action, your word, misses God's good will for your life. In this context, by the way, sin is being used more narrowly than in other places in Scripture. It does not refer to the principle of sin inside of us. It's not talking about the sin nature, although that's obviously behind it It's not even talking about the evil thoughts which would instigate the doing of evil, but to the particular act of sin produced by that inward lustful attitude. That's how he's using it here. The sin comes when we give in to our desires that are contrary to the will of God, when the will consents to the enticement of the lust, the lust then leads to an actual act of sin. The inner desires, those inner cravings, when not abandoned, result in committing an act of sin. There's a definite connection between lust and sin Conception and childbirth. What does that tell us? I think three things. Here's the connection. First, the only thing that evil lust can ever produce in us is sin. It cannot produce something good or beneficial. It never does. The baby that is going to be born from the womb with lust in it is sin and sin only. Lust will never produce a cute baby, guys. Second, here's the other connection. When there is lust, sin is inevitable. It will be born. It is not just that what will be born is sin, but that sin must be born. The conception of lust is already present, so the damage is already done. Right? You're pregnant. It's just a matter of time before the lust is born, and when it's born it'll be sin. There's a chain result And third, by implication, even while the lust waits outward expression, the lust itself, by deduction, must also itself be evil The lust itself is outside the moral will of God. Further, in the letter of James, he gives an example of this. Flip to chapter 4 again. Chapter 4. Verses 1 and 2. He shows how the inner desire results in outward sin. What is the source of quarrels and conflicts among you, James asks Chapter 4, verse 1. Is not the source your pleasures that wage war in your members? You lust and do not have, so you commit murder. See the connection You are envious and cannot obtain, so you fight and quarrel. You do not have because you do not ask, you ask, you do not receive because you ask with wrong motives, so that you may Spend it on your pleasures. There it is. Lust produces only evil things. Lust leads only to sin. Lust leads always to sin. Lust itself always is a wicked desire. Now James could have written other examples to show the connection between lust and sin in chapter 4. He could have said that a person who has a passion for self-comfort is going to commit the sin of laziness. He didn't write it. But I said it An overconcern for satisfying the belly will result in the sin of gluttony. A desire for a woman who is not your own will lead to fornication or adultery. Or other perverted activities. In fact, Jesus Himself made this connection between lust and sin in Matthew 5. 28 when he taught, everyone who looks on a woman the lust for her has committed adultery with her already in his heart. It's done. See, the lust just waits for the right time before it is expressed. Now keep in mind, right here in a section, James is vindicating God, right? He's showing that evil is never from God. God does not tempt us. He himself is not tempted by evil himself, but man tempts himself. Evil impulses were never part of God's original creation and intention for mankind. God did not put lust into Adam and Eve. As long as Satan was out of the picture in Genesis, God led Adam and Eve into good and right living. They did not fall into sin on their own. They were made with an original holiness, an original righteousness. That's because everything that God creates is good. But then sin entered the human race through the tempter and through human decision And that brought about these tragic consequences we read of here in James. A lust in man that he had never experienced before, and then sin and death. But the lust, beloved, the lust did not come from God. I'll tell you what did come from God, the judgment against the sin, that came from God. God pronounced the death sentence on the human race. That came from God. And so sin is nothing to be trifled with. So the third step is death. We see that in the illustration in Genesis. They sinned, they died. They died instantly spiritually. Eventually, Genesis is very clear that so-and-so lived so many years and died. And we are so impressed about how many years they lived, but we need to be unimpressed with that because it always says they died. And then they died. And then they died. And then they died Who cares today whether it's 111 or 11? It's still going to be died for us Verse 15 says, when sin is fully accomplished, it brings forth death. Accomplished is an interesting verb in Greek. Apo teleo, to to grow up or reach its goal or its end, thus fully accomplished. By the way, some see here James bringing up the image of a second birth, with sin giving birth to death. Lust then would be the mother of sin and the grandmother of death. Others see the sin is born as a child and then grows up and that leads to death. Sin's development leads to certain death. Either way, the point is clear. Lust leads to sin and sin leads to death. What sense of death did James have in mind here? What was he referring to when he says death? Well, death by definition is separation from life. There is physical death. Everyone knows about that. But there's also spiritual death. Many people don't understand that. And then ultimately there is eternal death, and a lot of people don't even want to consider that. James doesn't define which death that he is referring to. He likely has all three aspects in mind. Death can be spoken of without being that definitive. Sin certainly does bring forth physical death. Adam's sin in the garden brought the death of the entire human race. There's certain personal sins that people can commit, and it leads to immediate death as well. People can live a poor lifestyle. Children can disobey their parents and they can result in physical death. Nutritionists warn us that a lust for fatty foods leads to premature heart attack or other diseases, and often they're ignored, and then people die. Sometimes our lust can lead to the death of other people. The lust of King David on the rooftop of his palace produced the treachery of adultery and the death of Bathsheba's faithful husband Uriah and the death of David's first son. There are many ways in which lust can lead to physical death, yet sin also brings about spiritual death. I want you to turn to Romans chapter 6 and verse 23. Look at a familiar verse. We use in evangelism, but it's very important that everyone understands that. Romans 6 verse 23. It tells us the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. Romans 6, 23. In that context, actually, there in Romans 6, Paul is taking the idea of sin and personifying it as a master or a tyrant. There are those who are slaves of sin. They're intimidated and deceived into disobeying the word of God and sinning. And what does this tyrant, this master called sin, pay those who serve him? Well the answer is this. The wages of sin is debt. Sin pays his workers, and he pays with debt. See, Paul does not mean that the natural outcome of sinning is to die. That is true, but Paul's point in Romans 6. 23 is even more graphic than that He means that this rascal named Sin pays his slaves for their service and he pays with debt. They worked hard for him and so they earned his wages and he pays them with debt And Paul in Romans 6. 23 does not have physical death in mind, for he contrasts this death in the second half of the verse with spiritual life, eternal life. Physical death is but a mere picture of a greater and more serious kind of death. Physical death is the separation of life from the body, right? The soul leaves the body and one one dies. Well spiritual death is separation from spiritual life, or more exactly, separation from the one who is a spiritual life. God Himself was separated from Him One who is spiritually dead is not one who passes out of existence. He's one who's been separate from God. He's cut off from God's bountiful life. And that's everybody in this world who's not in Jesus Christ. According to the book of Revelation and chapter 20 and verse 15, Anyone who dies in a state of spiritual death, that is, they die physically while they're spiritually dead, enters into eternity, locked into that position, and will most certainly face a third kind of death And actually in Revelation 20, 15, he calls it the second death. What is that? That's everlasting death, eternal death, eternally separate from God, the lake of fire, eternal torment. So for the wages of sin is death. Yes, it's spiritual death and ultimately eternal death. And so sin must be repented of, or it leads to death. Now, the good news of the verse, if you look at it, the second half, is that God gives eternal life as a free gift. Anyone who wants it can have it. They don't have to face everlasting death No matter who you are, you can call on Christ and say, I'm unworthy of your life. Give me your life. I believe in Jesus Christ. He's my Lord. He died on a cross for me. He was risen. I received this as a gift. You don't receive it through any kind of religious act. The church doesn't have the power to give you everlasting life. You can't take communion or be water baptized and get eternal life. You can't get it from your parents. You get it from Jesus, and you get it only by believing. The free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. Your faith in Jesus alone saves you from spiritual death and, yes, everlasting death. And that's good news. Turn back to James 1. I want you to think of this contrast that James has made here in vindicating God. Man's lusts lead to sin and then to death. The trials that God brings into our life build our faith, lead to endurance, and finally approval from God until we are crowned with everlasting life. What a contract. We bring about our death, God brings about our life Since the consequences of temptation lead to death, it cannot be from God, for he is the very source of life. Man is held responsible for his sin God is vindicated. Frankly, you could end right here and the vindication would be full and complete. I think the rest is just added gravy. Here's number four. God gives only good things, verses 17 and 18. Every good thing given and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights, with whom there is no variation or shifting shadow In the exercise of his will, he brought us forth by the word of truth so that we would be a kind of first fruits among his creatures. I skipped verse 16 because I mentioned that before. The whole intent of the passage is that we would not be deceived. In verse seventeen we have a very broad statement everything good that we have comes from God And in verse eighteen we have an example of the best thing that we got from God. One specific and wonderful gift that He gave to us and how important that is. And so it's all about the generosity of God. God is good and is wonderful and he loves to give gifts, and they flow from him all the time. And this is how he wants us to think of him This is the picture of God's generosity. He started this thing theme, you may remember back in verse 5, that God gives wisdom abundantly and without reproach. God is just so generous in nature. He gives beautiful kinds of gifts. Far from bringing us down to temptation, the exact opposite is true. Good things, not bad things, come from our God Look at this broad statement in verse 17. Every good thing bestowed and every good gift is from above. Notice the the word every and all. It's meant to be that way. Think about everything good in your life right now What do you have in your life that's good? Could you list it? Get out a piece of paper and write a hundred and one of them. I know you got more than that. Every single one of those things on that list is from God So no, I worked for that one. No. You work with the hands that God gave you. You work with the money that God gave you. You work with the air that God gave you. All of it is from God. There's nothing to get, there's nothing to boast of in life. It's all from God. We need to see that in our lives. That word good, by the way, Agathos, describes that which is useful and beneficial. All useful things, beneficial things, they come from God. The word perfect for the gift there, telios, describes what is complete or what is mature. Every gift we have that is perfect also comes from above Beloved, do you have a home? That came from God. Do you have any transportation? Well you must have because you're here this morning. Even if it's not your own car, the lift you got or the bus ride, whatever it was, that's from God. Give thanks for that Did you eat some food this morning or this afternoon? Comes from God. Do you have any friends? A godly spouse, children. They are also perfect gifts from God. Well you might say they're not so perfect. But they are still gifts from God. Everything good that comes from them. There's a whole vast array of spiritual resources I'd need ten sermons to preach on or more that comes from the generous hand of God They're all from above, notice, the heavenly sphere, as in contrast to the earthly sphere where our lusts arise. In James chapter three, you might recall from previous message that wisdom that comes comes down from above and is contrasted with earthly wisdom which is from below. It originates with man. Heaven is the place of all good gifts. It's the origin of all wonderful and perfect gifts Good things are all gift wrapped up in heaven, and then they descend down to us in a continuous successive order. Coming down to us, it says that's a present tense verb in Greek. It indicates a continuous flow of good gifts constantly coming from God. Today he's giving you good, tomorrow he's giving you good, next week he's giving you good, next year he's giving you good On the day you die, the angels will be there to carry you to the presence of Christ. He'll give you good. God is always giving good things. And so it's always God's will that we thank God for a good thing. We're thankful in the heart, but we also express thanksgiving with the lips. We thank God, not ourselves. Not Mother Nature, not the lucky stars. We thank God. And James doesn't want to leave the source of the blessing as just a general from above. He writes more specifically than that, the Father of Light. The father of lights. That's interesting, isn't it? To be the father of lights means to be the originator of all the lights in the universe. Where does the bright sun come from? The myriad of twinkling stars The glowing moon. All comes from God. He originated them all. The image of light, of course, speaks of the goodness of God and his holiness. Light speaks of purity. First John 1. 5 says, God is light, and in him there is no what? Darkness at all. Yet here James brings up the image of light primarily because he wants us to understand that God isn't just holy, he's unchanging in his holiness. He doesn't change ever. What he was, he is, and will be. That's how God is. We call that the immutability of God. James compares God to the lights They alter their course and they flicker and they change in brilliance, but God never changes even to the smallest degree Notice it says of the Father of Lights, with whom there is no variation or shifting shadow. That term variation indicates a change from a course or a pattern. The heavenly bodies are moving all about in the heavens. They have variation, but God doesn't God's good character is absolutely constant. With God, there's not even a shadow of turning or a shifting shadow. What does that refer to? Well, it's probably the phases of the moon. Saw a bright full moon a couple days ago and you see it now beginning to wane. None of that with God. Or the variations in the shadows of the day as day turns into night and back into day again and everything changes and alters throughout there. You know there's a famous hymn that has beautiful words to this, right? Great is thy faithfulness, O God, my Father, there is no what? Shadow of turning with thee, thou changest not. We see many changes of light down here on earth. The sun and the moon vary in their intensity of light that they cast. The sundial casts a different shadow by which the time is told, but God never varies. Malachi 3:6, for I, the Lord, do not change. The created lights are thus inferior to the greater light who made them. The constant shining grandness and glory of God Almighty. What does this tell us? Well, negatively again, this tells us God is not responsible for our sin. He never Altars or flickers. He's always holy and good and pure. Positively, however, this tells us that God is responsible for every good thing bestowed God cannot lead into sin because he's perfect light. Now the preeminent example of God's goodness towards us is our salvation, our new birth, our regeneration. That's what verse 18 is about. Oh, this is a blessing here. Our new nature. If you're in Christ, you have a new nature. You're a saved person. You're not who you used to be. You've been changed. God's made you a new person. If you're not in Christ, you need to have that new birth. You need to listen to the good news of Jesus, and today you need to believe. But if you're already in Christ, you're one of the most blessed people in all the world. You have a new nature, you a new person We're going to say this in verse 18. Look at it. In the exercise of his will, God's will, he, and here's the image, brought us forth. By the word of truth. He brought us forth. That's referring to our salvation, our being birthed, our being given new life in Christ. This is another way of saying that God brought believers out of death into life. It's our new birth, our regeneration, and it's something that God does, please notice. It wasn't in the exercise of our will that we were born into this world. It wasn't really in the exercise of our will that we're born again. It's of God He exercises his will. In the exercise of his will, his will is God's will. God determines who is saved. God draws them forth. He is sovereign in salvation. God decided to cause us to be brought forth into new life. It was his sovereign decision to grant you everlasting life. The word for will there is bulamai, and it's emphatic in the sentence. God's volition, his will brought us forth. It's all of him, it's what he wanted to do for you. Ephesians 2, 4, and 5, it says a similar thing. We were dead in our trespasses and sins, and it goes on to say, but God made us alive together with Christ. See, it doesn't say we made ourselves alive, it says God made us alive. Do you understand what he's saying here? God made a choice God has a will. God made a decision and he exercised that decision and he looked at you and he said, I'm going to bring you out of death and into life. I'm going to exercise my goodwill towards you and I'm going to grant you the new life. The new birth. That's God's sovereignty. He did it for you. You're born again because of his decision. That doesn't mean that it's apart from human choice and human decision. It doesn't mean we're robots. Notice how he does it, he says there. He brought us forth By the word of truth. That implies our involvement where we're listening to the preaching of the gospel and the word of truth and we believe inwardly. But God has to initiate the process The word of truth obviously is God's word. It says so in 2 Timothy 2. 15 and 2 Corinthians 6. 7. The scripture, the gospel, is the instrument by which God causes us to be born again. 1 Peter 1, 23-25 says the same thing. We're born again not by seed, he writes. Seed is perishable. But we are born again by imperishable seed. It is the word of God. I say again, you don't get eternal life by the power of the church. We're not brought forth by water baptism. You're not brought forth by your good deeds. God will bring you forth. He'll do it by the exercise of his own goodwill. And he'll do it by the word of truth. By is by means of the word of truth. The word of God that you are hearing today is the very means by which, as you listen, God will grant you everlasting All you have to do is listen and believe. And as you listen and believe, God opens your heart in some way, and He grants you everlasting life and you are birthed birth in a spiritual sense, and you are born again, and you have everlasting life. And everything that comes with that for all of eternity, including the resurrection of your bodies That God is good. God is good. John 3 tells us that the Spirit of God is part of this process, along with the Word of God. A religious man wanted to know about spiritual things, and Jesus said to Nicodemus in John 3. 3, Truly, truly I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. God. You cannot see the kingdom of God if you are not born again. And he was a religious man. He prayed. He went to synagogue. He knew the scriptures. In John 3, 7 and 8, the same passage, Jesus said, Don't be amazed that I said to you, you must be born again. The wind blows where it wishes, and you hear the sound of it, but do not know where it comes from and where it is going. So is everyone who is born of the Spirit. You're born by the word of truth, but you are born of the Spirit of God. He is the originating cause. Do you see how amazingly good God has been to you? Could you just understand your very life in Christ as you sit there this morning is all from God and His goodness? He decided to save you. He decided to birth you. He's your father and he never changes. Oh, the contrast again is so stark. God, the father of all life, human lust, the father of all sin, death. Why did he do it? Why did he cause us to be brought forth? Well it says there at the last part of verse 18, we'll end with this. So that we might be, as it were, the first fruits among his The first fruits of the farmer were very best. And in sacrifices in the Levitical system, they were to be given to God. The first fruits given to God. So says Leviticus 23, 10 and 11 of Deuteronomy 18, 4 The farmer might like to take it and store it in case there was a drought sometime. The rest might be lost, but the Lord said, Give it to me. Give your best and your first to me. We are the first fruits. He wants. Us. He wants us. And that's why he did it. He has brought us forth to be his first fruits. Are you deceived? Are you thinking in your mind that God has not been good to you? Do you look back at horrendous things that happened in your life and interpret that as God's fault? God didn't do things right in your life? Did you have expectations in life that things would be a certain way by the time you were this age and they haven't happened that way? And you've kind of concluded somewhere in the back of your mind, God messed up. And it hinders your prayers and it hinders your fellowship with God and hinders how how you relate to God. It even hinders your service. You hear about service and you're like, yeah, I know I'm supposed to do that, but I don't really have a heart to do it. You've been deceived, you've been fooled. The true God is a good God, and He loves you, and He's already proven it. He's proven it in so many ways. Let us never be deceived. Let us always remember that God is good. Leave you with a couple of Psalms. Psalm 34, 8. O taste and see that the Lord is good. How blessed is the man who takes refuge in him. And Psalm 106. 1. Oh, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his loving kindness is everlasting. Lord, we need to see and perceive and understand this in the depth of our soul. We pray that you would enlighten the hearts through your Spirit's illumination of every person in this room. Cause some, O Lord, by your goodness to be born again. Grant them the faith that leads to life. And others, O Lord God, we pray you remind them of the wonderful blessing they have. That we would meditate on that through all the pains and troubles, God, that we know thou art good. Amen.