To the letter of James in chapter one, be reading uh verses two through four for you. James chapter one, verses two through four, a message from God, this text being his word. As he writes, consider all joy, my brethren, when you encounter various trials. Knowing that the testing of your faith produces endurance. And let endurance have its perfect work or result. So that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing. And we already said that in opening his letter, James. Abruptly tells his people how important it is to respond to the trials and difficulties of life correctly. First topic. Because people deal with struggles and trials, and though a trial itself is not temptation, often there's a lot of temptation that happens in a trial. But they are something to rejoice in. They are not to be treated as an unwelcome visitor in life as we often do. We're not told to rejoice when we're tempted here. We're told to rejoice when we're in trial. That's not the same. But we do know because of difficulty and a trial, temptations from ourselves do come. The natural tendency of trouble is not to sanctify, but to induce sin. A man is very apt to become unbelieving under affliction That is a sin. He is apt to murmur against God under it. That is a sin. He is apt to put forth his hand to some ill way of escaping from his difficulty. And that would be sin. Wrongly trying to escape the trial, murmuring against God in the trial, or as some people say, well, if this is the way life is and this is how God manages my life, I just don't believe in him anymore. James understands that these are the kinds of temptations that come to people under trial. So it's a serious topic. It's a serious one for you and me. It's a serious topic for any believer at some point in time. As I said, we are learning in these verses a philosophy, a theology of how to handle suffering. Suffering will come my way when it does. How do I handle it? I need to know. Can't escape it, we learned that. We do fall into trials. That's what encounter means. We talked about that in verse 2 last time. And it happens at inopportune moments. We don't ask for it. We can't see it coming. And then boom, we're surrounded by trials. Furthermore, it's not a matter of if, but when. When we fall into trials. We should expect them. We should plan for them. We don't know when they're coming, we just know they are coming. There's no doubt about that. And we need to know that we need to be prepared for a variety of trials, because that's what there are, a variety of trials. Verse 2 says so. We believe that God picks the very ones that help us to get to maturity, which is what verse 4 is about. That's where all of this is heading Perfection in terms of the perfection of character, that is, mature Christ-like love and character in the heart. That's where all of it is heading. And that's why the joy is put up front, because when you understand the maturity, you can rejoice. Today we're stuck in the middle. We're going to be in verse 3, and we're going to build off of what we learned last week. Our main point for the series is this: trials are designed by God to mature believers. So the genuine believer should embrace the trials that God brings into his life, right? If it's designed for my maturity and through my maturity, my joy and blessing, then I need to embrace them, not shun them, not try to escape them, not murmur against them, and not get confused in the midst of them. So we're looking at three responses versus two through four teach us to have the trials. The first response was last time. Find God's joy in the midst of your trial. The second one is trust what God is doing through your trial. We're going to talk about that today. Trust what God is doing through your trial. Oh, that's a hard one But God demands to be trusted. Indeed, He deserves to be trusted. And so we are exhorted to do that. Trust what God is doing through your trial, even if you don't know what it is. Trust what he's doing. And then next time will be let the trial, thirdly, let the trial be a pathway to your maturity. And that's what verse 4 talks about. So focus on verse 3 with me and our second response to trials. Trust what God is doing through your trial. Verse three says, knowing that the testing of your faith produces endurance. So James gave us the command For our minds in verse 2. Consider it joy. Think on this as joy. Now he's giving the reason why our minds can contemplate it that way, knowing that. We consider it joy, knowing something else. The causal clause in verse 3 provides then the basis, the reason for the command in verse 2. That's how they're connected Now, just like back in verse 2, we took each part of the sentence, broke it down, and looked and isolated each one, then packed it back together again so we could see the whole. I want you to observe a few things with me in verse 3. Let's pick it apart. And then we'll pack it back together again. First observation from verse 3 is that word knowing. It's a present active participle of the Greek verb gonosko. That verb ganosco is a verb that usually carries the idea of not just knowing something intellectually, but grasping hold of it and knowing it by experience. The knowledge, in other words, is so good that it's not just, yeah, yeah, yeah, I get it, which is where many of you may be right now. Tell me something I don't know. Trials are supposed to mature me. But no, it's a knowing that goes deeper where you really grasp it and hold on to it That's why you can read the Bible, know what it says, but not really know how to apply it, and you have to go back and read it again and again until it sinks in. It's that kind of knowing. The knowledge affects you. That means we are to be continuously, since it's in the present tense, knowing something by experience deeply. The believer must have confidence that God knows what he is doing. We know that God knows. We have confidence that his knowledge is right. And he has our best in his mind. By the way, if you just glance forward to verse 17 of chapter 1, it says, Every good thing comes from God. That's what God does. God gives good things. Your trial doesn't look like a good thing, but God can only give good things and He can only mean good things, so you're gonna have to change the way you think about your trial. I say you, I have to as well. Because sometimes I'm like, what And I don't know what you know he says, but it's something like, Yeah, that's this is good for you. And I'm like, No. And he's like, Yes. And so of course he wins, he knows. I don't. But you may do something similar. The illumined mind. Remember, just because you can read something on the page of scripture and understand the grammar and all that It doesn't mean you're grasping it inwardly. The illumined mind, the Holy Spirit illumined mind realizes this trial is for my good, from a good God. It really is meant to bring greater strength, greater joy, greater maturity into my life. It's a pathway there to maturity. Your mind can consider it joy because your mind knows. Your mind knows that the testing of your faith produces what? Endurance. You want endurance? Second observation. Notice that James equates the various trials of verse 2 with the testing of your faith in verse 3. Do you see that? The trial, the various trial, means the testing of the faith. It's a trial, but it's a test. So that means the trials are testing something. What are they testing? They're testing our what? Our faith. They're testing our faith. Why does my faith need to be tested? Well, your faith needs to be tested. God says so. The trial is gonna test your faith. That's a good thing. The word for testing in verse 3 is Dokimion Dachimion. It means to test something so as to approve it. It's going to be tested so it can be proven to be what it is. The trial, the paras, is the same thing as the dachimion, the test. By the way, that's why some like to translate it: the not the testing of your faith, but the proving of your faith. Proving of your faith. Since the test, as James is confident in them, assumes that as they're going to receive the test, they're going to go through the test, they're going to go through the trial and come out the other side and pass. It's hopeful. Trying, testing, proving, see. The very fact that he's writing to Christians who are saved and born again And then telling them, rejoice in your testing. He couldn't tell them to rejoice in their testing if they were going to just end up falling away from the faith and proving not to be real believers, right? No, rejoice in it, it's going to prove your faith. Your faith will survive. And it will probably be improved and refined by the fire of testing So behind this exhortation, and remember we said James is extremely practical, but he doesn't bring out all the doctrines that he believes to the fore. But behind this exhortation is a doctrine called the perseverance of the saints. That those who are truly saved will go through many trials in life, but their faith will not quit. Their faith will continue. So when you're 30, you're a believer, when you're 40 you're a believer, when you're A hundred and whatever you're a believer. You endure to the very end. And along with your need to persevere in the faith is God's protective power, so we call that the preservation of faith. So that the persevering of faith is preserved by the preservation of faith. And who does the preserving of faith? The answer, of course, is Christ. Do you remember when Satan demanded to sift Peter like wheat? And Jesus said to Peter, I prayed for you so your faith would not fail. If you're worried your faith might fail, Then Christ is praying for you and he says, No, your faith won't fail because I'm interceding for you, you see. So the security of God and yet the command to persist, they both are there in Scripture. They go together. Jude said, Now to God who is able to keep you from stumbling and to make you stand in the presence of his glory, blameless with great joy. He's going to make you stand there and it's going to be joyful. That's exciting. We are glad then to have our faith tested so it can be proven genuine. Lensky, the Lutheran commentator, says, If I have genuine gold coins, I shall welcome any test to which they may be subjected. Yeah, go ahead and test it. That's the real stuff. You're kind of happy with it. Faith is, he continues, however, not cold metal to be weighed and subjugated to strong acids. It is a living, vital matter Because the faith is real and living, the faith then, through the testing, listen, will grow. It will improve, it'll become stronger in one metaphor, it'll become purer in another metaphor. The faith won't run away and disappear. The trials testing is also a refining or a strengthening process. That's what Peter talks about if we add a little bit more to this doctrine of trials from 1 Peter 1. It says your testing goes through fire. What does fire what does fire prove with gold? Fire proves the quality of the gold. It burns out all the dross, right? And what comes through the fire, the hot fire is the real good stuff, the stuff that's valuable, the stuff that you can then take and make into what you want, and you can show people, look, I have this very valuable ring or necklace or whatever it is. It's gold. It's pure gold Faith there is said to be more precious than gold. I wonder if you believe that, that your faith is more precious than gold. God's gonna give you faith or God's gonna give you a lot of gold. Which one would you take? Come on! You know, you're gonna are you gonna amen from the mouth of babes? You know what I'm saying? Say it, preach it, preach it. Gold. You're gonna take gold, right? Many of you be honest, you'd be saying, I'll take the gold. I don't know that my faith is that precious. Oh, tisk, tisk, tisk. Why is faith more precious than gold? Are you kidding? First of all, you don't take the gold with you, right? You know the mummies they bury all the gold and stuff in there with them, do you think? Just pack it all in the coffin, you know. There it is. I don't think he's wearing it. Wherever he is. What does your faith bring you? Ah, your faith brings you heaven. Paradise, eternal life. Um, and then down here, joy, peace, confidence, meaning in life. Your faith is more precious than gold, period. I know all week long you're listening to the malls and the commercials and they're saying the opposite, but that's why you come to church so we can wash all that out of you. Read the word. Gold is eventually lost. I know it's exciting. You go to a jewelry shop, you know, you pull in there, got a little money. Want to get something from my sweetie. I'm gonna buy that, bringing home, you all excited about the gold. Don't get too excited about the gold. It's not that great Thomas Lee says, God uses trials to purge and remove defects from immature faith. We want faith to grow. Proverbs 27:21 says the crucible is for silver and the furnace for gold. We know the other proverb says, but God tests hearts. So proving the quality of your faith, even while purifying that faith, is what a trial does. It does both. It proves it's genuine and purifies it. Sturgeon in a sermon called All Joy in Trials, yes it was on this passage, wrote this. It's a little long. Coming out of a trouble, that's what he calls a trial, a trouble. Coming out of a trouble, the Christian says to himself, Yes, I held fast mine integrity, and I did not let it go. Blessed be God, I was not afraid of threatening. I was not crushed by losses. I was kept true to God under pressure Now I am sure that my religion is not a mere profession, but a real consecration to God. It has endured the fire, being kept by the power of God. Then he goes on. If in the darkest hour you have still said, I cast my burden upon the Lord and He will sustain me And you find that He does sustain you, then is your faith that of God's elect Then he goes on. I find it especially sweet to learn the great strength of the Lord in my own weakness. We find out under trial where we are most weak. And just then, in answer to prayer, strength is given, answerable to the need. The Lord suits the help to the hindrance and puts the plaster on the wound. In the very hour when it is needed, the needed grace is given Does this not tend to breed assurance of faith? I'm weak. Lord, I need help. Delivers. Ah, God is there for me. Faith increases, right? That's what a trial is doing. Listen to the strength of faith that the prophet Habakkuk verbalized in chapter 3 of his book, verses 17 and 18. And believe me, he struggled with faith at the beginning of that book. But then he writes this Though the fig tree should not blossom, and there be no fruit on the vines, though the yield of the olives should fail And the fields produce no food, though the flocks should be cut off from the fold, and there be no cattle in the stall. Now, in case you're understanding, if you're in agrarian society, that's pretty bad. Yet I will exult in the Lord. I will rejoice in the God of my salvation. That's a mature faith Everything falling apart around me. I can't see the goodness of God and the actual provisions that are usually there and I need where an unbeliever will start cursing God He says, I will bless God, I will exalt in the God of my salvation. Is your faith there? James 5:10, later, he'll throw this in. As an example, brethren, of suffering and patience, take the prophets who spoke in the name of the Lord. They spoke and had to suffer. And then they had to get back up and speak again. We may also say that God is purging you and developing your faith through fire. Because of that, I think that it is a reasonable deduction to say that God has chosen the trial particularly for you. That it's not just pick any trial you want, they'll all do the same effect. Maybe there's a degree of truth to that, but the specific trial is maturing your character probably in a number of ways that sometimes it just takes hindsight looking back months or years to figure out, oh, now I see why I had to go through that. But you can't see it at the moment. I think he's particular. I would also add this in way of biblical support that the way that God tried Abraham is very different than the way that God tried David. In the Bible. And the way he tried David is different from Job. And this the particulars that Job went through were different than Jacob, and which were different from Joseph, which were different from Elijah. You get the point, right? Each had their own unique life situation. So don't sit there and say, yeah, nobody knows what I'm going through. Nobody can relate. God's put you through something unique because he's putting you through that unique thing. It has commonality with everyone else's temptation, but there's some unique aspects of it because he's working on you uniquely. That means he's thinking about you. Rejoice in that. Another example is Paul, 2 Corinthians 12, verses 8 through 10. Concerning this thorn in my flesh, I implored the Lord three times that it might leave me. And Christ said to me, My grace is sufficient for you, for power is perfected in weakness. Most gladly, therefore, I will rather boast about my weaknesses, said Paul. So that the power of Christ may dwell in me. Therefore I am well content with weaknesses, with insults, with distresses, with persecutions, with difficulties. For Christ's sake. For when I am weak, what? Then I'm strong. Third observation. Still in verse 3. For James faith is central to the Christian life. Faith is essential to the Christian life. Indeed, faith is the energizing principle of living the Christian life. People think that James is a apostle of works, but he's a teacher of faith first before you get to works, right? Some of the people in their religion get that messed up. They want to go to church, be good, do some good things, and they forget that God won't receive you into heaven because he thinks you're good. You're not good. I'm not good. They say, Pastor, you don't even know me. Yeah, I know you. You're part of the race of Adam. You're part of the human race. You're one of our brothers, and so you're a sinner. That's what the Bible says of all of us, right? So you're a sinner and if you try to come to God with your good works, God will just say it's not good enough. I don't care how many you do, it'll never be good enough. You've got sin and one sin will keep you out of heaven, so you've got more than one Come on, be honest. You got more than one, right? So you're not going to bring your righteousness and your works to God. So you have to have faith in Christ and His goodness for you to be forgiven, and then you can begin doing works, right? So James is saying faith is the energizing principle. It's how you get saved, and it's the energizing principle of everything that comes out. You want to grow in love, you need faith. You want to have more love, you need more faith. You want to have more joy, you need more faith. You want to have more peace of mind, you need to have more fa It's the energizing principle. Faith is so important. Your faith is so important it has to go through the test. Your Christian works come out of faith. Your ministry comes out of faith. Your love for your wife comes out of faith. Being a better parent comes out of faith. You got a test of faith. And when he says, your faith, James again is proving what we said before, and that is he's writing to believers. These are saved people he's writing to. And by the way, the your faith is plural, which means he's writing to the believing community. Faith is important that the believing community has a testimony, yes? That we do not act like unbelievers. We act distinct, and that is because we have faith. So not just individually or not just your family, but your concern ought to be for the collective, known as the church. And you ought to be very concerned that the church's faith, as it gets refined, shines in the community properly. Oh, look, those people, you know. You see on the weather channel once in a while, oh man, a church got wiped out somewhere in Tennessee or Nebraska or something like that. And you see the people still huddling together in the remains and they're standing there and they're worshiping God. You're like, no, that's faith There they are, trusting in God. Disaster hits, and they don't say, well, God must hate us. He he ruined our beautiful church steeple Oh, these are people of faith. Faith makes a difference. Faith in Christ makes a difference. Faith is going to be constantly challenged. And if you go to the university, your faith is challenged. There's no good argument against the Christian faith, by the way. Absolutely no good argument against it. The arguments they give me show that they either they don't understand a Christian faith all that well, and so they've wrongly represented and shot down a straw man. Or they haven't followed through what they're saying in a fair way. There's no good argument against the Bible and against the Christian faith. But faith is constantly challenged. Then even if someone doesn't come along and tries to Chop down your Christian faith. Just the bad events of life can play in the head. God's not listening to me. God's not listening to my prayers. God's not concerned with me. I've had this problem so long. Oh my goodness. God doesn't care about me. There's no good God up there. If it works for someone else, it doesn't work for me. Wrong. He's good for everyone, but everyone's on a different kind of way in which or point of maturity and way in which God is working. With them. You can't look over at that person and say, well, you know, they go to church and they don't have the trials I have. Yeah, but they're going to have other trials at another time. You've got to think clearly about this. So our faith needs to grow. You know, there are those that define saving faith too narrowly. They just say it's an ascent to facts, they make a quick profession of faith, and they think they've trusted in Christ, they got baptized, but they're not really saved. Faith always has an active element to it. There's an initial, when you come to faith, there's an initial submission to the Lordship of Christ. You confess Him as Lord and mean it. You don't understand all the implications of that You're not fully obedient. There's still a lot in your life that needs to be purged out. Thus the refining process. Still a lot of sin in there. But the initial saving faith has to show at least some fruit, some response to God. It can't just be a bare profession, right? True saving faith is active. And that's why 2 Corinthians 13 encourages people to test yourselves. Interesting. Test yourselves to see whether or not you are in the faith. A faith that doesn't end up following and doesn't bear at least some fruit is not a saving faith. But of course, even saving faith has much that it needs developing. In an article entitled Faith According to the Apostle James, John MacArthur writes, believers do fail, and they sometimes fail miserably. As we see in Scripture. Lot, for example, was a pathetic example of compromise and disobedience. If all we knew about him were what the Old Testament records, we might write him off as an unbeliever. Yet the inspired New Testament writer tells us that Lot was oppressed by the sensual conduct of unprincipled men. While living among them felt his righteous soul tormented day after day with their lawless deeds, talking about his living in Sodom. 2 Peter 2, verse 8 The scriptures are very real in presenting the real struggles of real believers and their sins. True faith will produce at least some works, and James in the New Testament defined these works mainly as works of love. So we say it this way, love is the fruit, but faith is the what? The root. Come on, it rhymes, you should have gotten that Love is the fruit, but faith is the root, thank you. You don't get love without the root. You want the fruit, you need the root. Work on the root. Make sure the ground is good. See again, people think because they have a lot of knowledge about the Bible, their faith is strong. No. No, what it means is you have a lot of knowledge about the Bible. Faith has to be tested. It's essential that faith's genuineness be tested, refined, and strengthened. Now please don't misunderstand, trials do not strengthen Or produce endurance in unbelievers. When an unbeliever gets a trial after trial after trial, what happens to them? Well, they end up like Pharaoh. He becomes more and more confused, more and more like a madman, more and more crazy. More and more blasphemous, right? They get one trial on top of another, it just makes them bitter, not better They blame God. You know, when when they when an unbeliever has good happen in their life, they take credit for it. Look what I did, look what I got, look what I procured, look how my family is. But when bad happens, they're quick like, why'd you do this, God? They're very unreasonable. And God will judge them for that being unreasonable. In me you are truly my disciples. So continuance, endurance, is the mark of a true believer. It's the pathway also to greater maturity. Hebrews 3. 14 says, we have become partakers of Christ if We hold fast the beginning of our assurance, that's faith, the beginning of our assurance, firm until the end. Faith will endure, it'll persevere. If it's true faith, it goes through the testing. Now, in the midst of that, you may be wondering and you may be really struggling. That doesn't mean you're not a believer. That means you're struggling. Well, just see what happens with your faith. See where God takes you. Genuine faith will not completely fade away. It will stand the test of time. Hebrews 11 is one example after another of men and women who by faith endured a whole assortment of trials and were proven believers and grew in their character. Has God helped them shed sins over a longer period of time. Fourth observation from this verse. James writes at the end of verse 3 that the testing of our faith produces, and here's where we kind of come to, produces endurance. Now produces is the verb works, literally. It comes from sort of a compound Greek word here, kata ergadzomai. And kata means down, and our gajomai means to work, so it means to work it down. And that means to work it thoroughly through. So the testing of faith works thoroughly through down to endurance, produces endurance. It's an emphatic verb form. And it's in the present tense, which means the development from trials is ongoing. It's not just one trial and I got matured. There will be ongoing trials and those trials will continue to work. The testing of the faith will continue to work it down until until endurance is there. More endurance and more endurance. And by the way, we're going to learn next week that endurance is not the goal. Endurance is the means to the goal. You'll see that. Trials keep working to produce endurance until there is endurance there. Why do I keep getting trials? Answer: you need more endurance. Trials keep coming because you need more endurance. Well, let's put it another way. There's no way you can get endurance without trials. There's not another way. It'd be nice, wouldn't it? Next week we're offering a course on getting endurance. You come in, take the course, walk out, and now you have endurance. No. No, you do you've learned what endurance is and how you should have it, but you don't necessarily have the endurance, right? If we could just understand the great value of endurance and faith and understand that we don't get endurance without trials, we would begin to sense that pure joy that James exhorted us to have when we encounter various trials. The testing comes not only to rebuild our faith as genuine, but to strengthen our faith. So we can have more endurance. So endurance can then do its work. Spurgeon in that same sermon I quoted before said, The man who truly possesses patience is the man that has been tried. Look around. Who's got Christian endurance? Ask them to give a testimony. What has been going on in your life? And they'll tell you: trials. Trials, a lot of them. Well, I didn't know that from your response. You're so joyful and you're so strong, and God's matured you. Well, yeah, that's the point. God's matured me through the trials. But I wouldn't have been here without the trials, so I thank God for my trials. Endurance is the word hoopa monane. Hoopa monane. Patience is not quite the best way to translate that word. Hupamonane means more than that. It means stick-to-it-ness. It has the idea of just staying underneath something, not running out under the pressure, but staying there and strongly enduring it. Putting it on the shoulders and saying, I take this load. I'm going to carry this thing. So determination. You got a pack on the back, you look at the hill, you look at the mountain, you're like, I'm going to get up there. That's endurance. Particularly if you make it, right? D. Edmund Hebert says it is a virtue that grows under trial and testing, a brave manliness that confronts the difficulties and contends against them, tenacity of spirit which holds up under pressure. So endurance is not this. Sometimes we think of endurance this way, so we think we have it. We say something like, oh boy, how long will this trial last? And we think we have endurance. That's not endurance, that's passive resignation. If that's your response to trials, you don't have endurance yet Later, James will write in James 5. 11, you have heard of the endurance of Job. Now there's a guy. There's a guy who had endurance. Douglas Mu writes, the picture is of a person successfully carrying a heavy load for a long time. R. Kant Hughes writes, We develop toughness or fortitude by repeatedly being tested and prevailing. The more tests we pass, the tougher we become. As a boxer engages in bout after bout, he toughens, becomes wiser and stronger. After a time he develops such fortitude, perseverance, and staying power that he can take on the best There is no way a fighter or any of us can develop toughness without testing. The pulpit commentary says this: Christian patience is not the submission of indifference or merely the determination of an obstinate will. It is inspired by living piety, and it is therefore full of intelligence and manliness. The Apostle's words show that he regards this grace of endurance as inexpressibly precious He looks upon its possessor as, in the truest sense, a wise and wealthy man. The man who uses every fresh trial in such a way as only to increase his power of holy endurance is unspeakably a gainer by his calamity. Wow, so you can gain by your calamities. If you can gain by your calamities, then everything in life is going to be happy and joyful, right? If things go well with you, you're like, well, things went well with me. Thank God I'm glad things went well. And things go really poorly as you judge it at first, and you realize I can really gain by this. Do you understand what that does to your perspective on life? multiplied bereavements are needed to bring the soul into full submission to the will of the Lord. After much crying, the child is weaned. After much chastening the son is made obedient to his father's will By degrees we learn to end our quarrel with God and to desire that there may not be two wills between God and ourselves, but that God's will may be our will. O brother. If your troubles work you to that, you are a gainer, I am sure, and you may count them all joy. Please, please uh let me repeat this. Endurance is not passive resignation. Remember that old song, whatever will be, will be. The future is not ours to see. Kesarah Sarah. That's not it. That's not it. It's not holding back the tears, gritting the teeth. Or pretending not to be discouraged so you can look good in church. By the way, do you share your struggles with other people in church? If you don't because you're fearful how they might think about it, you're judging them. You're judging them. Can't judge their lack of love. Share. If they mess you up, then you can judge them. But share. Passive passive resignation results in defeat of mind and heart. You can't Win that way. Active perseverance results in triumph. This is the active element in faith. It's not quietism just sitting there waiting for it to pass. You know, some of you have stamina in areas of your life, so you know what stamina is. You can go to work, you can put up with all of these people that come and you you have to deal with people. And you have a lot of endurance in that. Or you know, some of your mommies, you're putting up with a lot more than I put up with, you know. After about the fifth or sixth, mommy, mommy, it drives me nuts. Daddy, daddy. What? You you already have it in some areas. Let me ask you though, do you have spiritual stamina? So maybe you're honest, you're saying, No, I don't think I do. I don't think I've really been tested that much. Precisely. Precisely. So that means that you could look forward in your future to what? Testing. And that's why you can consider it God's grace to you when you lose your job, when you have a loss of a loved one. When you're in an accident, you can look at each and every trial and say, God's grace is working right there in my life How do you view the Christian life? How about this? You got a pack on your back, and you got a long uphill road. In front of you. Once in a while it might dip a little bit, but the mountain just keeps going up and up and up. But your legs don't get stronger coasting the bike downhill, right? We The legs only get stronger pumping uphill. Your faith is like a muscle. It's a great analogy. When you exercise your muscles, they first feel what? Sore. I mean the next day it's bad. I remember once we went to this boot camp thing and I wanted to prove everyone what I could do the first day. I'm all out. I'm all out. Ooh, that's impressive. Look at the newbie. We drove all the way to Orlando the next day I couldn't hardly get out of the car, I was so sick. First three days at Disney World, I'm like But after the muscles are sore, what happens to them? It's strengthened, right? Right? Some of you forgot because you don't exercise anymore. A trial given by the Lord will not destroy true faith. It will expose weakness. It will expose weakness. We have such an inflated sense of our own faith. You know me too. I'm senior pastor. God, don't you know that? Yeah, I study word every day. I don't need any more trials. I'm already, I arrived. I don't really think that. But maybe it passes through the mind sometimes, you know, when we first get the trial. What? This again? Psalm 37, I like this. The Lord loves justice and does not forsake his godly ones. They are preserved forever. Oh, he's going to help me in my faith. You know, Paul didn't sit down and pout when he went through a trial. Listen to 2 Corinthians 6. In everything, commending ourselves as servants of God, in much endurance, in afflictions, in hardships, in distresses, in beatings In imprisonments, in tumults, in labors, in sleeplessness, in hunger. Paul had that So Paul gained staying power, constancy, endurance, steadfastness. That is why he was able to do so much for the Lord. His strong faith energized his apostolic ministry. Sometimes people take one little tiny ministry in church. You know, oh I got a ministry in church and I'm gonna do that. You're all excited about it, you know. You talk to one of the pastors, you're gonna go do, and then you run into difficulties. Folks don't show up to the meeting, they don't do what they're supposed to do. Supplies aren't there, budget's not there. And like I quit. Is that the extent of faith? Kind of shows it, doesn't it? It's interesting that James says we Rejoice in our tribulations. And Paul wrote in Romans 5. 3, we exalt in our tribulations, knowing that tribulation brings about perseverance. Job knew this too, Job 17:9. The righteous shall hold to his way, and he who has clean hands shall grow stronger and stronger. Paul valued this quality of endurance. He mentions it sixteen times in his epistles. First Thessalon three. We are constantly bearing in mind, writing to the Thessalonian church, your work of faith And labor of love, and here it is, steadfastness, hoopamone, of hope. Revelation 2. 2. Jesus commended the church at Ephesus for this. He says, I know your deeds and your toil and your hoopamone, your perseverance. However, slow and painful the trial is, endurance is the outcome. And greater endurance comes with greater pain Endurance and faith is a great quality to have. When you have endurance and faith, it makes all the other qualities of your life better. You can be kinder longer, you can love more thoroughly. Your joy lasts through things better. Your faithfulness is of a better quality. Obviously, the battle-tested soldier is the one most highly valued during times of war. The trained and challenged athlete is far better to have on your team. And the Christian matured by trials is the greatest blessing to the church. Please, beloved, do not resist your trials. Don't run from your trials. Don't fear your trials I know what else goes through the mind. It's something like this. You know, you come to church and you're like, wow, that person, God's putting that person through that. How could God do that to a believer? That's a nice that's a nice guy. Why do bad things happen to good people? And you're sitting there in your head like God's putting that person through that. They got cancer, they lost their job, this, that And then you're fearful. I don't want to stand out for God. I don't want to be, I know I gotta go to church, but you don't want to stand out. You don't want to stick your neck out. Listen, can I tell you something to help out a little bit? You'd never have to go through anybody else's trials. Now you can bear their burdens for them as well, but you don't have to go through their trials. You only have to go through your trials. Does that help? Gotta gotta pick the trials that are right for you. I had that revelation one day. I was like, man, look at what they went through. Oh my. I could never do that. Maybe I don't have to do that yet. Maybe I'm gonna go through this, this, this, then this, then that, then this, this, and this, and then I'll get to that. And it won't seem quite as hard then. Because he knows what he's doing. He's a good coach. The Lord will prepare you for each and strengthen you through each, and in each give you more joy. One of the great illustrations of endurance needed in the Christian life comes from John Bunyan's classic Pilgrim's Progress. How many of you have read that? Just out of curiosity. Pilgrim's Progress. Get a copy, read it. If you're not good at reading, get the kids' copy, it's good too. I'm serious, read it. It's good. Bunyan's main character in the allegory is Christian. He had to endure many trials on his way to the celestial city, heaven. There was the hill of difficulty on which he felt the pressure to slouch on his Christian pilgrimage. Then came the fearful lion's roar with the two lions on either side of the pathway, but chained, but scaring him from walking between. And then he faced the wicked Apollyon, the destroyer, who sought to slay him with his evil darts. So he had to learn to use spiritual armor through the advice of prudence, piety, and charity. Further on the journey it led to Vanity Fair, the city of pure worldly concerns. Here he faced persecution and abuse and wis witnessed his traveling companion, faithful Put to death for refusing to compromise his faith. Throughout his life, Christian's faith was tested time and time again. He was never allowed to go around his trials. He always had to go through the trials if he was going to make it to the celestial city. Each test strengthened his faith, creating greater endurance. He didn't get all of his tests at one time, they were spaced out. And as he endured, it led to greater maturity, greater determination to hasten his pace to the celestial city, greater joy burning in his heart, greater usefulness to God, greater Christian character. All of this fits what the Apostle Paul wrote. Through many trials we must enter the celestial city, the kingdom of heaven. One of the reasons Bunyan's classic has been a great seller among Christians for so many years is that it is a vivid picture of the real Christian life. Not the unrealistic picture that many paint today as to what it should be like to follow Christ. You ever listen to some of the happy, slappy Christian radio? Everything is positive. That's not faith tested by trials. There were many others in that same allegory who faced these same tests on the way to the celestial city, and they turned back. There was a fellow named Obstinate. Pliable, mistrust, and timorous timid, each for the obvious reason would have nothing to do with the trial-filled Christian walk to the celestial city. They decided, eh, I've walked on this long enough, let me get off this road, turn back. They cut off the trials. They wanted to return to a life of ease. They were not genuine followers of Christ. Others went astray seeking worldly things. There was formalist and hypocrisy who held to a form of religion, but did not follow God genuinely, and demas who sought for silver instead of things that would last. But Christians' faith endured to the end Spurgeon writes this. The patience which God works in us by tribulation also takes another form, namely that of acting without undue haste. Before wisdom has balanced our zeal, we are eager to serve God all in a hurry with a rush and a spurt, as if everything must be done within the hour, or nothing would ever be accomplished. Young men, please listen to this. We set about holy service with somewhat more of a preparedness of heart after we have been drilled in the school of trial. We go steadily and resolutely about work for Jesus, knowing what poor creatures we are and what a glorious master we serve. The Lord our God is in no hurry because he is strong and wise. In proportion as we grow like the Lord Jesus, we shall cast aside disturbance of mind and fury of spirit His was a grand life work, but he never seemed to be confused, excited, worried, or hurried as certain of his people are. He did not strive, nor cry, nor cause his voice to be heard in the streets. He knew his hour was not yet come, and there were so many days in which he would work. And therefore he went steadily on till he had finished the work which his father had given him to do. That kind of patience is a jewel more to be desired than the gem which glitters on the imperial brow You know, so often we just gotta run and God's gotta do it now. And if he doesn't do it now, there's something wrong. Then he continues. That is a grand kind of patience too, when we can wait without unbelief. When we can wait without unbelief. Two little words are good for every Christian to learn and to practice, he writes. Pray and stay. Waiting on the Lord implies both praying and staying What if the world is not converted this year? What if the Lord Jesus does not come tomorrow? What if still our tribulations are lengthened out? What if the conflict is continued? He that has been tried and by grace has obtained the true profit of his trials, both quietly waits and joyfully hopes for the salvation of God. Patience, brother. Is this high virtue scarce with thee? The Holy Spirit shall bestow it upon thee through suffering. When we place our hand into the hand of God and let Him grab it and take us Where he wants to take us, and it's into some hard things, that is not a punishment. That is a privilege. And you should thank your Heavenly Father, He knows how to handle you as a Son. There's an old Arabic proverb that says, Too many sunny days produce deserts. And I guess in Arabia they would know. We must learn to appreciate the rainy days when they come. Next, we're going to discover that the greatest part of the trial is not the endurance, but where endurance leads, and that's maturity. Let's pray, prepare our hearts for the Lord's Supper. Father, we do all of us pray that we would respond to the test of our faith with more faith and endurance, that you would have your work in our hearts. Thank you for this precious passage of Scripture. And for uh opening our ears to hear it, may it continue to mold us, we prayed, of course, for Christ's glory. Amen