I want to ask you all this morning a question. Um Do you remember where you were on Wednesday, February 8th, 2023? Anyone remember? Where were you? What were you doing? Hmm. Um it may be too long for some of you to recall. Uh I can't remember what I did last week, so I can understand. Um but it was actually reported On February 8, 2023, that a revival. A revival broke out on the campus of Asbury University in Wilmore, excuse me, Wilmore, Kentucky. Yeah, it's starting to ring a bell now. All right. Well, according to the website, insidehighered. com, uh, quote, university leaders say the phenomenon started when some students stayed late. After a chapel service on February eighth to continue singing and praying, and they didn't leave. Then other students joined them over several days and that stretched into a week and then another week. And there were videos of students and visitors praying and singing, playing instruments, crying and embracing one another and continuing to circulate these videos on all social media platforms. And the internet was rife with commentary from scholars and campus leaders and theologians attempting to contextualize the event and understand what has captivated this religious community and campus. And some just continued to uh remain in awe and and there was this fervor and it seemed like this kind of grassroots kind of nature of the event. And there were others obviously that were skeptical and continued to question the motives. Um and it was reported that this revival lasted uh up until February twenty third and some even reported even into March. I would also want to share with you that according to charisma news. com, you can think what you want about that website. But anyway, um, there were also eleven reported universities That also had experienced this revival, and it broke out on their campuses. And it included secular schools as well. And so I don't know about you, but with all this, you know, throwing around the word revival. You know, I I I s I was just wondering in my own heart, what w what is a true revival? What is a true revival And of course, to get that answer, we look no further than to God's authoritative word. And so would you join me, loved ones, as you open up your copy of God's Infallible Word to the book of Nehemiah, chapter eight? Nehemiah chapter 8. We by God's grace will look and hear what the word of the Lord has for us today. Nehemiah chapter 8 And the word reads as follows. And all the people gathered. As one man to the square before the water gate. And they told Ezra the scribe to bring the book of the law of Moses that the Lord had commanded Israel. So Ezra the priest brought the law before the assembly, both men and women, and all who could understand what they heard, on the first day of the seventh month. And he read from it, facing the square before the water gates, from early morning until midday, in the presence of the men and the women, and those who could understand And the ears of all the people were attentive to the book of the law And Ezra the scribe stood on a wooden platform that they had made for the purpose. And beside him stood Matthias. Shema, Ananiah, Uriah, Hilkiah, and Masaiah on his right hand, and Padiah, Mishel, Malkaijah, Hashem, Hashbadanah, Zechariah, and Meshelem on his left hand, and Ezra. Open the book in the sight of all the people, where he was above all the people And as he opened it, all the people stood. And Ezra blessed the Lord, the great God, and all the people answered, Amen, Amen, lifting up their hands. And they bowed their heads and worshipped the Lord with their faces to the ground. Akub, Shabbatai, Hodiah, Messiah, Kalidah, Azariah, Jazabad, Hanan, Peliah, the Levites helped the people to understand the law while the people remained in their places They read from the book, from the law of God, clearly, and they gave the sense so that the people understood the reading Verse 9. And Nehemiah, who was the governor, and Ezra the priest and scribe, and the Levites who taught the people, said to all the people, This day is holy to the Lord your God. Do not mourn or weep. For all the people wept as they heard the words of the law Then he said to them, Go your way, eat the fat, and drink sweet wine, and send portions to anyone who has nothing ready, for this day is holy to our Lord, and do not be grieved. For the joy of the Lord is your strength. So the Levites calmed all the people, saying, Be quiet, for this day is holy. Do not be grieved. And all the people went their way to eat and drink and to send portions and to make great rejoicing because they had understood the words that were declared to them On the second day, the heads of fathers' houses of all the people, with the priests and the Levites, came together to Ezra, the scribe, in order to study the words of the law And they found it written in the law that the Lord had commanded Moses by the people of that the people of Israel should dwell in booths during the feast of the seventh month. and that they should proclaim it and publish it in all their towns and in Jerusalem. Go out to the hills and bring branches of olige, excuse me, of olive, wild olive, myrtle, palm, and other leafy trees to make booths as it is written. So the people went out and brought them and made boots for themselves, each on his roof, and in their courts, and in the courts of the house of God, and in the square at the water gate. And in the square at the gate of Ephraim. And all the assembly of those who had returned from the captivity made booths and lived in the booths. For from the days of Jeshua the son of none to that day the people of Israel had not done so And there was very great rejoicing. Praise God. And day by day From the first day to the last day he read from the book of the law of God. They kept the feast seven days, and on the eighth day there was a solemn assembly, according to the rule Praise God, loved ones. Bless the Lord. So Aeneah, excuse me, in Nehemiah chapter 8. I believe by God's grace, we will observe five elements of a true revival of God's people. Five elements of a true revival of God's people. Element number one The people requested God's word. And this is in verses one through four. Element number two The people reverenced God's word. And this is in verses 5 through 8. Element number 3. The people repented of sin because of God's word. And that's in verses 9 through 11 Element number four, the people responded obediently to God's word. And that's in verses twelve through sixteen. And lastly The people rejoiced because of God's word. Amen. And that's in verses 17 through 18. So now, loved ones, since we are about to just parachute into this text, I thought it was only appropriate that we do a quick overview of the previous chapters to help us better understand where we hope to land this morning In Nehemiah chapter 1, we are introduced to this Hebrew Israelite who learned that the walls of his homeland Jerusalem have been burned down, in which he responds by seeking the Lord in fasting and prayer. In Nehemiah chapter 2, we learn that the Lord providentially uses this man of God known as Nehemiah. a cupbearer to a pagan king, to receive permission to go back to Jerusalem to rebuild the walls, in which he was provided with the materials, a security, protection, detail, and is met with opposition from enemies. In chapter 3, Nehemiah begins the building project and wisely assigns different groups their sections of the wall. In chapter 4, as Nehemiah and the Jews are making progress, the opposition increases their psychological tactics and threatens their lives In chapter 5, Nehemiah addresses the injustice that was being done to the Jewish people, namely having them in financial distresses and caused them to be enslaved to other Jews. And in chapter 6, Nehemiah remains steadfast in his duties to rebuild the wall, despite further opposition and potential threats to his life In chapter 7, we see that the census of the Jews is conducted and the wall is completed in only a matter of 52 days Praise God. And now we can proceed with our text for this morning, while it is still morning. Amen. Verse 1. Verse 1. And all the people gathered, as one man, into the square before the water gate, and they told Ezra the scribe to bring the book. Of the law of Moses that the Lord had commanded Israel. Hmm. Praise God. Now this was according to the Word of God, and I just want to remind you that in Deuteronomy Chapter thirty one verse nine through eleven and I just want to quickly read Deuteronomy chapter thirty one verses nine through eleven and it says Then Moses wrote this law and gave it to the priests, the sons of Levi, who carried the ark of the covenant. and to all the elders of Israel. And Moses commanded them at the end of every seven years, at the set time in the year of release, at the feast of Booth. When all Israel comes to appear before the Lord your God at the place that he will choose, you shall read this law before all Israel in their hearing Assemble the people, men, women, and little ones in the sojourner within your towns, that they may hear and learn to fear the Lord your God, and be careful to do all the words of this law. Praise God. Praise God. And we just quickly want to understand that the people were actually being obedient. They were actually being obedient and calling for Ezra to bring The law to bring the book of the law of Moses. And we were told in actually Nehemiah chapter 7, verse 66, that a total of 42,360 Jews were living in Jerusalem at this time. Now, obviously, this is God's grace and his provision towards his covenant people. Though they had forgotten the Lord, he had not forgotten them. And he had brought them back into Jerusalem, and now all the people, as we see in the text, though it was small in comparison to when they first entered into this land. Still altogether, the people gathered. And I just want to bring to your attention, loved ones, that in case you didn't notice it, the text doesn't say that Nehemiah gathered the people. It doesn't even say that Ezra gathered the people. No, the text says that all the people gathered as one man. They all gathered as one man. And you know that this is certainly a work of God. This is certainly a work of God for over 42,000 people to gather as one man. When you have a family of five and you can't even get to agree on what you're gonna have for dinner on Friday night. Tell me how t how is this possible? How is this possible? It's only possible because the Lord is at work in the heart of his people. And so now we see that the people gather together as one man. And what was it that they gathered to do? This is the first point of our outline. The people requested God's word. Point number one, the people requested God's word. Here they said they requested Ezra to bring the book of the law of Moses. And this is not the reverse. The people obviously knew that Ezra. He's a man of God. And there's no one more fitting to bring the word of God than a man of God. And they also knew that he also possessed a scroll. And we are not told if he has the first five book of the first five books of Moses known as the Pentateuch or whether he just had the book of Deuteronomy, but this much we do know. The people requested the book. Again, loved ones, this is a work of God. Ezra didn't do this. The Lord was doing this in the heart of his people. And this is the first mention of Ezra in the book of Nehemiah, though it is believed by scholars that he is actually the writer of Nehemiah, as it is recognized in the Torah as one book, Ezra Nehemiah. And so who is this man Ezra Well, according to Ezra chapter seven, verse six, this is the Ezra that went up from Babylonia. He was a scribe skilled in the law of Moses that the Lord, the God of Israel, had given, and the king granted him all that he asked. For the hand of the Lord his God was on him. It also tells us in Ezra chapter 7, verse 10, we learn that Ezra Set his heart to study the law of the Lord, and to do it, and to teach his statutes and rules in Israel So Ezra was a man of the book himself. He wasn't the type of uh preacher that would stand in the pulpit and say, Thus saith the Lord, do what he says, and then goes out and does the exact opposite. No, this man determined to study the law of the book. He's determined to study the law of Moses and he continued to apply this word to his heart. And now he is The appropriate man to teach the word of God to the people of Israel. And now we see that it is the people again that requested that Ezra would bring the book. And what a great want. They wanted the word of God. Only God can do that. Because we know Israel's history, right? We know that when they gathered together as one people, it wasn't usually good things that they were requesting. You remember it was only in Exodus chapter 32, as soon as Moses took a little long Because he was just enjoying that fellowship with the Lord his God. And the people came to Aaron and said, Mo uh Aaron, we don't know what has happened to Moses. Why don't you take our gold and fashion us of God? And why don't you take all of our gold? And all the people gathered their gold as one and they gave it to Aaron. And Aaron fashioned the golden calf so that the people would harlot themselves, worshiping a false idol. That's what they gathered together to ask for. Remember, it was also in Numbers chapter 14 that we learn that the people gathered together and they grumbled and they complained against Moses. Which was actually a complaint against the Lord. And they started complaining, oh, that it would be better for us that we had died in Egypt when we were slaves. How that grieved the heart of Moses. But here today on this day the people of God gathered as one, as one man, and they requested the word of God. Oh, praise God for that And I just want to ask you, loved ones, what have you come here today to do? What is going on in your heart as you are making your way, pressing through traffic Trying to find a parking space to be here at Hope Bible Church. I am so glad. I am so glad that you have Bible in your name, right? Because that is not, unfortunately. True of many so-called churches in our world today. But you are a people of the book. And you have to remain steadfast in being a people of the book. Because these times that we're living in, they're going to continue to test us. But we will not shake. We will not totter and fall so long as we stand on the book of the Lord. So long as we stand on the rock who is Christ. Amen. Amen. And so I just want to encourage you. Continue to bless the Lord your God. That you have a place where you can come and worship. And you know, that the men that stand before you, though they are men fallen just as you are, they endeavor to preach to you. The Word of God. That's a gem. Cause I don't know about you. Every time I look at my YouTube feed, I see these churches. And they're not asking their pastor to bring them the book of the law of Moses. No. No, they're saying, Pastor, bring us entertainment. They're saying, Pastor, bring us a message that's gonna tickle our ears. Pastor, bring us some of that feel good. Pastor, bring me some of that, I'm gonna live my best life now. But they're not looking to have their hearts transform. But these on this particular day, praise God, Israel, they requested that Ezra would bring them the book of the laws, mo the law of Moses. And so verse 2 So Ezra, the priest, brought the law before the assembly, both men and women and all who could understand what they heard on the first day of the seventh month Now notice, loved ones, that the assembly included men, women, and all who could understand. This was the family coming together under God's word And I just remember the days as my wife and I were driving up here. It was not too long ago. We were sitting in the other worship center, right, with our little ones in tow. And I remember we would be sitting down in these same blue seats, you know, giving this one goldfish and giving this one a sippy cup and this one crayons, you know, here draw this, you know, pay attention, you know And we were just so distracted. You know. We were glad for those Sundays. We were like, Is Sister Carol working back there? Yeah, can you take this guy so I can pay attention to the book? You know, you know, but uh but no, all jokes aside, though we are thankful for, you know, ministries that that serve us and take our little ones so that we could focus on hearing the word It's still very important that as your children are able to sit and able to hear and understand, bring them together as a family. So that as a family, you would show them. And that you would teach them. We are a people of the book. We endeavor to raise you according to the book. And we pray by God's grace that you would follow this book. Follow the God of this book Hmm, loved ones. We need, we need that. We need to make that message abundantly clear in our families. Hmm. And now we are not told what the age of the children were, but we know that they were old enough to understand what they heard. And remind you that uh I just want to remind you that God's word, right? The clarity of God's word, it's it's shallow enough, as the old adage says, it's it's shallow enough that a child can wade in this water But it's deep enough for an elephant to drown. Oh, loved ones, as long as your children can understand the book. Bring them. Let them hear, right? Yeah, we know there's so many competing there's so many things competing for your time, right? You got soccer tournaments and travel basketball and all these things, and that's gonna fade But not this book. Not this book. Because the God over this book is eternal. And so we want our children to understand this is our priority. We are a people of the book. Hmm. And so, Leviticus 23, 24 reminds us, speak to the people of Israel, saying, In the seventh month, on the first day of the month, you shall observe a day of solemn rest. A memorial proclaim with blast of trumpets, a holy convocation. And so the people of Israel, they were being obedient. Even though they had neglected it for so long because of the Babylonian captivity. And it was because of their rejection of the book that they were in the situation that they were in. But God again did not forget his covenant people. And so, Ezra, he brought the law before the assembly, and verse three reminds us that he read it. He read from it facing the square before the water gate from early morning until mill until midday, in the presence of the men, and the women, and those who could understand So here we learn that Ezra read the Word of God, the book of the law of Moses, and he did it from early morning until midday. And this is an estimation of about six hours. And so I'm so glad that you see this in the text because that's exactly how long we're gonna spend this morning. We're going to spend a good six hours just looking at the book from the law of Moses. Oh man, praise God. Oh man. And I don't know about you, but when I when I first read this text, I know what came into my heart. Six hours? Come on. Come on, man. You gotta be chitting me. Mmm. But this is what the text says. Furthermore. Verse 4, and the ears of all the people were attentive to the book of the law I don't know about you, loved ones, but how do we get back to that? How do we get to that place? Where we are able to push out all the distractions, all the noise, all the dings and the and all the things that are just vying for our attention to distract us from the book I want to be there. Do you want to be there? I want to listen to the word of God when it is being preached, and I don't want anything to interfere But I'm I I'm I'm reminded in those moments. And I hope you're reminded in your in those moments That our flesh doesn't want us listening to the book. But we have to remind our flesh who's in control here. I'm a child of the Most High God. Whom the Son has set free is free indeed. I'm no longer in bondage to my flesh. Flesh, you're going to listen to the book And whether you like it or not, we are going to obey this book. Amen. And so this is what we must do, loved ones. We must make sure that we prioritize our being attentive to the book of the law. Stop allowing temporal things to rob you of the joy of being focused on hearing Speak, O Lord. As we come to you. That's what we need to do. We need to prepare our hearts each and every time that we're driving and we're going to worship the Lord our God. And I know, I know. I got my laundry list like you do. I know we have the to do list. I gotta do this. I gotta do that. And and especially when you serve in ministry you're always thinking about, oh, did I do this? Did I send this Person email. Oh, here they come. Now they're gonna remind me. I didn't send them the email. You know, and your mind is going in 10,000 different directions. Bring that thing into captivity to the obedience of Christ. We need to focus. We need to be attentive to the book of the law. And so we see Ezra the scribe, he stood on a wooden platform. This might have been the platform. No, I'm just kidding. Um It's a lovely platform, by the way. It's beautiful. But Ezra the scribe, he stood on a wooden platform that they had made for this purpose Loved ones, you can tell a lot. You can tell a lot about a church, about where they place the pulpit. And I'm so glad. And hope Bible church, you would let it be known continually, whether you move from one room to another, this is the priority right here. And this This is where everything flows from. It flows from this book. And as you continue to prioritize that, praise God that he will continue to rain his blessings upon this church. They did something so practical so that all the people could could could better hear Ezra reading the word So they they wanted to make sure that they could not only see Ezra open up the book, but they could hear Ezra reading from the book. And we do the same thing when we want to amplify God's word, right? We create an atmosphere that assists people in hearing the word and not being distracted by unnecessary things, right? We have microphones and and speakers and And and Lavender, you're doing a great job back there, brother. Thank you for making me sound so good this morning. Thank you. Um that's Desmond, by the way. I have his nickname is Lavender. You can call him that later. But anyway, anyway They wanted to hear the book. And it was said of John Calvin that he had such a high view of the authority and the sufficiency of Scripture that he placed his pulpit in the church in Geneva way above the people. It was so far above the people that they had to look up to receive God's word. And so we learned that this wooden platform was large enough to hold 13 people on it. And I won't try to read those names again because it was only God's grace that I was able to read it. But one commentator says, because of the length of time involved, the people who joined Ezra on the platform likely assisted him in reading from the scroll. Some would have handled the unrolling and the rolling up of the scrolls while others would have taken their turn reading it. And now these men that had joined Ezra. Hm, praise God. They read from the book. Right. Pra. And they were able to uh S another commentator references that um whether they were priests or obviously they were Levites, but most likely some other estimated that they might have been influential leaders, lay leaders in the community, but nonetheless they stood demonstrating their um Partnering with Ezra, they believed what was written in the book of the Law of Moses, and they stood with Ezra to demonstrate that we are one, we are united with Ezra because we are a people of the law of God. Hmm. Verse 5. And Ezra opened up the book in the sight of all the people, for he was above all the people, and as he opened it all the people stood. So now we are at the second point of our outline. The people reverenced God's Word. The people reverenced God's word. One commentary notes, one prominent ingredient for spiritual renewal is the knowledge of and respect for the Word of God. There must be a willingness to listen to it, not glassy-eyed, but with one whole but with one's whole heart, expecting God to speak with power. And so this is what the people did. They heard the word. And verse 6 reminds us: and Ezra blessed the Lord, the great God. And all the people answered, Amen, Amen, lifting up their hands. And they bowed their heads and worshiped the Lord with their faces to the ground. The people reverenced the Word of God because they reverenced the God of the Word. All the people again noticed that they were united. They were together. They were as one man And they answered, Amen, Amen, or truly, truly, or surely, surely, for they were in agreement with what God's word had told them. Loved ones, don't let anything hinder you from worshiping the Lord your God. Right? It's good to say an amen every now and then. It's good to affirm that pastor who's up there preaching his heart out. Let him know. I agree with what you said, Pastor. I agree with what you said because you just read from the book. Hmm And we have to be so careful to guard our hearts from, you know, oh, I don't want to lift up both hands. That might look a little too charismatic, you know, I'll lift up one hand, you know you know I don't want to rock too hard. I don't want people wondering if I'm losing my senses. You know, I mean come on. Come on, loved ones. We're here for the audience of one For the audience of ones, I want the Lord to say, that's mine. That's my son. Worshiping me I want Jesus this to say, Father, that's the one I got for. And he's worshiping us. Hmm Bless his holy name. Bless his holy name. I don't want to be concerned about what others are thinking. Now don't go crazy and start running around here because Tony will grab you up real quick, alright? So stay in your seat and worship the Lord, right? Worship him from worship him in spirit and in truth. Amen. Amen. See, it's so good. Oh man, it's so good to hear you, loved ones. They were worshiping the Lord. They were lifting up their hands. And they would often do that as a demonstration of expressing: we are dependent upon you, God. We are dependent upon you. Hmm. And so the people reverenced God's word. They stood up. They stood up. They wanted to make sure, even for six hours. And nothing interfered with them hearing from the book and the law of Moses. And verse 8, it says that they read from the book, from the law of God, clearly, and they gave the sense so that the people understood the reading. And now I just want to share with you another Pastor David Gozik in his commentary on this section. He notes: if you leave here knowing five hem five helpful hints to a better life, But do not have a greater understanding of God's word, I have failed. If you leave, having been amused by humor Entertained by anecdotes or captivated by dramatic stories, but do not have a greater understanding of God's word, I have failed If you leave motivated to action or praying a prayer, but it is not based on a greater understanding of God's word, I have failed And if you leave admiring me, but do not have a greater understanding of God's word, I have failed. Love ones. We need to make sure that we are are having our ears attentive to the word of God. So that he would speak to us, so that we would hear what the Lord our God is telling us and that we would apply it to our hearts and obey it and worship him as we were made to do. And so we have to discipline ourselves. We have to fight in order to make sure that we do not allow anything to rob us of that joy and that privilege of doing so. And here we see in verse 9: And Nehemiah, who was the governor, and Ezra the priest and the scribe, and the Levites who taught the people, said to all the people: This day is holy to the Lord your God. Do not mourn or weep. For all the people wept as they heard the words of the law. Praise God for such a response. And now this is Amen. This is the third point of our online. The people repented of their sin Because of God's word. The people repented of their sin because of God's Word. Now you heard it when we And you heard Pastor Gabe read earlier on the day of Pentecost in Acts chapter two, verse thirty seven. Remember how the people responded when they heard Peter preach from the book. They said, brethren, brothers, what shall we do? What shall we do? Hebrews 4. 12 reminds us. For the Word of God is living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing to the division of soul and of spirit, of joints and of marrow, and discerning the thoughts and intentions of the heart. And no creature is hidden from his sight, but all are naked and exposed to the eyes of him to whom we must give account I have to ask you this morning, loved ones. I would be remiss if I didn't. When was the last time that you mourned over the fact that you have sinned against this great God? When was the last time that you felt guilt and shame in your conscience and in your heart? Because you You ignored. You tried to silence what you heard from the book. Don't silence him And don't grieve him by ignoring his warnings against trespassing his word. Love ones, our emotions are a gift from God. Our conscience. That's the alarm clock that we need to go off in our mind and in our heart to remind us you are treading on dangerous ground. Turn around. Run back to the Lord. And I don't know about you, but if you're here this morning and you continue to sit in this sanctuary, Week in and week out, and you're not being cut by the Word of God. It's time for you, loved ones, to go back to the drawing board. Are you truly in a relationship with the Lord, our God? It is critical that you examine your heart As 2 Corinthians chapter 13, the Apostle Paul reminds us, examine your heart, test your heart to see if you are in the faith Remember the gospel. Remember that our God, He is the one true God, and He is the creator of the heavens and the earth Remember, Psalm 24:1 reminds us that the earth is the Lord's in the fullness thereof, the world and all it contains. We belong to the Lord. He made us to worship him and to glorify him. And Revelation 4. 11 teaches us that, that he is worthy to receive all the honor and the glory and the praise. And he, though he made us, though he made our first parents perfect, and they were in a perfect environment and had a perfect relationship with the Lord our God. They listened not to the word, but they listened to the serpent. And as a result of their disobedience, that's why we're all born with this nature. This nature that is just wanting to rebel against God. We don't want. We wouldn't on our best day want to listen to this book. And it's because Adam's sin was imputed to us. His guilt and his shame, it was all transferred to us And that's why, even from the very womb, as David says in Psalm 51, Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity and in sin, my mother conceived me. We were sinful from the from the start. Romans 3 reminds us that there is none righteous, not even one. Just in case you want to argue with the book, you can't. You can't. There's none of us that can stand before God and say, I'm worthy, Lord. No, sir. No, ma'am. We all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God And we know that this same God who is our creator, he is holy. He is righteous. He is just And he can't just have people just continuing to rebel against him and think that it won't cost them. No sir. No sir. Remember, our God is so holy that even the very seraphim that are given the assignment to be in his presence and to call out, holy, holy, holy, the Lord is the Lord our God, they're not even able to look upon him. Because he's so holy. So this same holy God, he must punish sin. And we know that Romans 6. 23 reminds us, for the wages of sin is death. See, the serpent doesn't want us to read the fine print. But you better read the book. Because that is what we deserve. We deserve death for having rebelled against this holy God. And we just don't die and eviscerate like the world wants us to believe that we'll just go into uh the universe of nothingness. No, that's a lie from the pit of hell. Hebrews 9:27 reminds us that man is appointed to die once, and after that face judgment. And if you and I were to stand before this holy, righteous, just God, On our own, in his holy court, we wouldn't stand a chance. Because our God is a holy consuming fire And anyone's name that was not found written in the book of life, as Revelation 20, 15 reminds us, they were cast into the lake of fire. Loved ones, that's what you and I deserved. And if you're here this morning, please hear me. You must hear the bad news before you can accept the good news. You must know. That even your most righteous deeds, if you thought that you could impress God saying, Hey God, I I know I violated your word, I know I've broken your commandments James 2. 10 says, even if you kept the whole law, even if you kept nine commandments, but you stumbled in one, my friend, you've broken them all. That is a picture of the absolute holiness of God And if you put all your righteous deeds together, God won't accept it. Isaiah 64, 6 said, filthy garments. It's unclean. So you can't save yourself. You need a savior You need a redeemer. And praise God. Praise God he didn't give us what we deserved But he gave us what we don't deserve. He sent his sign. His precious son, his only begotten son Colossians remind us that for in him all the fullness of deity dwells in bodily form. What do you know about a God that leaves his heavenly throne? Where he is worshipped and adorned. Leave the riches to come into this world to be bankrupt with us. What kind of God does this? Only the God of this book. Only the God of this book And over 2,000 years ago, Jesus Christ came into this world in a miraculous way Of a virgin being pregnant. Only God can do that. And that was to testify to the fact that He is God. But how precious of him, how humble of our God to come into the womb of a woman so that he could identify with us. So that he could sympathize with us in all of our weaknesses. Yet he is the only one that is without sin. And here you have this one who is truly God and truly man in one person. And he came. He came because there was no other way that we would follow this book. There was no other way. But he came and he perfectly followed the book. He perfectly kept all the commandments, all of the statutes, all of the laws. And he who knew no sin became sin on our behalf, so that we might have the righteousness of God in him, as 2 Corinthians 5. 21 reminds us. Jesus Christ went to the cross. To make that ransom, to pay that penalty that you and I deserved And he bore the wrath of his father on that cross. He was cursed on that tree for us. For every man, woman, and every child that could understand. Christ died on the cross to pay for their sins. While on that cross, remember those three words that he cried out in victory. It is finished. Paid in full. Silver and gold couldn't do it. No Bitcoin, no electrocurrency. I don't know whatever currency we can come up with. No, it took the precious blood of Christ Because without the shedding of blood there could be no forgiveness of sin. And so this Lamb, though he did nothing wrong, he was slain in order to atone for our sin, in order to make us right before this God who is holy and righteous and just But he is also equally loving, merciful, and compassionate to send his son, to die on the cross, and to be raised from the days, raised from the grave three days later to prove this is my beloved Son. Follow him. Listen to him. He is the living book. And loved ones, praise God. Praise God for what Christ has done. And if you're here today, if you're here today and you're still Rebelling against God, thinking you can get to heaven on your own merit. Please, I plead with you. Run to Christ today. Turn to him Acts 17 verse 30 reminds us that God has overlooked the times of ignorance. But He's calling everyone to repentance, to men everywhere, to come and repent. And so Isaiah reminds us, let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts, and let him return to God. And he will have compassion on him, and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon. And so whatever sin you may think that you may have committed Let me tell you, the blood of Christ is sufficient enough to wash it away. But you must come to Him. You must come to Christ today on His terms. Run to Him and surrender to Him. And you will know a joy and a peace that you have never known And just like these people who, hmm, we must, we must, oh loved ones, the people were mourning over their sin. And that was a good place to be in. But verse 10 reminds us that that they reminded the people, as reminded the people, go each your go your way. Eat the fat and drink sweet wine and send portions to anyone who has nothing ready, for this day is holy to our Lord. And do not be grieved, for the joy of the Lord is your strength. Love ones. Only, only when we are in walking in obedience and the Lord our God is our God, can the joy of the Lord be our strength And I want to go in the strength of the Lord and not my own, because I know it won't last. I'd rather boast in my weaknesses so that I will see the strength of Christ in me. Amen. Amen. And so the Levites, they calmed all the people, and they reminded them, be quiet, for this day is holy. Do not be grieved And Ecclesiastes reminds us that there's a time to weep, and there's a time to laugh, a time to mourn, and a time to dance. And Jesus, the Lord our God, in the greatest sermon that ever preached, He said, Blessed are they, Blessed are those who mourn for they shall be comforted And here in Nehemiah, he encouraged the people to go home and to celebrate what the Lord our God was doing in their midst because it was clear that God was working it was at work in their hearts. And now they were able to experience the true joy in the Lord Because they were walking in obedience to the Lord. Verse 12. And all the people went their way to eat and to drink, and to send portions, and to make great rejoicing, because they had understood the words that were declared to them. On the second day the heads of fathers' houses and all the people excuse me, and and the day on the second day the heads of the fathers' houses of all the people, with the priests and the Levites, came together to Ezra the scribe, in order to study the words of the law. And so here we see these were just regular men, just dads wanting to make sure what Does this book say? I want to make sure that I'm shepherding my family in the book. I want to make sure that I'm following the book. And they found it written in the law what they were supposed to do that the Lord had commanded Moses and all the people of Israel that they should dwell in booths during the feast of the seventh month, and that they should proclaim it and publish it in their towns and in Jerusalem. And so here, the people, they went out, and they brought them and made booths for themselves, each on the roof and in their courts, and in the courts of the house of the God. Excuse me, in the courts of the house of God and in the square at the water gate, and in the square at the gate of Ephraim. And now this is the fourth point of our outline. The people responded obediently to God's word. They understood what God's word said and they did what it said. No rocket science. And though we complicate it because of our sin. And 1 John 5 reminds us that God's commandments, they're not burdensome. They're not burdensome. But to those who don't know the Lord, yes, it is burdensome, and it's impossible, for our minds are hostile to God But praise God for us who have the spirit of the living God indwelling us, we do not find the law burdensome And so verse seventeen and eighteen reminds us, and all the people, and all the assembly of those who had returned from captivity, they made booths, and lived in the booths. For from the days of Jeshua, the son of none to that day, the people of Israel had not done so. And there was great rejoicing. Loved ones, the people rejoiced because of God's word. And we We are God's chosen people. We are his adopted sons and daughters. And there should be nothing else that competes for our heart. Like the Lord our God. There should be nothing nothing that brings us joy more than the Lord our God and his word and being amongst the people of God. And so I'm just so glad that you allowed me to be here with you this morning. To remind us. Even if we hear of these revivals popping up here and there, whether some college campus or some political event. Let's pray for a real revival. Let's pray for a true revival. And be willing enough to ask the Lord that it would start with you Because when the people of God obey the word of God, when we say no to the world and all the foolishness that it offers, and we walk in holiness and we walk in righteousness, And we walk in obedience to the Lord our God. That is what God uses to draw others unto himself Because people will lean in and want to know, why do you have such joy? Don't you see what's happening in our world? Don't you see it crumbling right before your very eyes? And you can say, yes, it is crumbling. But guess what? I'm standing on the rock. I'm standing on Jesus Christ. I'm standing on his word. And I know my God, he will neither leave me nor forsake me I love the God of this book because there's no one like him. And I worship him and I want to glorify him with my whole life. And pray for boldness that you would proclaim the gospel to that lost soul, that they would hear The God of this book speaking to them like they never heard it before. Present that gospel to them, and that same word that cuts That living and active word that's sharpened in a two-edged sword, don't hold back from the counsel of God. Preach what it says. Let him hear it. Let him cut it So that they would realize what must I do to be saved? Brethren, what shall we do? Repent. Repent and believe on the Lord your God. And you and your whole household might be saved. Loved ones, all heaven rejoices when one sinner repents. Pray that God would use you, that he would use even you. To go and proclaim this book to someone else. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father in heaven Thank you. That goes before the very foundation of the world you knew that we would rebel against you You knew that we would never turn to you in our own strength. But God, we thank you so much that that did not hinder you. And that it was always your plan. It was always your plan to go and rescue your chosen people, but also to go and rescue a people who were formerly not your people. And we thank you that in your amazing grace that included us, thank you for the gift of eternal life. Thank you for the indescribable gift of your Son, Jesus Christ. There is none like him And Lord, thank you. Thank you for not sparing him. Thank you for sending your Holy Spirit that we would worship you in spirit and in truth. God would you help us abound your grace towards us that we would never depart from your book, that we would meditate on this book both day and night, so that we would be like a people that are planted like a tree by the streams of water, bearing fruit in every due season. Oh God, we want to bear fruit for your namesake and for your glory. Help us to do that, Lord. Help us to find that there is no greater satisfaction than being in your presence For in your presence there is fullness of joy. At your right hand there are pleasures forevermore. Oh God, help us to see this world for what it is. It's perishing. But your book. Heaven and earth will pass away, but not your book. And it's because you are the eternal God. You are the true God. And we just want to obey you. We just want to please you in all of our ways. So help us, oh God. Help us to not only make our ears attentive to your word. But God, that we would quicken our feet to be obedient to what it says. And help us, especially as your ambassadors, to go out into this fallen world and to go and proclaim your gospel and to make disciples And Lord, that you would do what only you do best. Bring the dead to life. For you are a life-giving God. Oh God, we love you. Oh God, we thank you. Thank you for this word. God, would you continue to use it, that it would bear much fruit, some thirty, some sixty, some a hundredfold in our lives, for your namesake and for your glory We ask this by faith, in the name that is only above all names, the name that is only able to save. Let all those who love the Lord Jesus Christ the living book say Amen, Amen, and Amen. Thank you, loved ones.