Well yeah, so um repentance, true repentance. We talked a little bit about like a Psalm fifty one it was a couple of weeks ago and then like Matt White came and he also did um Oh, Sermon on Repentance. And uh it was good and it was bad because I was like, wait a minute. He's he he's running off of my outline. Stop. So I have a very similar outline Um but I'm gonna sprinkle it with a little show and tell, and I'm gonna initially do this with some questions to kind of thought provoke us to wrestle with the idea of what true repentance what true repentance is. Um I also wanted to kind of show what kind of a shallow non-repentance is. I started out doing that. Um I'll throw a little bit of that in here and there. But really I just want to kind of go over some points of what true repentance is I don't want it to be a lecture, so um wrestle with me and um I'll try to make it follow as well with a little show and tell in the middle. Um I came a little what I've got, two, four, six, eight questions. It was like, oh, we always have like at least fifteen. One, two, three, four, five, six. Today I have more than enough questions to throw out. At least one per person. So I could either start on the right side or the left side. Go this way. But either way, I hit everyone with the least one. No, I won't do that to you. I'll just throw 'em out there. I was gonna do it, but I'm I won't I won't put anyone under pressure To start sound easy gets a little harder. Um but these are just this to kinda get us to start thinking about what true repentance is. Um what so the first one I was like, what's the difference between a believer's repentance and an unbeliever's repentance? A believer does a believer repent? So what's the difference between a believer's repentance and an unbeliever's repentance? Don't have to even answer them. You should even think about it. But if someone has an answer, feel free. Yeah, that's what I was thinking. Yeah. Yeah. Um Yeah, yeah, absolutely. Yeah. Yeah, I mean According to God, I mean oh unbeliever might say, Oh, I'm repentant But they're not because the first thing is to recognize sin. I mean an unbeliever really I mean they may feel bad about something but usually it's because they got caught, not necessarily because they're really sorry. Um second one. Uh I seem to repent over and over again regarding the same sin Why do I not yet see victory over this sin? And I've always struggled Hey, June. I've always struggled with this, right? Um there's a sin And I repent and I repent, but why do I not see victory over particular sins? I think we'll get a little bit more into this later on when we get into more of the biblical w manhood, womanhood. There are some sins that are just ensnaring and enslaving. And it seems like we're constantly having to repent. Um And that may not even really have an answer yet, but hopefully by the end um we'll bring some clarity to that question. Um is repentance a work of God or is it a work of me? Yeah. Yes, I like that answer. I didn't I'm gonna write that in. Yes. Yes, it is. Um is repentance a one time event? Or does it occur throughout a believer's life? So I shouldn't even said that, right? Just said there's one time event. Are we is a believer characterized by repentance throughout their life? Or is it you know you you know you know, believe and repent, right? One time Yeah, believers should be characterized by always repenting, right? I mean First John talks about, you know If you say you you you you are you you you're not a you do not sin, you're a liar, right? Or you make God have to be a liar. I mean uh we should always be repenting. And repentance is I'm gonna sp Later on, repentance is like a gift that God gives us. He gives us the ability to constantly and continually come to Him And the great news is he forgives every time. Um so his repentance of blessing It's a means provided by God to be reconciled back to God. So true prep repentance can only be accomplished Um or is accomplished by a believer versus the unbeliever. So um God doesn't give the unbeliever the ability to repent. But he does give the ability to the believer, so therefore that's to exercise that. Um how does God view the idea of repentance? We've gone to this psalm earlier. Pastor Gabe actually opened up one of his one of the morning uh sermons with this psalm, Psalm fifty one. It's a great one and in verse seventeen, I'll just read that one line, but the whole psalm is a again uh a great prayer on repentance. Um and it kind of goes through this whole list of the six marks of true repentance. But in verse seventeen, uh in the uh ESV. It's written, The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit, a broken and contrite heart a broken and contrite heart, O God, you will not despise. So when we come to repent, God is not God used that as God is looking for that. He's looking for the heart that is broken and a l and a heart that's coming to him to seek forgiveness. And according to this verse in that whole psalm, God delights in us coming to him and seeking his forgiveness. And then my my my two last questions. Uh or here's kind of more of a scenario. I repeat the sin, pardon after pardon, can there still remain mercy for me? So it kind of goes back to that earlier question of um I seem to repent over and over again, yet I never see victory. Yet there are plenty of examples Um where we see believers again and again and again asking for pardon but still um falling short, but yet Does God say, well, you've used up your you've used up your get out of jail f you know free card Lot commits incest twice. Peter denies Christ three times. David commits adultery with Bathsheba then kills her husband. Is there still mercy? Is that is God still willing to pardon? Well he does, and he expects us to come in repentance. Um If Christ commands us to forgive the truly repentant brother who sins against us seventy-seven times, do we not think that God can outgive Us seventy seven times? If we're called to t to forgive seventy seven times Don't we think that God can do better than us and forgive even more abundantly? Yes, definitely. Right. Um Yes, there still remains mercy for me. In Luke 747, Christ says to the weeping women woman, your sins, which are many, are forgiven. So yeah, God is abundantly willing and capable of forgiving. There is no limit to his ability to forgive. Um and he gives us that ability to repent. And God follows up with forgiving This is kind of a good good one. Uh and I I I think um the world and Satan continually deceive us with this one. Will repentance take away your joy? I mean I I always thought, yes, I always thought, yeah, if I'm gonna repent, it's gonna be a life of just drudgery and going to school and Trying to be good. No fun So you're talking you're talking about repentance unto salvation. Are you talking about repentance? Oh. Um yeah, those um Um the idea of having to repent and I guess turn from sin and turning to God. Okay. Um, so that idea of yeah, putting off sin, putting on God. Turning away from sin, turning towards God. Does that just inevitably result in a life of joylessness? And Satan will say yes, for sure. Our friends will say yes. I know too many people have gotten in a car after a good party and tragic tragically follows, so Yeah, yeah. And and to be honest, I mean there is, you know, there is um there is an aspect of you know Fun. But really the that little bit of fun is just kind of the the gateway to like and the real purpose to throw us and in ch and like you said, enslave us, right? I mean you could have a glass of wine, it's fine. But it opens a gateway to being enslaved by it, right? And and you know, God is very clear about, you know, there is wine being drank in the in in the Bible throughout, right? But it says do not be controlled by it. So there's a there's a balance in there. So yeah. Repenting does not necessarily mean You're gonna live a life of joylessness. Yes, definitely. And that we do. Absolutely. Yep. Yep. Yeah. Yep. So that would kind of come under my yeah. Hate of sin, for sure. Or confession or sorrow over sin. For sure, definitely. Yep. Ab absolutely. But I think for repentance we're really talking about um and you can see even in Psalm fifty one where where his David's sin is just he just cries out, it's it's it it eats away his bones. Um but at the end, after he's repented Um well I guess uh yeah. By the end of that psalm, he is joyful that he's been forgiven and he's now that relationship has been mended. There's still some collateral damage for sure, right? I mean his son dies. Um Yeah, there are definite consequences, but in the end, um repenting didn't make him didn't and result in a life of drudgery. It ended in a result of freedom and reconciliation with God. Um but yes you're definitely right right. When we get to sorrow, shame, hatred, that kind of weeping over there have James Five in here. Um Absolutely, absolutely That's a good melody. Yep, yep, yep. And then the other way I'll tr oh sorry. I think that um your desires change after we sent it. That was the biggest thing that I was gonna add to the idea of Joy, joylessness. Um, if an unbeliever is to repent, they don't see the reason as to why they need to repent because they're like, Well, this is fun and their definition of fun is making themselves happy. As a believer our joy comes from honoring the Lord with our lives. So then as repentance comes, so does that change of heart. So as you repent and you repent again And again and again you go through that you go through that same trial, you start to change what you desire. Um and so that's where that joy comes from because you don't desire that anymore. You desire something different. So I feel like that's where the joy comes in. It's a different kind of joy. Yep, absolutely. I would say it's a grander joy. It's not like just a a you know, a superficial, quick kind of joy that needs constant feeding. Um it's a deeper joy, it's a more of an everlasting joy. Yep, those are all good. Good comments. So just uh kind of making these questions just to kind of get us to start thinking about what repentance is, perhaps what it's not And comparing a believer to an unbeliever. Which leads us to really kind of the crux of today, which I want to identify. six marks of true repentance. And um these are pretty standard across a lot of the references I've looked at. Um You can find some books and there'll be like ten ten little subcategories, but I didn't want to drag this into a ten week course on just repentance which would be a w you know a worthwhile endeavor. There's a lot of books out there um that really dig into what kind of multi, you know, kind of looking at the various facets of all these things. But for today, um my hope is that um I give you a basic outline of what true repentance looks like. That you are confident and quick to come and repent often, and that Repentance is a sign of a true believer. That a believer continually repents. And um I hope it spurs you on to kind of do a little little dig a little diving in on your own. Um one of the things I love about Teaching is that it it forces me to really dig in deep and I'm like I'm like up at like two in the morning and there's like all this great stuff. But I realize I look up at the clock and go, I only got thirty minutes left So um there's a lot of great great material out there. I think I should I'm I'm I'm probably better at writing books or something rather than actually standing in front And PG, but uh I like both. Anyways, there's there's a lot of good stuff out there. Totally really recommend digging in on your own. It's it really is a good exercise and beneficial to your soul. Um okay, so the first one is recognizing and seeing your sin. I'm going to go to two passages, actually just two verses, to kind of highlight this. The first one is in Acts, Acts 26. 18. This is during Paul's conversion. And um God is sending Paul out to proclaim the gospel in order to, and and this is where it 2618 says, To open their eyes so that they may turn from darkness to light and from the power of Satan to God That they may receive forgiveness of sins and place amongst and and and a place among those who are sanctified by faith in me. Just like Paul's eyes were open So does the gospel when it's preached, open the eyes of believers so that they allow now they were once in darkness, they didn't recognize their sin. I know I didn't really recognize their sin Or maybe I did but I embraced my sin. Well now once they're being changed from a life of darkness to lightness, we now recognize our sin. In fact, now we see It's almost like putting like a microscope on our eyeballs, right? 'Cause now like everything is like a monstrous thing whereas before a lot of aspect of life just didn't even get didn't even come up on the radar as being sin. So the first point, recognize and see sin. Another great passage of Scripture, Luke 15, 16 to 18. This is where the pro this is the story about the prodigal son. prodigal son takes you know his inheritance spends it trivilly uh or uh you know trivilly tri is that a word Truviously Triviously, that's the word I'm looking for. Um Spends all he has, not in the care in the world, until he is sitting there amongst the pigs, um, eating you know and and fighting for food with the swines. Um and then all of a sudden, boom It's like he all of a sudden recognizes, you know, what was fun for the moment was nothing more than deception and that his sin he had been so enslaved he lost everything. So let me read that. Verses 16 to 18. And he was longing to be fed with the pods that the pigs ate. And no one and no one gave him anything But when he came to himself, when he finally recognized and saw where he was, he said, How many of my father's hired servants have m have more than enough bread? But I perish here with hunger. I will arise and go to my father, and I will say to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you. So here he is recognized his great sin And he goes to see his father and say, I have s and it and just also comes into sorrow, shame, and turning from sin to God. Um But don't let this story just kind of pass you by. There's a couple other things to be noted here. First, the son now lives at the bottom of his sin. The consequences weigh heavy on him. He's finally awakened and realizes that the depravity Of where his desires and sin has brought him to. And then two, um Rather than hide in fear, he approaches his father boldly, right? I mean that's kind of what we tend to do. We tend to do the opposite. We hide in fear Uh, we're kind of wallowing this in. We'll start listening to lies of like, and you did this again? And rather than like come to the Father, we tend to sit back. And that just like feeds that feeds the deception. It it it almost re-enslaves us again. But here we see the example of I will arise and go to my Father. That's kind of that idea of repentance, right? Go to God and seek his forgiveness. Identify your sin. Have sorrow over your sin, hate the sin, and turn from it and go back to God. Also, look at how the Father responds. His and the dad isn't like sitting way up on the hill going, Oh yeah, there he is. Oh look at it. He can't even walk up the hill. Well, too bad. He's gonna have to try to get up here on his own strength. And when he does get here, I'm gonna blast him. Is that what we see? Is that a picture of what we see? No. When the father runs to him The father's running to him rather than the son uh the son is running, but the father equally is running. And when he gets there, rather than scolding him Which I mean he he deserves, right? He deserves to be scolded. And there is some consequences to his sin. But more importantly, he runs to him and celebrates the return of the son So that should be good news for us, right? When we sin, God wants us to come down, to repent, to truly repent. Point number three, sorrow over sin. This word Juno's uh comment about um sorrow. What is sorrow? And so I kind of just did a little search and just It is weeping, it is saddening, it is grieving, it is emotional suffering, it is that internal pain. You know, we recognize sin. Um And for the believer it produces sorrow. But this sorrow is in a way sorrow is in a way it's it's kind of like a a defense mechanism. It's a it's a motivation, right? Um with it, it drives us to kill the sin. It drives us to recognize the sin and see what it is, uh for what it is. The evilness, the deception, the whole reason that Christ had to die and pay for or you know, take on the penalty. Um it See the sorrow for what it does. It separates that fellowship with God. It actually drives us to value Christ even more. Oh well. I did this horrific thing. Uh it was like in a blink of an eye. a second. And yet Christ had to pay for it. Yeah. That, you know, what we would have had to have done eternally For that that second or two of a sin, God took the penalty and paid that for us. Um So the believer is sorrowful for the offense, but the unbelievable unbeliever is sorry that he was caught. Typically, um it's kind of interesting. Has anyone ever seen someone like totally caught in a horrific action and there's just like There's no sorrow. They're like it's kind of embarrassing sometimes the way that an unbeliever will and I am as guilty as anyone, you know, any other unbeliever, you know. Um he try to excuse it, he try to Yeah, everyone does it, um I didn't hurt anyone, um Sometimes they just want to get they just wanna kinda like, you know, look kind of like they're sorry, but really, um They're just they're just sorry that they got caught a lot of times. It's pretty easy to tell when somebody else's apology is self justifying quick end Kinda hard to catch yourself doing the same thing. So sorry, but you could do it, you know, like Yeah, isn't that queen too? There's always been but why not just just say you're sorry? Say you're sorry. Um I did want to throw in a little funny story. Have you ever been like either in a you're sitting in class or you're listening to the sermon, the preacher, the teacher goes you know, earlier this week or you know, you know, last week, blah blah blah blah blah, and it like fits perfectly into the sermon. Has anyone ever sat back and gone like Did that really happen? Okay, if it did happen, did it really, really happen like last week? Or did it just be kind of being something being made up? To kind of like really drive the point of the lesson in. So I have that perfect example that happened like 48 hours ago. How about that? That fits into this Exact thing of repentance. And we do a little show and tell. I was at the airport. I was at the airport. And I've got this fantastic fig jelly. It's fantastic. It's fig jelly. I'm gonna give it to your mom, by the way. Yeah, yeah. It's in my bag. It's going through the uh it's going through the screener. And I see it get pulled I see my bag get pulled over to speed check, like, ah, come on. Come on. Gets pulled over, this giant guy Who's got like an attitude already, pulls this out and goes It's over. It's over the size list. Like what It's jelly. It really is jelly. And rather than like me laugh off and say, you know what? Looks sorry I know the rules. I know I should have just taken it and just put it in my check-in luggage and everyone would have been fine. I know this is your job. Anything over I've whatever it is, three ounces. I think it's like a weird number. It's like three point four ounces. Somehow they've calculated what the a liquid amount I guess would like explode and cause horrific damage. So I guess 3. 3 won't cause as much damage as 3. 4. But anyways, so this is what I'm going through in my mind, right? It's jelly. Okay, it's it's a little bit over The 3. 4. I'm not recognizing my sin. I'm definitely not sorrowful. I know the rules, but the rules don't apply in my case. Yeah, they apply to everyone else. But the 3. 4 doesn't apply to me. I was a great example of a Christian, wasn't I? And he said, okay, you want me to throw it away? I was like, no, don't throw it away. I want to check it here. So he had to take it and he had to escort me down out of the secure area. The funny thing was, I had I had these two. It took me like two or three minutes to go back to the check-in. Or to uh the ticket ticket counter. I still had one free bag. How is how is that? Put it in. And it took me like maybe five minutes to get back, and then maybe like three or four minutes to get through the security line. It took me no time at all And then I still had to wait for the airplane, like two hours we were there for two hours, right? So by the time and I'm I'm still fuming, I'm still mad, right I mean I'm it didn't ha I and I didn't really repent until I came. E my my whole plane trip was ruined because I'm like thinking about like How how could I possi Yeah, I'm I'm I'm being foolish is what I'm doing. Were you upset that you didn't uh exactly what you wanted, or were you rather more upset because you knew that person was right and you were upset? about that. Because my money more or less told these stories like as a teen. Um my parents were like telling me like you were doing X, Y, and Z wrong. Do you recognize that? And of course I recognized it because I was you know very acute and absolutely aware too my response situation. But I was always upset. So my response in itself was displeased. I just knew they were right, but I was too proud to admit that I have done something wrong with it. Absolutely there was that piece of it. You know, actually you know what else was funny? 'cause I wanted to bring this up too. So I'm at the check in counter and I'm putting my excuse Explosive jelly into the bag. Um okay, alright. And then I'm about to put this also. It's a little it's a battery charger. I'm also about to check this in and she goes, no You can't check that in. Like real? Why? Yeah, because they they they could potentially I guess explode and cause fires. But I could carry this on. And my brain is going like, wait a minute. The explosive jelly I can't take on the plane. Well I can, but it has to go underneath the plane. The the the The lithium battery searcher, which really can actually catch fire I can take. I can't put it under the way. I can take it on so my mind is uh is I'm just being tormented. Being tormented. I know. I know. That's why it's the perfect example for today. Because But when I after I got home I'd calmed down and I was just foolishly thinking like I was so in the wrong. I just let my sinful heart get the best of me. Um I had real sorrow because you know what? Here's this guy doing his job, and I'm giving him a hard time I suspect he's probably like he's probably gonna be like a visitor today in the worship center. And I'm gonna just have to just grovel for forgiveness Yeah, yeah, explosive. But um yeah. If I were an unbeliever I would have just continued to be mad about it. Um the unfortunate and the con you know, even though I I did repent and I did ask for forgiveness, there's still some consequences, right? I mean now What a great opportunity if I would have just said, you know what, you're absolutely right. Um totally my fault. Um Sorry it's gotta you know I'm sorry I created all the back you know you know now I've stopped the whole traffic of people trying to get through. Um I'm really sorry about trying to make your job horrible. Um I could have been a very different example. Could have been a very different conversation. Um actually can I tell them an extra funny story? Oh yeah. From Baltimore to so the same thing happened getting on the plane from Baltimore to Florida, except it was her bag And the and the and the guy asks, if I put my hand in there, is there anything sharp or anything that will poke poke me? And the Lord goes, No, I don't think so. He goes into the bag and he pulls out this like six inch knife. Bowie knife. It was like a hunting knife. I'm like But she handled the situation way better than I did. I mean she just like laughed at it and said like Here I am, guilty as charged. Um but it was it was good, it was good 'cause he kinda laughed a little bit and he was like apologetics, like I'm sorry. He was like, you know, you know he was like, you know, um you could you know we could send this for you, you know, we'll we'll mail it to you. But yeah, yeah. But yeah, so we s yeah, so she gave it to him as his birthday gift. Yeah, yeah. So but a very different different approach. I mean that was the good example, I was the bad example. I repented, but there was still some collateral damage there. Anyways. So yeah. So don't ever ask me to teach on like, you know, the Ten Commandments, thou shalt like not commit murder. I'll be standing here in front of you like an orange suit, like, uh I got a great story to tell you guys. Don't have me do that one. Please. Um, okay. Ten twenty five it is. Um So sorrow over sin. Um let me let me do a one more couple more things here. Uh just some other notes. Um sorrow is produced every time over sin, even habitual sin. Do not allow sin to deaden your sorrow or your response of sorrowness. Um Judas. Judas was sorrow was sorrowful, wasn't he? The only problem with Judas is it rather than seeking repentance, just chose to get out of the pain, right? And commit suicide. Um I've always kind of wondered what would have happened had Judas repented. That's kind of an interesting thought. Because um Yeah. So Jesus is an interesting example of someone who was had some level of sorrowfulness but just did not seek repentance. Number three, confession of sin. So this should be voluntary, right? Shouldn't be like a forced action. That's really a mark of a of true repentance. It's a voluntary, voluntary confession. Um The first statement made by the prodigal son is, I have sinned against heaven and before you. There is no one twisting his arm. He came to that realization himself. He didn't try to like, yeah, I sinned, but um there wasn't anyone, you know Push him near the edge of the cliff. You better hurry up and confess or I'm gonna push you over. No. Um he doesn't use small talk, he doesn't try to hide He doesn't try to explain how things should have gone. Um, and he doesn't play the the victim card. I mean he he he recognizes the sin, he owns it, and he confesses it on his own volition. Also, um it's easy for us just to kind of be kind of vague and general about sin I would recommend that we particularize our sin. I got angry at the TSA officer. Um not like yeah I I wasn't a good example at the at the at the at the security gate. No, I I got angry Anger was my sin. Um I was lustful, I cheated, I stole, I exploded with anger. Particularize the sin. Um Confession should also include the commitment to fight the sin. Here's an example of a confession that isn't really a confession. In Exodus 927 We're gonna look at like we're gonna look at Pharaoh. So Pharaoh makes a confession. Then Pharaoh sent and called Moses and Aaron and said to them, This time I have sinned. There he goes. He owns his sin. Doesn't particularize the sin, but he does say, I have sinned. The Lord is in the right, and I and my people are in the wrong. He's identified as sin, he's confessing sin. But unfortunately we see that this confession is not real. It does not last, and there's no change in behavior in Pharaoh. So there's an example of a confession, but it's not a real confession. The last thing I want to say about confession is confess often and confess to one another. This is James 5. James 5. 16 talks about confessing and then confess to one another. Yes, there is confession to God the Father, to Christ, but there's also collateral damage, and we should confess to those who we've sinned against. Number four, shame for sin. I'm just gonna do a couple little points here. Self-conscious emotion. This is what shame is. Shame is Does anyone have a better definition of what shame is? I just have like a self, conscious emotion, uh a negative valuation of self, an inward recognition recognition of A pain, um self-appointed guilt. Um I think it's kind of like a self-incrimination. We recognize our sin and um We have it it kind of leads to a a a self-evaluation and um it identifies a negative aspect of ourself Shame. It's emotion, it's a feeling. Um but it hit it it kind of rides along with that uh confession and recognition of sin Number five, hatred of sin. And again, as I'm kind of going through these, you can kind of think about the response of a believer versus the response of an unbeliever. I always find that kinda helps me to kind of really solidify something like, you know, well what really is repentance? Sometimes it's it's it helps me to define repentance by identifying what repentance or whatever the term is, what it is not. And so if I kind of look at what a response is, what the response of an unbeliever is, it gives me a little more clarity of what the response is. of a believer. So hatred of sin, right? I mean sin separates us from God. Uh sin requires The life of Christ, right? Um hatred of sin. Sin actually enslaves us. Um sin destroys relationships. These are all reasons for why we should hate say. Again, if anyone has any thoughts on anything, so we are almost out of time. Feel free to jump in and well, you know what, we have one more And then we'll kind of open it up to some questions. And the last, which I think is probably most important is, I mean they're all important. Turn from sin While at the same time turning to God. God's love is known and experienced through repentance. Repentance is kind of like God's invitation for us to return back into fellowship. Right? So, um I've kind of like wrestled with repentance is almost kind of like a blessing. It's kind of It's it's kind of like this little bell uh or or red light in our head goes off and it says, Repent. Recognize your sin and now go back to the Father and ask forgiveness, seek his forgiveness. It's God's way of kind of telling us, shaking us, like, you are out of fellowship, come back Repentance is not a work performed to earn salvation, but it is the appropriate response of a believer who is moved by God to come to Christ. Um and there's a lot of uh there's a lot of good discussions on kind of repentance and faith kind of being on the same Yeah. The same coin but but repentance is on one side of the coin and faith on the other, right? Repent and believe we're called to do Uh that's kind of like an instant you know kind of simultaneous uh thing that happens. Uh but we're only saved once, but repentance continues throughout our lifetime, right? And repentance is the way that we restore not only the damaged relationship we have with God, but also with those of us around us, right? I mean repentance or I mean sin is doesn't just occur in a little vacuum. You know, sin, um especially really horrific sin. Um is widespread. Even just, you know, our speech, I mean, it it I'm sure if you've been insulted or made fun of or lied to, um, I mean it hurts I've been under s you know, I've been under end of both of those, right? You know, singing against others and others singing against me. It's painful. And those relationships um need to be mended Reconcile. Um and then kind of my l my last point um is the power of prayer. And uh we see that uh very implicitly in Psalm 21, David crying out and kind of going through these points. Um asking God to relieve him, to f for to to mend that relationship, to confess to God. Um we do all of these things. Um One way very very well is through prayer and Psalm fifty one again is a great example. Ask God for repentance. And we can ask God, God, show me, give me the ability to repent. May my repentance be heartfelt and real and sincere Um great things to ask for in our prayer time. So kind of in conclusion, these are kind of the marks, these are the kind of six marks of true repentance. um th that I found. There's a lot of great material out there. Um and I encourage you to really dig deep and seek repentance and know that We're going to have a life of repentance. Um, and I really see repentance as a blessing and an invitation from God to continually be brought back into fellowship with Him. Any questions? Any last minute thoughts? I just wanted to share uh Second Corinthians ten and eleven. I think that's a key test on uh sorrow and hatred of sin. And just in the in the context, this is the second letter, actually probably the third letter that Paul's writing to the Corinthian church and in the first Corinthians he really supported And he says, For the sorrow that is according to the will of God produces a repentance without regret, leading to salvation. But the sorrow of the world produces death. For behold, what earnestness this very Everything this gods of sorrow that's produced in you, what vindication of yourselves, what indignation, what fear, what longing, what zeal, what avenging of wrong, and everything you demonstrated yourselves to be innocent in the matter. So we you know We see in this he says the sorrow sorrow the sorrow of the world which leads only to death. And that's like the sorrow that we try to punish ourselves with in order to uh scrub out the guilt of our sins. We do that a lot, right? We think if we just feel bad, if we throw up sorrow, we can pay for our sins. But then there's the sorrow of God that actually leads us to go and hate sin and have indignation and fear and longing to be free of it and to be able to kill it. Um so that's this passage I found really helpful in thinking about what is the right response when I'm repenting. Like am I having the sorrow of the world and is trying to punish myself and you know so that maybe God will take pity on me or am I having the sorrow of God where actually start to hate my sin and get rid of it. Sorrow is kind of being the motivation. And not to feel bad, but to actually do something about it. Yeah. Yep. Yep. That's good. Yep, fantastic. Yep. James Four James Four eight? Yeah, James Four. Eight eight through probably nine, yeah. Yep. Fantastic. Yeah. Yeah, these are all great verses um Kinda gives me reass you know, assurance. You know, when I do kind of respond in this way. Um yeah, just to it. gives me the assurance of my salvation, right? No, because I'm not you know I am acting as a believer. Um and I desire that reconciliation. Um But it's a it's a struggle, right? 'Cause oh you just get tired of sin, you know There's a you know sin is you know the you finally you you see some victory in sin over here and then boop something else pops up over here. And so it's We're kind of always having to be alert, right? And confess those things and come to him. Okay? I'll close this out with prayer.