Go ahead and open your Bibles to the Gospel of John, chapter eight, once again. As we continue in this great discussion or discourse between Jesus and the Jews in the temple six months before he was to be crucified. Faith and freedom are foundational concepts to America, to us Americans. It's important to us. Our country was founded on the concept of faith and freedom. Many of our laws were written by legislatures primarily to protect the free exercise of religion. Of assembly, of speech. Our Declaration of Independence affirms these United Colonies are and of right ought to be free and independent states. Many of our historic landmarks, as Sarah Palin's bus tour is highlighting currently, cover our landscape with memories of heroic acts which led to our national freedoms. The GOP just held a conference for faith and freedom, as they called it, to highlight those two important values. So it's not surprising that most Americans still describe themselves as people of faith Still over one hundred million Americans claim to attend religious services weekly. I don't know if that's true. Certainly doesn't seem as much to be true around here There are currently over 300,000 churches in America, and some believe quite a bit more. Furthermore, Christianity still makes up two-thirds to three-fourths of America's official religious designation. So faith is important to us Americans, so is freedom. But we need to ask when we come to this subject that's important to us: what does it mean? What is true faith? What is true freedom? Is political freedom true freedom? Is that the kind of freedom we should be most excited about and work hardest for? We know the Bible says that without faith it is impossible to please God in the letter to the Hebrews. But will any kind of faith do with God? Or does it have to be a certain kind and quality of faith? Well, today you're going to get answers to those questions not from a denomination, not from a religious council, or a college course, but from the mouth of God through his written word. Our text, inspired by the very breath of God, is John chapter 8, verses 31 through 36. I'm going to stop at verse 36 and save 37 and following for the next time since the topic seems to change there. Follow along then as I read. John 8, 31 through 36. So Jesus was saying to those Jews who had believed him. If you continue in my word, then you are truly disciples of mine. And you will know the truth, and the truth will make you free. They answered him, We are Abraham's descendants and have never been enslaved to anyone. How is it that you say you will become free? Jesus answered them, Truly, truly I say to you, everyone who commits sin is the slave of sin. The slave does not remain in the house forever. The son does remain forever. So, if the son makes you free, you will be free indeed. And we'll stop there. Well, faith and freedom. Even here, Jesus says they go together. Faith and freedom But here Jesus intertwines another ingredient with faith and freedom, an extra pillar. Or foundation of America, if we wanted to think of it that way, a pillar that Americans are losing. It is the cord that binds faith and freedom together, and that cord is. The truth. The truth. The truth feeds and grows our faith. And our faith always and exclusively must rest on the truth. And consequently, knowledge of the truth by means of faith, by means of belief, leads to the best kind of Freedom, ultimate freedom, the freest of freedoms, if I can word it that way. Freedom from sin in Christ, who is the truth and the object of our faith. To probe that relationship better. There's a relationship between faith and truth, and truth and freedom, and thus faith and freedom And I want us to think about those relationships this morning. And to do that, we're going to ask and answer two relevant questions Particularly for us American Christians. What is true faith and what is true freedom? Verse 31 deals with the first question, if you look back at it again. What is true faith? Verse 31. So Jesus was saying to those Jews who had believed him, If you continue in my word, then you are truly disciples of mine. Well, this statement connects obviously backward to verse 30 in the dialogue Jesus had with the Jews in those previous verses. Jesus told the Jews in the temple at the Feast of Tabernacles, that's where we still are, that he was the light of the world, that anyone who followed him would not remain in darkness, but would have the light of light. He also went on to explain his relationship to the Father. If you look back to verses 28 and 29, Jesus said, When you lift up the Son of Man, a reference to when he would be crucified up on the cross Then you will know that I am He. It's a declaration of His deity. And I do nothing on my own initiative but I speak these things as the Father taught me. And he who sent me is with me, he has not left me alone, for I always do the things that are pleasing to him It is because of this teaching Jesus gave in the temple about himself that John the Apostle makes a commentary note in verse 30. As Jesus spoke these things about himself, many came, and there it is, to believe in him. Many of the Jews of that crowd at that time believed in Jesus Christ. At first that seems to be encouraging. That verb believe, pestu, is the same verb that's used in other parts of John's Gospel to indicate someone who has believed and has eternal life because of believing. John three sixteen. For God so loved the world, he gave his only begotten Son that whoever believes in him shall not perish, but have eternal life. Same word. John 6. 35. Jesus said to them, I am the bread of life. He who comes to me will not hunger, and he who believes in me will never thirst However, it is also the same word back in chapter two that shows that there are some people who profess belief, who believe at some level, but don't have the kind of belief and faith that saves our soul and that God accepts. Back in John 2 and verse 23, we were already introduced to this spurious kind of faith. It says there, now when Jesus was in Jerusalem at the Passover during the feast, many, here it is, believed in his name, observing his signs which he was doing, the miracles. Verse 24, but Jesus on his part was not entrusting himself to them, for he knew all men. He knew what was in the heart of man, it goes on to say. He knew they were not true believers, even though it said they believed. Same word. He rejected their faith as furious. Their faith was not of the right quality. It was not rightly motivated. It was missing something. It was shallow. And so this verb pistuo in John's writings can refer to a kind of belief that stops short of attaching itself to Jesus Christ in a way that saves the soul and results in going to heaven and having everlasting life. It's a shallow, even short-lived kind of belief focused often on externals or certain benefits they think they will get out of the faith, like miracles. Some have called this kind of faith a mere intellectual assent, a consent to the facts that are true about God and Bible and Christ. Without any kind of a personal commitment. I think the United States of America is filled with Christians like that Who have accepted the fact that Jesus is the Son of God, that He was raised from the dead, but they have no personal commitment to Jesus Christ in their life. They have an intellectual-only kind of faith. Well, this is not to disparage the importance of the intellect. Biblical theologians have always maintained that true faith, saving faith, does have an intellectual component to it. We don't have an uninformed faith, a faith not based on evidence. Our faith is based on history and on evidence So when some of the theologians of past wanted to describe what are the elements or components of a faith that saves a person, they resorted to Latin words. So please indulge me here a little bit. This might be helpful to you. The Latin names for the intellectual components of faith are notitia and a census. In order to believe, people must be presented with something to believe, some truth, some information, some facts. Some teaching. And when they hear that, that's called notitia. They note that it's true, we might say. But hearing the facts alone is insufficient. They must, as they hear, agree with those facts. They must, in their mind, agree that's true. They must assent to it, and so that's a census. However, there is a third component to saving faith, the kind of faith that results in everlasting life It is what we would call trust, personal trust. Where you have a personal interest in the truth And you understand that you need Jesus in some personal way that is to deal with your sins and the fact that you are under judgment. When you understand that conviction that you are under judgment, and then you come to trust in Christ to save you from that judgment, you now enter into what the Latins call fiducia, that element of trust. And that is what was missing from these Jews right here. I think that's very clearly demonstrated in the passage as you read on through to the end, because by the time You get to the end, these same Jews who had believed in him are picking up stones to throw at Jesus and kill him because they believed he committed blasphemy when he declared that he was deity. We'll get to that in weeks to come So make no mistake about it. This is not saving faith here in chapter 8, just as it wasn't saving faith back in chapter 2. Remember, even in chapter 6, Jesus had many followers when he did miracles, and they followed him, seeing the bread that he multiplied, but then they turned back and they followed him no more. So faith has to be a certain kind. That's what we're learning. Faith must have a personal trust element to it in order for it to be the kind of belief That is expressed here by John that results in everlasting life. You must sense personal need. You need to be forgiven. You need to escape the wrath to come. And what we see is Jesus is trying to take them from a partial faith, a faith that is assented to certain truths about him, and continue to lead them to repentance of sin and to an understanding of the full truth about himself. A true believer is not just someone who stands there and hears something, or sits there and hears something. But after they hear it and agree with it, they get up and they begin to follow Christ by doing Remember what Jesus said. I am the light of the world. He who acknowledges this. No, it's not what he said. He said, He who follows me will not Walk in darkness. If there's no following, then you remain in darkness. Following is the evidence of faith. So mark this down. And never be fooled otherwise. True faith always follows. And any faith that does not follow is not true faith Now there's another component of true faith in verse 31. You may have noticed it. Did you see it in there? True faith not only follows, but it must Endure. It must endure. Theologians like to use the term persevere Persevere. Life is filled with uh troubles and tribulations, intellectual arguments that are thrown against the Christian faith, doubts that may enter in. But true faith doesn't begin and stop It continues, it perseveres, it endures. He said, if you continue in my word, then you are truly disciples of mine. There's an if there If you continue, then this will be true. You will be true disciples of mine. So if you don't continue, even though now it looks like you have believed You are not a true disciple. You're not one of my disciples. That Greek verb translated continue is a favorite of John's. Meno. It means to abide. To remain, to stay, or to continue on in something, it indicates A person who believes and then does not depart from his belief. He does not stray away out of the faith. He does not start and then stop and turn back. I know many people, many of you, have been taught that you can become a believer in Jesus, get saved by God, and then stop believing. Or, as is often put, slide backwards into a lifestyle of disobedience and even unbelief. They will even quote verses from the Bible that prove once you are saved, you are what? Always saved. See, you knew it. And they try to comfort themselves with this doctrine of the eternal security of the believer in Christ. So so once you believe that's it, you're safe forever. And they apply this to the way evangelism is done today There may be a crusade, there may be a worship service, and there's some kind of an invitation that people raise their hands or get up out of their seats, come on down the aisles, and they make a profession of salvation And then they're told by the people up front, the counselors, the evangelists, now that you are saved, you will always be saved. You're free and safe forever. But the Bible's guarantee of eternal security is only for true believers, not those who happen to profess salvation in a crusade or in some other way. The doctrine of the eternal security of the believer is way too often abused And it can result in many people, and I do believe it has resulted maybe in millions of people in the United States of America thinking that they are saved because they were reassured by an evangelist They're safe forever when they were never safe with God and they only had an intellectual ascent to the truth. They didn't have the kind of faith that perseveres Many who have made professions of faith think that they're saved, ask for Jesus into their heart the way they understand it. did not continue on in the church, continue on in the Word of God, continue on clearly obeying Christ, yet they think they're safe with God. That is an abuse of the doctrine of the eternal security of the believer. The doctrine of eternal security was never meant to be taught in the churches apart from an equally an important And balancing doctrine called the doctrine of the perseverance of the believer. Just as personal trust in Jesus is an essential component of saving faith, that fiducia And just as following Christ is the essential activity of faith, so also continuance in the Christian faith is the essential demonstration of true faith. No continuance, no real faith. Mark it down again. Where one turns back from following Jesus, as we have already witnessed in chapter six in the synagogue in Capernaum. That is not true faith, and that saves nobody. Those people are just as much in danger before God as someone who never made a profession at all. The Bible is so emphatic about this and crystal clear. It's all over the New Testament. You don't find John or Paul or Peter teaching eternal security without exhorting perseverance in the faith. Romans chapter 4 and verse 19 is an example. It concerns Abraham, who is put forth in the New Testament as the example of faith. He believed in the promise of God It says in Romans 4 19, with respect to the promise of God, he, Abraham, did not waver in unbelief, but grew strong in faith. It shows he didn't just believe and then walk away. Well, this promised land thing's not working out too well. Maybe we should go back. to where he came from, Ur of the Chaldeans. He didn't do that. He kept believing. Yeah, he had some struggles, but he kept believing. That is why Paul can write in 2 Corinthians 5 and verse 7, for we, referring to Christians, walk by faith. Not by sight, giving glory to God. Did you ever stop and think about the entire Christian life is considered a walk? And the walk involves faith, and you have to walk continuously by faith It's continuance in the faith and by faith. That's why in 1 Corinthians chapter 15 and verse 2, where Paul outlines the very heart of what the gospel of Jesus Christ is itself, the death of the Chr burial, resurrection, and appearances of Jesus Christ, he makes the statement that you are only saved if you continue in the faith. He writes, by the gospel you are saved if you hold fast the word which I preached to you, unless you believed in vain. You are saved through the gospel of Jesus, but the gospel must be held on to. If you hold fast the word which I preach to you, Paul said, if there's a condition, and the condition must be met. Hold fast. Kateko. It's a present active verb. It means to hang on to it. Never let the gospel go. It's not a one-time belief. Hey, I'm safe, I'm fine, I did the crusade thing, I'm now saved. It's not pray the sinner's prayer and then go live the way you want to live. Never to come back to church, never to obey the Bible, not really to follow. You receive the gospel, you hang on to the gospel, or else you believed in vain. There's no salvation. A faith that begins but ends is not a saving faith. Colossians chapter 1 and verse 23 says the same thing. God reconciled you to Himself, that's the good news. But the verse says, It's indeed you continue in the faith Firmly established and steadfast and not moved away from the hope of the gospel that you have heard. Because many do. They move away from the hope of the gospel. In the parable of the soils, Jesus could not have been more clear in Luke chapter 8, verse 15. But the seed in the good soil, these are the ones who have heard the word in an honest and good heart and hold it fast. And bear fruit with, listen, perseverance. Jesus taught the perseverance of the faith. We call it actually the perseverance of the saints, the true saints, the ones who have believed It is a doctrine that exposes and rejects modern evangelical teaching that often has been labeled easy believism, and that's a good title for it. Just believe easy and then go and live the way you want to live. Say the sinner's prayer, and you're fine. Ask Jesus in your heart one time and you'll be safe forever. That is a lie. That is not the gospel of grace. That is not the gospel of the Bible. And as you, as an evangelist, try to lead other people to Christ and they quickly say a prayer, don't be so excited. You've been going through the Gospel of John, and you know they have to continue. Do you know what God's plan is for the follow-up of sinners who have repented? You know what his follow-up discipleship plan is? It's called the local church. Get them in here The local church is evangelism follow-up. If they're not willing to come to church and they're not willing to obey the word, then whatever faith they profess, don't trust in it. Hebrews 10 and verse 38 soberly warns: My righteous one shall live by faith, and if he shrinks back, God says, My soul has no pleasure in him. But then he exhorted the believers. He said, But we are not of those who shrink back to destruction, but of those who have faith to the preserving of the soul. But shrinking back, backsliding leads to eternal destruction, not to salvation. Even during the time of the Great Tribulation, in Revelation 14 and verse 12, it says, Here is the perseverance of the saints. Who keep the commandments of God and their faith in Jesus. A lot of pressure in the world, particularly during that tribulation time that has come, to abandon faith in Jesus And there even that title is used in Scripture, the perseverance of the saints, those who keep the commandments of God and their faith in Jesus. John uses this term meno abide in many different ways, in many different verses in his letters as well. In 2 John verse 9, he says says anyone who goes too far and does not abide in the teaching of Christ, that's that same word, meno, does not continue, does not remain, does not have God. They're unsaved The one who abides in the teaching, he has both the Father and the Son. Even religious people who don't abide in the right teaching, they continue to go to church, but they abandon the teaching That Jesus is God in human flesh, they don't have Christ, or they don't have God the Father. First John chapter 2, verse 24, as for you Let that abide. Same word. Let that continue in you what you heard from the beginning. If what you heard from the beginning Abides in you, you also will abide in the Son and in the Father. Listen, to not abide in the Son and the Father is to be unsaved. First John 2. 28. Now, little children, abide in him, remain in him, so that when he appears, and he will. We may have confidence and not shrink away from him in shame at his coming. That is the shame of unbelief that you did not continue in faith. Those will be rejected by Christ when he comes. Even Paul made the declaration right before his head was chopped off in Rome. that he had persevered all the way to the end. In 2 Timothy 4, 7, I have fought the good fight, he said. I have finished the course. I have what? Kept the faith. He's declaring his perseverance in the Christian faith all the way to the end. Listen, beloved, there is a real danger. The churchgoers will slip back away from the faith. And if they do, they need to know they're not saved. Even says in the pastoral epistles twice, 1 Timothy 4:1, the Spirit explicitly says that in latter times some will fall away from the faith. Paying attention to deceitful spirits and doctrines of demons. You better believe that demons are getting their doctrine through into the world of humanity today. Some people follow the wrong doctrine, and they end up in hell. 1 Timothy 6:10 for the love of money is a root of all sorts of evil, and some by longing for it have wandered away from the faith. And pierce themselves with many griefs. You get too excited about money and your job and pursuing things of the world. You can stop attending church, stop fellowshipping with the saints. Stop listening to the Bible and you can wander away from the faith and find yourself an unsaved person because of the love of money. Sadly, many in the church who come to church are believers only in the sense that they are in agreement with certain truths that they have accepted. You know, it's interesting that you can take a man trained in expositing the Bible, the Word of God, letting it say what it says, and put it in pulpit after pulpit after pulpit Not of the liberal churches that denied the Bible a long time ago, but the evangelical churches that affirmed their belief in the Bible, many, many cases even the inerrancy of the Bible. You can put an expositor in the pulpit and church after church after church rejects such men. Why do they do that? And often they split the church. I'll tell you why. Because the church is filled with unbelievers. Because if they don't want to hear the word of God, they're telling you they're not continuing in the word. They don't have a stomach for it. They don't have the kind of faith that says, Teach me, I want to follow. They wait till they hear something they disagree with. Get that guy out of there. We don't like what he says. He's too harsh. Oh, the Bible's tough. If you speak from the Bible, you're going to hear tough stuff I believe what's happening is a step in these churches toward departing from the faith. The exposition of the Word of God is nothing more than letting God speak from His Word to His people. And how dare any pastor get in the way of that? That's true saving faith. That's the kind of faith it saves. Faith and freedom. Let's look at freedom. What is true freedom? It starts in verse 32 through verse 36. We'll just read verse 32. And, as he continues, you will know the truth. And the truth will make you free. So the connection is that faith leads to knowing the truth. And knowing the truth leads to freedom. So faith and freedom have a connection, but they have a connection only through the truth. If you lose the truth, the kind of faith you have doesn't matter, and the kind of freedom you have isn't really free. The truth is the glue. The truth is the cord that binds faith and freedom together. I'm sure you've heard many people misquote this. You'll know the truth and the truth will set you free. Usually it has something to do with something they want you to believe. They're selling a product and it's true. Oh, you'll know the truth and it'll set you free. It's a misuse. Politicians. You'll know the truth, and the truth will set you free. They're just using a line from the Bible and they're misusing it. This is not something that's true, a truth, what I like you to believe, kind of truth. This is the truth. Tain Ale Faeon, the truth, the ultimate truth, about God, about you, about Christ, about the world, about salvation, the truth. We live in a postmodern world. Nobody believes there's truth anymore. Everybody's become a conscious Pilate, you know. Jesus says, I came into the world to testify to the truth. And Pilate says, What is truth? That's the way people are today. They've given up on the whole idea of truth. But it does refer to ultimate truth. That is exactly what Jesus is talking about. I'll just give you a few samples of how This phrase is used in John's writing and later in chapter 8, verse 40. But as it is, you are seeking to kill kill me, a man who has told you the truth, which I heard from God. This is revelation from God. It is the truth. John 14, 6, Jesus said to him, I am the way and, you know it, what? The truth and the light. No one comes to the Father but through me. That's not a truth, some kind of truth, a wonderful pathway. It's the ultimate absolute truth. I am it And Jesus prayed in his heart in John 17, 17. He told the Father, Sanctify them as disciples in the truth. And then he said, Your word is truth. 1 John 2. 4, the one who says, I have come to know God and does not keep God's commandments is a liar. And the truth is not in him. It's truth. So faith leads to knowing the truth. Departure from faith means you don't know the truth. And as you know the truth, the truth then has the ability to give you freedom, to set you free. This is true freedom, the kind we should all want. What does he mean by this exactly? What kind of freedom is he talking about? How does the truth set people free the way Jesus meant? Well, truth sets us free from darkness by giving us light. It sets us free from misunderstanding, false doctrine, ignorance of the things of God. When you have truth, you come to know God as he really is, not as people have manufactured him to be. You know his plan for the ages, how he has planned to save some for himself. You're no longer in the dark. Truth also can set you free in another way. It can set you free from the penalty of your sin. Every last one of us are sinners, right? When we sin, we're liable to the courts of heaven. We have to pay. And the payment is pain and death. So when you are set free by the truth, that means you're released from the penalty of sin. You're pardoned. You're forgiven. You're let go. I love Revelation 1:5. Jesus Christ, the faithful witness, the firstborn of the dead, the ruler of the kings of the earth, to him who loves us and released us from our sins. By his blood. That's wonderful. Everything I would have been bound to, everything I would have to pay because of the blood, I'm released from it. That's freedom. Romans 8. 1, there is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. I'm free from condemnation. It's beautiful. Those freedoms are true, those freedoms are great. I don't think that's what Jesus is referring to as freedom in this context. I think the main thought that he has here is we're set free from the power and mastery of sin in our lives presently. I think Jesus goes on to explain that. Lies and deceitful lusts hold people in bondage to continue to practice sin and damage their lives in many ways. So the truth, as it comes to the believer, frees us also, frees our lives from unrighteous and ungodly living. Now they didn't get this, as was typical of the Jews. They didn't understand what he was talking about. So look back at verse 33 and let's follow this on through. Verse 33, they answered him: We are Abraham's descendants and have never yet been enslaved to anyone. How is it that you say you will become free? I think they're mocking him again. First of all, you need to understand this was not true. I mean, come on. They were enslaved by the Romans at that very moment. Their ancestors were hauled off into captivity in Babylon, and did they forget Moses and the Passover being delivered from the hand of Pharaoh? They were slaves to Pharaoh. So that's a pathetic claim. But notice they rest on the fact that they are Abraham's children. As far as they were concerned, that's all that mattered. They didn't need anything else. We're Abraham's children. What do you have to offer us? Who are you? Now we're already in there. We're already safe. This is the way people think in church now. We're already churchgoers. I was already baptized when I was young. I'm safe. You don't you don't have anything to offer me. They were the same kind of proud religious way. We're Abraham's children. Have you forgotten that? We don't need repentance. We don't need to be taught. We don't need deliverance. We don't need freedom. But of course, the promises that were made to Abraham were only for Abraham's believing children, not biological children. Biology wins you nothing with God, faith wins you everything. Later, Jesus will say in verse 39, if you are Abraham's children, do the deeds of Abraham. There it is. Do you really want to demonstrate that Abraham is your ultimate father there, humanly speaking? Act like him, like father, like son. And we're going to get into that topic here next as he uh as he gets into what it means to call God your father. And then he goes on, but as it is, you're seeking to kill me, a man who has told you the truth, which I heard from God. This Abraham did not do. Well, next comes Jesus' explanation in verse thirty-four. Jesus answered them, Truly, truly, that's that Amen, Amen formula again that we've seen that underlines something of importance. All the Bible is true. Everything Jesus says is important, but once in a while he underscores something of particular importance and that's what Amen, Amen does. Truly, truly I say to you, everyone who commits Sin is the slave of sin. That makes that statement pretty important. The slave does not remain in the house forever. The son does remain forever. So if the son makes you free, you will be free indeed. So he utilizes An illustration of a household. Here's how it works. I'm the son in the household. So I'm the heir of everything. And you know the sun stays in the household. The slaves are bought and sold. They're gone. They don't have any rights. You're the slaves, I'm the sun. If I make you free, you'll be free. That's how it works. Hebrews 3:6 has a similar teaching. Christ was faithful as a son over his house, whose house we are, if we hold fast our confidence and the boast of our hope firm until the end. Jesus and Jesus alone can set you free. He's the Son in the household. The Father sent him into the world to set us free. But what do we need freedom from? The tyranny of a bad Congress, no. The tyranny of a bad governor in our state, no. You need freedom from the tyranny of a master called sin. You commit a sin and you become the slave of sin. Sin's like that tar baby, if you remember the story. You just touch it once and you can't get away from it. It's got you. There's no pulling away anymore. And the more you try to pull away by your own will, you just get more and more parts of your body stuck to it. Remember how that worked? And it just sticks to you, and there's nothing you can do about it in your own willpower. You can't sin and walk away and be in control of your own life. Sin is not just a moral lapse, an unfortunate, disobedient act. Sin is a spiritual power in its own right. Sin is a controller. Sin is a cruel master. Titus 3. 3 For we also once were foolish ourselves, disobedient, deceived, enslaved to various lusts and pleasures. You know, some people have a lifestyle and they say, I can't help it. It comes naturally to me. I can't change. They're right in one sense. Not that God made them that way, not that it excuses them, but they can't stop the sin. Doesn't mean they're not liable for it. Doesn't mean they're not wrong. Doesn't mean the lifestyle is not evil. It is. They just can't stop it. So it feels natural to them, and then they defend it rather than repenting from it. People act like they can do whatever they want. If you've got plans and you're going to go out and you're going to do something this weekend or this summer and you've got some hidden plan, you're going to go and it involves sin, you're going to pay for that. You're going to pay for it Satan's lie is, do it. Feels good, there'll be no consequences. People who get drunk and drunk, there's a reason why they end up as alcoholics. It enslaves them. We all know that. People that are lazy, they set up a habit of being lazy. They're lazy and lazy and lazy and they sit on their couch and they do nothing, and now they have habit. And they can't break it. It's a sin. We all know this. Everyone knows this. In the realm of drugs, they say don't take drugs. They are addicting. Well, sin's addicting. Any sin, every sin, not a certain class of sins, all sins It's true with adulterous relationships. It goes deep into you. It's true of pornography. It goes deep into you. It enslaves you to it. You gain nothing, but you lose. Because now you have a bad habit and sin and unrighteousness and the lack of peace. And it leads to other sins. Stealing and covetousness. You take something that's not yours and you want more. And you train yourself in greed. You have to have more and more things, more money. It now owns you. People sin in the workplace by becoming, we call it workaholics. They're now addicted to work because they have to have accomplishments. And they have to have praise of men, and they have to have more money, and they can't stop. Boasting and pride is sin. It leads to more of a desire to have others look up to you. I gotta keep doing things to have better credentials next to my name. Or to look better because of vanity in how I dress. To beat others in competition, to show your worth through that. And pride controls, because pride is sin. Sin is pleasurable for the moment. Otherwise, we would have no lure. Just like the fish on the line, though, it hooks you. It's got you right through the mouth and drags you away to your end. You cannot control sin. You have no power over it. It's stronger than you. And only the fool says otherwise. That is why the freedom of which Jesus speaks here is so wonderful It's a victorious kind of freedom. He says, I will make you free. I will make you free. The Son will make you free. Not just free from the penalty of sin, free from the power of sin in your life. That's what it means to be truly free. It's not to have political freedom. It's not to have all the advantages of other civilians. True freedom is the power to do what is right and have peace of conscience and joy in your life, to live righteously. That is true freedom. Nobody can ever enslave your heart and your mind when you can do what is right by the power of God and his grace at work in your life Romans 6. 14 declares that. Sin, and this is for believers only. He's writing to believers, sin will not be master over you. Why? Because you're not under the law that condemns you, you're under grace that empowers you. See, grace doesn't just wash away the penalty of sin. Grace remains with you and works inside of you and teaches you the truth. You learn to hate the sin. You learn to distance yourself from the sin. You love righteousness. There's no middle ground It's not like, well, I don't want to be a slave of sin, but I don't really want to be a slave of God and righteousness. I'd rather have my own little corner. I'd rather be the captain of my own ship and do things my own way. There is no such island to stand on. It's not there. Romans 6, 17. Thanks be to God that though you were slaves of sin, you became obedient from the heart to that form of teaching to which you were committed. And having been freed from sin, you became slaves of righteousness. There's nowhere else in between To be rescued from the power of sin is to be brought under the mastery of Jesus Christ and His righteousness. And beloved, that's a joy. That's the freedom that He's talking about There is no freedom where you're free and autonomous from all forces in the universe, where you can take the force in the universe and bring it under your command and use the force, Luke. You can't do that. There's sin and there's Christ and one's going to be your master. Indeed, one is your master right now. Now here's the thing that I don't think you believe as much as you should just yet. I'm not talking about a higher plane as a Christian that you need to climb up to. Jesus is not talking about that in John 8. Paul's not writing about that. In Romans 6. He's talking about a truth that's true for every believer. You are not mastered by sin because you have the power of the truth. So think on the truth. Understand what the truth says about that sin that you so love. Because it hasn't done a thing for you. It's only hurt you. And I didn't mean to be looking in this direction only. I could have looked in this direction as well. Because each one of you knows what I'm talking about, because you have that sin. You think it does something for you. You just delight in it. You just like you just like it It's a lie. It doesn't make you happy. It never will. Jesus will. Jesus will make you joyful. I like the expositors. comment on this and it sums it all up well. To be set free from obligation to serve sin means entrance upon the service of righteousness. There is no middle ground No place in Christian experience where one is free to set his own standards and go his own way. So it is idle to object that on becoming a believer one is simply exchanging one form of slavery for another. There is no alternative Let no one say, however, that the two bondages are on the same plane. The one is rigorous and relentless, leading to death. The other is joyous and satisfying Leading to life and peace. Know the truth. Believe in Christ. Know the truth. The truth will set you free. That's the truth of which he spoke. True faith. True freedom. In the truth, Jesus Christ. Amen? Let's get our hearts ready to share around the Lord's Supper together, a time of fellowship and blessing.