All right. Well, uh just as a reminder, we've been in this uh process of looking at the Gospel Cycla Rama. uh cycloramas, that 360 painting which we're uh imagining in our minds of the various scenes of the sufferings of Christ in his final hours Primarily studying uh starting with the uh his time in the garden as he's praying with the father, uh and then of course moving on to his arrest, the illegal trials uh the uh scourging, uh the crown of thorns, um the crucifixion, his death, and ultimately his resurrection And we're in the process of looking at various scenes using Scripture to discern how did Christ act What did Christ say? What was Christ doing? What was he thinking? And how can then we imitate him in those ways? And um I mean because I've missed the last couple of weeks, you know, obviously Doug taught a couple weeks ago. And then we missed last week Uh I feel like my mind is not uh fully into it as as uh I would want it to be. I feel like we're just at the beginning stages and in some ways we are But over the course of this class, we're looking at twenty different gospel thoughts, if you will, looking at the cross, looking at Christ, and having thoughts about what we can learn and how we can live. And so the first thought, just uh for a quick review that we looked at uh on week two is that the cross is the fullest display of God's glory. And we put it this way When I stand at the foot of the cross and look up at Jesus dying, I see the supreme display of God's glory. At the cross I learn who God is. Namely, that God is full of grace and forgiveness and compassion, but he is also just and righteous. And so we spend an a significant amount of time tracing uh the character of God through scripture and then looking at how those attributes of God are put on display altogether there at the cross. So at the cross we see the fullest display of God's glory. The second gospel thought that we had is that Jesus' suffering and death paves the path for my life. So as we look at God's glory on display, And we learn from Scripture that my life, that your life is to be aimed at glorifying God, then we make that connection that if I'm going to glorify God and his His glory is displayed on the cross, then I need to die like Christ. So we we said when I look at the cross and see how Jesus put God's name on display, I see that in order for God to get the glory in my life, I like Jesus must suffer and die. And we remember how Jesus said, even while he was living before, if you want to follow me, if you want to come after me, you have to pick up your cross and follow me And so it's no surprise then that he himself went first to the cross and we are to imitate him And then we spend an em an extended amount of time talking about what does that look like? How can we die like Christ? What are the different ways in which Christ died uh to himself, to his um uh propensity, uh natural desire for self-preservation? How did he die to injustice? And in a variety of different ways and therefore how we are supposed to die like that. And when we are thinking about dying in all of those ways, one of the thoughts that comes to our mind is If I keep on dying, what is there going to be left for me? How am I supposed to live? And and hopefully what Doug what Doug uh covered, well not hopefully what he did cover was gospel thought number three, which is that death is not the end, but power and life come to those who die for Christ. It's one of those paradoxes of the Christian life, uh, that you know, in in order, as as uh Jesus says, if you want to be first in the kingdom of heaven, you've got to be last in the kingdom of heaven. In order to be lifted up, instead of being prideful, you need to be humble. That's the ones who lift themselves up who are prideful who are uh put down by God. And in this case, it is those who die. Are the ones who are actually living. Those who die to themselves are the ones who receive from God the power to live. They receive the strength and the capacity, once they've died to themselves, to now live out the life that God has called them to live. And then also, we also receive power to have a greater comprehension and experience of the love of God. Because the more that we imitate Christ and the more that we we follow in the footsteps of Christ, we see more and more of how much God loves us. And so death is not the end. Power and life comes to those who die The fourth gospel thought, which was covered in the recording for last week, is that I can be confident That my suffering and death will be vindicated. I can be confident that my suffering and death will be vindicated. And what we're saying there is that in life, if if we're going to die to injustice If we're going to die to ourselves and not defend ourselves when we're falsely accused, then the only way to do that is for us to recognize that the day will come when we will be vindicated. And so we can put it this way, as I look at the empty tomb, at the resurrection of Christ, I see that the Father vindicated the death of Christ by raising him from the dead And exalting him above every name. Now in that lesson, we walk through Philippians chapter two, which, as you recall, is the uh the passage where it says that Jesus humbled himself, you know, he went from the heights of heavenly glory to the depths uh of human um uh uh humility, even uh you know, being a servant, you know, being poor born into a poor family, uh ultimately even to death. And it is as a result of of that uh humiliation of Christ, which was caused by people Uh his death was caused by people who had wrong thoughts about Christ, right? People who rejected Christ, people who falsely accused Christ, people who misunderstood Christ, who fundamentally heard what he said, understood what he said, and rejected what he said, saying that's not true. People who mocked Christ, that's what led to his death. But the resurrection vindicated Christ And there in Philippians two verse eleven it says, you know, that God exalted him uh uh uh above every name. And At that name, every knee shall bow and every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord of all. And if you think about it, even right now Even after the resurrection of Christ, there are billions and billions of people on the planet who have wrong thoughts about Christ. They know the name of Jesus They have some amount of knowledge of of why they know his name, of why his name is famous, but they don't believe in him. They reject him. They think he is something less than he is Or they fundamentally don't believe anything about him. And so right now, Jesus, whose name has been vindicated by the resurrection, God has approved Christ, said, no, he is the Messiah He's been raised from the dead, exalted to heaven. He's sitting there, and people still reject him. And yet the day will come. When Christ will come back, when he will defeat his enemies, and at that time every knee will bow, and every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord of all. And so when you and I are in situations, then all of us experience this in small ways and sometimes in very big and painful ways. Where we're misunderstood. We're falsely accused. People have wrong thoughts about us. They attribute things to us that aren't true. They They uh uh malign our character. They look at our actions and they judge our hearts in a wrong way. And whether they mistreat us because of that or they spread that to others and ruin our reputation among other people. That that can cost us our job. That can create conflict in a family or in a extended family or among friends. When people do those things to us, it is extremely painful and difficult to handle. But we can look to Christ. We can look to him on the cross And and ultimately at his resurrection and know that the day will come when we too will be resurrected like Christ. And God, who knows our heart, who knows what is true about us, will set all things right. Now it's is He in the resurrection going to go to your friends and your family and say, you really got it wrong about, you know, so and so I have no idea. But everything that is wrong will be set right. We will be vindicated and we will no longer have those who think wrongly about us. Those who have sinned against us will be convicted of their sin, and they will see their wrong for what it is. So when we are attacked, maligned, and falsely accused, even if our life is destroyed and our reputation, we can look to the empty tomb tomb and be confident that we will be vindicated at the end. That's that was gospel thought number four. And you know that that's one of those things that we don't really think about very much Um but I would just encourage you that if even if if especially if you're in a situation like that now where uh your reputation has been ruined, uh your relationships have been ruined because somebody has falsely accused you, somebody has mishandled uh the relationship and and thinks wrongly about you, uh, you can trust that you'll be vindicated in the end. And so you don't need to defend yourself. You don't need to fight Now, are there situations where it might be okay to to defend your character? Sure, absolutely. And it takes wisdom to discern when that's needed. But we don't have to be destroyed internally in our soul Because of how another person thinks about us. In fact, we can basically say in our own mind, it's okay if you think wrongly about me. It's okay if you misunderstand me, in the sense that I don't need to fight you over that. I don't need to um uh vindicate myself Uh I I know my own conscience, I I know what what my own character is, and I'm sorry if you misunderstand me, but um God knows what's true. That that's usually something that happens in our own mind first and foremost, and that tempers uh our response and helps us to glorify God and how we interact with with another person who thinks wrongly about us. Well, the fifth gospel thought is that the Father is worthy of my worship in life or in death. The Father is worthy of my worship in life or in death. And this rises out of the reality that as we look at Christ's suffering from the garden all the way to his final breath, He is not just suffering and dying. He is actually worshiping God every step of the way. The prayer in the garden where he says, Father, if there's any way, let this cup pass from me, but not my will, but your will be done. That is an act of worship. In Ephesians 5, verse 2, it says, starting verse 1, be imitators of God as beloved children. And verse 2, walk in love as God loved you. And as Christ loved us, it says, and gave himself up an offering and sacrifice as a pleasing aroma to God. That's worship language. Christ offered up himself in worship to God out of love for us. And so in that lesson, which if again if you haven't heard, I would encourage you and urge you to go back and listen to it We walk through how Christ did what he did as an act of worship to God. And maybe a formal way to say it is, when I look around the Gospel Cyclorama, I don't just see a man suffering and dying. I see a man worshiping. And he teaches us that there is nothing we have and nothing we are that the Father is not worthy to receive from us. As we live our life There is nothing that we must hold on to, that we should hold on to. We should give of ourselves wholly and completely to God. Our life our possessions, everything that is that is ours to uh to to deal with, to control, that we have to to uh uh live with All of that is held, should be held with an open hand in worship to God. To say, God, you do whatever you want to do with my life and with everything in my life. The Father is worthy of my worship in life. or in death. Jesus gave everything to him, to his father. And so can we So that was gospel thought number five. So now we can turn to gospel thought number six, which today we'll get through hopefully three gospel thoughts. And gospel thought number six is the Father can be trusted completely on the receiving end of any wrongdoing. The father can be trusted completely on the receiving end. of any wrongdoing. Now this thought gospel thought and some of the others in the class, and I've uh as we walk through the rest of the class I'll identify which ones this applies to But I I got this primarily and largely from a pastor named Milton Vincent, who's a pastor in California, and his teaching this material uh is largely what I kind of took and expanded and and kind of made my own in some ways. Uh and so this gospel thought was one of the kind of root sources out of which grew the the the full class. And I just want you to know that Um that that's the case that you know I didn't come up with this on my own. Um and uh I'm hoping and trying to get him to come out uh for a conference but uh he's been pretty busy so he's been pushing pushing me off. Uh in a good way. I mean he's I don't that that sounded really bad but he's like, you know, keep asking me but right now I'm really busy. So I'm looking forward to that someday, Lord willing. Anyway, the Father can be trusted completely on the receiving end of any wrongdoing. And so we can say when I look around at this gospel cycle Rama, I don't just see a man suffering and dying. I see a man trusting. As you look at Christ hanging on the cross, as you look at Christ standing being falsely accused, as you look at Christ being flogged and scourged, as you look at Christ having his his uh head beaten down with a crown of thorns, you're looking at a man Who is trusting? Who is trusting. We see this in part when we again look at his prayer in the garden. That prayer which he prayed, you can you can really look at and see various refractions of what God is what Christ is doing in that prayer. And as I just said a few m moments ago, we see that as an act of worship But we also can say that we see that as an act of trust. When Jesus prayed, My Father, if it's possible, let this cup pass from me, yet not what I will, but as you will. Right? That was not only an act of worship, it was also an act of trust. Because what Jesus is saying there is if there is any other way to accomplish the plan of redemption I know the Father will find it. Right? Jesus is not doing his own Google searches to figure out if there's another way. He he's not thinking about, uh, okay, how can I how can I get out of this myself? He hasn't taken control of his life and saying, I gotta I gotta find some other way. No, he's saying If there is another way, the Father's going to find it. And if there isn't, then I'm going to walk through it. I'm not going to busy myself trying to find another way. I'm gonna follow through with the steps that the Father has given me. And if He wants to change the plan, he can change the plan. But I'm going to trust that if there is no other way, that it's because there is no other way and the Father has determined that Jesus lived his life trusting the Father. Of course, he was led by the Spirit, just like we are all to be led by the Spirit. Uh scripture makes that very clear that as Jesus walked on this earth, he was not just doing things on his own volition. He often said, I only do the things that the Father tells me to do. I only say that the Father tells me uh the things that the Father tells me to say. And so as he's walking, he's being led by the Spirit. I in the message I'm going to mention uh in the sermon today I'm going to mention Uh Matthew 4, where it says that Jesus was led into this wilderness by the Spirit to be tempted by the devil. And in in that way, the Spirit led Jesus throughout his whole life, so he was Always living, trusting the Father, looking to the Father. What do you want me to do? What do you want me to say? Who do you want me to heal? With that kind of dependence on the Father. You know, as Jesus lived his life, there were difficult things in his life, right? As far as we know, scripture's not clear, church history doesn't even tell us. Uh but as far as we know, Joseph, Jesus' adopted father, uh died sometime before he was an adult, before Jesus was an adult. I I'm sure that must have been extremely difficult for Jesus. Jesus, being sinless, had sinful siblings I'm sure that was somewhat difficult, right? Jesus, being sinless, had sinful parents and a sinful mom. I'm sure that brought some measure of difficulty. But as far as we know, he didn't experience uh the physical trials that we might have, like cancer or a broken bone or things like that. I mean he w his body was like your body and like my body But, you know, we have no indication that he had physical suffering throughout his his life, at least not in a significant degree. And so h his suffering throughout most of his life was Was normal suffering, but it wasn't extreme suffering. He wasn't a chronic sufferer, if you will, like maybe some of you are in in various ways. But that was all all about to change. He was about to experience a kind of suffering, a level of suffering, that we cannot begin to imagine. And he knew that. He knew that. You know, it's one thing to say, I'm going to trust you even if the going gets tough. Right? Like Jesus, or Peter said to Jesus, Jesus, I'm willing to die for you. But what happened? As soon as Jesus got arrested, well okay, first yeah, he did cut the ear off the guy. But after that, you know, when Jesus said, No, don't do that, you know, Peter fled and then ultimately Peter denied Christ because he was afraid of being associated. So it's easy to say, yeah, I'm going to trust you, I'm going to follow you, even in the difficult times. But it's a completely different thing to trust in the midst of of suffering and difficulty. Just like when we uh for those of us who are married, you make your vows and if you said traditional vows, you said something like Um, you know, I'm gonna love you in in sickness and in health and rich or poor and all the rest. It's one thing to say that, but then when there's no money in the bank Or when your spouse is is uh you know they have some kind of accident and now they're um lying in hospital bed completely debilitated, uh or they sin against you in a significant way of betrayal. I mean it's hard, right? It's not just like, oh yeah, whatever. I mean it is hard. We can do it by the grace of God, but it is hard In the same way, Jesus didn't just say, Oh yeah, I trust you, God. I trust you, Father. But in the midst of the most painful difficulty of his life He lives out that trust. And we see that specifically in 1 Peter 2 verses 21 to 23. So if you have a Bible, I'd encourage you to turn there I've mentioned this verse at various points along the way, and we're going to kind of keep coming back to this verse. It's one that I hope really becomes precious to you. uh i as a result of of this class and meditating on these things, uh it has become precious to me. Uh I go to it all the time in my mind, in in my counseling, in my teaching Because of how significant it is. In 1 Peter chapter 2, Peter is talking about how Christians should live in the face of persecution. And he says this starting in verse 21, for you have been called for this purpose, since Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example for you to follow in his steps. who committed no sin or was any deceit found in his mouth. And while being reviled, he did not revile in return. While suffered, he uttered no threats, but he kept entrusting himself To him who judges righteously. The key phrase there, the key words are, but he kept entrusting himself. He kept entrusting himself. This is not a general statement of, hey, while he was suffering, he trusted God. While he lived his life, Jesus had the character of being a man who trusted God. This is a statement of repeated action. This was purposeful, this was intentional, this was volitional. He made the decision moment after moment after moment repeatedly. He trusted the Father. Right? And as I said, that started in the garden. As he is anticipating his suffering, and his body is stressed to the max. Such that he sweats like drops of blood. And he says, Not my will but yours be done. He's trusting the Father in that moment. And then we can imagine in our minds, though, we don't have insight into his thinking throughout the rest of the uh the suffering, uh apart from what he actually says. on those few occasions. But we can imagine in our minds that as the soldiers arrest him, he comes to that natural conclusion, well, I guess there is no other way. I guess there was no way for us to accomplish redemption apart from my suffering. Here are the soldiers. They're here to arrest me. I trust you, Father. I trust that this is your will. That this is what's best. And as they're taking him back to the city, uh we can be pretty confident that they weren't kind to him in how they uh trotted him off. uh wha you know, however they may have shackled him or or led him along, they've uh probably pushed and shoved, maybe knocked him down, uh maybe they tripped him up and and mistreated him along the way. And he's thinking to himself, I trust you, Father. I trust you. And then as he's going through his trials and They're putting up witnesses who are just blaspheming Christ and falsely accusing him and making things up about him. He's hearing all of these things that are not true This is the glorious God of the universe. He's singing, I trust you, Father. I trust you And then as they move him on and, you know, give him over to the Romans to to kill him. Uh And of course he has that interaction with Pilate, and Pilate just wanting to appease the Jews, not being a just man, uh has him flogged. And that flogging is not uh a caning like what you might get in Singapore. Uh it is the ripping off of the flesh Time and time and time again. And with each lash, it's as if Jesus is thinking in his mind, I trust you, Father. I trust you. And then that crown of thorns is brought out. And they don't just place it on his head like you would gently place on a gold uh be jeweled crown on a king. No, they jam it on his head and they take a stick and they hit it onto his head, driving the thorns into his skull. And he's likely thinking, I trust you, father. I trust you. And then they lead him out to the cross, and they're nailing him to that cross, laying him down on his torn back. And it's likely that he was thinking, I trust you, Father, I trust you. And he's hanging on that cross, and of course, experiencing unspeakable pain. And he chooses not to receive anything that would minimize that pain, you know, the wine that would more to some degree and in a limited way numb him of pain. He says, I want to experience the full wrath, the full experience of suffering. And I'm going to trust the Father as I do that. And then when everything was done and he had literally no life, physical life left in him, it's as if he Turned his eyes up to the Father and said, I have trusted you all along the way, and now I have nothing left to trust you with. And so he says Luke 23, 46, Father, into your hands I commit my spirit. And having said this, he breathed his last. And so having trusted the Father with everything, he says, I have nothing left but my spirit. And so, Father, I trust you with that. Take my spirit and do what you will. Whatever you believe Is right, what you know to be right. Jesus trusted the Father repeatedly. He kept entrusting himself to the Father. And so we can ask the question, was Jesus right to entrust himself to the Father? Did he do the right thing? Did the Father prove himself to be trustworthy? Well if you're looking at the cross and you're looking at Jesus hanging on that cross You would naturally come to the conclusion, I don't think so. He was trusting the Father, and all he kept experiencing was pain and suffering. I don't know about you personally, but I've heard from many people I'm trying to do what's right. I'm trying to honor the Lord. I'm trusting the Lord, but it just keeps hurting. The pain doesn't stop And so we need to think about Christ hanging on that cross, trusting the Father, and ask ourselves, is the Father worthy to be trusted? Even in the midst of pain and suffering. Because if you haven't already, there will likely come a day when you will have to answer that question, is the Father worthy of my trust while I'm suffering and while I'm hurting? Well, we're good Christians, and so of course we know that the answer is yes, he is worthy of our trust. But you don't look at the cross to get that answer, you look at the empty tomb, right? You look at the end result of Christ's suffering, that three days later the Father raised him from the dead. That's how we know the Father is worthy to be trusted. As we as we talked about with vindication, uh just briefly, you know, you could you could think about vindication from the lens of uh Philippians chapter 2, uh where the Father raised Jesus from the dead and exalted him You can also think about vindication from Ephesians 1, verses 20 to 23, which says, He raised him from the dead. And seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places, far above all rule and authority and power and dominion, and in every name that is named, not only in this age, but also in the one to come. And he put all things in subjection under his feet, and gave him as head over all things to the church, which is his body, the fullness of all of him who fills all in all So we could say not only did the resurrection vindicate Jesus in terms of proving that he is who he said he was. But the resurrection also vindicates the Father, to say that the Father is indeed trustworthy. Even in the face of being sinned against or being on the receiving end of wrongdoing Because the Father has promised that even such wrongdoing, even if it leads to your own physical death, it only prepares you for glory that is to come. This is why it is so imperative for us as believers to have an eternal perspective on life. Because if we're only thinking about life in the context of this life Then we're going to look at suffering that only ends in death and no relief, no healing, no blessing in this life Then we're going to come to the conclusion, what's the point? They trusted God, but then they died But it's with an eternal perspective that we can say, oh yes, this life was full of suffering. And they trusted God, and now they are with God. in eternal glory, experiencing the fullness of God's presence, experiencing the fullness of joy in complete healing, they are glorified with Him And it was worth it to trust the Father. The resurrection vindicates the Father that he is worthy to be trusted. Now, there's a lot we can talk about in terms of what God has promised us that we can trust Him for. And that would take weeks, and that would be a worthy study. We'll talk a little bit about that in a few weeks when we look at Titus 2. 13. But let's turn the corner here and talk about why is it That if the Father is so trustworthy that we have a hard time trusting him, right? It's not because of him. We don't have a hard time trusting him because because he's uh wishy washy. Sometimes he fulfills his promises and sometimes he doesn't. Now the problem is us. And I would tell you that the greatest barrier to trusting the Lord Is the desire that we have or the expectation that we have of a trouble-free life. We want, and we think we deserve, a trouble-free life. In our flesh, when trouble comes, we react and we say something like, why is this happening to me? God, how could you let that person do that? Why aren't you doing something about this? Right? We think in our minds that if something is wrong, something went wrong That somehow God has not been faithful. Because if God was trustworthy, this would not have happened But, speaking of Job, Sarah, we must learn from Job, who said after his experience of suffering, the Lord gave and the Lord is taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. Or after his second round of suffering, he said, shall we indeed accept good and not accept adversity? He understood that when it comes to our relationship with God, God is not only good if he brings good into our life. God is not only trustworthy if only good things happen. We can trust God whether we have good experiences or whether we have adversity in our life. Now adversity obviously is always hard, right? You get a cold and and we we don't like that. We have a hard time. We get you know that that just bogs us down in in a variety of ways. All adversity is hard. But if we're honest, it does seem that there are that adversity is generally easier to accept if it's not personal. If it's not, maybe if you could say interpersonal. Right? When the economy goes down and a whole slew of people lose their job, well that's hard when you're one of those ones who lost your job But you can say, you know what, you know, it's a difficult time. A lot of people are losing their job. I'm going to trust God and He's going to provide. And you know, you have a a disposition like that Or when a storm you know comes through and affects a lot of people like in Colorado with all those houses that are burned. Yeah, it's hard. It's incredibly difficult if you lose your house. But you know what We live in a fallen world and uh you know we were one of those we're right in the middle of those thousand homes and we're gonna trust God and He's gonna provide. Uh even perhaps with a a diagnosis, something that is totally outside of your control. Uh again, live in a fallen world, have a sink-cursed body, I'm gonna trust God for his purposes uh with this sickness. But when it comes to personal relationships, for some reason we treat that as a different kind of situation where trusting God is really not what we're supposed to do. But it's not a different situation. When when there is personal conflict, when you are sinned against by another person That is still a situation in which you need to trust the Lord. We must trust, for example, that the Lord is at work in this circumstance to accomplish his glory. We must trust, and this is extremely difficult, we must trust that the Lord is working in the other person to bring about his purposes for their life. Whether they're a believer or unbeliever. God is at work. God is doing something, especially if they're a believer. God is doing something in that other person. Yes, they might be sinning against me. They might be hurting me But God is at work in that person's life, especially if they're a believer. Of course, we must trust that His wisdom on how we are to live And respond will yield a better response, a better outcome than our own way of how to respond to this situation. That when Jesus says, you know, don't repay evil for evil, when he says, love your enemies, that that's better than retaliating and seeking revenge. Even though sometimes responding the way that God calls us to respond increases our pain in the short term. We have to trust Him that His wisdom is better. We must trust that God knows what he's doing, and he's doing something of eternal value, even in my pain. Whether it's a natural disaster, whether it's a disease, whether it's the loss of a loved one, whether it's interpersonal conflict or whatever it is, God is doing something of eternal value even in my pain. So again, Jesus trusted the Father to his dying breath, and the Father received and honored that trust. And so we too can trust the Father on the receiving end of any wrongdoing. Well that moves us on to gospel thought number seven. Gospel thought number seven is the Father can be trusted specifically to uphold justice perfectly and eternally. He will not allow any sin to go unpunished. So when we think about a situation where someone has sinned against us, one of the things that we can trust God for is that God will uphold justice. That he will not allow any sin to go unpunished. When I stand inside of this gospel cycle of Rama and I look at the cross, I can see that God is committed to justice. If you look back at that down at uh chapter one, verse, excuse me, chapter two, verse twenty-three of 1 Peter 2. Notice the end of the sentence. It says, while being reviled, he did not revile in return. While suffering, he uttered no threats, but he kept entrusting himself to him who judges righteously. To him who judges righteously. Now that phrase is kind of jam-packed with different nuances of what it means that God judges righteously. We could say, for example, that Jesus entrusted himself to the Father who knew what was true about him, about Jesus. So Jesus didn't need to defend himself, right? The Jewish leaders were falsely accusing him. If you really are the Son of God, come down off that cross. Jesus knew that the Father knew what was true about him, so he didn't need to tell the Father, I really am the Son of God. Right? That's ridiculous. He trusted that the Father knew what was true about him. And that the Father would rightly judge his words and his actions and his character. And so that would be a good model for us to follow, that we trust that God knows us. Now God knows us better than we know ourselves, right? He knows the depths of our sinful hearts beyond what we comprehend. But in matters where we are falsely accused, God knows what's true. You know, if someone says you lied about this and you know you didn't lie about that, God knows that. So you don't need to defend yourself to God saying, God, I didn't lie, I promise, right? He knows. You can trust Now we can also say that in his humanity, Jesus may have been tempted, a way in which he was tempted. to make judgments about those who were putting him to death, those who were falsely accusing him, judgments about their hearts and their motivations. But he left the final judgment to the Father. And that too would be a model for us to follow. Uh now of course Jesus is God, Jesus knew their heart, that's why he said in his humanity. But for us, obviously we we're not God, so we don't know the motivations of people's hearts And we can be tempted that when people sin against us or we see, observe the actions of others, that we judge their heart and their motivations And we have to trust that the Father knows their motivations better than we do. And so we have to be careful in our judgments because the Father is the one who judges righteously, not us. We could also say that he trusted that if the Father judged that the pain and suffering he was going through was necessary to fulfill the plan of redemption, and that was the right and just determination. That the Father wouldn't do uh excuse me, and Jesus wouldn't do anything to resist it. So again, that would be a good model for us to follow. If something happens in our life If something takes place and now we can look at it in the past, whether it's seconds prior or years prior, we can trust that the Father made the determination that that event was what he intended and what was for our ultimate good. We can trust the Father for that. That God rightly judged that that situation take place. But I think there's a more prominent truth here that Peter has in mind of what Jesus was trusting in And this comes back to our first gospel thought, you know, that uh on the cross we see the full display of God's glory. As you recall, one of the primary elements that we see on display at the cross is the justice of God, right? From Exodus chapter 34. that as much as he is gracious and compassionate and merciful and forgiving, but he is also just and he will not allow the guilty to go unpunished. Now that that's prominent in Scripture, and in fact think think about these words from Deuteronomy 7, verses 9 to 10, where it says Know therefore that the Lord your God, He is God, the faithful God, who keeps his covenant with his loving kindness, excuse me, who keeps his covenant and his loving kindness. to a thousandth generation, with those who love him and keep his commandments. But repays those who hate him to their faces. To destroy them. He will not delay with him who hates him. He will repay him to his face. When God determines to judge a person, they will not be confused as to what is going on They will not be like, why am I having such a hard time here? Why is life so hard? When God determines to judge a person, they will know that God is judging them because he will do it face to face, if you will God takes his judgment seriously. The idea of judging God is carried forth, of course, in the New Testament, where it says in John 3. 36 He who believes in the Son has eternal life, but he who does not obey the Son will not see life. But the wrath of God abides on him. God is just. He is the just judge, and he will pour out his wrath on those who do not know him and those who do not obey him. Now there's uh of course a host of passages we can look at to just kind of re-emphasize this point, but consider the very last verse in the Bible that speaks about God's judgment. It's Revelation chapter 21, verse 8. And it says, but for the cowardly and unbelieving and abominable and murderers and immoral persons and sorcerers and idolaters and all liars Their part will be in the lake that burns with fire and brimstone, which is the second death. God is just and he will not allow those who rebel against him to go unpunished. God is committed to judge sin perfectly and eternally. And so there is no sin which will go unpunished. Now why is this important for us to think about and meditate on? Well, because when you're on the receiving end of wrongdoing, we want to do the opposite of what Jesus did. We don't want to entrust ourselves to him who judges righteously. We want to do what verse 23 says Jesus didn't do. When we're reviled, we want to revile. When we're suffering, we want to utter threats. Jesus didn't do that. He didn't revile. He didn't utter threats. He didn't repay We want vengeance. We might even say we want justice, but the truth is, if we're honest with ourselves, we don't really want justice. We want retaliation. And and not only that, but we would love to be God's agent of retaliation. Right? We would love that. But Jesus, empowered by the Spirit, followed the principle that the Spirit, the Holy Spirit, inspired Peter, or excuse me, Paul to write in Romans 12:19, where he says, Never take your own revenge, beloved. But leave room for the wrath of God, for it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. So Jesus entrusted himself on the receiving end of wrongdoing, knowing that God would not allow a single solitary sin that was committed against him not only in the those last few hours, but of course throughout his whole life, to go unpunished. Jesus could have very easily come off that cross. And called down to himself ten thousand angels and said, No more of you. And slew them with his the sword of his mouth, which he will do when he comes back. He could have done that, but instead he entrusted himself to the Father The severity of God's judgment will be so severe that Jesus said in Matthew 26, 24, the Son of Man is to go. Just as it is written of him. But woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed. It would have been good for that man if he had not been born. Now obviously that's referring to Judas, uh the one who would betray him. And Jesus says your punishment Judas is gone I think by this point. Oh no, this is right before So Judas heard these words. Your punishment is going to be so severe that it would have been better for you to never have existed. Because you you take all of the good things of your life And they will pale into comparison to the suffering you're going to experience because you have betrayed me. Now, that's true of Judas, but that's also true of sinners. That whatever good they experience in this life of forty, eighty, a hundred years, uh that will be their quote unquote best life now And the rest of eternity they will suffer because of their not just sin in this life, but their continued sin as they hate God for eternity. As you think about your life, don't ever think that if you die to yourself and refuse to seek revenge That those who sin against you will get away with their sin. Don't ever think that those who sin against you will get away with their sin. I I I've heard that from time to time. How can I forgive someone? They're gonna get away with their sin. No, they're not. God is going to judge them for their sin, and he's going to do it in a way that you can't. He's going to do it in a full in complete way that they're going to experience the unbarnished wrath of God. So we can entrust ourselves to Him on the receiving end of wrongdoing because he will uphold justice perfectly and eternally. Now we can, as soon as I say that, we can say, okay, well I can see how that applies to unbelievers, but what about believers? Because they're not going to go to hell. God's not going to judge a believer because he's already promised to forgive them. So how am I supposed to think about that? Larry? And that's gospel thought number eight So what about believers? Gospel of thought number eight is though I deserve the wrath of God for every sin of mine, God upheld justice by pouring out his wrath. Now here's the thing. Again, we we think, well what about them? When what we really should be thinking is, what about me? If God is just and he won't allow any sin to go unpunished, then whatever is true of the person who has sinned against me who is a believer is also true of me. I deserve punishment. They deserve punishment. So what about me? How is God going to handle that? Well we know, you know, if we know the gospel of the truth, but let's meditate on this a little bit. Think of this of it this way. When I look at the cross I see right through the lie that there are no consequences to my sin. I see right through the light that there are no consequences to my sin. Our disposition as those who have received the forgiveness of Christ, of those who know that we're headed to eternal glory is to say, God's forgiving me of all my sin, past, present, future. So if I sin, there's no consequences. Uh we were watching yesterday in our uh counseling training meeting uh uh an observation video of a counseling session and it was acted out but it was true to life And the counselee in that case was a husband who had been caught watching pornography by his daughter, actually, the nine eleven-year-old daughter And so now he's seeking counseling. And in the counseling session, which again is made up, but it's totally true to life, it's very common uh all the details are are common uh to what um often happens. He was minimizing his sin, saying, Well, I'm not hurting anybody I'm not hurting anybody. Well right now his wife is about to leave him. But up until now, I haven't been hurting anybody. And you and I kind of have the same thoughts with our own sin, whatever sin it is. I will not be receiving eternal punishment for my sin because God's forgiven me Well, as we look at the cross, we see right through the lie that there are no consequences to my sin. In the Bible there are a number of places where we see the wicked mock God and their sin. I kind of got a little bit ahead of myself there, but Uh let me just walk through this train of thought, otherwise I'll get really messed up. We see a number of places where the wicked mock God and their sin. For example, in seventy uh Psalm 73 verse eleven Uh the psalmist Asaph quotes the unbelievers uh saying, They say, how does God know? Is there knowledge in the most high? Meaning God's not seeing us. God doesn't know what we're doing. For in Psalm 10 verse 11, the wicked says to himself, God has forgotten. He has hidden his face. He will never see it. Or Psalm 94, verse 7, the wicked say, the Lord does not see, nor does the God of Jacob pay heed. In other words, the unbeliever is thinking, God doesn't know, God doesn't see, or if he does, he doesn't care. I can get away with my sin and do whatever I want. Now, of course, we hear those words and we shake our heads like, no, no, that's not true. God sees and God knows. But there is a Christian version of that mentality. In the dark of night, or early in the morning, or in an isolated space, maybe even out in the open, we are confronted with one temptation or another, and we say to ourselves God will forgive me. God won't judge me. My sins are paid for. I can engage in this sin and there won't be any consequences. Now I know that's true because I've had those thoughts, and I've heard from many people who have had those thoughts. So I know that's a common lie that we tell ourselves in the midst of temptation. At the very least, we don't think about the consequences of our sin in the moment of temptation. The temptation promises pleasure or satisfaction or comfort or whatever it is that you're going to be happy. Any thought of discovery or consequences is quickly brushed aside in our minds, and so we walk right into the trap and we indulge in our sin. Now, why does this happen? Why do we think that there will be no consequences for our sin? It's because we have not come to grips. With the consequences of our sin that have come down on the Lord Jesus Christ. Let me illustrate it this way. One of the reasons some husbands struggle with pornography is because their wife doesn't know. You know, like this example yesterday in this video that I was mentioning, you know, his wife didn't know for a long time. And so it seems like he's not hurting anybody And again I've heard this from a number of husbands. Yeah, my wife doesn't know. Or maybe she knows that I struggle a little bit, but she doesn't really know the full extent of the suffering or the the the struggling And so in the wife's ignorance of the husband's sin struggle, again, he's thinking there's no problem But when the wife either finds out or catches him or he discloses his sin, that's when he comes to see the significance of his sin. Right? He sees his wife's anger on her face. He hears her weeping as she's trying to fall asleep. He he experiences her distress as she's constantly checking his phone and asking him, How are you doing? Are you struggling? Did you look at pornography today? You know, and whatever kinds of things Once she discovers that there is a struggle, he begins to experience the consequences of his sin. Now, if that husband has an ounce of love for his wife, having experienced that reality, the next time he is tempted, he will think twice. Because he will think in his mind, I don't want to fail my wife. I don't want to cause her to distrust me. I don't want to hurt her I mean, when I saw the look on her face when she discovered, I don't want to ever see that look again And that helps him battle that sin. It doesn't make him immune to temptation and struggle, but it helps. I mean, years ago I was Working with a man and I was just trying to get him to confess to his wife. I was trying to get him to write a letter of confession and urging him, this she will be your greatest advocate Your greatest help in the battle, if you will just let her know what your struggle is. But he was too afraid. He was too afraid to see her pain. And that's tragic. But that's common. Seeing the consequences of our sin on others is a significant deterrent to temptation. The problem is, we were there to see Jesus receive the punishment for our sin. Listen to the words again of 1 Peter 2. If you have your Bible open, look at it again. 1 Peter 2, 23, 24. While being reviled, he did not revile in return. While suffering, he uttered no threats, but he kept entrusting himself to him who judges righteously. And he himself bore our sins in his body on the cross, so that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. For by his wounds you were healed. Unless I stop and meditate on the gospel When I hear that Jesus was reviled, that doesn't penetrate my soul. When I hear that he suffered and I think about those lashes that he experienced or the crown of thorns on his head or the nails that were put into his hands and feet. That that doesn't make me wince. You know, we've read these things so many times in the Bible. We've heard so many sermons. We just hear Jesus died, Jesus suffered, Jesus had his hands nailed, Jesus this, and he experienced that. He was punched, he was sat on, his his beard was plucked It really does not affect us in any meaningful way. Because we have no sense of the anguish that he felt. Just like you, I have no true comprehension of what it was like. for Jesus to experience the Father turning his back on him. We can think about that. We can think of the eternal unity and love and harmony that they had forever And even while Jesus was on earth, the fellowship that they had together, but we will di we we we don't have the capacity to understand The sorrow and the grief that Jesus experienced that led him to cry out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? We don't have that experience, we don't have that picture in our mind. We didn't hear the tone of his voice as he cries out Now, please understand, my point here is not to say that we have to work ourselves up into an emotional frenzy Uh and you know imagine Christ and just you know be a puddle of of tears in order to resist temptation What I am saying, though, is that we should think about the sufferings of Christ being the direct result of my sin. Just imagine for a moment. Imagine that in a moment of temptation, the thought, well God will forgive me, crosses your mind. But instead of just believing it You have this internal dialogue. You say to yourself, yeah, that's true, but why will God forgive me, you're telling yourself? The reason that I will experience the forgiveness of God if I sin is because if I do this, if I commit this sin, it will have cost Jesus his life. If I yield to this temptation, Jesus will have been spat on, will have been punched, will have been scourged and pierced through and abandoned by the Father. So that I would not have to experience the wrath of God justly due to me for the sin that I am about to commit. Now, if you have those thoughts And you're a true believer, that will change how strong that temptation is for you. But if it doesn't, if having those kinds of thoughts doesn't deter you at all from sin, you might have to question whether or not you're really in the faith. Because the only way to have those thoughts, to recognize the consequences of your sin, and then to go ahead and sin is to have high disregard for Jesus at best and hatred for him at worst. And here's where it gets serious. If you're not truly saved while you're thinking you're saved When you look at the cross and you see Jesus suffering and dying, understand that what he went through is just a tiny glimpse of what you will have to endure if you are not truly in Christ. So whether as a believer or an unbeliever, the cross helps us see right through the lie that there are no consequences for our sin. one of my old professors uh from uh seminary counseling professors I heard uh a couple years ago him talking and and he was saying that Sometimes when someone is really battling and falling into temptation, especially uh sexual sin, but really any particular temptation. And it's clear that they are just not having a regard for the consequences of their sin. One of the w things he'll do to help them consider the significance of their sin is he'll have them watch a clip of the Passion of the Christ. It's kind of an older movie now, I don't know, twenty plus years old. But Passion of the Christ, directed by Mel Gibson, where he portrays probably more accurately than any other movie in history the sufferings of Christ Uh I remember vividly in the being in the theater watching that movie and having to turn away my eyes at various points because I just couldn't watch I couldn't see a man having his nail, having his hands and feet nailed Now I don't I didn't watch it. Uh my eyes were averted so I don't know exactly how they showed that. But if you're you know w obviously when you're watching the movie you're you're there And so seeing that, and and that's just a actor, that's just a representation, but that puts in your mind the consequences of your sin and my sin. So maybe that would be helpful, whether you watch the movie or whether you just imagine in your own mind the sufferings of Christ. to take seriously the the consequences that we have, or the consequences that our sin caused for Christ. Because we will not experience ourselves the actual consequences of sins of our sin, we must meditate on the suffering and death of Christ and use that meditation to deter us from the deceptiveness. of sin. So we can say this again just to repeat this gospel thought that though I deserve the wrath of God for every sin of mine, God upheld justice by pouring out his wrath. Well that's it for those three gospel thoughts. We'll continue next week, but uh we have I guess a few minutes uh if if we want them. Uh if there's any particular thoughts or reflections or questions that you might have Yeah, I can I can see that. I appreciate that. Well let me go ahead and pray and we can transition over to corporate worship.