I wanted to, in following on the song we just sang, uh, present to you all uh a picture, a picture uh in a cold, damp dungeon. in Vilvoard Castle near Brussels, the years 1535. A former Roman Catholic priest named Win William Tyndale. He sits and he's shivering. He's awaiting his execution. His crime translating the Bible so that common people, that is farmers, soldiers, mothers and merchants, could read God's word for themselves in their native tongue of English. Tyndall had dedicated his adult life to the singular task of translating God's word from Hebrew, Greek, Latin, and German into English. And so in this final heartbreaking letter that I'm going to read to you here, it's written near the end of his life. Tyndall makes a simple request to his captors. Consider this. I beg your lordship to send me from the goods of mine, which he uh referring here to the commissary, uh, the goods of mine that he has. A warmer cap, for I suffer greatly from cold in the head, a warmer coat also, for this which I have is very thin, a piece of cloth too, to patch my leggings. My overcoat is worn out. My shirts are also worn out. And I ask to be allowed to have a lamp in the evening. It is indeed wearisome sitting alone in the dark But most of all, most of all I beg and beseech your clemency to be urgent with a commissary, that he will kindly permit me to have the Hebrew Bible Hebrew grammar and Hebrew dictionary. That I may pass the time in that study. If any other decision has been taken concerning me to be carried out before winter, I will be patient Abiding the will of God to the glory of the grace of my Lord Jesus Christ, whose Spirit, I pray, may ever direct your heart. Amen. I want you to think about that. Not long before this dear brother would undergo the execution reserved for those the Roman Catholic Church at the time determined to be heretics. If you're unfamiliar with that, that was uh strangulation and then being burnt after you were strangled, tied to the stake. His greatest request, this brother's greatest request at the end of his life, was for basic warmth, a little light, and the word of God. In these last moments of Tyndale's life, we get a glimpse of three powerful commitments. A fierce devotion to God's truth. A profound love for God's people that drove Him to provide them with Scripture and a deep longing for light and study. The very things that fuel the joy of fellowship with God and others. He was alone in the dark. But he longed for the things that produce joy. And so these three commitments here, truth, love, and joy, These aren't just realities of a 16th century martyr. They're the essential, inseparable pillars of the Christian life. And at the very heart of the short, urgent letter we're looking at this morning. We're going to be in 2 John. I forgot to look at the Bible if you don't have one, the physical Bible. Anyone know what page 2 John is on those physical Bibles in front of you? If you don't have your own? You just shout it out to me and I'll relay it. But if you don't have a Bible, there's a Bible here uh for you. And if you have an electronic one or a physical one, turn to second John Ten twenty-five. There we go. Thank you, brother. So if you are borrowing a Bible here and you can keep that, that's our gift to you. 2 John, we'll be in 2 John this morning. If you would, let's go to the Lord in prayer as we open up God's word. Gracious and heavenly Father, we come to you humbly beseeching you of your wisdom, of your Spirit's ministry in and through us, that we might rightly behold. Your truth, that we in love might respond to your faithful love for us. And that you might complete our joy this morning as we come to you in spirit and truth. Bless this time, we ask, as we open your word and work in our midst, that we might not be hearers only. But doers of your word. We thank you for this time and commit it to you in Jesus' name. Amen. Now, John the Apostle here is writing as an old man, a seasoned veteran of the faith, if you were, and the last living of the original twelve disciples of Jesus. Right? So In this letter, we're essentially given a concise and powerful guide to living faithfully in a world of confusion. Could anyone use help with that? Living faithfully in a world of confusion. That's kind of the age that we're in. We're in this age of confusion. And so This morning, the main point that I'm hoping that we take from John is that the Christian life can be defined by three inseparable commitments. Three of them. One, to uphold God's truth. Two, to obey his command of love. And three, to pursue the joy of fellowship. And so in John's short epistle, we're going to see that these three commitments of a faithful Christian are to God's truth. To his command of love and to the joy of fellowship. Spoiler alert, I'm not the best of slides, but this is going to be my best attempt. So I hope it's a blessing to y'all. I'm going to lower that bar because I know there's some in our mitts that are experts at the the slide game, but this is this is my best attempt. I've broken this letter down into three parts following John's flow of thought here. Ambulating in truth. Oh, there it is. Great. I can thank you, brother. Ambulating in truth, abiding in love, and anticipating joy. How about that first word? Anyone out there like, yeah, that's a good word. Ambulating in truth. Right? I'm not the best at alliteration, uh, but my pastor back home is, and uh I think this would make him proud. That word, that's just a fancy word for walking. It's just a word for walking, walking in truth. But I couldn't have walking in truth, abiding in love, and anticipating in joy because that would you know, it wouldn't flow. So ambulating, that's what you got. Uh but if you follow along with me, please, uh beginning verse one of 2 John as we consider uh this morning our first point, annulating in truth. The elder to the elect lady and her children, whom I love in truth, and not only I, but also all who know the truth. Because of the truth that abides in us and will be with us forever, grace, mercy, and peace will be with us from God the Father and from Jesus Christ the Father Son in truth and love. I rejoice greatly to find some of your children walking in the truth, just as we were commanded by the Father. And now I ask you, dear lady, not as though I were writing you a new commandment. But the one we have had from the beginning, that we love one another. And this is love, that we walk according to his commandments This is the commandment, just as you have heard from the beginning, so that you should walk in it Now I want to call our attention, firstly, to the author of this short epistle, who refers to himself simply as the elder. The elder. Based on the stylistic and thematic similarities we see in 1st, 2nd, and 3 John, and the testimony of the early church, we can with confidence deduce that the elder here is none other than the Apostle John. Right. The title John uses here is simply the elder, and it could very well have been a well-known or affectionate way he'd refer to himself. in personal letters. So consider uh 2 John 1, where we see him writing this personal letter to the elect lady and her children. We also have at 3rd John, where he's writing again a personal letter to the beloved Gaius, we read there. And so John was certainly elderly when he sent this letter from Ephesus near the end of the first century, about ninety ninety-five A. D. But he was also the only living elder who was personally chosen by and walked with Jesus as an apostle, the only living elder who was uh who personally bore witness to his earthly ministry, that is Jesus' earthly ministry and the countless miraculous acts which affirmed Jesus as God's divine Messiah Recall in John chapter 20, John's testimony, now Jesus did many other signs in the presence of the disciples, which are not written in this book. But these are written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing you may have life in his name One such sign that John observed includes the transfiguration. Recall in Matthew 17, first two verses there, after six days Jesus took him took with him Peter and James and John, his brother, and led them up a high mountain by themselves, and he was transfigured before them. And his face shone like the sun, and his clothes became white as light And of course, we know that John was present during Jesus' crucifixion on the cross. And we also know that John was uniquely given the responsibility. to care for Jesus' mother after his death on the cross. Recall in John nineteen, twenty six and twenty seven. When Jesus saw his mother and the disciple whom he loved standing nearby, he said to his mother, Woman, behold your son Then he said to the disciple, Behold your mother. And from that hour the disciple took her to his home We also know that John was among those who beheld and learned from the resurrected Christ in John chapter 20, 19 and 20. Again, on the first evening, this is the first day of the week, the doors being locked, where the disciples were, for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood among them and said to them, Peace be with you. So as best we can tell, John, the disciple whom Jesus loved, wrote 1st, 2nd, and 3 John, well into his 70s, perhaps even 80s, as far as his age is concerned. But regarding the addressee, regarding who this letter was addressed to, some pastors and scholars think that John here is addressing a specific house church. Uh maybe even t some metaphorical way o r of referring to uh uh a congregation of believers, uh the lady being a reference to like the bride, right? The lady, the elect lady, and her children being a reference to uh those who belong to that local church. I personally, and I'm standing on the shoulders of other pastors and scholars who read this differently, I simply see John addressing a prominent woman and her children, both of which are unknown to us today. But John likely wrote this letter to encourage, to encourage and warn well-intentioned Christians, specifically this well-intentioned Christian, this elect lady. in the faith regarding false teachers who were exploiting Christian hospitality and causing spiritual harm. And this gets to why we need to pay attention this morning. In many ways, this short letter One of the shortest in the New Testament. This short letter warns Christians to be discerning. Be discerning who they welcome into their lives, into their homes, into their church communities. So they aren't deceived by those who falsely claim to be believers. And so whether John originally addressed this letter to a church or a woman and her children, what's clear is that the letter is addressed to Christians. And the timeless truths contained therein are helpful for us today. So if you recall looking back at verses 1 through 4, there was a word that came up a lot. There was a word that came up a lot. That word was truth. Look back at verses 1 through 4. I want you to notice that John mentions truth here in these first four verses five times. Verse 1. The elders select lady and her children whom I love in the truth. And not only I, but also all who know the truth. Because of the truth that abides in us and will be with us forever, grace, mercy, and peace will be with us from God the Father and from Jesus Christ, the Father Son, in truth and love. I rejoice greatly to find some of your children walking in the truth, just as we were commanded by the Father Do you see the heart of John here? He loves them in the truth. And in truth, they're united. Truth indwells them. He blesses them in the truth, and the truth compels them. And so for John, truth isn't just a collection of facts or doctrines. It's a lived reality. It's a lived reality. It's the sphere, the atmosphere, you can say, in which a Christian lives and breathes. The Greek word for truth there, translated truth, it's uh Alephhei, uh I'm sorry, Alefea. Basically the prefix there, it's an A, it negates, it's a un or a not And the lathe there is another word for like forgetfulness or concealment. It actually comes from the river Lathi in Greek mythology, whose waters brought forgetfulness. By submerging in these waters or for by engaging in these waters, that there would be a resulting forgetfulness to those who would drink of this water. And so the word literally suggests the idea of unconcealedness. Unconcealedness, unhiddenness, or disclosure is the idea of that word truth, Alitheia. And so truth we have to see. This truth is not something we invent. Truth is not something we invent, but something that is revealed, brought out of hiding, or made evident. That word Alethea can simply refer to a statement or fact that corresponds to reality. We see that in Romans 9. 1, essentially functioning as the opposite of a lie. I am speaking the truth, Paul writes. I am speaking the truth in Christ. I am not lying. My conscience bears me witness in the Holy Spirit. It can also describe a sincerity or candor of mind, a reflecting truthfulness in character and action. Look at 1 Corinthians 5. 8. Let us therefore celebrate the festival we read, not with the old leaven, the leaven of malice and evil, but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth. But most importantly, Alitheia is frequently used to refer to the entire Christian message. The revealed plan of God and the body of Christian doctrine, that is the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, right? Ephesians 1:13, we see that in him also you, when you heard the word of truth, that is the gospel of your salvation, and believed in him, were sealed with the promised Holy Spirit. Jesus declared himself to be the way, the what, the truth, and the life. And the exclusive means of entering into a right relationship with God the Father. Jesus is the living and personal reality of the truth. He's a full disclosure and reality of God. In Hebrews 1, verses 2 through 3. But in these last days he's Spoken to us as a reference to God, and the prior days spoke to the prophets and the fathers, but in these last days have spoken to us by his Son Whom he appointed the heir of all things, through whom also he created the world, he is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature. Jesus also refers to the Holy Spirit as the Spirit of Truth, who guides believers into all truth. Jesus' high priestly prayer we read about in John 17 teaches us that God's Word is truth And so while there's much more that can be said about truth and what the Bible has to say about truth, what I hope you see is that the Bible presents truth as being more than just factual accuracy. It's the unconcealed ultimate reality that is fully revealed in the person of Jesus Christ. The gospel, message, and the inspired word of God. So when John said, back to our text in 2 John, when John said, he was greatly rejoicing to find the children of the elect lady walking in the truth. He was referring to how their daily lives, how their conduct, how their beliefs were all aligned with the gospel they received, with the truth they accepted. Dear one, in a world full of your truth and my truth, John's message comes to us today as a breath of fresh air. Truth is objective. Truth is objective. God is the ultimate source of reality and truth. And he isn't subject to human opinion or belief. His character is unchanging, and therefore what is true about him and his creation is also unchanging. Malachi 3. 6 for I the Lord do not change. It's a self-addestation of God. Therefore you, O children of Abraham, are not consumed. James 1:17, every good gift And every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights, with whom there is no variation or shadow due to change. You see, the self-attestation of the Bible itself is that it's God's objective, unchangeable truth. Psalm 119, verse 160, the sum of your word is truth. And every one of your righteous rules endures forever. Reading the Bible isn't like creating a painting. From a blank canvas where you're just taking parts of the Bible and trying to create a truth that works best for your life and your desired walk with the Lord. No. It's more like an archaeological excavation. You're unearthing a fixed, complete artifact. The meaning of God's word is already set by its divine author, and the interpreter's task is to carefully and accurately unearth that true authorial meaning. And so the Bible establishes moral laws that are presented as universally true for all people in all times and cultures. And the Ten Commandments we see them presented not as suggestions, but as absolute truths, all of which are affirmed and fulfilled in Christ. Also, the book of Isaiah warns against, look at Isaiah 5. 20. Woe to those who call evil good and good evil, who put darkness for light and light for darkness, who put bitter for sweet and sweet for bitter. Think about this for a second. Such a warning only makes sense if there's a fixed objective reality of good and evil. Fundamental to every professing Christian here is the historical fact of the gospel The gospel message is based on a set of objective, verifiable facts. That is, Jesus' death on the cross and his bodily resurrection. Paul argues that if the resurrection didn't happen, As a historical event, then the faith in such a person who didn't stay dead is futile. It's worthless. But praise God. For Jesus is risen. Christians, don't miss this. The truth of Christianity is not subjective feeling or experience. It's an objective reality that can be examined. Jesus is the living one. He is the Christ. He is the eternal Son of God who gave his life a ransom in order that sinners like us would be forgiven, forgiven of sin, and made righteous in him This is the most important truth, the most important life-saving, life-changing, sustaining truth. any soul here or in this region or in this world could ever know. Do you believe this? Are you here today hearing this, having heard this, and just doing nothing with it? Because to do nothing with it is to do something with it, actually. It's to reject it. The response to the truth of the gospel, this objective, unchanging truth that exists independently of our thoughts, feelings, or cultures and calls us to believe. is incumbent on us to hear and receive. And it's our prayer that you would hear and receive The hope of the gospel that you can be made new in Christ. You can be forgiven. You can know eternal life With the same assurance we have that he rose, we know that we will rise with him and be like him and see him as he is and spend all of eternity with him. The Bible says that believers have been set apart and are being transformed by this very truth. So if you're here today and you've heard this gospel and like we were singing earlier, this old message, this old truth, and it's not doing anything for you now. Hear it afresh. Jesus prayed, sanctify them in the truth. Your word is truth. Believers should have a deep affection for the truth. Believers should speak the truth and love to one another. Believers should worship God in truth and what? Spirit. You can talk. That's okay. That's a that's a fill-in-the-blank. Truth and spirit. There it is. So I want you to think about the things and people who have your affections. Think about the things and the people that have your affections. Think about the things you've thought and said to your brothers and sisters in Christ this last week. Think about who and what you truly worship and the manner in which you worship. Have you been walking in truth? Have you been walking in truth? Has your life been characterized by the divine truth found within God's unchanging word? As we looked at earlier, the Bi the Bible says that the truth is a person. The truth is a person. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. Have you truly in your heart accepted this truth? This truth, the living one, the one who declares himself to be the Alpha and the Omega, the one who will come back to judge the living and the dead. Is your hope right now fixed in this truth, the truth of the person of Christ Jesus? What sin has a light of God's word revealed, the truth of God's word revealed, that you need to repent of, Christian? This is not a suggestion. It's a matter of spiritual life and death. God takes the knowledge of his truth with the utmost seriousness You don't believe me. That's all right. Through the prophet Hosea, you'll believe Hosea. God brought a devastating charge against the spiritual leaders of Israel. The priests. Look with me at Hosea chapter 4, verse 6. My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge. Because you have rejected knowledge, I reject you from being a priest to me. And since you've forgotten the law of your God, I will also forget your children. Now, the primary failure was a rejection of the truth. The word and law of God, which they were commanded to know, to guard, and to teach. Their ignorance led to the nation's ruin and their own rejection. Now, if you're sitting here right now and you're like, well, I'm a Christian, That's not for me. Or what does it have to do with me and where I'm at today? You may be wondering. Look at the New Testament. 1 Peter chapter 2. You may be wondering what the connection is here. Someone prayed this this morning and it totally fit in. 1 Peter 2 verse 9. But you are chosen race. A royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his own possession, that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light Through Christ, all believers have been made a chosen race, a royal priesthood. And so the warning To the old covenant priesthood should serve as a solemn warning to the new covenant saint. If we who are called to be saints in God's kingdom reject or neglect the knowledge of God found in his word, we fail to do our most basic calling. Peter says that we were called out of darkness to walk in his marvelous light. That light is the truth John is talking about. To walk in truth means our entire life's journey, from regeneration to every waking moment that follows. It's navigated by the map of God's Word. God's Word should govern how we think, how we speak, and how we behave. So, Christian, what is the relationship between God's word and your finances? What's the relationship between God's Word and your time? What's the relationship between God's Word and your job? Your career? What's the relationship between God' The word and your attitude What's the relationship between God's Word and your relationships? Your kids, parents, neighbors, co-workers? How about those you don't really care for? John tells us in verses 5 and 6 that if we're going to walk in the truth, we need to walk in God's commands. Look at verses 5 and 6 to 2 John. And now I ask you, dear lady, not as though I were writing you a new commandment, but the one we have had from the beginning, that we love one another. And this is love, that we walk according to its commandments. This is the commandment, just as you have heard from the beginning, so that you should walk in it. See, truth and love are two sides of the same coin. Obedience to God's truth is expressed through love for one another. In John 14, 15, recall that Jesus said, if you love me, you will what? You will keep my commandments. How can you keep something you don't know? Right? If you love me, you'll keep my commandments. And the greatest commandment given to man is to love God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength, and to love your neighbor as yourself. And so the love and truth are sometimes pitted against each other as opposing virtues. They both must be held in a symbiont relationship Lest each be expressed as a perversion of its true self. Consider truth without love. Truth without love. It can often be described as harsh, brutal, self-righteous. And the truth can be used as a weapon, to condemn, to injure, to push people away rather than to build them up. Recall, even during Jesus' day, the Pharisees, as a classic example of their meticulous following the letter of the law, but lacked compassion and mercy. In 1 Corinthians 13, Paul says that even if he has prophetic powers, understanding, all knowledge, and all faith, but has no love, he's nothing. He's nothing, and he gains nothing. Truth becomes empty, becomes a noisy symbol if it's not motivated by genuine care for others. Conversely, love without truth. Love without truth often degenerates into sentimentality. It's a hollow form of hypocrisy, essentially, right? A love that does not correct or challenge isn't truly loving. It doesn't allow a person to continue in a harmful or destructive behavior. It's like a person who tells her friend that their sinful lifestyle is okay in the name of love. It's not genuinely helping them. It's not genuinely helping them. The Bible makes clear that true love requires honesty and correction. As seen in the passages that call for believers to restore one another in a spirit of gentleness. And so love that refuses to confront falsehood is, in a sense, a form of cruelty. It's actually cruelty, it's not love. Because it withholds the very thing that can lead to salvation and freedom And so one can't claim to be ambulating in truth. That was our big word for the morning, by the way, ambulating, walking in truth. A person can't claim to be walking in the truth or ambulating in truth if you're not abiding in love. Right? This leads us to our second point in our passage. Follow along with me beginning at verse 7. If you're a note taker, if you got the out, yeah, there it is. Abiding in love. That's our second point. Verse 7. For many deceivers have gone out into the world, those who do not confess the coming of Jesus Christ in the flesh. Such a one is a deceiver and the Antichrist. Now recognize that that warning in and of itself is an act of love. Right? The specific threat in view there that Paul's reacting to is likely an early form of Gnosticism. Those Gnostic false teachers were essentially claiming that spirit is good and matter is evil. And so Jesus couldn't have really been a human. He couldn't have really been a human. And so they said he only appeared to be human was the idea here. So we're seeing John's response to that. And we also have to recognize here in 2025 lies concerning Jesus' true nature, that is fully God and fully man, continue to this day. So John makes clear here that the disagreements regarding Jesus' nature, these are no minor secondary matters. Uh as was mentioned earlier, I spent uh some time in Iraq and there were many people in the congregation that in a civilian context they probably wouldn't be here. Because of those places where it's okay to have differences. It's okay to exercise preferences. John here is saying, yeah, we're talking about a place that this is not okay. This is not one of those things. This is not one of those spaces. John makes clear that disagreements regarding Jesus' nature are no minor secondary matters. That is not what John's getting at here. To deny that Jesus Christ came in the flesh is to deny the core of the gospel, the incarnation, Christ's propitiation for sin, and the resurrection. It's a soul-destroying lie. And so John's love for this family compelled him to teach them how to protect themselves. Look at verse 8. Watch yourselves. Watch yourselves so that you may not lose what you have worked for, but may win a full reward. Watch yourselves. Pay attention to your own doctrine in life. Before you leave the house, you make sure you got your keys and cell phone, right? If you're old enough to have a cell phone, that is, or keys. Or maybe if you're a younger person, you make sure you got your parent, right? Before we leave, we we we we double check that we have everything. Uh for those of you that are still in uniform, before we deploy or mobilize, we conduct a seemingly ridiculous number of gear checks. We're making sure we got everything. John here is saying do a spiritual gear tech. John is saying don't let lies cause you to forfeit the reward Christ has for you at the day of Christ Jesus. Watch yourself. Pay attention to your own doctrine and life. Look at the second aspect of this that John gives us, this two-part command. uh where John is uh telling this elect lady how to protect her and her children. Verse nine. Everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in the teaching of Christ does not have God. Whoever abides in the teaching has both the Father and the Son. If anyone comes to you and does not bring this teaching, do not receive him into your house. Or give him any greeting. For whoever greets him takes part in his wicked works He says that anyone who goes on ahead and doesn't abide in the teaching of Christ does not have God. And the command there we see, if anyone comes to you and does not bring this teaching, don't receive him into your house or give him any greeting, for whoever greets him takes part in his wickedness. Understand that he's not talking about being rude He's not talking about being rude to an unbelieving neighbor. We need to be clear on this part, right? So someone who's an unbeliever, John's not saying You need to just isolate from all the unbelievers. They don't know Jesus? Stay away from him. Right? That would actually contradict Paul's other teaching on this. That we're to be in the world, not of the world, and we're to engage with those who don't know Christ, but those who are professing to know Christ. Those who are professing to be on the team but aren't, those are the ones that Paul warns about, hey, you might not want to partake with them. You might want to exercise discernment with them. John here is saying that such ones who are bringing a false Jesus, a different Jesus, are actually anti-Christ. They're not of Christ. Have nothing to do with him, is what Paul's saying here. For us, this is about refusing to give a platform, refusing to give support. or Christian fellowship to those who are actively spreading false teaching that denies Christ. I hope you see the distinction there. Love for the flock means you don't invite wolves into the sheep's pen. Hence the extensive process these faithful brothers here underwent with me before bringing me here. The care for your souls, and the desire and faithfulness to care for all that God's entrusted to his people here. You protect your home front, you protect your people, your home, your church home, your family, your church family from those who would otherwise destroy it from within. That's the idea here. And so make no mistake, Christian, deceivers are still out in the world But it's a bit harder for them to get to you. I s I say that differently. It's a bit easier for them to get to you than than back then. You see, back then, traveling missionaries, uh traveling evangelists, or you know, um folks who were going around peddling Christ for profit, we talked about that Saturday morning in the counseling, uh in our counseling session, they depended on the hospitality of Christians. Right? There weren't hotels you could check into. Right? They depended on the hospitality of Christians to house and care for them as they went about doing their business. Today, Christian, for such false teachers to have influence in your life Television, radio, cell phone, email, IG, the TikToks, all this stuff, Facebook, like It's so much easier now. They don't have to come to your front door. You don't have to open your front door. You just have to turn your phone on. These false teachers preach a different Jesus. A Jesus who's merely a good teacher. A political revolutionary, maybe, or a cosmic force. But not the Godman who lived, who died, and who rose again. You see, for them, love is love. Truth is relative. And everyone should pursue whatever makes you feel good. I'm glad that makes you feel good is what they'll say, right? Do whatever makes you feel good. Christian, God's reminding us this morning that biblical love is not a sentimental, all-accepting feeling. Biblical love has a backbone. It's fiercely protective. True love for your loved ones and your church family means protecting them from ideas that will lead them away from the real Jesus. The great preacher A. W. Tozer once said, the most deadly poison of our times is sentimentalism. I think he's still right. You know, we've replaced biblical truth-grounded love with a weak sentimental tolerance that calls good evil and evil good. Christian, are you abiding in the love of Christ? At the end of June, Pastor Mike reminded us of the truth found in 1 John. 1 John 1, verses 6-10. If we say we have fellowship with him and walk in darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth. But if we walk in the light as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another. And the blood of Jesus, his son, cleanses us from all sin. If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. If we say we have not sinned, we make him a liar. And his word is not in us. Christian as the scriptures declare God is light. God is light. Who here needs to be reminded that there is nothing hidden from God? And there's no sin he's unwilling to forgive you of if you would simply ask him in faith. Who here needs to be reminded and encouraged That whoever abides in the truth has the Father, has the Son, and has the Holy Spirit. And that there's nothing that'll ever separate you from the love and protective care of God. Who here needs to be lovingly confronted? Who here needs to be lovingly confronted with the truth that you are not currently walking in the light? And eternal darkness and torment await you. And so perhaps you do Christian things, but in your heart you reject the Lordship of Christ, who calls you to repentance and faith in Him alone. You see, ambulating in truth and abiding in protective love leads us to the anticipatory joy of the Christian life Look with me beginning of verse twelve. This anticipation, this this hope, it isn't passive. Look at verse 12. Though I have much to write you, I would rather not use paper and ink. Instead I I hope to come to you and talk face to face so that our joy may be complete, the children of your elect sister greet you. Now John ends his short letter here with a powerful personal longing In a world without email or video calls, a letter was a treasure, right? This was a special thing. But John knew that it was an imperfect substitute for personal presence His greatest desire was to close the distance, was to see them in person and speak with them face to face. Literally, the Greek there is mouth to mouth. If there's one thing that COVID has taught us saints Is that God's people need to gather? Notice, notice John's response. For wanting to be with him in person, so that their shared joy might be made complete. You see that John conveys a similar sentiment in first John, first John one four. And we are writing these things to you so that our joy may be complete. The idea in both letters in first John and in second John there is the truth of the gospel produces of fellowship. In eternal life for all who believe. Look at 1 John 1:3. That which we have seen and heard, we proclaim also to you, so that you too may have fellowship with us, and indeed our fellowship Is with the Father and with his Son, Jesus Christ. And in turn, fellowship and eternal life produces joy in the life of the believer. Look at verse 4. And we're writing these things to you so that our So that our joy may be complete. I recall last Sunday, Pastor Gabe recently taught that joy is the delight or strength we experience when God is our portion. This morning, the Apostle John's reminding us that biblical joy is rooted in God's person, sustained by his power, and perfected in the communion of his saints. And so when God is our portion, our joy should affect those around us as we reflect Christ to one another. Seeing such radiant joy in our brothers and sisters should spur us on and comfort us to reflect him all the more. I know there are many here who understand the gap between a letter and a homecoming, uh having met so many folks here that are prior service. And so I know that many have spent more than your fair share away from your family on extended missions, uh separated from friends, family, and loved ones. And so you know what it is to live on text messages, on video calls, and you know the deep, inexpressible joy of finally being face to face with those you love. That feeling, that completion of joy that only is present, or that that only presence can bring, it's a foretaste. It's a foretaste of heaven. John here is reminding us that our faith isn't an abstract, disconnected reality. It's meant to be lived out in embodied personal fellowship with other believers. And so the writer of Hebrews warns us not to neglect such meeting together, because it's there in that gathering that we encourage one another in the truth and love. This corporate gathering is where our joy is replenished and made more complete. And so I want to encourage you this morning to prioritize fellowship. Prioritize fellowship. Wherever the Lord has you, and for whatever period of time he has you there, make gatherings serving and praying with your church. a non-negotiable part of your life. Make time for face-to-face fellowship, even if you're only able to gather with one or two other saints. Why? Because this fellowship is the incubator for a joy that the world can't give or take away. And it ultimately serves as a dress rehearsal for the reunion when we'll see our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, face to face, and our joy will be eternally complete. Now we began our time this morning with William Tyndall, shivering in a dark cell. His life poured out for the truth of God's Word. His motivation was a deep love for God's people. And in his final moments, his greatest longing was for light and the word. The very things that produce the joy of fellowship with God and his people. His very last words prayed at the stake just before he was strangled and burned was this. Lord, open the King of England's eyes. It was a final prayer for the truth to advance. Brothers and sisters, this pattern is for our lives as well. These three commitments. They're not a checklist. They're woven together like a three-stranded cord that cannot be broken. Our commitment to truth, our commitment to truth must be the foundation upon which we stand. Especially when the world's values crumble around us. Our commitment to love must be strong, discerning, must be protective And it'll guard our hearts for our loved ones and our church from deception. Our commitment to the joy of fellowship. must sustain us as we engage in the various ministries the Lord's called us to serve in. Whether that be through trials, uh, through rejoicing, or just the mundane walk of life. Serving as a reminder that the glorious homecoming that awaits us with our Lord is imminent. The Christian life can be defined by three inseparable commitments: to uphold God's truth, to obey His command of love, and to pursue the joy of fellowship. I want to encourage us all to commit right now, to ambulate in truth, to abide in love, and to anticipate the complete joy of seeing our Savior face to face. Let's pray. Gracious and heavenly Father, what a gift it is to receive from you. What has been freely given at such great a cost, faith in Christ. We thank you for your truth. We thank you for the love that sent the living truth. And we thank you for the joy that you have given us as your people. We pray for those who are hurting here this morning. That you would comfort them, that you would use your people as a means of extending comfort from the God of comfort. We pray for those who need to be corrected and reproved, that you would turn them back to you, turn them away from their sin, that they might walk in your light. And Father, we pray for those souls here this morning and those watching wherever they are that don't know you, that you would stir in them. A true understanding of the holy, holy, holy God who stands eternally separated from them because of their sin. Yet has sent his son Christ Jesus to forgive, to cleanse, to welcome into your family. Thank you for your grace and pray that you would work mightily in our lives, both on this Lord's Day and this week. Lord, accomplish your will for your glory and our good, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.