Oh today we are on lesson eight. We last week we began um uh our study, our understanding of the God of the Quran, Allah, and came to the conclusion that uh uh whoever the source was of the Quran, it's not the true God. And um So there's just so much that's that's um diametrically opposed to what God has revealed in Scripture to um come to the conclusion that they're the same God, which they're not. Well today we're going to actually compare the the God of the Quran, the God of Islam, with the God of the Bible. And what we'll find is there's a lot of similarities. uh a lot of uh similar attributes in this kind of thing, but there are others that are Uh significantly different, similar but uh not quite the same. And there are other aspects of the Islamic understanding of Allah that are diametrically opposed to what God has revealed about Himself in the Scriptures. So beginning on page 76, I'm going to walk through actually literally A to Z. I think I've got 26 different attributes here and comparing, contrasting. And some of them, like this first one, existence has an asterisk on it. Uh the ones that have an asterisk are ones that at least by way of tradition and teaching um Uh Muslims believe these are key attributes of Allah for what it's worth. So the first of those is uh God's existence. So um it kind of goes without saying that that um those who are monotheistic as Muslims are and as we are Affirm the existence of God, but more importantly, that He has always existed. He has he's self existent, if you will, not created um And so we see that's that's true of their understanding of Allah and it's our our understanding from scripture that that is True of the true God as well. And related to that is His eternity has always existed. That's uh true of the true God. It's also what um Muslims believe based on the Quran, that God has always existed, he's eternal. And so um yeah, he's um one God and eternally existent, and so it's it's tempting to think we're talking about the same God. His perpetuity on top of page seven, he abides, he continues. He's not only eternally existent, but he abides uh continues in perpetuity. And uh that's true both of the Muslim God and of the God of the scriptures. And the references here for both of them. However, starting with uh letter D here, his essence, Now we're starting to get into some details that that separate the understanding of God from the Quran versus from Scripture. So The Quran would say that Allah or Muslims generally would say, I'm not sure, um The Quran is explicit on this point, but the contention is that Allah could not be Himself a spirit, because He created spirits And so he couldn't have created himself. And so it's sort of a logical conclusion that they come to. God, Allah created spirits, so he must be something other than spirits, because spirits were created. So it's just it's just that logic. Whereas we know from Scripture that God has revealed Himself as spirit, and we need to worship Him in spirit and truth. That doesn't mean that he created himself or that he's equal with uh other spiritual entities he has uh created, uh it doesn't mean that at all. But his essence is spirit. It's not flesh and blood. Apart from Christ, of course, who took on flesh to become like us, but God in his very essence is spiritual. He's spirit. And Scripture is very clear on that. John 4:24, God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship in spirit and truth, the words of Christ. Um second Corinthians three seventeen, the Lord is spirit. Where the spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty. So there's some nuance there. Um but it's a it's a point of of difference between Islamic understanding of God and our understanding of God from Scripture. Okay, his dissimilarity, he's unlike his creation. That's something that we hold in common in The Islamic view is that uh Allah is uh completely separate from His creation, and uh that's what we understand from Scripture as well. Um uh no one could be his equal. Um there's no one like him. So um That's consistent with the fact that both Islam and um the Bible um are monotheistic. It's one God. He's unlike and un un um what not Commingled with his creation. He's distinct from his creation. He created it after all. And so there's similarity there. And related to his existence, item F here, his self-sustenance, he's self-sufficient Uh this is true both in uh Iran or in the Quran, Islam, and in Scripture as well, that he he's not dependent on anyone else. Others are dependent on him, but he is not in turn dependent on anyone. He's self-sufficient, self-sustaining, and so on Then in item G here, his unity is something that very much Um splits us in our understanding of God's character. I'm on page seventy-eight. In Islam and very explicitly in the Quran, uh The the the religion of Islam is not only monotheistic as is ours But it's also Unitarian as opposed to Trinitarian, right? And so Allah, in their view, is unitary. Chapter 2, verse 163 of the Quran. And your Allah is one Allah. There is no God but He, most gracious, Most Merciful. Chapter 112. He is Allah, the one and only, and there is none like unto him. Chapter 13, verse 16. Who is the Lord and sustainer of the heavens and the earth? Say it is Allah. Say, do you then take for worship? um protectors other than him, such as have no power either for good or for harm to themselves. And so it just sums it up here by saying Allah is the creator of all things. He is the one, the supreme, and the irresistible. We're going to get In the next section here, a little bit more detail on this point. But we also understand from Scripture that there's only one God. Right? Look at uh Deuteronomy 6, for example. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is what? One. It's only one God. John ten, thirty, Jesus said, I and the Father are one, however. And so that's offensive to those who think that there is only one God, which is true, and there's none other like him, which is true. But they don't capture the um uh you know the the um The doctrine of the Trinity is something that people couldn't have made up, I don't think. It it just it doesn't seem all that logical to our human limited mindset. Um and so it's not it's not um um surprising that that those who believe that there's only one God can't get their minds around the concept of the Trinity. Now we personally Had the advantage that the church, having grappled with all the reality of Scripture, both their understanding from their Jewish heritage, The teachings of Christ, the teachings of the apostles in the early church grappled with this concept of the Trinity. It's not foreign to the Old Testament Once you understand its revelation particularly brought out in Christ and the New Testament, but um It it's not a no-brainer. It wasn't a no-brainer for the early church. But God superintended their understanding of Scripture and settled on the nature of the Trinity. recognizing various opposing views as in fact heresy, and settled on a proper understanding of how God has revealed Himself As Father, Son, Holy Spirit. We're the beneficiaries of them having grappled with that many, many years ago, to the point where we kind of take it for granted. But um I think all of us have tried to grapple with it in our own minds and say, well, I believe it because I see it in Scripture. But that doesn't mean I fully comprehend it. And that's okay. It doesn't mean also that we just throw up our hands and say, whatever. We can still plumb the depths of God's very nature as He's revealed Himself in Scripture. And so it's not surprising that this would be a point of of departure between the God of the Quran and the God of the Bible. Uh he is indeed unitary, we agree on that, but we disagree on the human logic that gets tacked onto that, that therefore Um the doctrine of the Trinity must be wrong. Because God has revealed Himself even in the Old Testament before Christ Enough about his triune nature that was revealed more fully in Christ and in the teachings of Christ and the apostles God's subsequent revelation. So, yes, God is unitary. We agree on that, but we disagree on the implications of it. That's the point. Which brings us to letter H. The fatherhood No the notion of fatherhood being attributed to God and the Trinity specifically. This is a major Point of departure in the Quran versus the scriptures. So for example, look in on page 79 Surah twenty-five, verse two. He to whom belongs the dominion of the heavens and the earth. No son has he begotten, nor has he a partner in his dominion. It is he who has created all things and ordered them in due proportions. Surah 112, he begetteth not, nor is he begotten. What's he saying? God is eternal. And uh God doesn't have a beginning. That's all true. Um And yet they don't understand the the full nature of God. Surah 5 says, they do blaspheme who say Allah is one of three in a Trinity. This is in the Quran now. For there is no God except one, Allah. So what are what is it they're assuming here? I say they. Yes. Their concept of the Trinity is sort of the logical one, if you're sort of in a human frame of mind, that The Trinity means that there are three gods. That's tri Trinitarian that's uh what is it um Uh polytheism. Anyway, how do you put a three in there? It's poly polytheism. Try polytheism. Try or whatever. Yeah. Triple Eight, yeah. Um and so look at Surah four. Oh people of the book. Now here he's referring to um uh Jews and Christians. O people of the book, commit no excesses in your religion, nor say of God aught but the truth. Christ Jesus, the Son of Mary, was no more than a messenger of God and his word. Which he bestowed on Mary, and a spirit proceeding from him. So believe in God and his messengers. Say not Trinity, desist. It will be better for you, for God is one. Glory be to him, far exalted is he, above having a son. So The whole notion in the Quran of God being father, their understanding of the notion that God is father and that he has a son is that the sun was uh created the um and even more explicitly sort of like in a lot of um like Greek mythology where the gods would would uh marry and have um uh uh they would beget other gods, that kind of a thing. That's what they think this doctrine of the fatherhood and the sonship of Christ is all about. God the Father, they're thinking, by this view, must have um uh procreated through whatever means to have then a son. That's what they think Christians believe. And uh use of the word father, use of the word son in their thinking can only mean what it means in human terms, a father and a son. And the Quran is explicit in many different places saying that's beneath him To be involved in that kind of thing. God is one, there's only one God. He's always existed. He doesn't distract himself with humanly uh uh normal things of procreation and so on. So in their view this is just nonsense. And it's very explicit in the Quran. Yeah. Um so this really jumps out to me Um you said earlier that you can see Satan's fingerprints all over. This is one of 'em. Well, this is a big one because if if you so so Satan is whispering and Muhammad's ear and he says and he redefines who Jesus is, then you're cutting off the path to an enti an entire group of people, you're cutting off the path to salvation if you eliminate Jesus Which you gotta think is kind of the point. Right. So, you know see everything up until now is just looks like it looks like couldn't Confusion. You know, uh you know, I'm Muhammad, I heard this story, I heard that story, I pasted this together. He didn't hear this from anybody on his in his travel. would you think. I would think this would would have been one of those visionary things that he that he that he got. Because what he was hearing was what was actually going on. I'm thinking. Uh we we uh as as Christians have um true reasons for believing the truth. But if somebody who is Muslim says, Well you argue that you're not saying that there are three gods And yet one of the most occupied verses that you use when evangelizing is uh John three sixteen, which in there it's a the only begotten son. How would you how would you respond to the use of the word regardless because rebutton would seem to imply you know that that somehow how enough to get it that you know Right. So how would you respond to that? Yeah, excellent question. The answer is about two months away. She didn't live that long. This section looks like it was putting it too directly to Christian teaching. That's that's the intent. Yeah. This the second person of the Trinity always existed, but I think the form of man And it would be gotten that uh the second verse of the Trinity um took on a human life and took on the human nature and divine nature. The second person's eternity always existed, was always part of the nature of God. John Edward says you these pulsions of God's glory that has personhood. So that is possible that you know the the second person eternally existent and just regotten in the sense of when you uh assume uh human form. Yeah, well since you've raised it, we may as well we may as well cover this, at least in in Overview form. That's all important information, but I think it's a lot deeper than that. The word only begotten um is is is one word, it's not two words, only begotten. And it it has the meaning of um exalted, favored, uh preeminent. And God elsewhere, specifically in Psalm 2, which is quoted several times in the New Testament. Says, God the Father says to Jesus Christ, Today I have begotten you. Now what was the context for him saying that? God bringing him into the position of dominion over the kings of all the earth who are um rebelling and and mocking God and so on. Um So when he says, today I have begotten you, that's not using the word only begotten. It's using the word begotten itself. He said it at the time i in he's for for um foreshadowing when it's actually going to happen. But uh Today I have begotten you is what he's saying to the Son, who has existed eternally. So what does he mean? Today is the day I have begotten you. He means that that word begotten means to bring forth. And we can see how we're using that regularly in the context of birth. But more generally means to bring forth, to show, to bring forth. And Elsewhere where that passage in Psalm two is quoted, particularly in the New Testament, it's associated with Um well it's it's in general it's it's associated with the victory of Christ and the the the kingly position and authority of Christ. Um So sometimes it's it's connected with his uh resurrection and ascension. And um uh m m more fully sort of in the full uh fulfillment of it, it's his um Being given all the kingdoms of the world, sitting at the right hand of the Father, uh the most exalted over everything. Um So God is saying, today I have done that for you. I have begotten you. I've brought you forth as the uh answer to all those s mocking kings that are referred to in in Psalm two. And that's different from the fact that he's only begotten. Now that word only begotten is also basically the very same concept. That God used in describing to Abraham that Abraham should offer up his only begotten son the son whom you love, your only son, which wasn't his only son. In fact it wasn't even his oldest son, right? Um if I'm pretty sure the Septuagint has only begotten there. The same concept is there in the Hebrew. This is the son of the promise. The exalted one, the one, my favored one, your favorite son, not your only son, although he uses the word only son, right? It's the only son of the promise. Um and and that's the nature of this term only begotten. And that's different actually from God's use of that term in Psalm 2, today I have begotten you. He wasn't talking about his physical birth. And being laid in a manger. We have an aging in ESP actually says only In which verse uh in verse sixteen. John John through sixteen. And that's what the the Greek term there, it's a compound word. That's really what it means. And if that were the only place in scripture where the where the where it talks about Christ uh Jesus being begotten, they'd have a reason for that. But if you look back at Luke Luke chapter two or the angel comes to Mary and says, The Holy Spirit will come upon you and you will conceive a child. Right. Right. So it's a complex thing. I haven't done a complete justice here right now, but that's an overview of what we're going to cover. Okay, so this is key about God's very nature, how has He revealed Himself? The God of the Quran has revealed himself as having um no partners No coequals, no other gods, no other persons. In fact, it wouldn't be um logical in the ex Islamic mind to think of God as a person because we think of persons as human beings. God is not a human being. We have personhood because we're created in his image, who has always been existent in three persons, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. So person does not is not restricted to just human beings, although that's where most of them are because we're created in God's image, but he has always been. Revealing himself as having personality, intellect, emotion, will. Right? We have those things because we're created in his image. Um so his fatherhood in their mind is um In inconceivable that he would because they're restricting it just to uh the literal begetting of of um children and that God didn't And yet we see very clearly in Scripture that um God, the Word, became flesh and is the true um The ultimate expression of God's character that could be revealed to us was in the person of Christ. And so he's referred to as the Word, the Word of God, which is interesting. Sometimes we usually we refer to the Word of God as the scriptures. But Scripture also refers to the Word of God, meaning Christ Jesus Himself, as the ultimate revelation of God to man. Okay. So can I ask when was this translated into English? The Quran? Uh-huh. This particular version I think was something like in the eighteen hundreds, maybe early nineteen hundreds? English is not normal. Well it's not that I know English. But look at the word please. Yeah. Well I'm pretty sure that it was heavily influenced by the King James Version language. It's not close. No. So I I don't know enough about all all I know is that this particular translate this English translation is the one that's most highly respected among Muslims. But it's funny English. It is. Oh yeah. Well so is the King James. No no no. I they're not saying they're the same. No, they're not the same. It's the proper grammar there Yeah. Well it's it's also trying to follow the Arabic. Yeah. I think if you knew Arabic and then you say, I see what they're doing, they're translating this uh in a way that's more faithful to the Arabic. Well they would have had it if they're doing things, they would have had an H well Okay. Well just use your imagination. Yeah. I have a question. Well a fake hand question. Like the whole time we were talking kind of mainly things about how last week we talked about how we talked about they designed the substitution. They just made it you know, it's it's like the double slip single substitution. This time no time. Right. But I was thinking as far as witnessing to that, if they don't have a comprehension that God is is Like a vicinity, like not in spirit. That probably affects how they see God having um as some. And if they don't know that they don't have the spirit. Like back in the site's covering over the earth, they don't have the spirit If you've not feared at all, you don't have to spare some merit. Yeah. That's probably what the reason is, maybe? Yeah, it's it's uh we we've talked a number of times about things that are not likely to be a big issue. in the minds of Muslims we would run into here, depending on how um entrenched they are in Islamic thinking and the Quran and so on. Uh and we don't need to um create a problem in their mind by telling them things that are in the Quran that that don't make sense or don't aren't consistent with scripture. Rather, just start with where they're at. And if where they're at, i it it it's probably a little bit more likely that this the the nature of God as a trinity maybe something that they have heard is true of Christians and it just doesn't make sense to them. That may be more common. So you may need to dwell on that a little bit about what it means and what it doesn't mean In a later lesson, we're going to talk in more detail about their the the Islamic, the Quranic view of the Trinity Which, by the way, is not Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. They don't even believe that. They don't even understand that that's what the true Trinity is, they're thinking Father, Son, or Father, Mary and Son. That's their un that's the in the Quran, that's their understanding of the Trinity. Now where do you suppose they got that from? Yeah. Early departure from the truth that became very firm doctrine in Catholicism Since they don't uh believe that God is spirit or a spirit, do you do you know if they address the question of the essence of God anymore Yeah, uh um And and some of the verses that we have here, I think, uh touch on that. But the basic understanding in just the layman's mind is that God is beyond our comprehension. But he's clearly not one of us. And they can all agree on that, and in fact we can too. Um but uh they don't uh There are these statements in the Quran about his his having no equal and and being a apart from his creation, being above, and and he's he's far above something so mundane and uh even profane as procreation. Um so you get some hint But as I'm going to talk about here in just a few minutes, when we get to O and P, hopefully we'll get there in a few minutes Um they basically say it's an unanswerable question. What is the essence of God? So by implication then, they would assume that God cannot be a person Exactly. And that's where we're going to go. Right. Okay. So the sovereignty of God, the will of God. Ironically, it is very much similar to our understanding from Scripture. But in Islamic thinking, in the Quran, the sovereignty of God is a big mystery. And while they they um understand that God is in control and he answers to no one, he can do whatever he wants. All of which is true. They also have n for the most part um No clue about what he might actually do. And we understand God to be very clear with specific promises and that he's faithful to his promises. And we know enough about his character that he doesn't act outside of his character. Right? Now we might not know all the the A's, V's, and C's of his will in any particular context, but we know he's going to be faithful to himself. Right? Um They're not even sure about that. And so not only you know any religion of works, which is any religion other than biblical Christianity. can have no assurance of salvation because ultimately how does one know that one has satisfied the the standards of this this um God who can do whatever he wants. Um But in Islam it's even it's even that in spades, if you will. It's it's it's they they have no assurance whatsoever that they can even understand the nature of God and the will of God, but all they can do is submit, and that's what Islam is all about. Submitting to Allah Well Paster belonged with this there is comprehensible. Oh, well, he has laid down very specific things that you need to do. And we're going to talk about those starting, I guess, next week. But beyond that, in terms of you know any given uh context, what would Allah want me to do? They don't even have the the the benefit of understanding his character enough to know what would be consistent with his character, consistent with his expressed will Other than I need to check the boxes and do all these things that we're commanded to do. That's it. Beyond that, my life is in his hands. He isn't a person. If he doesn't have personal food, how can he have character? How can you attribute Uh attributes, yes. Character, that's a harder one for them to grapple with. Yeah. And we're yeah, we're gonna get there. Just a few minutes here. So um I ironically, I think um In terms of the absolute sovereignty of God, I think Orthodox Muslims have a closer to the truth understanding than many Christians. You would agree. I think a a lot of Christians think they can manipulate God or um that uh um whatever. Just have a very low view of the sovereignty of God. And that we can make choices independent of God. And those kind of things. Now they they, I mean, Muslims, um, as we've been discussing don't have a complete picture of how the sovereignty of God works because we understand that God is not only sovereign, but he's good. And so everything he does is right. Everything he does is good. They don't have that assurance. Not really. But they know he's sovereign. And we just have to let the chips fall where they may. Well, I want to go on to omnipresence. Very similar positions there. It's not hard to define what omnipresent means. And It's very similar. Omnipotence, mighty, again. Very similar concept, very similar beliefs. And that's not too hard to understand. Similarly, omniscience. He knows everything. Very similar concept, very similar doctrine. But when you get to holiness, I'm on letter M, page 82. Holiness is, I believe, another one of these fingerprints of Satan examples. Because we can use the word holy and mean two different things by it. Right? So the Allah of the Quran is called holy. Repeatedly, most holy. But that doesn't mean that he's morally pure, separate from sin. It explicitly says he's the author of both good and evil, which is tied in with his sovereignty. He can do whatever he wants. Right? So it affirms holiness, but it's not using that term to mean the same as the way God has actually revealed Himself, which is morally pure uh always uh right, always does the right thing and um is not tainted by sin, can't even be be um um uh can't accommodate sin around him. That's how we understand God from the scriptures. That's not really their concept. Um But he's referred to as holy, and I'm not sure that they exactly can define what they mean by that. But it's certainly not how God has revealed himself fully in Scripture. So he the God of the Quran is the author of both good and evil. The God of the Bible is sovereign over all things, but he's separate from the literal meaning of holiness. He's completely separate from any departure from his character. Any sin. Yeah. Um something that's hard to get your mind around. How would a Muslim define evil? Or would the evil Uh good question. How would a Muslim define evil um I I don't think the the the definition of what evil is is the notion I mean just things that are bad, things that are um Definitely wrong and probably would say ultimately and they're thinking it through things that are contrary to um the practices that Allah has given us in the Quran. Okay. So how would we define evil? How would we define evil? Um especially if you're how would we define evil? Evil is um The the I would say the fullest expression of rebellion against God and his character. So um some sins are more grievous, more evil than others. And so what we would put, we would say this category of evil is sin is sort of evil from God's perspective. All sin is the same in that respect. But when we think of evil, we think of sort of the extreme of departure from from God's um Um God's character, God's will, God's nature, God's intent for us. Sure. That's an example, I guess. Like where ours is consistent So like that's a huge difference on how you look at good and evil. If your God changes his view on something depending on circumstances then your view of good and evil also changes. Our buttons are major things. We just have, you know, different applications and we have revelation of what we're trying to do. So that's a very good way to look at evil. Evil will never change because our God never changes. Right. Evil for them changes based on what their God is. Yeah, and and maybe an example of that is that um Staunch Muslims would view the practice of um strapping explosives to themselves and detonating it in a public area for to make a point as something that's exalting of Allah. Their last words would be Allahu Akbar. God is great. We would look at that and say, that is evil. So it all comes down to what is your concept of God. They would say, this is what God has called us to do, based on the Quran, and we're going to talk about that. We would say, no, based on God's character and his revealed what he's revealed about himself and his will, that's evil. Yeah. So obviously two different sources of authority there. Yeah. Yeah, I just wanted to um most of cultures where um It seems more and more of them are passing uh blasphemy laws. And uh almost always they base it on uh an insult to the prophet. not anything offensive to God. What's your take on that? Well they have a basis in the Quran for that. Oh yeah. Yeah, that that uh one of the fundamental in fact maybe even next week we're gonna see that. Is that right? I lost track of which week's which. Um we may touch on it next week, but I think it's going to be explicitly the following week. Where um the Shahada in Islam, one of the things that they need to Do says, I bear witness that there is no God whatsoever but Allah, and that Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah. So they exalt him, not as we would exalt Christ because he is sinless and holy and a God, but that the Quran, and and we'll see that Sometime soon, I'm not sure when. But the the Quran is explicit that it's it's incumbent on um Muslims to follow and to um even sort of I don't want to use the word revere, highly respect Muhammad, because he's the messenger. The messenger who's bringing us back to the true religion And that's one reason why the hadith are so important, so they understand the the the things, the other things outside the Quran that Muhammad said The things that he did, how he responded, those are all recorded in the hadith. So when they say your uh insult and problem all that is background to that. Yeah, I think so. Yeah. Right. That makes sense. Yeah. Okay. Um So holiness is a big one. And last week I I mentioned that uh in the context of their teaching about salvation the the Quran brings up this this idea of the scales, right? If if if your good works outweigh your bad works then then that's a condition. It may not be a a slam dunk, but it's it's a condition for your entering paradise. And of course you can never know whether your good works have outweighed your bad. I mentioned last week that that takes a low view of the holiness of God. Think of it this way. You know, it it in In a balance scale used for selling of merchandise or that kind of thing, like you know, you if if the going price of a um A pound of butter is such and such, and it's advertised. This is what we're going to sell you. This is what you're going to pay for a pound of butter. Alright? How would you do that on a scale? You would put a commonly understood accurate measure of a pound on this side, and then you fill up this side with butter until it balanced, right? So you're always comparing um the what you're adding to the known standard. Well think about that. What is the standard of our behavior? Perfection. You put perfection on this side and you put our good works on this side, where's it going to go? Right? It doesn't matter if we um kept the whole law And everything of God's will except one inst bitsy teeny weeny little thing, where's it going to go? Like that, right? Because we ought to be compared not with our good against our bad We need to be compared against God's holiness, his perfection. So comparing our good against our bad is a low view of God's holiness. And yet the Quran goes on and on about the holiness of God. It just doesn't get it. It doesn't get it. Okay. Immutability God does not change. Now there's a sense in which the Quran teaches that, but the sense is only that his ways, his words, and practices don't change, it doesn't say anything about his very character, his nature not changing. It it's sort of silent, but it's also, in their view, unknowable. Um but Scripture is clear that it's not just that his ways don't change, but he himself doesn't change. He is inherently faithful to himself, to his word, his promises, and so on. He doesn't change. He doesn't evolve. And a a at the best, the Quran just doesn't even go there. It doesn't address it. But I think mostly they they don't um Um they don't have that concept that it's not him himself who's not changing because to them Knowing the nature of God is something that the finite human mind can't comprehend, regardless of whether he's revealed himself in a certain way to us, and God has. Yeah, sure. Seventy four seventy dozen numbers are Yes. Um on the bottom of page eighty-two, this was our way with the messengers, that is the prophets. We went before thee, um, we sent before thee. And you'll find no change in our ways. This is supposed to be Allah speaking through Gabriel to Muhammad. And so the hour here is a law. Now, as we just covered The Quran itself is very explicit that there's only one God. And it's the worst of all sins is to associate other people, other entities, other gods, whoever, as equal to him. There is only one God So why does he use the word hour to refer to himself? And it's this this royal we kind of thing that we talked about some weeks ago. That th this is this is not just this verse, it's all throughout the Quran. Allah is more often much more often than not referring to himself in the plural. 18 verse 27. Um if I'm reading that correctly, I think we're saying that no one can change a loud words. So at the top though where we s where we say is uh the fall of uh Allah's ways and words is uh is that theology based on this um on on these uh on through uh eighteen? Because those are not the same thing. When you say God's word doesn't change. Okay, and in 18 words is no one can or non-conchange in the word, two different things How are they different? Different in the sense that Allah Himself does not change his words. Right, and other people can't change them either. And well, the idea that I read from the process It seems to say that allows words do not change. Right. But in sort of it seems to be saying that no one can change a loud word. Right. So it's not it's not it's not it's not a lot ex Right. In in Surah 18 it's not specifically referring to Allah changing his words or not changing his words, but the implied reason why people can't change his words, put words in his mouth, is that his words don't change. I think there there may be other passages in the Quran that maybe are more explicit to that. I wasn't thinking of that nuance here. But it it it's it's really clear in the Quran that um particularly since the Quran presents itself as the final word Right. And it's it's a copy of it in Arabic is in heaven. Oh. So um that's that's not changing. And so th those are Allah's words to them. I feel like I understand it more if they said that No one can change his word, but he can change his own words. Because didn't we learn in past lessons that the Quran had been changed and they accepted the changes? Like instead of feed your wife, they added feed your wife solemnly or something like that. No, the the the the bigger thing the bigger thing is abrogation that there are some things that were revealed earlier to revealed earlier to Abraham or to Um what's his name? Muhammad. That later got changed. But they don't see that as the same. They see that as him sovereignly um revealing things progressively um uh of They don't understand it as him changing his mind. Um That's more feeling than it is Almighty Almighty. But I I I think it's caught up in this whole notion that we can't really understand the mind of a law. We just have to take it at super uh at face value. And um yeah. So they probably would have similar mental anguish about the nature of the Trinity. They do? Yeah. It's a similar thing. How do you get your mind around it? Well, their answer to that is how d how does anyone expect to get their mind around the mind of God? words other than like he could speak his own new word and change his his own theology almost. But hum humans can't do that for Well that's certainly true. And that is what this verse is saying. Yeah. Yeah. Okay, well real quickly here. Um A couple of nuances to help you with here. Transcendence and immanence. You know what transcendent means, right? God is far above us. Exalted, far above, right? He transcends us. Imminence probably is less understood. It's sort of the opposite. Imminence means that God is uh with us, he's knowable, he's close to us. It's kind of the opposite of transcendence And the scriptures teach that God is both transcendence and imminent. He's knowable. He's close He's we can even have relationship with him. That's foreign concept in Islam. To have a relationship with Allah? Are you kidding? Actually it's not completely foreign. There are branches of Islam that out of I think a a genuine uh hunger for knowing God have kind of created a whole branch that Seeks to do that. Anyway, the basic point here is that trans the transcendence of God is something that's pretty similar in concept between Islam and and biblical Christianity. But immanence is different. Um we would say that God uh is knowable to an extent. I mean we're just humans after all. But he wants us to know him. He wants us to have relationship with him He's close, not just in a um what, supernatural kind of way, but he wants he wants relationship with us, and that's his imminence And we see that clearly uh in Scripture um but not in the Quran. And uh the closest they can get is to say he is near. Why would they present if he had not present Well, there are two answers to that. One why do they pray? Um one is that they're doing what they're told to do. But two, it's not prayer as we understand prayer. And we're going to talk more about that. Okay, justice, very similar. You know, he is he is um um exalted, he's sovereign and he he executes justice according to his own um his own character or at least his own dictates. But R and S, mercy and love, very similar. Um Allah is referred to as most merciful, most loving, and all these sort of things, but what it means by that, it's very explicit here in mercy. Take for example Surah 870. If God findeth any good in your heart He will give you something better than what has been taken from you, and he will forgive you, for God is oft-forgiving, most merciful. The the mercy of Allah is dependent on the obedience of the one he would show mercy. Okay? Likewise the love of Allah on page eighty six. The love of Allah for um um any of his uh creatures is based on their obedience, their submission to him. And if they don't submit, then obviously they're destined for eternal fire. And he obviously doesn't love them. And they completely miss the biblical Testimony that God is love. He loves us not because of, but in spite of. You know, while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. And that's how God demonstrated his love for us. He didn't love us because we were lovable, because we were obedient. He loved us because it was his nature to love us sovereignly. Um and that I would hope a Muslim could grasp That God can be merciful and loving in his sovereignty because of his character, not because of our merit. And that could be of actually a helpful start in your conversations about the nature of salvation. Inscrutability is very similar to um the fact that he's not knowable And I think that covers the ones that are most different. I've summarized on page 91 the ones that are fairly similar. And then on the right hand side, the ones that have different definitions that sometimes are nuanced, sometimes significantly different. And then others that are completely denied by the Quran, the Trinity and Imminence. So I hope that's a helpful resource. Um gives you kind of an overview. Uh yeah, Bill. This is a note uh I'm not a historian, but this is January the thirtieth. Ten years ago On January the 29th, you covered the same chapter. You've changed it. Are you kidding? That's a whole day different. No, I think I think we must have started it in the same December winter court. I think on that note we should play.