All right, so we are on uh lesson twenty one today. Page 268. Last week we began with a series of lessons on responding to Muslim misunderstandings about Christ. And this is really getting into a lot of the real nuts and bolts of the uh confusion that uh Muslims have uh because of the Quran. Uh last week we uh addressed several misunderstandings about Christ, about his his uh deity and um his um his role. Today we're going to continue that and focus on our sixth misunderstanding in that in that series. And that is the misunderstanding that Jesus did not die on the cross. Now again, you remember I've said as you read through the Quran, you see multiple places where the fingerprints of Satan are all over it, right? Here's one. This is one for sure. And so um in Surah four, starting in verse one fifty seven, the Quran says um That they said in boast, We killed Christ Jesus, the Son of Mary, the messenger of God. But they killed him not, nor crucified him. But so it was made to appear to them, and those who differ therein are full of doubts, with no certain knowledge, but only conjecture to follow. For of a surety they killed him not Nay, God raised him up unto himself, and God is exalted in power, wise, and there is none of the people of the book but must believe in him before his death And on the day of judgment, he will be a witness against them. And then uh in Surah 19, uh it it it's um it gives what's supposed to have been a a quote from Jesus himself. Where he is said to have said, So, peace is on me the day that I was born, the day that I die, the day that I shall be raised up to life again. Such was Jesus, the Son of Mary, is a statement of truth about which they vainly dispute. What's interesting there, and we'll touch on this a little bit more in just a sec, um Is that in the that first surah, it it leads some people to believe, and a lot of Muslims believe, and as you see in the the um commentary on that passage um is it's a fairly common belief that um Not only did Christ not die on the cross, uh, but many people believe that he didn't die at all. And yet even the the uh Quran in Surah 19 uh attributes to Jesus this saying that um speaks of his birth and his death and his uh resurrection or ascension anyway So there's inconsistency. There's inconsistency. But I wanted to read this first commentary. And you can see how it's it's tied to number 642 there, it's tied to that first uh statement in Surah 4. And I've added the bold here, but it says the end of the life of Jesus on earth is as much involved in mystery as his birth. and indeed greater part of his private life as well, except the three main years of his ministry. It's not profitable to discuss the many doubts and conjectures among early Christians, sects, and among Muslim theologians. And this is where I wanted to focus. The Orthodox Christian churches make it a cardinal point of their doctrine that his life was taken on the cross. That he died and was buried, and on the third day he rose in the body with his wounds intact And walked about and conversed and ate with his disciples, and was afterwards taken up bodily into heaven. Well, he understands that correctly, right? This is necessary for the theological doctrine of blood sacrifice and vicarious atonement for sins. What's vicarious? substitutionary. So you you see in there the the word bicker Vicarious, a vicar is a priest, someone who is an intermediary between us and God. So vicarious is Christ serving as our ultimate vicar, the one who Intermediates between us and God. Anyway, the theological doctrine of blood sacrifice and vicarious atonement for sins, which is rejected by Islam. So it's not like they don't understand it, or at least he as a commentator doesn't understand it, but it's rejected by Islam. Why? Because of verses like this, verse four. that uh he he didn't uh die on the cross um and so on. But continuing here in his commentary But some of the early Christian sects did not believe that Christ was killed on the cross. That's true. The uh best silidens believed that someone else was substituted for him. The dasitai that is the um the the the plural of uh uh That group held that Christ never had a real physical or natural body, but was only an apparent or phantom body, and that his crucifixion was only apparent and not real. The Marcionite Gospel, about 138, denied that Jesus was born and merely said that he appeared in human form. The Gospel of St. Barnabas supported the theory of substitution on the cross. The Quranic teaching is that Christ was not crucified or killed by the Jews. notwithstanding certain apparent circumstances which produce that illusion in the minds of some of his enemies, that disputations, doubts And conjectures on such matters are vain and that he was taken up to God. Well, um Even though people like this translator, who is a devout Muslim, understood and understand um what the Bible teaches on the the death of Christ and and to some extent even its purpose um they reject it out of hand and instead take on a lot of the the uh thinking non-Christian thinking that developed between the time of Christ and the time of Muhammad. And so uh the predominant view among Muslims is that um Christ. Um it it wasn't no did he not die on the cross, but someone else apparently did. And it was just a a con a point of confusion and and um uh why is it so important to them that Christ not die on the cross What's that? Because it was prophetic. Because it was prophetic. They don't mind prof prophecy. It fulfilled prophecy, okay? That was how God authenticated that this was his son. And he rose from the dead, right? Um you see what he was referring to here as Uh the doctrine of blood sacrifice and vicarious atonement for sins, that is at the core of why he died. Pictured, of course, in the Old Testament sacrificial system, fulfilled in Christ on the cross. But that is Contrary, not a contrary, it's anathema really in Muslim thinking and in the Quran. And so Uh why is that? Because the author of this is ultimately Satan. Um and he he um He thinks that in getting people to believe other things and to disbelieve the the um the work of Christ um you know his his perfect life and his substitutionary death. If he can get people to believe something else, then he thinks he's done his job. And Islam is a huge uh tool in its hands to do that. Right. Sorry, I was just a comment that actually all brilliant Yeah, but he prophesied that God would use him as a Isaiah fifty-four yeah, God would use him as pro a propitiatory sacrifice. Right. And he was authenticated by God through the resurrection Then that must mean that God ordained this as the method of salvation. Right. Right? So for yeah, I can see why Because now not only did he die for the sins, but it was God who who was responsible and raised him up. Yeah, and and w way early on, seems like well it really was, months ago, when we talked about some of the the origins of of Islam and uh the impact that um a lot of the contemporary stories, myths, and teachings that were circulating at the time of Muhammad. Um how those found their way into um the Quran. Uh this is a good example. Say um we have a concept of uh substitutionary uh aid for since you have the sacrifice official But in a in a works righteousness, in a works system, um those things really uh that's kind of a number two. They don't want something something that could be well I I could go ahead and do all this bad stuff, but I can pay somebody else to take care of all the all the rest of the stuff. So it doesn't fit very well. And Right. Yeah. That's clearly a hang up. That um And I think we've already we've already noted places in the Quran where it's very explicit that everyone has to pay for their own sins. Everyone's accountable directly to God. And the uh whole idea of a substitute is um um well ironically they're thinking that's beneath God. When in fact they just um misunderstand completely his grace Yeah, it's holding us. Yeah, I was just gonna say that especially what Roger was saying, the idea of atonement is It makes everything unravel. I mean the whole the whole thing just unravels if if there's actually atonement for sin. Right. Because You know, like you would think. Like you can do whatever you want as long as you do something big to make episodes. Like like you can make episode. But what if they have to examine the idea of atonement then everything on Rabbles. It's it's not none of this mix back anymore. Right. Yeah so it's c clearly uh pivotal. And um is enough the bike says that All these other systems are very heavy. And they're not light. And so this this is a free kind of thing that uh a religion that calls self-submission would not really it would not really work too well with right it's just completely incompatible with the whole premise. Yep. Yep. Okay. Well, uh I've included I won't won't read the other portions of the um commentary here, but uh you as you read through them you'll see that there's there's not a uniform understanding of some of the mystery here, uh even how to interpret these verses among Muslims. Um and so on the top of page two sixty nine Uh I note that as indicated by the commentaries above, there is much divergence of opinion among Muslim scholars as to what that verse we quoted here in Surah 4 really means. Some say that Jesus recovered from his wounds. He suffered on the cross. Well, another popular theory is that it wasn't really him on the cross at all, but rather someone else made to look like him. And a lot of these ideas are uh have the uh have their origin in a lot of the myths and stories that were circulating around the time of Muhammad that he was clearly uh exposed to in its various caravan uh travels. But it brought to mind here this passage in 1 Corinthians 1 I wanted to direct our attention to For the word of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing, right? But to us who are being saved, it is the power of God. For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and the cleverness of the clever I will set aside. An old testament quote there. So verse 20, where is the wise man? Where is the scribe? Where is the debater of this age? Has God, has not God made the foolish Has not God made fullest the wisdom of the world? For since in the wisdom of God the world through its wisdom did not come to know God God was well pleased through the foolishness of the message preached to save those who believe. For indeed Jews ask for a sign and the Greeks search for wisdom, but we preach Christ crucified. To the Jews a stumbling block, and to the Gentiles foolishness. But to those who are the called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ, the power of God, and the wisdom of God. So we shouldn't be surprised that this message of the substitutionary death of Christ is just foolishness, not just to Muslims, but truly to anybody who expects a works-based salvation. So um I repeat again this this passage in a little bit more of the the context here from Surah nineteen. Because most Muslim scholars believe that Jesus didn't die at all And yet here in the Quran it's has Jesus saying, referring to the days that he dies. And so at the very least, they're inconsistent. And so I start here on the bottom of page 269 some some questions you can walk through with your Muslim friends. Uh and so if um if if they raise this question about well no we're you know We're taught that Jesus didn't even die. Well, all right, take them to Surah nineteen and and ask these questions. How how is that consistent then with what you see actually in the Quran itself Okay, so then if they take you to uh Surafour, or at least the the uh the claim that he appeared to be on the cross, he appeared to die, but that really wasn't him, then um You can ask them questions like, how could experienced Roman executioners have been mistaken about his death? Take him to John nineteen, for example, and Mark fifteen, where it gives the account of the various details concerning the the crucifixion and their verification of his death. Right? So just have him read through those. And you might explain here, I'm on page two seventy, uh since death by crucifixion is death by asphyxiation. That is, you can't breathe with all your weight, uh or at least most of your weight, uh um pulling down on your lungs Which is why most people who were crucified pushed up, even though it was painful, with the nail that went through their their ankles. um to push up there so that they actually could get some air. They could gasp for breath. And Why did they break the legs of the men on the cross? It was a typical thing to break the legs so that they could stop doing that and they actually would die from asphyxiation. So, um why didn't these experienced executioners break the legs of Jesus? It actually says he was already dead, and they knew it. And they verified it by uh piercing his side with a spear. So when the Roman governor, Pilate, asked the Roman soldier in command, the centurion, whether Jesus had in fact already died, what did he say? Yes, he has. We've got proof. So um Then you could take them to John nineteen and um read the account in verses uh thirty-eight through forty. And that's the account, of course, of Joseph of Arimathea and Nicodemus taking the body, getting permission, taking the body and preparing it for burial, and so on. And so you can ask them to read that and then ask, so what did these men two men do with the body of Jesus? And you can have him just describe what he read. And so is it likely that they would have been confused about whose body this was or that it was dead? Probably not. Right. Is it likely that someone taken for dead could have naturally resuscitated inside a cloth wrapping filled with 100 pounds of spices? Again, not very likely. More important, while it's true that God could have revived Jesus in the tomb, if in fact he wasn't actually killed on the cross, why would God have allowed everyone to believe That he had died when he actually hadn't? Would that instill faith in and submission to God No. And I think they implicitly understand that, so that's why they they say that um there was a substitute. It wasn't actually Jesus, it was somebody else, and they were just confused. Well, that's point number three. So who could or would have pulled that switch aroot is the question. Would the Jews have done that? No way. Right? They're the ones who demanded his death. Would the Romans have done that? They had no incentive to. It would have just made their life worse. Um Would the soldiers have done that? Right at the last minute. Again, they were accountable to carry out the governor's command. With Jesus' disciples, these scaredy cats who who ran and who uh were confused? No way. Would God have wanted everyone involved to be mistaken about who was really killed on that cross? What would that have accomplished? Nothing good, right? So I don't know that that they could offer any particular and I I haven't seen any any uh speculation about Um who would have perpetrated this and why, it's it's just a big mystery to them. Um but it's a big mystery that doesn't make sense. So then you could point out that the New Testament accounts of the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. were written by eyewitnesses or based on eyewitness testimony, and that they were not written many years later by people unfamiliar with the actual facts. So take them to places like Luke 1, where Luke talks about all the research he put into getting everything right, or John 19 and John 20 about the actual um eyewitness testimony that's that's included there. And lots of other passages that I've included here for you on that. And so that leads to the question, how could his close disciples and his own mother who looked on have been misled about the identity of the person who was crucified? All but one of his disciples were martyred because they would not renounce their faith that Jesus was crucified for their sins and that he rose in victory over sin and death, and that he now lives forever. Would they have done that if they had any doubts about his death and resurrection? No way. And then fourth, do you realize that Jesus told his disciples ahead of time that he would be crucified in Jerusalem? So you can take them to these various passages where Jesus was very clear with his disciples, although frankly it went over their head. Their hearts just weren't ready for that yet. But Christ was clear, not only in in general terms, but in very specific terms. Um And it it was all there. It's not like it it um he was a victim here in the sense of um he lost And he was a a victim in that sense. No. He knew it was coming. That's why he came. He went voluntarily. No one took his life from him And he made it clear throughout his ministry, and particularly toward the end, in talking with his disciples, that this was on the horizon. It's coming. And although they didn't understand it at the moment, the Holy Spirit helped them to recall these things and said, ah, now we get it, of course, right? Okay. On page two hundred seventy-three, the fifth question you might ask them is, well, did you realize that the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ? fulfilled Old Testament prophecy, right? And that's what Erica was was referring to. And so you can take them to various places like Psalm 22, Isaiah 53. Uh Zechariah twelve and uh uh mostly Psalm twenty two and Isaiah fifty three. Where I list here specific prophecies and and text from the New Testament indicating that they were fulfilled. And you can make reference to these. What's interesting is that even some of the people at the cross jeering at him We're also fulfilling prophecy. And that ridicule was something that God knew it was going to happen and was all part of his plan. So that may that may dispel oh and y when Using the Old Testament in this way to see how it was fulfilled in the New, you may need to go back and address um The common misconception that they have that we addressed earlier concerning the accuracy of the Old Testament and the accuracy of the New Testament. And it it it's fine if they've got questions about that because you can take them to those places and you can um get them in the Word and and see Um that it's all true. And in terms of the Old Testament prophecies, um Uh it would be helpful, as we noted earlier, to uh bring up the Dead Sea Scrolls. Right? And so um The prophecies that were being fulfilled, all these Psalm twenty-two, Isaiah fifty-three, and all those things were already written in the the uh copy of the scriptures that was uh prevalent during the time of Christ, and those actual scrolls were in those caves when these things were fulfilled Before Christ. And um so it's not like someone invented those as prophecies after the fact, so as to, you know uh claim that there was a fulfillment. No, those prophecies were were um circulated widely, but the very ones that we discovered in those those Dead Sea caves uh contained those prophecies and were sitting there in those jars, in those caves, when those prophecies were fulfilled. That's powerful. Okay. Any questions so far? Okay, well there's a fairly major misunderstanding about Christ that uh maybe one of the first ones that they make reference to, and that is that Jesus was was certainly a prophet. We believe in Jesus as a prophet, but uh only one of a long string of prophets. And uh perhaps he's He's uh more significant than any of the ones before him, but he's certainly not more significant than Muhammad. Well They get that understanding directly from the Quran itself. So in Surah 2 it says, this is what you're to say, Muhammad. We believe in God and the revelation given to us and to Abraham, Ishmael, Isaac, Jacob, and the tribes. And that which was given to Moses and Jesus, and that given to all the prophets from their Lord. We make no difference between one and another of them, and we bow to God in Islam. And then in Surah Four, O people of the Book, who's this referring to? In this case, Christians. Sometimes it refers to Jews, sometimes Christians, sometimes both. But in this case, oh people of the book, commit no excess in your religion. Nor say of God aught but the truth, Christ Jesus, the Son of Mary, was no more than a messenger of God. Right, just a prophet. And as we've noted, their understanding of the message that he gave, which in the in the Quran is called the gospel, the Injiel. They presume that that gospel is merely the message that he taught was um Everyone needs to submit to Allah, just like Abraham did. We've had much deviation since the time of Abraham. Uh Allah has brought me to announce to you That this is serious, guys. You need to submit to Allah. That's basically the the gospel from Jesus according to Islam. And that's essentially the message of Muhammad. And they believe it's essentially the message of and the example of Abraham and so on. And virtually really all of the the prophets had that role to bring people back to submission to Allah, which is what Islam is all about. Okay. So what I do here in the next several sections is provide verses you can go to that reveal from Scripture the the three major uh roles of Christ. You know, in the Old Testament you had prophets, you had priests, and you had kings. Jesus was the supreme example of all three: prophet, priest, king. And so this first section is about Christ as a prophet. Yes, indeed, he was a prophet. What is a prophet? someone who speaks for God, someone through whom God speaks. And Christ was that par excellence Because he was not only revealing the message of God, which is what mere prophets do, he was revealing God Himself. God through the incarnation, taking on human flesh, became the supreme example of God's who God is, not just what his message is, but the very nature of God. And so yes, Jesus was a prophet. He was the supreme prophet. uh the one who would reveal God to us most fully. Page 276. But Jesus was much more than a prophet, being fully God and fully man, he is also the great intermediary high priest between God and man. There is no intermediary, there's no other intermediary between God and man. And so you see a a few specific references to that in The verses I've listed here for you, Hebrews, the Gospels, Acts, and so on. And then thirdly, Jesus is also the promised Messiah, the anointed one. who is King of Kings and Lord of Lords. So he was not only prophet, he was not only um priest, but he was also and is also king. And um You see references to that, just a couple of them here. You can take them too and have them uh wrestle with what scripture actually says. Okay. Top of page 277. The Quran acknowledges that Jesus, unlike Muhammad, was born miraculously by a virgin mother. And that he was sinless. And that he performed many miracles to authenticate his message and mission. The Quran doesn't claim any of those things about Muhammad. So even apart from his divinity, Jesus was obviously different from, and I think you could say because of those particular things, superior to Muhammad Um this one about the sinlessness of Christ is probably one that most Muslims don't focus on, don't understand. Um I surely surely wouldn't believe it. And yet, Surah 19 says that Jesus said Uh no, no, it wasn't Jesus. It was uh Gabriel announcing to um uh Mary. No, I'm only a messenger from your Lord to announce to thee the gift of a holy son. What does holy mean? Above human. Above human, that's that's a result of it. Well, it's at its core it's Set apart from sin. Yeah. Sinless. Now the Quran all over the place refers to Allah as holy. But never refers to Muhammad as holy. In fact, it's very clear from the Quran that that uh Muhammad had his own sins that needed to be dealt with. But it r and the only person the only human being referred to as holy is right here, Jesus. Now You know, when I read that, I pick up on it immediately. I doubt most Muslims understand the implications of that. But it's there. Surah fifty-nine twenty-three says God is He other than whom there is no God. The sovereign, the holy one. See, it's referring to Allah as holy. The source of peace and perfection, the guardian of the faith, preserver of safety, and so on. Glory to God. He is High is he above having part the partners they attribute to him. That is, no one is equal with Allah. He is referred to as the Holy One. And yet Gabriel announces to Mary that Jesus is a holy son. And so you might find some interesting conversation with them to grapple with the, you know, are these two passages from the Quran consistent with each other? Um because the one suggests that only Allah is holy, and the other says that uh Jesus at the time of his birth was announced to be a holy son. Cesar, you had a question there? Uh how can I argue with with Muslims when I don't have that translation particularly the same holy but it's it's pure motors. So that that doesn't need the same kind you know um grade for the for for the at least you believe that that Jesus is holy. We used to call it pure. And and if I encounter someone which I am doing I I have the because of the nature of my job I encounter a lot But Afghani teachers and they're talking the Bible a lot with me. But believe me, Afghani people are ready to be converted. They they Islam. They that's the reason why they fled, first of all. And um when we talk the Bible and everything, um some of them, very few of them, know how to read. the Quran first of all. So when they don't know, ignorance was a blessing for the leaders of that country. So but in case I encounter someone that can be can say, oh this is pure, you're you're you know this leading me. How can I convince or give them more sense that Jesus was not just a a good guy because that's what they normally believe. He was a a a really good guy. Right. But not God. Just with the warning. Well, um with someone like that, they're probably not going to raise that question anyway. But if they do, the way to convince them is not from the Quran, but rather from the scriptures. So just get them into the word about and you know, uh work through the um um um one of the Gospels, maybe maybe um the Gospel of Luke, for example. And you see what Jesus did, what he said, things like, which of you uh condemns me of any sin. You know. I don't think any of us would be so bold as to say that. Just get them into the life of Christ the the the works of Christ, the teaching of Christ from Scripture, and don't worry about trying to show this kind of inconsistency from the Quran. Now if you get someone who um if if this verse comes up then I would suggest um getting into the Arabic. Is it the same word that's used? Um in this verse as is used in, well, for example, Surah 59, where it speaks of Allah. I'm not exactly sure I haven't checked, but Uh actually I I don't think that's a a huge issue because if they're genuinely Curious about the teachings of Christ, the nature of Christ, the world the way to find out is not from the Quran, but from Scripture. And um God will if if um God is gracious, He'll soften their heart, open their eyes, and see for themselves from Scripture. that uh Jesus is not only sinless, but had to be sinless in order to be our substitute. Yeah. I think it's also you know they already know with that is know that if they're really looking to debate you or to bat you You're probably never going to win an argument from the Quran, because I promise you there is litany of apologetics which they have baked around those verses. To try and dissuade. That's probably why it's really difficult, to be honest with you. And at the end of the day, either the Holy Spirit opens their heart and they're able to see Or they're never gonna see. And that's not that's not your job, that's God's job. Your job is to play and to show. And so I I totally agree with you. I would I would pick John, but whatever, it doesn't matter. Scripture is still scripture. Right. You know, because that's where the Holy State will look we'll will work. That's where the truth is written. You know I actually have an encounter resistance from Afghani people. People from Afghanistan that poet and they're living in Alexandria, Northern Virginia areas, all of them are are crying for folk when I I I go there and I deliver the mail. It's just like what what is your thought about? You know, what what can you tell me? What what is this thing? Why God created me and killed my family and all that. So it it's sad, but at the same time I tell them look everything under control. But he did not leave these things. These people that is, you know, leaders of your country that are doing this and claiming them name of God. And I have even started I I mention this. I have even studied these classes and all that. And if you can read it, read me Surah 64 and I explain it. And that was you know shaky that he'd tell me, okay here it is, I read it. And I don't understand the word. He admitted. I have a Quran, I don't know how to read this There it was, he doesn't read the Arabic. So whatever surah I mentioned to him, he would tell me I don't know how to read this. But I believe in the book. But I understand God, so that's why. I'm just claiming something hypothetically that might have it, but so far I've never I wouldn't worry too much about it. They're so happy to hear about both love and and like afterlife especially, you know. Yeah. And so that's an opportunity. It's a huge opportunity Um on the bottom of page two hundred seventy-seven, I've got of course a lot of verses that you're familiar with about um the resurrection. And so make sure they understand the uh uh the the fact of the resurrection, the need for the resurrection, and the impact of course of the resurrection And then starting on page two hundred seventy-eight, um uh we walk through pretty much the same material but with these questions. And again, the idea here is is to go to a passage that will address um the the the topic at hand, and maybe or a sequence of passages, but It's just even if it's a paragraph or whatever, have him read it through out loud as you're together. And then you ask him some questions. Okay, so and so for example in uh John uh seven where it's And the topic here in this first one is about, yes, Jesus was a prophet, but he spoke with his own authority. It's not just that he was speaking on behalf of God. He spoke with his own authority. And so example of that is in John 7. You get him to read through it. And then you ask, well, in in verse 37 To whom did Jesus say that people should come in order to drink spiritual drink? Jesus said, come to who? Me. Right? And verse thirty-eight, in whom did Jesus say the people should believe in fulfillment of the scriptures? Verse 38. Jesus stood and cried out, If anyone is thirsty, let him come to me and drink. He who believes in me, as the scriptures said, from his innermost being will flow livers. uh waters of what rivers of living water. Um that is not your typical prophet Right? Muhammad wouldn't have said something like that. He says, come to Allah. Jesus says, come to me. So he's he's revealing God, but he's also God himself. He's speaking with authority. Uh I don't know if you remember at the end of the Sermon on the Mount, Matthew seven, people were amazed at his teaching because he spoke what? as one having authority, not like the scribes and the Pharisees who merely parroted what they had heard and and so on. He was speaking um um with authority. It was you know, you have heard it said, but I say to you, right. So, you can read through those uh questions with him. Take them to John 6. Again, claims about Christ that he made that uh were not just your typical prophet. He was speaking. with authority. John 14. Peace I leave with you, my peace I give to you. Not as the world gives do I give to you. He says, my peace I give to you, not God's peace. Uh there's no difference, right? My peace I give to you. Um And so you just take them to these other passages as well. I've I've included in bold here in these various texts the the the key verses that get at the the the point that you're trying to make there. Yeah, let's maybe take one or two of these. Um we We already looked, I think, several weeks ago at Mark II, the healing of the lame man where they you know they brought him down through the um the opening and the ceiling. And um Um the the uh religious leaders were were sitting there listening to his teaching. They bring this guy down and and Jesus said, uh, sons, your sins are forgiven. And th that I'm sure produced uh you know, reaction a a visual reaction on the part of the the religious leaders Because why? Some of the scribes were sitting there and reasoning in their heart, why does this man speak this way? He is blaspheming. Who can forgive sins but God alone? And immediately Jesus aware in his spirit that they were reasoning that way within themselves, I mean anybody in the room could have looked at them and read them like a book. And they're going like this. Um they knew exactly what these guys were were thinking. And so Jesus asked them Why are you reasoning about these things in your heart? Which is easier to say to the paralytic, your sins are forgiven, or to say get up and take your pallet and walk? Which is easier It's easier to say your sins are forgiven because nobody can actually visualize that, right? But he says, so that none of you, but so that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins, he said to the paralytic, I say to you, get up. Take your take up your pallet and go home. And he got up immediately, picked up the pallet, and went out in the sight of everyone. So they were all amazed and were glorifying God, saying, We have never seen anything like this But what was the message to the the Jewish leaders? If he can do that, he probably also has the authority to do what he said he did. Your sins are forgiven. That is not your typical prophet. Right? Doing the miracles, yes, on occasion, God would authenticate the message of the prophets because of the miracles. But um none of them said, Your sins are forgiven. He was speaking with the authority of God. And then the account of the raising of Lazarus in John 11 is another good example. And of course the the key part here is where Jesus said to Martha, I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in me will live even if he dies, and everyone who lives and believes in me Will never die. Do you believe this? I love that passage. Do you believe that? That's not your mere prophet. He says, I am the resurrection. He who believes in me. will never die. Right? Um and so as you get him just to read through the accounts of the the um the life, the ministry, the teaching of Christ, they begin to see that this is not what most people think about a prophet. I mean, yes, he's a prophet, but he's much more than a prophet. Um and If you like, you can um kind of depending on how your relationship with the person, whether how how open and and frank you are, you might uh mention, like on the bottom of page two hundred eighty one, well, since Muhammad's bones are still in the tomb And Jesus is alive, risen bodily into heaven. What should we conclude about Jesus relative to Muhammad? Um I wouldn't recommend starting with a question like that. But if your if your relationship with them is is uh been productive and they're they're they're seeing what the scripture is saying and they're beginning to have eyes that are, you know, brighter and and and and uh responding to uh the message. Um It's probably going to be a question that's they're mulling over in their mind anyway. And it might be helpful to have some conversation about it. But if it's obvious that they're very skeptical, they're not really Not really believing any of this. It's not gonna do you any good to ask them that. But um Okay. So next week we're going to continue with This series of misunderstandings about Christ. And we're going to wrap up with a fairly long or numerous examples that they cite from the Bible. That prove that Jesus was not God. Okay, we're gonna address those in case those come up as uh smokescreen or something like that. I'll give you a hint, just like the ones uh we saw from particularly the Old Testament or even both the New Testament, where they claimed that um Muhammad was specifically prophesied in multiple places, both the Old Testament and New Testament, to be coming. And all you have to do is kind of read those passages that they claim say that. Read them in context. and just observe what they're actually saying, you realize, no, that's not what it's saying. Right? Well the same thing's going to be true next week. But there are passages that people bring out, well Jesus said this, Jesus said that, and that must mean that he's not God. We're going to talk about that. So any any other um questions, thoughts? Yeah. Are you familiar with the with the miracle of Mohammed? I haven't heard about splitting the moon. I was surprised because I challenged one person and they say that in the Bible we have so many variables of Christ. And he admitted that that Jesus was a guy that did a lot of miracles. Yeah, so then you see that he's, you know, the one. But he mentioned something about Muhammad in this. The Quran is one of them, you know, right there. the miracle that the Quran was able to exist and he wasn't able to write on that. So I was like, yeah, yeah, that that one I will teach you later was the incongruences in the Quran. But right now I have something else for him. But um he mentioned the that he's in the mood and that's one of the miracles that these that they assume Have you heard that one? So what happens? Like you were saying that most of Muslims can't read the Quran. Um most Muslims can't read the Quran, like worldwide because it's and what happens is all the features interpret the crunch for them and that's how we get these crazy things and the splitting the moon. Um actually I haven't first that one But I've heard a couple of other things that are equally weird attributed, but that's not in the Quran. And so so that's the the the next well, where in the Quran is That word would be great then. Because that's what happens a lot and how people, you know, they believe that uh you know, they're told that the But it's because it's listening to the teachers and they don't they can't actually read it for themselves. And so so my my question to them would be, um, you know, wh where is that in the front? Just because to to where that came from. And and just overall when we were talking, you know, the one of the things that I found best is that, you know, they they Jesus is a good guy, so let's look at Jesus' word. And then later when they're going, Well, you know, Jesus says all of this, the Bible says this, and the Quran says this, but I I absolutely Muhammad, that's when you bring up the well, Jesus was born of a Persian, he was sinless, and he was taken to God, so how how is Muhammad So that's back where I would be asking where it came from because a lot there's a lot There's a lot of things. And on the and the word thing, the pure and holy thing, I doubt very many of them are going to question you on that because there's so many different interpretations I told him that that's imagination, that's people's mind. working and thinking. My answer was do you know the theogamy? I don't know. Well that's which philosophy. The theogony was for By Hesiod. Hesiod made up all these gods that we have in the Greek Pantheon. And everyone thinks, oh well they were revered and everything. It came from the mind of one person easier. So he started with Chaos and then Chaos created Gaia and Gaia create and then this all these gods that we have So when I told him that he was like, oh Greek gods were not real? And I was like, were you at one point thinking that this was real? So it's it's amazing. You're right, it's amazing how they how much intertwines b between reality and it. You know, just Yeah, it's it's possible I I've never heard that one about the splitting of the moon. It's certainly not in the Quran. There may be something in the Hadith somewhere about um some story attributed to to uh Muhammad. Uh there are there's at least two other examples in uh uh various uh hadith that um attribute to him the miracle of uh um having uh water come from his finger to meet a need or s as opposed to coming from Iraq, right? It comes from a finger. Well that's in the Hadith, it's not in the Quran. And of course, there are lots of problems with the Hadith. Even among Muslims, they don't know which ones to believe in, which ones not, essentially. Um so yeah that's um that's a pretty weak so the asking where where they get this information if it's likely to just be Splitting the moon. Specifically Surah 54, 1 to 3, which says the hour has drawn near and the moon has split. Yet whenever they see a miracle, they turn But it doesn't say that Muhammad split them, nor does it say who saw this the oracle. Isn't Google wonderful? Okay. Any other thoughts, questions? All right. Well, we will continue next week with um uh getting into their heads with regard to their misuse of scripture to prove that Jesus never even claimed to be God. Let's pray. Father, thank you that you have given us your word. And not only that, but you've opened our eyes to your truth. So that we would not be blinded by the evil one. Lord, I pray for uh the uh Muslims we come in contact with even in our area, uh, who many of whom uh may be uh searching for truth But all of them coming from a heritage of blindedness and We pray that you would work in their hearts to draw them to yourself, that your word would uh be powerful in their hearts, in their minds, to uh remove the scales on their eyes, so to speak, so that they would see your truth. They would see the true Jesus. And would surrender to him as God Father, we thank you for the opportunity you've given us, even in this area, to reach out to many Muslim friends, colleagues, coworkers, and Neighbors, pray that we would be faithful, that you would work through us to accomplish your purposes. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.