Okay, so we are on lesson eleven today, page one twenty-seven. Last week we wrapped up our sort of introductory section by uh the last couple of weeks talking about what Muslims are supposed to believe and what they are supposed to do in order to be good Muslims And so today we're going to step back a little bit and provide more context. Context. uh uh specifically about uh the different branches of of Islam that have um uh grown up over time and a little bit of the history behind that. Mostly so that when you encounter someone you'll have some idea of the context. And maybe they're coming from a certain branch of Islam that you can be aware of and sensitive to and that kind of thing. So um So we're on page 127. Islamic Sex Today. So we've had a little bit of history, but I wanted to review that and build on it. I think I mentioned in one of the earlier classes that Muhammad neither by what he said or the Quran left behind any specific instructions about leadership after he left. And and so I I guess there was a little bit of um uncertainty even when he died, okay, what's next? You can put yourself in that position, right? And uh before long they Um well maybe I should back up. When when Muhammad was alive and and um leading the um Muslims and and so on, uh he um I was gonna say gathered around him, but it it may have just happened. That there were some who were more close to him than others. And in fact, Muslims call them his companions. You know, when we think of Jesus, we think of his disciples, right, and the apostles. uh Muhammad had what are called companions, often with a capital C. The companions. I mean they're the ones who heard it from his mouth, right? And walked with him, saw him what he did, and and so on. And And so they were highly respected at the time, and rightly so, uh, given their context. And so it was somewhat natural that the next leader would come from among his companions. And sure enough, uh they actually elected uh the first four successors. And uh the first was Abu Bakr who was um uh not only Muhammad's close friend and companion, but it didn't hurt that he was the father of his favorite wife, Aisha. Remember Aisha is the one he married when she was six. Um and uh so he was he was a trusted companion and had the respect of everyone. They elect elected him to uh become the successor. Now, um Muhammad was the prophet and the successors were called caliphs uh I'm not sure exactly how to pronounce that in Arabic. But um uh they began what became known as the caliphate. Uh the the Um the organization was led by caliphs, caliphs, and uh the first one was Abu Bakr. Uh but he lasted only a couple of years before he died, apparently of natural causes. And he was succeeded by another of Muhammad's companions, Umar. And um wouldn't you know it? He was um Also a uh father in law by marriage to uh um and uh Muhammad's wife Hafsa. And again, well connected, one of the companions early on and uh respected, and so uh they elected him. And he lasted for ten years before he was assassinated, killed by a servant. I don't know anything about the the drama there, but um um he was then uh uh uh succeeded by election, um Uthman And he likewise was assassinated by Muslims because they thought that he was behaving too much like a king. And, you know, with all the prerogatives and and this kind of thing. Um He was then followed by and he lasted for twelve years. He was then succeeded by Ali, who was actually Muhammad's first cousin and one of his closest companions and associates. So there is some combination here of of family ties, but also election from among those who were close to uh Muhammad. Well I I um emphasize that for a couple of reasons. One is that um Even though I used the word here, he rained from so and so rained and rained, it wasn't really a rain in terms of um um a monarchy uh at all. In fact that's that's one reason Uthman got assassin assassinated. He kind of thought of himself as having those prerogatives and so on Um but it was also not hereditary at this point. It was all by election and and choice of of the at least the leadership. And um And that came to a point where it was going to change after those four. There was a a uh civil war among um Arabs among Muslims and even further afield, I think. And um Uh so the the governor of Damascus turns out to have been a son of Muhammad's one of his chief rivals back in Mecca. And I guess that rivalry never really ended so that um uh this guy who now had become governor of Damascus was at odds with the fourth uh caliph, who was Ali And Ali actually won in the battle, but over some period of time apparently there was some negotiation about the implications of all this, and it Um Ali was sort of deceived into allowing a an arbiter to sort all this out, and the arbiter, that process ended up uh um uh removing Ali from leadership and giving it instead to the guy he defeated. And so you can imagine the bitterness, the the and all the drama associated with that. But that um uh that led to the caliphate switching up to Damascus and uh it became hereditary at that point under this guy. He was probably quite a character. Uh a and so the the leadership, the caliphate, was there in in Syria for uh eighty nine years at that point. So that was the longest period of time. Uh it had only been twenty nine years since Uh Muhammad died, and now for the next eighty-nines the caliphate is up in Syria, in Damascus. Well um uh then came the um the Abbasid caliphate. They uh defeated the Umayyads up in Damascus and Syria uh and took the leadership by force. And um uh their concern was that these Umiyads had had uh departed from you know, the the sort of the literal and traditional uh example of Muhammad and the early caliphs and they wanted to sort of restore things uh basically Um and so they retained the caliphate for the next seven hundred and sixty-nine years. I mean they were this was a huge um Uh transition, a huge um uh change. And um but during that time And of course, lots of things transition over a long period of time. Um as Islam spread and and grew and and so on. um it became a bit more in fact a lot more decentralized. And because of that decentralization there was um organization and even uh leadership and so on spread all over the place and it was kind of natural, I suppose Um but because of that, the centralized leadership of the caliph was less and less needed. And he became more of a figurehead uh in that period of time than um uh than he had been. Well, uh within that period of time The uh uh there was a competing caliphate, the uh Fatimid, I I think is how it's pronounced caliphate. And these folks were um sort of the the forerunners of those who who said the rightful um Um caliph, Caliph needs to be um a descendant of the last real caliph, Ali. And uh they I think still had this grudge that it was taken away from him by deception and and so on. And um so they they began their own sort of branch at that point. And um that that was partly in in Tunisia, Egypt and and so on. And that was concurring occurring uh concurrently with the Abyssy caliphate. Well then came the Ottoman caliphate and eventually the Ottoman Empire. Which lasted uh just over four hundred years, uh centered of course in Turkey, what is now Turkey. And uh that became uh very much like a a a um a royal um dynasty and and so on as well there's always that that uh tendency Uh but then that that was all that there was really during the fifteen hundreds to the nineteen hundreds And uh that ended when uh Kemal Adaturk of Turkey abolished it in nineteen twenty-four And so since then there's been uh lots of different branches, and I'll talk to you about some of those. They each have their own sort of understanding of the right way to have leadership and uh and they're geographically spread out to some extent and so it's been a bit of a hodgepodge. But that gives you a little bit some of the background there. Okay, so let's talk about these branches or these different sects within Islam. And you've heard of some of these, but maybe not all of them. Probably the um in fact very much so, the the largest uh branch is the uh Sunnis. Everybody's heard of Sunni Muslims, right? Um The Sunnis can be thought of as uh the ones who were closest in at least in my view and certainly in their view, but closest to what um Muhammad started. And so very much going by the book. Right, the the Quran and and the Sunnah with the hadith and so on. Um so um Of course they get their name, Sunni, from their desire to follow the Sunnah, the path of Muhammad, his his teachings, his life, and so on. And that's what they're aiming to do. And uh so it turns out that that within Sunni Islam, there are four um they're not denominations. Um things I've read calls them different rites, which means not a ceremony, but rather a school of thought. a uh um with their own emphases and so on. They're all Sunnis, but they go about it slightly different We might think of them as different denominations, but they certainly don't think of themselves that way. And so I've I've listed them here. They're they're uh there for your reference. They each have a uh uh their own uh emphasis and and so on. It's not probably all that important. But if you come across someone says, Oh, I'm a I'm a uh Hanafi Sunning. Well you can kind of go back here and look it up and learn a little bit about them, right? You can kind of get the context. One quick question for paragraph three A Uh you've got the Hanafi school that's named after the Iraqi scholar Abu Hanifa. Is that a misprint? Should it be Abu Hanafi? Uh I don't think so. Okay, that's enough. Um if I knew Arabic I could be maybe more assertive. But I think there's there's maybe singular and plural going on and there's there's Adjective and nouns going on, uh but I think this is correct. I should know Arabic by now. Sorry about that. Um tune in next week. We'll we'll see. Okay. So that's that's That's the place to start because the the Sunnis are the the the largest segment and probably For certain, the closest to what Muhammad Muhammad envisioned and started and and so on. And that's their that's well that's their name. They're just trying to follow his his direction. Alright, well then you get the Shiites. You've probably heard of Shiites as well. And this is a little more interesting. Um Uh whereas the the um Sunnis are at you know seventy five eighty percent probably of all Muslims. Uh the the Shiites are somewhere around fourteen, fifteen percent, something like that. Um And so what's the major distinction? Well, they trace their origins very much like the Fatimid Caliphate, but not exactly, in that they view um uh the that the uh worldwide leadership of Islam needs to be uh traced from the last of the the caliphs, Ali. And um Particularly that there's because Ali had a blood relationship with Muhammad that was key, not just a father-in-law kind of a thing. And but they also had this this predisposition and conviction that uh They should not be chosen by the people by election, but rather there should be a pro um uh descendancy, uh a straight line descendancy from one generation to the next. And um That has some problems because as you can kind of tell from the history here, uh they did uh trace some descendants from Ali, but then there is a a dead end at one point. And and so they haven't had a continuous succession from that line. uh since that dead end. And there's some confusion about how many generations there actually were that qualified and it it's it's it's amazing. But um They believe that the last of those caliphs, who was a direct descendant of Ali, who I think was the twelfth one, whose name was also Muhammad, as it turns out. Uh that um he's going to return. So this this Messiah figure, he's going to return uh to earth and re-establish things and so they have this sort of messianic flavor to them in Shi'ite Islam. And um so as they await the return of this uh last of the emons His authority is shared by Shiite leaders, and the chief of those is called, guess what? An Ayatollah. And so the Shiites are primarily today where? In Iran. And Iraq. Uh and Iraq. Now Iraq is interesting because it's most well the largest the plurality are Shiite. But you remember Saddam Hussein? Yeah, he was a Sunni. He was Sunni. And so he and that's one of the reasons they had conflict in Iraq, because a Sunni was leading all these Shi'ites And Iran was coming to the aid of the Shiites in Iraq, right? Um and so that led to all sorts of political problems for sure. Anyway, yes, the their leader is called an Ayatollah, and in contrast with the caliphs who um uh didn't technically have um spiritual authority, the ayatollahs and the these this line of leaders in Shia Muslim Islam uh do. Um so there's some distinctions there. Uh Okay, so those are the two major groups, the Sunnis and the Shiites. When you get down below that to these various other uh branches and and um uh sex within within uh Islam. You might not have heard of them and they're not as that's because they're not as common, they're not as um Uh you you don't read about them so much in the headlines, right? vast majority of of Muslims can be sure whether those they identify with either one of these these two major. Yeah, I think most of them are Sunni. Yeah. Now but again, um there may be some of these branches that have elements there as well. But um yeah. Uh there are other places like Lebanon that has a different mix than most of the world. We'll get to that in a minute. So the third one I have here on the bottom of page one twenty nine is the uh uh keragites. And again, a lot of their distinction between these groups is about leadership and quarrels about what's right about leadership. Uh there are also some distinctions about what they believe and how closely tied they are to uh the Quran even. Um So I'm I'm just gonna in the interest of time scan some of those. Uh this uh Ismailies um who are are somewhat uh in sync with Shiites but have their own uh distinctions influenced by other things. You've got the the Druzes. You've probably heard of Druzes in in Lebanon. Um in Israel. And they have in northern Israel? They're the only ones that are allowed to join the Israeli army. They're they're they're an interesting breed. Um as you can see here they um Uh, the the the Druze Muslims, um kind of have their own teachings. It kind of reminds me a lot like um Mormons, where they they kind of have their own little teachings and they try to layer that on top of the Bible and and all sorts of things. There's some of that happening with with Druze as as well. And they have this this somewhat unique um um characteristic where A lot of it is is secret. And only those who are in get to know the real deal, right? And I um well it just is what it is. And they're pretty much isolated within Lebanon, southern Syria, northern Israel. It's kind of like that pocket. there. In fact I think one of the restaurants we went was a Drew's restaurant, wasn't it? Very important. Yeah. And then what they're like you say and mostly in northern Israel. They are drafted into the Israeli army and but they are only used as border guards on the northern part of Israel Yeah. So they they certainly have an interest in securing their their their stake, if you will. Yeah. Um then you've got the um uh Matoila, I don't know a lot about them, but they're traditional Shiites, but they've They they got their kind of own kind of history, particularly in in Lebanon. And because of Shi'i to Iran is a close ally and and so on. Then you've got the uh Zadis who are Shiites but uh sort of have an independent streak and so sometimes when it suits them they're allies with the Sunnis. And that makes for interesting bedfellows sometimes. Okay. Let's turn to page 132. where uh want to talk not so much about the the what uh I was gonna say political boundaries of the the branches of of Islam in that way. But there are movements within within Islam, uh some of which are very, very influential And I wanted to touch on those as well. And they have some interesting spins on doctrine, on um um So th probably uh I don't know about the maybe the most important but one of the most interesting certainly is um Sufi Islam, Sufism. Um I think you you might remember that I s I've so far um described uh what the Quran teaches, in fact what what Islam what what Muhammad taught, is that um Allah Is beyond our comprehension. He's exalted. Um there's no one equal with him. And um And very interestingly, I think one of the ways they would put this is that um he he's beyond our comprehension. It shouldn't surprise us That we don't know everything there is about Allah. He is transcendent, that is, he's far above us. They have no notion, remember when we talked about the attributes of Allah, they have no notion of His being what we call imminent, that is close, knowable, and personal with us. That's from the Quran, that's traditional Sunni Islam. Well, Sufis have this natural, I think, tendency to want to know Allah And that it would be personal, a relationship. And um they think they get some basis for that in the Quran. You know, you can get anything you want out of it if you take it out of context Um but they have this drive to to have this relationship with Allah And that ought to be significant to us because if you run across a Sufi, he may be predisposed to understand that God has revealed himself as being imminent, that is, knowable, personal. And um and so on. And and so here's what he's revealed about himself. Um Pastor. We have a great deal of trouble understanding the differences between the sections. I would imagine they have much trouble understanding Baptist Baptist. Sure. Yeah. Yeah, in fact you may get some of them who who ridicule Christianity because they've got all these sort of uh denominations that are at odds with each other and and whatever Well hey, I got news for you. It's no different in Islam. Right. Uh you don't have to make a strong point of that, but don't don't um be surprised if if they uh they question that. So um but Sufism is is a very interesting thing because God has revealed Himself as being imminent and knowable and wanting to be in relationship with us and making that possible Um in fact the making it possible part is something that that may God may well use if you're talking to a Sufi Muslim. Here's what God did to make it possible. Here's why it wouldn't have been possible, because of our sin and his holiness. But here's what he did to take care of that problem so that he could have and we could have that relationship Anyway, if you compare Sufis with traditional Sunnis, non Sufis You get this contrast here. So non-Sufis believe that the goal in life is physical blessings. And the Sufis refer to it as spiritual blessings. And so all of a sudden you think, I'm I'm siding with the Sufis on that one, right? Uh when may it be achieved? The non-Soupis would say, in the afterlife. That's that's that's where where we get our reward. In the afterlife, in paradise. And the Sufis are saying, let's not wait until then. We're gonna we're aiming to have that that um relationship with Allah even now. And neither of them are certain of anything, of course. What do we need to do? Well, non-Sufis would say we our role is merely to believe, obey, submit. That's what Islam is all about. And the Sufis say, well, okay, but we need to get in touch with our inner selves where Allah resides. Of course, non-Sufis are saying that's blasphemy. How do we do that? Well, we have to, if you're a non-Sufi, you are deriving everything from the Quran, from the life of Muhammad, and so on. And if you're a Sufi, um you're getting it by uh some some logic applying logic and intuition and so on. Um and y you kind of learn by doing and each person is kind of unique, so it gets kind of fuzzy, right? question um the non-Sufis when it comes to the afterlife do they really aspire to see and know God or is it all about the rewards of what they can God is not knowable. So it's all about paradise is all about the rewards that and you know w I think we talked about that a little bit, that that um Paradise is described in the Quran as what every uh Muslim man, particularly in Arabia, would long for. all the comforts, right? The the water and lush gardens and and so on that he's um not enjoyed in the Arabian peninsula And um you know all the all the virgins and and all the food and things. It's all about me and the rewards that I get because Allah has let me into paraly paradise. Sufis would say, well, no, it's it's I I don't know that I've seen anything about what they think paradise is going to be like in contrast to that. But clearly their intent is to um to grow in knowledge and relationship uh with Allah even now and that would then continue. Yeah. Okay, so you you you kind of see the the contrast uh between them there. Another significant uh movement or or uh way of thinking within particularly Sunni uh Islam is Wahhabiism. Uh a Wahhabi Is a very um strict devotee to um orthodox Sunni Islam doctrine, practices, and this kind of thing. There is one major exception, kind of glaring exception to that, but Um I'll get to that in a minute. Uh and so there pretty much centered in what is now Saudi Arabia and their roots are with that Saud family. Um And uh they're they're they're quite serious about um Any div any um these different branches that we talked about, uh they have all sorts of different uh ideas about leadership and doctrine and so on. uh that they're just nonsense to the Wahhabis because they're by the book. At least that's what they say. Um not mistaken. Uh And his name fell out of my mind. Now the guy that initiated the nine eleven attack was the Wahhabi. Yeah, you mean um Obama or Osama bin Laden. Osama bin Laden, right? Yeah. Well I was just the case going to us. I was I was Uh that's a maybe a good segue to my explaining this situation. Uh Osama bin Laden uh I think his family was from Saudi Arabia. And um so he was very much predisposed to everything by the book. Well, to the point that it clear it seems clear to me that it was clear to him that even the Wahhabis in Saudi Arabia are not completely by the book. Where do they fall? They sell from um they depart anyway from what would be strict application of the Quran and Hadith and and so on, by virtue of supporting and being uh co-yoked with um a monarchy. And th there's no support for that in the Quran. And uh and yet that's that's much of their history, their league being in league with the Saud family and now in Saudi Arabia and so on. And so um I'm pretty sure, and I think some of the things I've read suggest that it's definitely the case, that Osama bin Laden Saw through that. He wanted strict adherence to uh the book, right? And so he was at odds as much with um Saudi Arabia as he was with the West. In fact, even possibly more so So that's why he wasn't operating from Saudi Arabia. He was sort of a uh um Afghanistan and Pakistan. Yeah, but he he was sort of a pariah, I guess, even within his own home country Um and so what's interesting to me anyway is some of the parallels between um uh the thinking of people like Osama bin Laden and groups like um Um ISIS and and the Taliban to some extent maybe. But certainly Osama bin Laden, I think. The parallel between him and let's say uh the reformers in the Christian church who wanted to get back to the book. Right? And see the the uh the abuse and the the departure and the adding things on to what was started um and wanting to uh bring things back. Now I I don't I don't know that that bin Laden had any notion that he could reform um um Muslims who in his view got it wrong. He may have only been trying to battle them and that the right would prevail and and this kind of thing. The Christian reformers Really did think in the early going that maybe they could call the leadership and everything to the scriptures and that there would be reformation within the established church. But it became obvious before too long that that just that wasn't gonna happen. And so they they chose instead to be faithful to scripture rather than to tradition or the Pope and so on So there's some differences, but I think a lot of the motive is very much the same. Getting back to the book. In this case, the book is the Quran and the Hadith, the Sunnah of of um uh um Muhammad's life and and so on. And um we'll see Um I think maybe even next week, yeah. Where that leads. Okay. So Wahhabiism is is is important because they're pretty close to getting it by the book. And they're very influential. They're in league, of course, with the Saudi leadership and and they become very um very important. Okay. Any questions so far? I'm going to cover a little bit of an overview of the whole black Muslim movement in the U. S. , but before I do, anything on what we've covered so far? What sect is ISIS? Um what sect is ISIS? I think most of them are Sunnis. Um by the way, y do you know what ISIS stands for? Close. There's an eye in there. Another eye. Islamic State of the hell He said in Syria. But then And then uh our fearless leader changed it to ISIL. Well, I'm not sure it was our fearless leader, but what's the L instead of Syria? The Levant. The Levant which is what? All of that area. The whole basically the Middle East. Which is more expansive, right? Often these days you f hear it referred to only as the Islamic State. Which is actually consistent with the Quran because the the vision is for the whole world. And it would be the the Islamic State worldwide. So uh I wouldn't give them that much credit at the moment, but that is where they're headed. Yeah. Well if they follow the if they follow the Quran strictly, that is That's the point. That's their goal. Yeah. Gotcha. Yeah, or only the she I expect in the MUD to come back. There are some other branches, I think mostly, if I'm not mistaken, they're mostly offshoots from Shiites like the Baha'is and so on who have a similar expectation. I don't I'm not aware of anything in the Quran or even hadith that speaks to that. Was there another hand? Yeah, there you go. Um By the at the very beginning, uh the successor to Mohammed was elected. Uh which the implication is that uh There's a hierarchy and also differing opinions maybe at that time. Do you have any idea what the demographics of the uh followers of Muhammad was at that early time. Yeah, so the early companions to Muhammad were literally companions. I mean they were there. They were there for much of the entire history of Muhammad's uh campaign, if you will. Um I don't want to call it ministry. Um so most of them were Arabians. Most of them were um Very similar demographically with Muhammad and and so on. Yes, yes. So it it it seemed pretty logical to even the people then that the leader the next leaders would need to come from that core But that only got them just so far. And there's still even even once they had, you know, the first one, then two, then three, then four, there still was nothing set in stone as to how it would continue. Uh beyond that, and that what's that's what led to a lot of the confusion. Boko Haran um in in Africa and so on. Um I don't know a lot about their history, but I'm pretty sure that um they're a good example that when Islam comes to a certain regional area It has over time gotten mixed with local traditions, local religions and and um uh politics And all those things get mixed up and together and and um they kind of fall under the Muslim umbrella, but they all have their own kind of Distinctives and so on. So I would be pretty sure that that's the case with Boco Huron. Aram means forbidden. Halab is proved, like halab meat. Aram is fit uh forbidden. And I think the name translates to Western ways are forbidden children. And they're known for taking child soldiers, taking children and making them into soldiers. And I think they're also the ones who kidnapped school children. Out of their colour. Nigeria? Is it northern Nigeria? Yes, north eastern Nigeria lots of Cameroon and the shape. Uh so everywhere around the Chad, right? Northern Nigeria, Oberia then Cameroon, Chad, and The the thing that happened. They started in the in the local group, I think it uh Uh we started as kind of a weak group, but uh very quickly the upper were Muslims militants, but the um group and became very strong because they got international um arms and aid And then eventually we constitutions to ISIS. But the last time I checked, they had fractured in like 14 different groups across this animal uh that we're uh supporters that vocal. Yeah. Yeah. I I I think they're they're somewhat typical of this blending of Islam and local politics and opportunities and and even local religion to some extent. And um Yeah. Okay. I have a basic question here. Basic question. Basic question. We have all these Islamic sex today. But now within these now we're going to movements. Now within these sects, these movements are taking place. Is that or is that Yes, that's that's sort of the idea. Um but you know um Wahhabiism, for example, is almost I think it's it's entirely Sunni. But within Sunnis, it's it's an emphasis. Yeah. Okay. So let's I'm on page one thirty-four, and I'm not going to cover everything that's here. It's it's there for your uh reference, but um I figure it's necessary to talk about the the black Muslim movement, particularly in the US. And um maybe I should say up front that for the most part It's another example of um uh the Islamic umbrella Um sprout that's a mixing of metaphors, sprouting, you know, no. It's it's the root maybe of of Islam that's sprouting, you know, various different offshoots and This is um I don't know, maybe it's not even an offshoot. They they're they're using the name Muslim and Islam and and all all that, and they use names like Muhammad and so on But um they're not really Muslims. They're not really Muslims. I just want to add a note when I I met with the Imam guy, we talked about that. He had he was was sort of proud that he brought some nation of Islam folks in. So he sees them more as someone to be converted. Okay, yeah, yeah. Yeah, and he he recognizes that uh they they claim to be Muslims, but they don't know the first thing really when it comes to it about about Islam. Um And so I've I've I've got the history here and and of course um it it's I think a prime example of how how um political cultural context and desire for change And response to abuses gives rise to something that promises a better life. And that's what you've got going on here with the Black Muslim movement. And unfortunately, a lot of these early leaders in the movement grew up in um I think almost always Baptist churches in the South. Uh sometimes their fathers were preachers in said churches. Um and they obviously were not finding answers there. And they were they were looking for answers and and uh were basically uh ripe for the picking by those who would espouse anything that was promising, uh liberating, and so on. And so the very real um abuses, not only of slavery, but the whole um transition from slavery over the next hundred years um left a lot of um American blacks uh without much hope And a feeling of of despair and all that comes with that. And and so that obviously was wrong But it just bred this willingness to attach to anything that seemed to be better. And this something that seemed to be better actually Um uh taught that instead of being inferior uh the the the blacks were actually superior and uh they have a natural uh right to rule and and all that sort of stuff and Um man, Satan is devious. And they were just right for the picking, unfortunately. So um uh Probably the most, the easiest thing to do in the little time that we have here is to talk a little bit about some of the key players. The first That's mentioned here on the bottom of one thirty-four is uh uh Noble Drew N uh his the given name was Timothy Drew, Noble Drew, Ali, eventually he was called. Um Marcus Garvey and this is back in the very early nineteen hundreds and uh leading into the Great Depression there was it was hard enough for for African Americans to get established, you know, outside of the South and and and so on. But then the depression hits and it gets even worse, right? Um And then comes along a um a um a follower of Drew called Wallace Fard Muhammad or any of six or eight other aliases he goes by. Um and he uh he became really the focal point early on. And uh much of the the uh the energy, the the sort of the doctrines and and and so on came from him. And some of these things were really um pretty far-fetched. Like um uh There's this this mad scientist in the early history of the of human beings who um created whites from blacks And um I just um there's also a um Um teaching that a law um I think it's inspired by some things you you read in Ezekiel and so on. Allah sort of has these supernatural uh flying machines that um uh that explain why we're seeing so many UFOs and and this kind of thing. And and he um Turns out he disappeared without a trace and his followers figured, oh, he he was taken up in one of those flying machines, probably. So it got s to some really far-fetched doctrines and teachings and this kind of thing. So it's not far fetched for a a lot of people. If your right pickings for for hope, then you latch on to stuff. Yeah. Yeah Yes. Um we actually had a conversation with a friend of mine about this last night. And she um in one of the um I guess black superiority religion or whatever. But um see the point of seeing you like there's this umbrella that they fall under I don't know if I'm pronouncing this right at this time But um like it includes all of the um black superiority includes faith to Islam. include um five percent um eight kinetics in black community so like should they all would have lower Um but the the basis of it is um I guess black empowerment and some sort of enlightenment. Um you're trying to reach that higher level of yourself. So I'm wondering if did all under that so Yeah. Yeah and so they're all related. Yeah, them and and Um a a as you'll see here if you read through it, there are branches even within this. And I think what you're describing is much of that. Yeah. So the next major player on the scene was a follower um of um Wallace Far Muhammad, and that was Elijah Muhammad And he probably more than anybody is responsible for building up um what then became known as the Nation of Islam. And uh again, you know, he he was um a son of a Baptist lay preacher in the South. And um Uh didn't find his answers there and so he he lapsed on to uh the teachings of of Wallace Fart. and began a lot of uh uh um systemization and of teaching and and establishing what they call temples in various cities and And it it was uh growing quite a lot. And so he became um now even greater than any any who had gone before him and it was very much uh nation of Islam at that point. And um Then comes along a key disciple of his, I say disciple of follower. Malcolm Little, who later changed his name to Malcolm X. And in my mind, the interesting thing about Malcolm X Is that he came to understand that Nation of Islam wasn't Islam. And he eventually uh departed And became actu he was already a spokesman for Nation of Islam to a large extent, but then he started saying things that didn't didn't go well with the leadership. He actually um became a devout Sunni Muslim. He went on the Hajj to Mecca. And came back, changed his name to Hajj. Um I forget how it all goes. Um Hajj won'thing called Shabaz? Yes, Shabazz became sort of his last name. And Haj because he completed the Hajj. Right. Um and Um unlike Nation of Islam, he became, as a devout Sunni Muslim, convinced that the the Um it was wrong to be racist anyway. Uh and he saw very convincingly in the Hajj in Mecca that Muslims from every nation, tribe and whatever were coming together and he was really blessed by that and and convicted and and so on. And that the teachings that he had been brought up with in the Nation of Islam were were off the mark and And um when he got back he uh uh spread the good news to him. But of course, particularly Jim and his prominence, his his public um uh face on the nation of Islam, his association with them, and now him sort of undermining their message uh did not fit well at all with them and event uh eventually it cost him his life. And I don't believe any particular person or persons was actually convicted for that, but it was seemed pretty clear that it was assassination. And um yeah, anyway, very interesting One of his contemporaries, and I guess still is around today. is of course Louis Farrakhan, the son of um Elijah Muhammad, Warth Dean Muhammad also sort of took leadership of Nation of Islam, but he too kind of uh departed from a lot of the earlier teaching and so Louis Farrakhan came in to restore people back to the the the genuine teachings of um uh Elijah Muhammad And so there's been friction and all this sort of stuff as is typical with different factions. Um So it's it's uh it's um on the one hand a very uh understandable history given the context and human nature that you would have all these divisions and whatever. On the other hand, man, it's it's just it's a shame that um Satan can so deceive people that um um it it leads them to do all sorts of nonsense. Anyway, there's more material here that I can cover, and it's there for your reference. And um It may be helpful, particularly in the US, if you encounter people who are into this, maybe like Charnay has, that you know something of the context and you can kind of ask them where they fit in and and so on. But uh the answer is um uh to get the answer right you need to understand the problem right. And the problem, of course, is in the heart, right? And uh self-improvement and uh calling yourself a Muslim and all these sort of things doesn't address that problem of sin. And um Anyway, that's all context. That's all context. And hopefully that'll be a helpful reference as we move forward. Okay, real quick. of reality. What truth did they find in Islam that made them to that shift to that Because this can happen to anybody in as I went up getting over. What kind of answers do they get there that the Bible Yeah, I don't know that it was answers so much as a response to a you know w why did they why were they so receptive of this whole idea of of um uh the black Islam movement. And and I think it's it's a hopelessness that they had before that that contributed to it. A um a Distrust and um even hate probably of their white oppressors over many generations a natural sort of reaction to that. And the teaching that no blacks are actually superior and sort of were the original race and all this sort of stuff was appealing. And there was hope there. There was community. There was support. All those things I think were attractive. Testimony. And those of you who have been around a file no show in the church, but um I think he's gonna be here today. Oh we see. He he was attracted to the black Muslim movement because it was an outrage of racism and this feeling of the politics. And his feeling of not belonging. And he found all those things in the Black Muslim movement. And the only thing that changed uh is that Christ changed his heart. Um but it was a natural place for him to go before he knew Christ. Yeah Yeah. So because of context, people were just attracted to what would seem to be, on the surface of it, would seem to be a better alternative. Yes. Well, let's pray.