Well, we are on lesson eighteen today, page two twenty four in the notes. Uh we're in the process of uh reviewing Some of the more fundamental misconceptions that Muslims are taught. And one of those is about the Trinity. And so today we're gonna start a I think a two-part session on responding to Muslim misunderstandings about the Trinity. And you can tell that's important. Because they're taught even in the Quran that um the Trinity is False teaching. And so here in Surah 4, it says, Oh people of the book, and who's it talking to here? Jews and Christians. Commit no excesses in your religion, nor say of God aught but the truth Christ Jesus the Son of Mary was no more than a messenger of God and his word, which he bestowed on Mary, and a spirit proceeding from him. So believing God and his messengers Say not Trinity, desist. It will be better for you, for God is one God. Glory be to him. Far exalted is he above having a son, to him belong all things in heaven and on earth, and enough is God as a disposer of affairs. And then later in Surah 5 it says, They do blaspheme who say God is one of three in a Trinity, for there is no God except one God. And if they desist not from their word of blasphemy, verily a grievous penalty will befall the blasphemers among them. So, you know, I've mentioned multiple times that as you read through the Quran you see Satan's fingerprints all over it. Here's a good example. And uh you know what what better way to attack God than to attack the very um essence of God, right, and his word. Well, as you is it it's almost certain that if you're interacting on a spiritual level with with your Muslim friends, this is going to come up. This and as we'll talk later, the deity of Christ. They're all connected, of course. We'll talk about that specifically later, but but just in general, the idea of the Trinity is something that they'll misunderstand. And so one of the fundamental things that's hard for them to and it's understandable They believe the doctrine of the Trinity is that there are three gods. Right? And so um You need to convince them, well, you need to you you're not able to convince them, but you're able to proclaim that um that's not what it means that that would be polytheism, in fact, specifically tri-theism, and that's not what the Trinity means. But also the biblical doctrine of the Trinity is not the belief that God has manifested Himself in three different ways at maybe three different times. Uh that's modalism. That's also not the Trinity. That's heresy. Um So rather, the biblical doctrine of the Trinity affirms, first of all, that there is only one true God. That is absolutely correct. But also that he has eternally existed in three persons. He has always existed in three persons, including the Son. And for that, that's an open door to take them to the scriptures, to show what the scriptures actually say about the nature of God. And so the place to begin is on the oneness of God. And Scripture is full of that. Take, for example, in in the Pentateuch, Moses. In Exodus 20, of course, the Ten Commandments, you shall have no other gods before me, God is saying. I, the Lord, your God, am a jealous God. And in Deuteronomy 6. 4, hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is what? One. Uh Deuteronomy four thirty-five. To you it was shown that you might know the Lord. He is God. There is no one besides him. And you see that that concept repeatedly. And then others, other prophets in the Old Testament. David, for example, in Second Timothy seven, one of his prayers, uh Said 2 Samuel 7, look at verse 22. For this reason, you are great, O Lord, for there is none like you, and there is no God besides you. David clearly understood that. And Muslims respect David. Um at least they think they do Take a look at Isaiah 45, 5 and 6. I am the Lord, there is no other. Besides me, there is no God. And then later, uh, there is no one besides me, I am the Lord, and there is no other. Jeremiah ten The Lord is the true God. The gods that did not make the heavens and the earth will perish from the earth and from under the heavens. Jesus, of course, affirmed that there is only one God. And He quoted from the Old Testament uh in that you look at Mark twelve. Uh Jesus answered The you know the foremost uh command is hear O Israel, the Lord our God is one God, one Lord, and you shall love him with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength, and so on. And so Jesus just continued to affirm that truth. And in his high priestly prayer Jesus said to the Father, you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent, knowing Knowing them is eternal life. The Apostle Paul. Um First Corinthians eight There is no God but one. And verse 6, there is but one God, the Father, from whom are all things, and we exist for Him. And one Lord, Jesus Christ, by whom all things are all things, and we exist through Him. 1 Timothy 2, there's one God, and so on, and so on. So the point you need to make here from both the Old Testament and the New Testament is that Um both Judaism and Christianity are staunchly monotheistic, one God And that should resonate with with um Muslims because that's their position. There's only one God. Um so it might pique their interest to see that it's actually clear in Scripture that there is only one God. But they're still going to have that question. So what is this about the Trinity then? Right? So um The point, the transition to make here, I've got on the bottom of page 225, that the doctrine of the Trinity depends on the um the fact that there is only one God. Because if it were not true that there was only one God, then The teaching of the Trinity would lead us to believe that there are three gods. Um, apart from the clear teaching of Scripture. And so it's it's understandable that people are led that way in their thinking, right? Um and so when you start with the unity of God, the the uh the fact that there is only one God kind of lays that foundation for what the Trinity actually is. Okay? And without that foundation, there is no doctrine of the Trinity. So then you get to the part where what it really means is that God has always existed from eternity past as one God in three persons. And that's going to start, just like it does for us, kind of it blows our mind a bit, right? About, you know, how can that these things be. But let's see what it we see in Scripture so that we can form our understanding not from our logic, but from what God has revealed about Himself in Scripture. Right? So, with the foundation of the fact that there's only one God, you again go to the Old Testament and you see that God is referred to as our Father. Father. So, um, well, let's go ahead and read it first. Uh Deuteronomy thirty-one, for example. Moses uh toward the end of his life Verse three, for I proclaim the name of the Lord, ascribed greatness to our God, the rock His work is perfect, for all his ways are just. A God of faithfulness and without injustice, righteous and upright is he They have acted corruptly toward him. They are not his children because of their defect, but are a perverse and crooked generation. Do you thus repay the Lord, O foolish and unwise people? Is not He your Father who has brought you, who has bought you, he has made you, and established you? Isaiah sixty-three. Um for you are our fathers, speaking of God. Though Abraham does not know us and Israel does not recognize us, you, O Lord, are our Father, our Redeemer from of old, is your name. And then look down to the New Testament, Matthew 6, where Jesus taught his disciples concerning prayer. It says, When you pray, you are not to be like the hypocrites, for they love to stand and pray in the synagogues and on the street corners, so that they may be seen by men. Truly I say to you, they have the reward in full. But when you pray Go into your inner room, close your door, and pray to your father who is in secret. And your father who sees what is done in secret will reward you. And when you are praying, do not use meaningless repetition as the Gentiles do, for they suppose that they will be heard for their many words. And this could actually be convicting to Muslims about the nature of prayer. Verse 8, so do not be like them, for your father knows what you need before you ask him. So He taught them how to pray. He says, pray in this way, our Father who is in heaven, hallowed be your name, and so on. So he's addressing God as their Father. That shouldn't come as much of a shock to them, thinking of God as a father, in what sense that he He created us. He's how we got here, right? As our creator, he's the origin of our even existence. And so addressing him as father is is um natural, appropriate But then we see that God is also referred to as the Son, both in the Old Testament and the New Testament. So in Psalm 45, my heart overflows with a good theme. I address my verses to the king. Okay, what king? We'll we'll see here. My tongue is the pen of a ready writer. You are fairer than the sons of men. Grace is poured upon your lips. Therefore God has blessed you forever. So it's not entirely clear yet which king this is referring to, right? But God has blessed him forever. Gird your sword on your thigh, O mighty one, in your splendor and your majesty, and in your majesty ride on victoriously for the cause of truth. And meekness and righteousness. Let your right hand teach you awesome things. Your arrows are sharp. The people fall under you. Your arrows are like are in the heart of the king's enemies. And then in verse 6 it says, Your throne, O God, is forever and ever. A scepter of uprightness is the scepter of your kingdom You have loved righteousness and hated wickedness, therefore God, your God, has anointed you with the oil of joy above your fellows. Rather amazing. It's a very obviously a very messianic psalm. Um but it's referring to this king Distinctly from God in a sense, but it says, your throne, O God, is calling him God too. Right? Is forever and ever. And your God or God has anointed you. So that's interesting. Uh we're going to come back to some other Old Testament passages in a bit, but um uh Hebrews One well many places in Hebrews actually actually quotes that Psalm. And um You know, it it begins, God, after he spoke long ago to the fathers in the prophets, in many portions in many ways, in these last days has spoken to us in his Son, whom he appointed heir of all things through whom also he made the world. And he, that is the Son, is the radiance of his glory and the exact representation of his nature, and upholds all things by the word of his power. And when he had made purification of sins, he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high, having become as much better than the angels, and has inherited a more excellent name than they. For to which of the angels did he ever say You are my son, today I have begotten you. And again, I will be a father to him, and he shall be a son to me. This is quoting from Psalm 2. And verse 6. And when again he brings the firstborn into the world, he says, and let all the angels of God worship him? You only worship God, right? And of the angels, um He says, who makes his angels winds and ministers a flame of fire? But of the sun, he says, your throne, O God, is forever and ever. Here again, he's quoting from Psalm 45. Or you can take them to Isaiah 9, of course, that uh well-known passage. For a child will be born to us, a son will be given to us, the government will rest on his shoulders, and his name will be called Wonderful counselor. By the way, there's not a comma between wonderful and counselor. Like you kind of get the impression from Handel's Messiah. Wonderful comma. Counselor. There's no comma there, right? It's wonderful counselor, uh mighty God, eternal father Now, is this referring to God the Father? Actually, no, it's speaking of the Son, referring to him when it makes reference to eternal Father, it's talking more about um Father of Eternity, the the from all eternity. And but it refers to him as the Son who's going to be born as mighty God. Then in Luke 1, of course, as the angel Gabriel announced the birth of this one He said in verse 31, Behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you shall call him Jesus. He will be great and will be the son of the Most High. Referring to God. And the Lord God will give him the throne of his father David. Um and then he continues in verse thirty five The Holy Spirit will come upon you. And the power of the Most High will overshadow you, and for that reason the holy child shall be called the Son of God. Now the the basic misconception that that uh you see in the Quran and that that Muslims have is that uh uh this father-son relationship is just like a human father-son relationship and so the son uh is is um um created, if you will, the procreation uh from the father. And it you know, it it it it takes a mother and a father and the two of them um produce offspring and Um just like I think you know old uh Greek mythology, and they talked about the various gods and having children and and all these sort of myths. That's what they think this teaching is all about, that God would have um uh produced a son as a result of of um marriage with some woman, whether it's a female god or in this case, um Mary But uh that's probab that may well be circulating in their mind when you're reading through this. But uh the point to be making here is that Gabriel announced that the one who was to be born would be fulfilling this prophecy from Isaiah 9, and he would be called the Son of God. Jesus himself, of course, you can take them to John 10. He claims, I and the Father are one, and the Jews pick picked up stones again to stone him. Why? Jesus said, I showed you many good works from the Father, for which of them are you stoning me? And the Jews answered him, For a good work we do not stone you, but for blasphemy, and because you, being a man, make yourself out to be God. They just couldn't handle that. And Jesus responds to them, but um then um in verse 36 he says um Do you say of him, that is me, of uh whom the Father sanctified and sent into the world, you are blaspheming because I said I am God, I am the Son of God? Uh if I do not do the works of my father, don't believe me. But if I do then, though you do not believe me, you should believe the works, so that you would know and understand that the Father is in me and I in the Father. Um Luke twenty two. Again, he was um uh in the one of his uh uh uh interrogations, I guess you can call it in his trial. Um Jesus said, I tell you Well now in verse uh sixty-seven. If you are the Christ, tell us. Let's get this clear, right? And he said to them, If I tell you, you will not believe me, and if I ask you a question, you will not answer. But from now on, the Son of Man will be seated at the right hand of God, the right hand and power of God. And they said to him, Are you the Son of God then? And he said to them, Yes, I am. Then they said, what further need do we have for testimony? For we've heard it from ourselves out of his own mouth. And um Later in John 19, around that same time, when the chief priests and the officers saw him, they cried out, saying, Crucify, crucify! And Pilate said to them, Take them yourselves and crucify him, for I find no guilt in him. And the Jews answered, We have a law, and by that law he ought to die because he made himself out to be the Son of God. They had no misconception about what Jesus was saying, what he was claiming, right And then of course later after the resurrection, even Thomas was doubting, but when he saw the resurrected Christ and and um Jesus challenged him to um Observe the scars on him from his crucifixion and and so on. And Thomas's reaction is is fantastic, he says, My Lord and my God. And Jesus said to him, Because you have seen me, have you believed? Blessed are they who did not see, but yet believed. And so what was was Jesus discouraging him from worshiping him as God? No, he was encouraging him. Right. And then we see also from Scripture that the Holy Spirit is God. You remember in Acts 5 when Ananias and Sapphira were um God just killed them because of their their deceit and so on In verse 3, Peter said to Ananias, Why has Satan filled your heart to lie to the Holy Spirit? But then later in verse 4 he says, you have not lied to men but to God. And so he's using the Holy Spirit and God in the terminology here, just interchangeably. And just acknowledging that the Holy Spirit is also God. So another thing to observe from both the Old Testament and the New Testament is that Not only the Father, but also the Son and the Holy Spirit share in all the attributes that are true only of God. And so I walked through several of these attributes here. For example, omnipresent. No one is omnipresent except God. And so in uh Psalm 23, for example, the Lord is my shepherd. In verse 4, it says, Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I fear no evil, for you are with me. Your rod and your staff, they comfort me. And that's true of everyone at all times, and God can do that because He's everywhere. Um In Matthew twenty-eight, we see that Jesus also is omnipresent. After giving them the the Great Commission, he says, Lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age. And in Psalm one thirty nine of course, that uh great passage that speaks of um um our origins and and uh the nature of God. It says, O Lord, you have searched me and known me. And verse 7, where can I go from your spirit? Or where can I flee from your presence? And he gives all those examples and so on. So we see uh omnipresence in uh uh in the case of all three, uh omniscient, knowing everything, even at the hearts of men. Romans eleven, oh the depth of the riches both of the wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments and unfathomable his ways And here, quoted from the Old Testament, for who has known the mind of the Lord, or who became his counselor, or who has first given to him that it might be paid back to him again? And of the Son, Matthew 9 for example, Jesus, knowing their thoughts, said, Why are you thinking evil in your heart? And uh toward the end of John 1, of course, we've got this interaction between Jesus and uh Nathaniel, where Nathaniel actually um comes to understand that Jesus is um the Son of God because he knew something about Nathaniel that no one could have known. Right? Even what he was thinking while he was pondering under the fig tree. the omnipotence of both of of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Um Let's look at Jeremiah 32, for example. Ah, Lord God, behold, you have made the heavens and the earth by your great power. Verse 27, Behold, I am the Lord, the God of all flesh. Is anything too difficult for me? And that's a kind of phrase that you see very often in the Old Testament And in fact, even in the New Testament, that all things are possible with God, and you see an example of that here in Matthew 19. But uh Jesus as well, again going back to the Great Commission passage in Matthew twenty-eight. Jesus came up to them and spoke to them saying, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. All authority. And that passage we read earlier in Isaiah 9 referring to the Messiah, for a child will be born to us, a son will be given to us, and one of his names will be Mighty God. He is God Almighty. And an example of a reference to the Holy Spirit's power Um you might remember Acts 1 8 and you when uh you shall receive power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you, right? But here in Romans 15, um For I will not presume to speak of anything except what Christ has accomplished through me, resulting in the obedience of the Gentiles by word and deed, in the power of signs and wonders, in the power of the Spirit So that from Jerusalem and roundabout as far as Illyrichum I have preached, fully preached the gospel of Christ. Now, who but God is eternal? Right? That's an attribute of that belongs only to God. In Psalm 90, before the mountains were born, or you gave birth to the earth and the world, even from everlasting to everlasting, you are God. Just he is eternal. And we saw earlier from again Isaiah 9. 6, one of his names is Eternal Father, that is, our eternal Creator, the Father of Eternity. uh from eternity past. An interesting one though is Micah 5. 2. You remember this verse? But as for you, Bethlehem, Ephra Too little to be among the clans of Judah. From you one will go forth from me to be ruler in Israel. And again, this is messianic referring to the Christ. His goings forth are from long ago, from the days of eternity. So it's referring to this king of the Jews, yet to be born, who nonetheless was from eternity past. And of course, when the Magi came to uh King Herod and asked, well, where is he who was born king of the Jews? Um It didn't presumably take too long for the the religious leaders there to say, oh well that's it that's a no-brainer. Um it's Bethlehem. Right? They were referring back to this passage. What they weren't quite grasping is that uh his goings forth are from long ago, from days of eternity, and the implications of that. Only God is eternal. Right. Um and then the spirit is referred to as eternal as well in Hebrews nine. Um Let's see here. Creator, I'm on page two thirty. There's lots of examples of obviously God being our creator, but specifically we see evidence of the sun being creator. Uh one of the the the most striking is right from the beginning of John I In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things came into being through him, and apart from him, nothing came into being that has come into being. And that word that it was referring to became flesh and dwelt among us. Colossians 1 is another great example, for he rescued us from the domain of darkness and transferred us into the kingdom of his beloved Son, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. He, that is the Son, is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn, in other words, the preeminent one over all creation. For by him all things were created, both in the heavens and on the earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities All things have been created through him and for him. He is before all things, and in him all things hold together. Just very explicit saying that God the Son is the one through whom all things were created. Uh only God does that, having existed from eternity past. Um And then, of course, the Holy Spirit in the actual creation passage from Genesis 1 makes reference to the Spirit of God was moving over the surface of the waters as this was all being uh formed and and so on. Um Job testified, the Spirit of God has made me, and the breath of the Almighty gives me life Of course, spirit and breath are the same word in Hebrew. And other passages there as well. And then very key also is who is to be worshipped but God alone, right? And so on page two hundred thirty-one we have references to the worship of the Father. Uh lots of examples. of people worshiping Christ and him not um correcting them because they were rightly worshiping him. Even the Magi got it right. And then also the Holy Spirit and his role in worship. First, that worship is a spiritual discipline, and so it's very much in the domain of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit enables us to worship. In fact, He intercedes for us. And we worship in the Spirit of God. We pray at all times in the Spirit and so on. And then specifically in our worship, the Holy Spirit glorifies Christ in John 16. He will glorify me. For he will take of mine and disclose it to you. All things that the Father has are mine, therefore I say to you that he takes of mine and will disclose it to you. So um while the Holy Spirit is um facilitating our worship Uh he causes us to exalt Christ in that worship. So Those are there as sort of a reference if you need to quickly find some passages that help you to show them that Father, Son, Holy Spirit all have the attributes of God. Uh and yet there's only one God. Um and uh I forget Where I have it here, but um in case they get hung up on the terminology three persons I think we've talked about this before. Um that doesn't refer to them as three people. It means that they're um they have the Characteristics of personality. We are persons because we're created in God's image. Right? He has always existed as three persons, having intellect, emotion, will. uh spiritual dimension. God is spirit. So the word persons doesn't refer to uh doesn't refer to people in this sense And when we're referred to as persons, that's what it means. We're we're people, and we use personal pronouns to talk about us. He, she. These days they use all sorts of pronouns, right? Um but um we're created in God's image, therefore we have personality. We are persons. That's not true of the animals. Now you may think they have personality, they they may be unique, but that's not they're not persons in the sense of God's image. So there are lots of other references to the triune nature of God. uh particularly in the New Testament where even though it should have been clear to some extent, even from the Old Testament times, with the appearance of Christ, it sort of forces the issue, the nature of God's very existence. And so uh there's multiple references to Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. Um uh in teaching and in um actual events, you know, like the um the baptism of Christ, where they're all um interact or uh you know having a role uh in the birth of Christ, the baptism of Christ, the the um um Several times when when God spoke from heaven, the Father spoke from heaven about his son, you know, this is my beloved son in whom I am well pleased to listen to him, kind of a thing, like at the Transfiguration. Um I don't think that particular experience um made reference to the spirit, but um you see these references uh multiple times where all three are involved or all three are mentioned. So I'm on the bottom of page two hundred thirty-three, but before we walk through how you can maybe address this with your Muslim friends, are there any other questions so far? Okay, so on the bottom page 233, just some suggestions of how you might interact with your Muslim friends to uh ask questions about these things and what you know as you look through various passages. So you could start with, well did you know that Christianity taught the unity of God? Continuing uh Jewish understanding of God long before Muhammad was born. So um Focus first on the unity of God, like we we walked through. And so there's some questions here you can ask about the passages we we made reference to And just get them to read the passages and interact with them and see what they're saying and just let God's word do what only God's Word can do. And then number two on page two hundred thirty-four, however, did you know that God has revealed himself in the scriptures even to the staunchly monotheistic Jews as eternally existing in three persons. Here's where I mention that the term person here doesn't mean Uh the human it means having personality. Um And so then you could take them to these passages like the Deuteronomy 31 passage, Isaiah, Psalms, and so on. And so there's an example here on the bottom of page 234 where you can read through um the passages and then just just ask these very you know step-by-step questions about so what are you seeing in the passage here? Um do these passages refer to him Uh or of whom do these prophets speak in connection with God? Here it's speaking of the Holy Spirit. Do these passages refer to him as one of potentially many spirits? No. Is the Holy Spirit simply a name that is synonymous with God the Father in these passages? No, because as you work through these passages that are there, it's obvious that um it's making a distinction between God and God the Father and the Spirit So just other passages you can take them through and ask them just obvious questions about what you're seeing in the passage so they can they can wrestle with it, they can see what it's actually saying and not what they're they're um limited to by their their own logic. What is it the scriptures actually say? And so we read from Psalm 45, you can ask him, uh so how does that Psalm describe the person in question? Well, as a mighty king, he is fairer than the sons of men. I'm on the bottom of page two thirty-five here now. Um It's called God. It's distinct from God. That's weird. Right? Uh he is characterized his rule is eternal, and that can be true only of God. He's characterized by the attributes of grace and might and splendor, majesty, truth, meekness, and righteousness. Well, did you know that the New Testament acknowledges that this psalm refers to Jesus Christ? And did you know that when Jesus came the first time, it was as a suffering servant, and you can take him to Isaiah 53. who came to offer himself as the sacrificial sacrificial lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. But when he returns, he will come as the conquering king, the one who will sit on the throne of David and fulfill Psalm 45. So there's opportunity here to get them, you know, the more they they are interested in in figuring out some of these key doctrines from a Christian perspective, you know, what does the Bible actually say? It's going to lead you down some interesting conversations about God's plan for salvation. And we're going to get to that too. But just the nature of God, his plan here in terms of um Christ coming first as suffering servant, and then later as as uh um conquering king. Um it all kind of ties together. Um And then we we looked at Micah V. That's an interesting one to take them to. And you could ask questions like, uh, where was this ruler prophesied to be born? In Bethlehem. And say, Yeah, the Jewish believers knew that already and they advised the magi about that. So what does it say is about about his real origins? That he's eternally existent, that he's from long eternity past. So how could a human being be born yet have existed from eternity past? And he'll say, I don't know. Well you're right, I don't know either, except that it's referring to God taking on human flesh, becoming a man. Having existed eternally, um, he steps into time in time and space. That should send them home thinking. And that's good. Get them to wrestle with what Scripture actually says. Okay. Let's pray