Is there anybody here who does not have the ability to download those notes real quickly? Anyone with because we have a couple hard copies of the notes you can use for today. Okay. Diane has them up here. So I would encourage you during the week to um uh download the PDFs and and you'll be in good shape. So today Let me ask you some questions here. Let me have you stand up if you have a Muslim friend. Real good. All right. And stand up if you have a Muslim no, stay standing. Stand up if you have a Muslim neighbor. No, stay standing if you're standing. Stay standing. Stand up if you have a Muslim co-worker. Anyone with a Muslim co-worker? Okay. Uh stand up if you have met or seen a Muslim. Standing on the inside. Um Stand up if you have seen a mosque in Maryland. Okay, stand up if you've heard something about Muslims in the US. That means everybody else. No, sit down. Hang on, hang on. Sit down if if you think that God cannot or will not save Muslims by the power of the gospel. Good, you're all still standing. Sit down if you think that Muslims in the DC Baltimore area are more of a problem than an opportunity for world evangelism. Okay. Sit down if you think that there's no way God could use you to show a Muslim how salvation in Jesus Christ Has given you genuine love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, gentleness, faithfulness, self-control Good, you're all still standing. Sit down if you want to learn how you can pray for, befriend, and present the gospel to Muslims right in our backyard. You thought you were gonna be standing all clad, right? All right. Well that's that's why we're here. This This class has two parts, as the title suggests. The first part is understanding Islam, and that's going to take us pretty much all this quarter, and then some. And then the second part is evangelizing Muslims. And in order to evangelize Muslims, we need to know where they're coming from, uh what their their uh their background is, what their hangups are about Christianity, that kind of thing. And then just some some helpful tips on how to communicate the gospel to them. Okay. So with that intro, our first lesson today is why study Islam? And there are several reasons we want to touch on here today. And we'll start with demographic reasons. Did you realize that almost a quarter of the world's population is Muslim? Almost a quarter. In fact, it may be more by now. And so I have in the notes here some uh listings of the uh largest the countries with the largest concentrations of of Muslims And uh back this was two thousand nine, I suppose I could update this, but um in the US We had something like 0. 2% of all Muslims in the world are in the US and 0. 8 of a percent of our population that is Muslim. And so I'm I'm actually pretty sure that's larger now. And um so the various um Statistics here about the the dispersion of Muslims uh worldwide. Um I don't know if you realize that Indonesia actually has the highest count of Muslims. Uh Indonesia is it it seems somewhat small because it's kind of scattered, but um um very populous and uh almost entirely Muslim. Then you have Pakistan, uh India of course, and and so on. Okay, so very large portion of the world's population is caught up in Islam. Secondly, and this is on page ten now, Islam is one of the fastest growing religions in the world. And so uh I've got some statistics here from um uh a variety of sources, but uh but um The growth rate of Islam is by sort of objective measures quite a bit more than uh other religions. Now why would that be? Birth reasons. Well there are a number of reasons. Yeah I list some of them here. Birth race is one. I've got large families as number three Um uh but it's often uh a requirement, right? They're they're born into it, it's a requirement, that is what you are, it's a state religion. Um There's no freedom of religion. If you're born in this country and born in that family, you are by definition then a a Muslim. But coupled with that, there are strong penalties for converting to another religion, away from Islam. And um I'm sure that keeps a lot of people who uh might otherwise be searching elsewhere. Um Keeps them from doing so. There are people who are converting to Islam. And there are a number of reasons for that, I gather. There's the perception and often probably a very real uh perception that uh in Islam you've got um uh organization, you've got community And some people are searching for those kind of things, not really understanding the spiritual dimensions. And um and so that's another reason. But there's also a lot of expansion of Muslims and their ideology and so on. through um state financed um uh oil wealth financed expansion into other countries And um that just is what it is. So should that be a concern? Well I view it more as an opportunity. And I've printed here the words of Jesus from Matthew 7, the Sermon on the Mount, where he said, Enter through the narrow gate. For the gate is wide and the way is broad that leads to destruction, and there are many who enter through it. For the gate is small and the way is narrow that leads to life. And there are how many who find it? Few. Now that's um That's uh unfortunate. Um, but God, Jesus, never expected Christianity to be um uh the worldwide religion, even the largest necessarily because it's few who find it, right? Um let alone fastest growing. Um but it is the truth. And uh God does want us to represent that truth, to communicate that truth to all peoples, and that includes Muslims, many of whom He is saving, by the way. And um that's cool. And then um Because some of you have actually experienced this. You've got Muslim neighbors, co-workers, people you rub shoulders with, and that alone is a reason to uh be well prepared in communicating with them, right? And um being able to present the gospel to them, the uh and and perhaps uh more importantly than maybe with some people's um your life your your um The peace that you have with God and the impact that that has on your everyday life is something that people ought to say, what makes you tick? And that would it turns out with with Muslims, particularly uh well, uh anywhere I guess. Um I was going to say particularly here, but they may have more opportunity here to encounter Christians whose lives have been transformed by Christ and that God can use to uh open their eyes to the gospel and the need for salvation. Okay, so lots of demographic Reasons why it's important for us to be prepared in this way. There are some political reasons too. Obviously Islamic terrorists p promote or pose a a serious ongoing uh threat to Western nations, obviously including the I uh the the US. Um and if Islam and the way it's practiced and so on is not compromised by secular institutions and ideas, which often it is, but uh even when it's not, Islam is a socio-political system. That is intent on the elimination of all competing systems, including arms. And so they they see no distinction if if they're literally following the Quran and Islam as it was uh started and meant to be, uh there's no distinction between say uh religion and state. It's all it's all one thing. And Uh that they view is is the way Allah designed it. It's the way it should be, and we need to strive toward making that that uh True everywhere. And so in that sense Uh even though it is a lot older, it's very similar to some of the other ideologies that were characteristic of uh say the 20th century. So Nazism communism, other isms that have had a sort of a global uh a aspiration Uh uh Islam is very and always has been very much that way. And then thirdly, here, nations under Islamic rule, even if they are compromised by secular institutions and ideas, these nations are uniformly oppressive. of women, of dissenters. They recognize no freedom of religion, because in their view there is really only one true religion. It has to be uh forced on people. No freedom of of speech or the press. And you've seen lots of examples and evidences of that in the news, right? Entire people groups are systematically killed or subjugated by Muslim overlords. And it's always been that way, ever since Muhammad. Um and so there's just a lot of basic human rights concerns that people have about Islam, quite apart from the the spiritual aspects of it. Yeah. Yes. I'm not sure about the validity of their religion or what might be going on in their hearts, but people very obviously do see the inconsistencies. Yeah. In fact, it it would be it's inconsistent, say in Saudi Arabia, to have a king, to have a monarchy. That's not Muslim. No? No, that's not Muslim. Uh do they have? What what should they have? They should they should be f according to the Quran, they should be following the example of of um Muhammad And so he wasn't a king, but he was the supreme leader of all th all things. So it's not just civil affairs, but also religious matters and so on And so uh separating the two is is not true Islam. Um and I think uh some people realize that but realize that there's not much they can do to change the status quo. I don't know. But was there another question? Yeah. Yeah. So it's just an example of how things evolve over time. Islam has evolved over time. And And so you've got factions now, we'll look at some of those factions, some of the history behind them as well. But um Um but but anyway the point is that that there are just fundamental human rights concerns that everyone should have, and a lot of people who aren't even Christians have great concerns about life under Islamic rule. So that should um uh be a concern to us as well. Um Yeah. Right, right. Yep. Um I think Point D I had on the top of page 11 is similar to what we've just been talking about. Representative democracy as practiced in the West is incompatible with Islam. uh the in in Islam there needs to be um this combination of of the state and religion And uh there can be a supreme ruler, but it's not just civil, it's also religious. Um and so representative democracy, that's that's that's off off the radar. in Islamic thinking. Um but because of that, if a Western nation like the US uh conducts a war to liberate oppressed Muslims, say in Kuwait Afghanistan, wherever. And if they succeed in in that liberation, if you will And then they seek to um establish a democracy there so that people can choose their own leaders and and have sort of the the freedoms that that we enjoy and so on. The very act of trying to impose that form of government is seen as an assault on Islam. That's major. Yeah, that's huge. And and you know, we think, or at least we we say, that we do these things to free people and to allow them to to pursue their own choices and destiny and and so on, that is just so incompatible with um Islamic thinking, but that's viewed as an attack on Islam. And uh I know uh uh George Bush II one um made lots of pronouncements about you know Islam is is is a religion of peace our are c our our um Which it's not, by the way. Um and our our actions are not an assault on Islam, it's it's just to free these people. Well that doesn't that doesn't register at all with people who are um uh entrenched in in Islam. And then uh another sort of political Uh fact is that understanding the current people and events in the Holy Land requires an understanding of Islam and its view of Israel. And that should be of interest to us as well. But certainly the major reason we ought to be understanding of Islam and how to reach out to to Muslims is the the various spiritual reasons, obviously, which are uh primary. Muslims are spiritually dead like everybody else, apart from Christ, right? Even though most of them say and may even want to be submitted to their maker, their creator. But do you think they're seeing any any uh uh success in that? No. I mean uh uh apart from Christ, there's no way that anybody's going to um uh please God, have any kind of peace about um eternity and and so on Secondly, Muslims misunderstand both the Bible and Christianity in ways that strengthen their resistance to the truth. Since they don't understand any distinction between political and religious institutions, they view Western culture, nations, and leaders as being Christian. Hollywood is a product of Christian thought, they say. Right? Um and all the you know, school shootings and all this sort of stuff is a byproduct of of a Christian nation. Um I'm just thinking of these things that you can see in the world and think, well that that's that's what the Christian nation brings in. No thank you. Right And so their their their whole frame of mind um builds this resistance to the truth. Which is which is hard. It's very unfortunate. Um Right. Yeah. Excellent point Ricardo makes here. Um And that kind of, it's an excellent segue to a major point here, and that is that we're used to people who think they're Christians, but really aren't Right? They misunderstand Christianity, but they've always grown up in sort of that culture. They they view themselves as Christians, but they've not repented from their sins. They've not trusted Christ as Savior. And so they're not actually Christians. And so if you look at statistics worldwide of how many Christians there are, a lot of those people are going to be included as Christians when they're really not. Right? That's not true of Islam. Um for in Islam, um And we're gonna go over in detail what what it means to be an Islam or to a Muslim and how you become a Muslim. But all those people who um are are brought up in Islamic culture, Islamic families, they are by definition Muslims, even if they don't know anything about the Quran. They don't know anything about um well they may know a few things about the life of Muhammad and and so on, but very little, perhaps. Um And a lot of places in the world they don't know Arabic anyway. It's sort of like people growing up in the Middle Ages. They didn't know Latin, and so they just had to trust what the what the priests were telling them, right? Um so you get a lot of that, but that doesn't mean they're not Muslims. Becoming a Muslim is a whole lot easier in in the in that sense than becoming a Christian. And um so within among the Muslims you've got people who are very, as you might say, hardcore. They're trying to live by the book, by the Quran, and follow the example of Muhammad. And you've got other people who are just sort of culturally Muslim. They they would identify as Muslims, so they are Muslims, but they don't know anything about A lot of those details. And they're not about to go out and blow themselves up, right? Um And so you're going to have a wide range of of uh understandings, opinions, aspirations uh among Muslims. And most of the ones we would encounter here, I think, are in that latter category, where uh they're not as as um What's the word here? Um zealous and even informed about the actual nature of Islam and the Quran and so on. Um and so yeah, you're gonna have this this wide range. Yeah, and there have been some um uh what pushback in some countries? You know the the uh what do they call it the Islamic spring they had a few years ago when there was some some um um protests and so on Um for all sorts of reasons, I'm sure. But um for the most part there's very little pushback. People have no choices, no freedom of speech, and and so on. Okay. Um so Muslims misunderstand the Bible and Christianity, but it's not just that. Most Christians misunderstand Islam and Muslims, making it hard to evangelize. And so that's why we're here today. Fourthly, God wants us to reach out to them with the true gospel of salvation in Jesus Christ. And we don't have to go to them, they've come to us. We've got opportunities. In this area, probably more than most areas of the country. Um and so we've got opportunities. And it turns out, so I I've heard and read numerous places that strong Christian churches are the only sure means of countering the worldwide spread of Islam and the oppression it brings with it. God's plan is through the church, anyway, but it's particularly effective. in reaching out to Muslims. And so because Islam is a packaged it's packaged to appeal to societies that are are weak Muslims go into a country that's just um I'm thinking particularly um Western Europe where where there's not a lot of um strong biblical witness and and uh morality um has has gone down over the generations. Um Islam gets packaged to appeal to societies like that And if they're tolerant of all views, which is the trendy thing, anything goes, then these people are welcomed in. And often they have an agenda. And that has direct implications for our own discipleship and foreign missions. I'm reminded here in Matthew 16 where Jesus said, But who do you say that I am? And Simon Peter says, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God. And Jesus said to him, Blessed are you, Simon Bardona, because flesh and blood did not reveal this to you, but my Father who is in heaven did. I also say to you that you are Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church, and the gates of Hades will not overpower it. has so designed the church to be um um the vehicle for for not only feeding his flock but also reaching out to And we have that opportunity. Right. No, no, for sure. Um However, even in that context, and it is a good strategy to ask questions and to show genuine interest in understanding their experience, what their their um uh religion is all about and I'm sure you're gonna learn lots of things that way. But it's also good before and while doing that um to be doing your homework and to be uh to know what kind of questions would be good questions. And what kind of coestions would be counterproductive questions, at least in the early going. And so um It it's always going to be good to be well informed, but definitely when you interact with a Muslim friend, neighbor, coworker, um Be uh inquisitive. And likely they're going to be inquisitive also back to you. And that's good. It's a good conversation And that may take a while, but you're establishing good good um information, good rapport. Excellent. Yeah. Not only a type of Christian, but a genuine Christian. That's right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, and that's like I say, you know, th they they view um uh places like the U. S. as a Christian nation, so every everybody must be a Christian. They're not Muslims. They must be a Christian or Jew. And um Um they just don't have that category for a genuine Christian as opposed to one in name only. Well they do. They do. But um Um the US kind of portrays itself as being a Christian nation. And uh even in other maybe less so, uh Western Europe but other countries, um they say, well You know, their mindset is if if this is where you live, this is your culture, you must be of that religion. And the idea that uh the U. S. is uh uh tolerance of of all religions uh doesn't take away from the fact that Christianity is the the the primary uh one that people label themselves at here. And um um so they just associate the country, the the society, the culture as being a product of Christianity. Yeah. Yeah. Sure. Yeah, they they would recognize that some people completely deny the existence of God. They're just as bad off. But Yeah, all the alternatives are are a bad thing, in their view, right? Yeah. Not necessarily. I don't know that I would I would um uh provide a generalization there, but um Only God can prepare the person's heart anyway. Our our job is just to be faithful in presenting the gospel, uh living out the gospel And so, you know, I I I don't want to suggest that you should ignore all your non-Muslim friends who need Christ. Um, but um This is just to help equip you to interact with those who are Muslims. Yeah. Okay. Um Letter F there in that category of spiritual reasons. Islam has always been a works-based religion. In fact I don't know if you've realized this, but every religion apart from biblical Christianity is a works-based religion. Even atheists uh believe well it's basically a works-based religion Way of thinking. But anyway, Islam has become one of the primary tools Satan uses throughout the world today to deceive people into rejecting Jesus Christ. And um the Quran itself teaches that. So um But it no, it doesn't teach that it's a tool of Satan. But actually, Satan's fingerprints are all over the Quran. We're gonna look at that. Um no, what it teaches is the necessity to reject Christ the way the Bible presents Christ. He's not God. Exactly the words you would expect Satan to use, right? He didn't even die on the cross. Um and there can be no other person who can take your sins and pay for your sins. That's all straight from the Quran. And so yeah, I don't know if you've read through the Quran, but it it's not all that long. You read through it and you see Satan's fingerprints all over it A direct attack on Jesus Christ. A direct attack on the true Jesus Christ. Now they meant they're meant to, and the Quran says, and um Most Muslims believe that Jesus was a very good person. He was the last in a line of prophets until you get to Muhammad. And he's he's in their view to be uh highly respected, as were all the earlier prophets, but he's just a human. in their view, and not God. And um that's exactly the way Satan operates. To take some of the truth and twist it. Right. Well, in that vein, here on the bottom of page eleven, from Second Corinthians eleven Where Paul writes, I'm afraid that as the serpent deceived Eve by his craftiness, your minds will be led astray from the simplicity and purity of devotion to Christ. For if one comes and preaches another Jesus, whom we have not preached, or you received a different spirit, which you have not received, or a different gospel, which you have not accepted. You bear this beautifully. He's being facetious there. And in Galatians 1, but even if we or an angel from heaven should preach to you a gospel contrary to what we have proclaimed to you, He is to be accursed. As we have said before, so I say again now, if any man is preaching to you a gospel contrary to what you received, he is to be accursed. And so this twisting of the truth in order to convey a lie that doesn't look like a lie is Satan's pattern and you've got that big time in Islam Okay, so I want to begin before we get into a lot of details with some definitions. Some of them may be obvious, but uh Islam is the religion of Muslims. Right? So uh it's monotheistic as we are. There's only one God It teaches the beliefs in uh Allah, however, as opposed to the true God Yahweh. Islam is an Arabic word that means resignation, surrender to, submission to the will of Allah. So the fundamental aspect and the very core of the meaning of Islam is submission to Allah. Uh it's derived from the Arabic root salima, which means to be well, safe, secure, and unharmed. And so uh I I've included here some some uh quotes from the Quran itself. This day I from from chapter five, for example, this day I have preferred perfected your religion for you. This is now supposedly Allah speaking through the angel Gabriel to Muhammad. I perfected your religion for you, completed my favor upon you, and have chosen for you Islam for your religion. And then in chapter three, the religion before God is Islam. I mean th there's nothing else. uh which means submission to his will. Nor did the people of the book dissent therefrom, except through envying each other. The people of the book are who? Christians and Jews. Sometimes the Quran um doesn't distinguish between Christians and Jews when it says people of the book. Sometimes it's very clearly Christian, sometimes it's very clearly mostly just Jews. Yeah. Part of that may be the English translation. I'm always using here the most respected of the English translations. But Yeah. But you you you've also got the difficulty of a as you know uh translating from any language to another language, you can't always carry all the the nuances and and so on. But yes, yes. In fact, anytime you see in these quotations A parentheses, something parenthetical. Don't think of it as something parenthetical. Just read right through it. That's my conclusion The best way to understand what's being said is that what's in parentheses is not an explanation, it's it's it's part of the sentence. Uh I don't know what Arabic does, but it's in the translation. Yeah. Yeah. Right, right. Yeah, and so there was a lot of resistance to any translation, particularly in English, for a long, long time. This one, however, was made by a very dedicated Muslim, and um he dedicated it to the glory of Allah and it's it's by general consensus the most faithful to the Arabic as far as I know Um it's it's referenced in my on the back of my title page, yeah. Um yeah Uh that's a complex thing, and we're gonna talk about that. Um What w how about as part of your homework you you read the appendix in the back of the thing? It it's about the doctrine of tachia Which is basically um the the the exalted doctrine of being deceptive. being um deceitful for strategic reasons. And so um it's kind of hard to hold their feet to the fire when um Um even Allah is the foremost of all deceivers, in their view. In the view of the the Quran. Um So it's a little hard to apply the same principles, but if you see something that very clearly there's no nuances about it, Some of the things that it says are going to make them squirm. Or at least show that it's in direct opposition to what Scripture says. Very clearly. You don't have to read nuances at all in most cases. Yeah. Memorizing it and reciting it in Arabic, even though they don't know Arabic. Mm-hmm. Yep, that's a good way to put it. It'd be debasing it. Yeah. But you need to uh live by it. Which which um they could be selective about what they what they uh understand and believe and and and so on. Um Yeah, they're not unique, are they? Yeah. We do, we do, and uh um The opportunity to live out our faith um in the midst of um those from a Muslim background ought to give us opportunity to show them Christ likeness and um not um You know, prejudice and and this kind of thing. Yeah. Okay. Uh well okay uh from uh chapter three the chapters are called surahs in the Quran, surah three Verse 85, if anyone desires a religion other than Islam, submission to the will of God, never will it be accepted of him. And in the hereafter, he will be in the ranks of those who have lost all spiritual good. So it's either Islam or nothing. The Quran is um you know it's interesting you use the word written. Um it's all from Muhammad. He couldn't write. Okay. It wasn't written in his lifetime. It was written shortly after he died. Okay. Shortly in the next one. There were several attempts. Um and we're we're gonna cover that here in the next couple of weeks. But uh it's an interesting history. Yes. So in in theory, uh in in Muslim doctrine and even uh what you see in the Quran that there's um the mother of the book is in heaven. That means it was originally inscribed in stone in heaven. And pieces of it were presented through prophets leading up to the time of of uh Muhammad. And so their their thinking is that that um even uh the Old Testament, even the New Testament Well, they wouldn't say New Testament, they would say the Injiel, the Gospel. Uh not the four gospels, but just the teachings of Christ. um were all derived originally from the mother of the book in heaven, at least trying to expound it and and so on. And that's why uh Jews and Christians are called people of the book uh because they're guided by a book and that book has its origins ultimately in in heaven with Allah But the ultimate uh revelation of the book was through uh Muhammad and became the Quran. Yeah. That it came through just one person, Muhammad. Another difference is that it's very uh explicitly um What's the word? Dictated to Muhammad. He is to write down the exact words that he's being told. It's a recitation. And uh that's not what we believe verbal inspiration is in scripture. It's not dictation It's God inspiring the authors but also inspiring the words, but using even the the um uh cultural context of the authors, the the personalities of the authors authors, but uh still inspiring the very words, even though not dictating them. And that's hard to understand. But it's not dictation the way you would normally think of it. It's certainly not the way that that Muslims view the Quran. And the the way the Quran views itself It views itself as a dictation of the actual words presented through the angel Gabriel to Muhammad over a long period of time. So it's a bit different. But similar. And because of its supposed divine origin, it's revered. Very similar. Yeah. Okay. So a Muslim, then, is a person who practices the religion of Islam Muslim, the word, is an Arabic word that means one who submits to the will of Allah. And that's even recorded in in the Quran. Surah 22, for example, says Strive in his cause as you might as you ought to strive with sincerity and under discipline. He has chosen you and has imposed no difficulties on you in religion. Is the cult of your father, Abraham? And they're using the cult here in a positive sense, actually. It's derived from Abraham They say. It is he who has named you Muslims. In in their view, in the view of the Quran, Abraham was the first Muslim Submitted to the will of God and were to follow his example. Of course, they trace their lineage not through Isaac, but rather through Ishmael. Uh named you Muslims both before and in this revelation, before meaning dating all the way back to Abraham. And in this revelation, the Quran, that the messenger, that is, Muhammad, may be a witness for you, and you be witnesses for mankind. So it would spread. So establish regular prayer, give regular charity, hold fast to God. He is your protector, the best to protect, and the best to help. Um okay, so it's it may be um tempting to to use words like Arab and Muslims uh uh interchangeably, but not all Arabs. Um um are Muslims. In fact we know some very strong Christians who are Arabs, right? Um And not all Muslims are Arab. Where was the largest concentration of Muslims? Indonesia. Right? They're not Arabs. So uh it it's helpful not to make generalities and and uh unnecessary uh linkages like that Okay. So what we're going to do in the next uh several weeks uh is Start next week with the historical and cultural context of Islam's origins, and then move on to studying Muhammad himself. and his his background and um uh uh activities and so on. Then we'll spend a couple of weeks giving an overview of the Quran itself and how it's structured and and so on. And then you can't really study the Quran without also studying the Hadith. The Hadith are writings um about Muhammad and what Muhammad did, what he said, that are not Muslims wouldn't view them as inspired the way they think of the Quran, but they're right up there in terms of authority because The Quran teaches that you're supposed to listen to, obey, and follow the example of Muhammad, and that's fleshed out a lot in the hadith. They have that to follow. And that that's uh so we'll give an overview of that and and how it all fits together Then we'll work through the core beliefs of Islam and related things about Islamic sex. uh divisions within Islam. You you've heard of uh Sunni and Shi'ite and how that all fits together and so on. And there are others as well. Study jihad and its basis in the Quran and the Hadith. Um And then when we get to the second half, which is I think going to be next quarter, we'll begin looking at um Some of the misunderstandings that Muslims might have, not all of them will have, but uh if they have them, it's because of what's in the Quran. And so we'll talk about some of those misunderstandings and what the truth is from Scripture. So you'll have a resource about how to answer their questions. Maybe they heard something about um uh uh Christianity or even uh uh something about what um Islam teaches And you'll have some resources here about where to take them in Scripture to address that. Okay? So any uh any questions at this point? Good. Yeah. Yeah, so the question is um Allah the the word Allah in Arabic just means God, the God. Um and The God of the Quran is not the God of Scripture. And so is it right to refer to the true God, if you're speaking in Arabic, to use the word Allah? Well, technically it is the word for God. Um it's unfortunate that um What's associated with Allah in Islam is so different from what we know to be true of the real God. And so I I uh th there are I know there are Christians who who try not to make that distinction uh and try to work with the concept that we're really talking about the same God but we just understand him differently. I think that's wrong. But um there are some well meaning Christians who take that approach. Um and so I but I I'm not exactly sure what to suggest. And it helps that I'm not Arabic. I don't have to use Arabic to address God. Um The key is is the person understanding the true nature of God from Scripture as he has revealed himself, as opposed to confusing what the Quran teaches and what scripture teaches. If he's confusing it, you we need to correct him. If he really understands the tr the true nature of God as revealed in Scripture, and that's how he's addressing him. Um I don't see any problem with that. Yahweh is uh a good alternative. Yeah. Anyway, let's uh let's close in prayer for today, okay?