Okay, so uh last week we actually began uh uh lesson three moving we started talking a lot about uh the historical and cultural background of how um and when Islam got started But we began also talking about Muhammad, his his history, where he came from and so on. And uh one thing I wanted to note On the bottom of page 18, there's a reference there to Nestorianism having been condemned as heresy. At the Council of Nicaea, that's that not actually correct. And uh thanks to Caesar I confirmed that. Uh it was the Council of Ephesus Uh Nicaea was the first in a series of of church councils. The one at Ephesus was the third. Um so um the date is correct, everything's correct. Yeah, just that the the source I was citing, um actually the way it put it was the Council of Nicaea at the And I just dropped the Ephesus part, and the ISEA part was actually misleading, even wrong. Anyway, so Um on page twenty there's a map there of the Arabian Peninsula, Middle East generally And right below that there's a section that we want to start with today about Muhammad's prophecy, quote, unquote prophecy. So um I mentioned last week that these uh visions and um so called prophecies came to him uh over fairly significant amount of time, piecemeal. And the very first one, apparently that he uh was given is here on on page twenty. It's in the Quran, you would expect it to be chapter one, verse one, but it's not. It's It's chapter Surah ninety-six, verse one through five, and it says, Proclaim or read in the name of thy Lord and Cherisher Who created, created man out of a mere clot of congealed blood, proclaim, and thy Lord is most bountiful He who taught the use of the pen taught man that which he knew not. There you go. That was his first experience with uh getting these messages and no wonder he was questioning what is this all about, right? And uh his first presumption was that uh some evil spirit who is trying to speak to him, he should have c gone down that path a little bit more and and and investigated that But uh his wife, Khadijah, and uh her cousin, who was a monotheist, which was very rare at that time in in in that area. Uh they both convinced him I don't know how long it took, but they convinced him that in fact uh Allah was commissioning him as a prophet. And so he needs to be um ready to receive whatever messages come. So yeah. Yeah, there's quite a lot. Yeah. Um Uh but I'm not all that concerned about it. There are far more in uh serious errors in the Quran. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Right from the get go. Yeah. Yeah. We're gonna um devote a little bit of time later on to uh investigating some uh inaccuracies in the Quran, historical um Scientific, whatever. Um so th there are several. But it's interesting, yeah, right from the get go. Uh well it's pretty well known. Um this reference I have here to Afera. By the way, the the the references there's a bibliography in the back Um Farah, Caesar Farah, uh is a Muslim and he's a historian and he put together um a rather comprehensive book that I leaned on heavily here Yeah. No. No, no um unless unless um um well whenever I mention those things and if I have a little citation Um i it's if it's in the Quran, the citation the actually sometimes the the text of the Quran I'll I'll include. Uh but if it's if it's someone else Uh I'll note that as well. But Farah himself and and I I actually started my study of Islam by reading Farah. I wanted to understand what their understanding of the the the background, the teachings, the whole he he goes through the whole lot. Uh very helpful. Very helpful. Yeah. Um I forget now what um what that particular book included Um, but you can just read the hadith and you see that. You read uh the Quran as either the basis for it. Um and other writers have um documented these things as well. And we're gonna cover a few of those things here even today. Um but uh I think for the most part there's not a lot of um uh disagreement about the facts. Muslims, however, devout Muslims, will say, well not regr not w notwithstanding any of that It's incumbent on us to revere, follow the example of, uh, obey the commands of Muhammad. And um They just let the chips fall where they may. It's just the supreme thing in their well, the Quran requires it, actually, that they follow his example Uh which is the reason for the hadith, the other writings about his life, and about things that he did and said and Okay. So On uh top of page twenty-one, uh just documenting here from the Quran that uh this idea that he was possibly uh demon possessed was acknowledged in these visions and things that he was uh supposed to include in his uh ultimately the Quran, but in his communication with the other people, this is what he's to say. So look for example here at um And and you see this this squiggly line? That's always a quote from the Quran, a direct quote. And so in chapter fifteen, Surah fifteen, verse six It says, They say, that is, people around you say, O thou to whom the message is being revealed, truly thou art mad or possessed. So there's an acknowledgement, this is the accusation being leveled against Muhammad, right? twenty three twenty five. And some said he is only a man possessed. Wait and have patience with him for a time. Um I guess the implication there is it'll run its course uh if it's if it's this isn't real. It's ch he's just mad. Later in that same Surah twenty three first seventy Or do they say he is possessed? Nay. He has brought them the truth, but most of them hate the truth. Well, that part is probably right. Most of them probably do hate the truth. Um but he wasn't bringing them the truth. Look down to Surah fifty one, ver uh verse thirty-nine. Uh here's an example being given to Muhammad. But Pharaoh turned back with his chiefs and said, A sorcerer or one possessed. In other words, Pharaoh was falsely presuming that Moses was demon-possessed. And so it's something of a badge of honor that even Muhammad would be accused of having, um, an evil spirit or something like that And then later in that same Surah fifty-one fifty two, similarly, no message came to the prophets before them, but they said of him, in like manner, a sorcerer or one possessed So again, uh the message to Muhammad here is take this as a badge of honor, if that's what they're saying about you uh which they are, then um it only shows that you're convicting them. They're making excuses Uh you're not the first one for this to happen to don't worry about it. That's kind of the the meaning here. Um now right below that in Point number four I say that um Jesus of course acknowledged that true prophets are not welcome in their um hometown. Uh they're often abused or even killed, and even he was accused of being demon possessed, right? Um of course in his case, I'm pretty sure what prompted the the um uh accusation of Uh this being the work of Baal, it was the the religious leaders trying to explain his miracles Yeah, he does these things because he casts out demons by the prince of the demons, right? They're trying to explain the the miracles Well, uh, Muhammad didn't do any miracles. It was just what he was saying. And so anyway, while it is true that um um Jesus' contemporaries, uh the religious leaders, Jewish leaders, and so on, um were trying to come up with any excuse they could to undermine the uh authenticity of the message that Jesus is uh giving to them, even to the extent of claiming he was demon possessed, that doesn't mean that everyone who's accused of being demon possessed um is right. So anyway, that brings us though to uh the key biblical question here. How can you tell a true prophet from a false prophet? Right, and and God of course has given us very specific um tests to apply. And um 1 John 4, for example, says, Beloved, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits and see whether they are from God, because many false prophets have gone out. into the world. So how do we test what um prophets would say? Well, the first test is that the prophecy must be authoritative. Even uh it it's it's clear that uh it's being given by God. You know, thus saith the Lord. Right? Now that doesn't in and of itself prove it, but if it doesn't claim to be from God, do you want to attribute that to it That's the point. Right? So Exodus seven seventeen, for example. Thus says the Lord, by this you shall know that I am the Lord. Behold, I will do this. Uh 1 Samuel 15, 2. Thus says the Lord of hosts, I will punish Amalek for what he did to Israel. Likewise in Isaiah Uh Jesus himself, in Matthew five, for example, uh the Sermon on the Mount uh is a great example of this, where where he's not just uh repeating what was already revealed by God. He says, uh you have heard that the ancients were told, you shall not commit murder. They were uh and whatever and whoever commits murder shall be liable to the court, but I say to you that everyone who is angry with his brother shall be guilty before the court. And whoever says to his brother, You are good for nothing, shall be guilty before the Supreme Court, and so on. And at the end then of the Sermon on the Mount, uh, Matthew writes this this summary. When Jesus had finished these words The crowds were amazed at his teaching, for he was teaching them as one having authority, not as their scribes. And um So it's it's not a sufficient test. Someone could be talking as if they were very authoritative and then fail the other tests. Right? But um if if something is put out there as a theory, that's clearly not prophetic, right? That's not coming from God's. Uh or if it's clearly someone's opinion um that doesn't cut it. I mean what we're interested in is what God is trying to reveal, not people's opinions, right? Uh but like with Jesus is speaking either in the name of God directly or speaking with authority, um, amplify what God has already revealed. Here's what You know, that's that's the law. Here's the the the spirit of that law. It goes even deeper. Okay, the second test. The prophecy must include, or the prophet himself overall, must include the foretelling of future events that could not be predicted apart from God's knowledge. God exists outside of time, and so if he knows the future and can reveal that ahead of time And it comes true, how can you explain that except that God is um revealing it before it happens? Um And so in Deuteronomy eighteen, for example, the prophet who speaks to you a word presumptuously in my name, which I have not commanded him to speak. or which he speaks in the name of other gods, that prophet shall die. You may say in your heart, How will we know the word which the Lord has not spoken. Here's his answer. When a prophet speaks in the name of the Lord, if the thing does not come about or come true That is the thing which the Lord has not spoken. The prophet has spoken it presumptuously. You shall not be afraid of him. So prophecy is not just forthelling, thus saith the Lord. It's also foretelling. And a a prophet uh uh needs to be I mean that's that's sort of the name the the the significance of the word prophecy, right? A prophecy is something about the future. And uh particularly the future that you can't just guess about or is likely to happen anyway. It's it's something very unique. that um uh you'll know it when it gets fulfilled. Now one of the problems with this of course is that uh even in the Old Testament a lot of the prophecies have a fairly long time until it's fulfilled. I mean most of the in fact all of the prophecies of Christ weren't fulfilled in the lifetime of the prophet, right? And so um Uh this in and of itself is not sufficient either. Uh it's a whole lot easier in hindsight after things after things are fulfilled. Uh a lot of the Old Testament, or several anyway, of the Old Testament prophecies have sort of a a a short-term semi-fulfillment and then an ultimate fulfillment in Christ later, or maybe even uh in the millennium later Um but yeah. So but that's that's that's the key characteristic of um of prophecy. And if there is a prophecy about the future, whether it's fulfilled or or or whether it's about something in the lifetime of the prophet or or later. If it doesn't come about that way, then you know it's it's Okay, third test. The prophecy must be authenticated by signs. Miracles that would attest to the fact that what's being spoken is from God because the sign could be accomplished only by God. And so there's good descriptions of that here in the New Testament For example, Acts 2, um, Peter is actually preaching. Men of Israel, listen to these words. Jesus the Nazarene, a man attested to you by God with miracles and wonders and signs, which God performed through him in your midst, just as you yourselves know. And so you remember uh Nicodemus when he comes to Jesus, you remember how he introduced himself and the topic with Jesus says, um uh teacher, we know that you are from God because no man can do the things that you do unless God is with him. Now he didn't come to the conclusion at that point that he was God But he was recognizing him as as uh someone who has a message from God they're being authenticated by The miracles he was doing. What's interesting by the way is uh I don't think any of the miracles that Nicodemus was referring to actually recorded in Scripture Uh certainly not John prior to his saying that. Um, but John does tell us later there was a whole lot else done that wasn't recorded, right? So Okay, so another example of that, Acts fourteen, three, therefore they spent a long time there speaking boldly with reliance upon the Lord. who was testifying to the word of his grace, granting that signs and wonders were done by their hands. So the the signs were evidence that the message that was being proclaimed was from God. Because only God can do these signs. And Paul refers to himself in 2 Corinthians 12, the signs of a true apostle were performed among you with all perseverance, by signs, wonders, and miracles. He's referring to what he did, which would have attested to the authenticity of the message he was giving from God. Hebrews is another good example there. Now, what's interesting is um uh there's nothing in the Quran that that uh speaks of Muhammad doing any miracles. In fact, just the opposite. In in uh surah twenty nine, uh Starting at verse forty nine, Nay, here are the signs self evident in the hearts of those endowed with knowledge, and none but the unjust reject our signs This is now supposedly Allah speaking to Muhammad, who's supposed to communicate this to others. Yet they say Why are not signs sent down from him from his Lord? So this is trying to help Muhammad understand how to reply to people who say, well, prove it by a sign. Right? And here's what you're to say, Muhammad. The signs are indeed with God, and I am indeed a clear warner. I'm warning you. That's all he's to say. And it is not enough for them that we have sent down to the the book which is rehearsed to them, the book here referred to is the Quran. So verily in it is mercy and a reminder to those who believe. So the contention from the Quran itself is that no miracles are required Because the Quran itself is um self-evident. It's the miracle on all of the above. Well, there's a fourth test. And this is probably uh the most crucial, at least for us, the prophecy must be consistent with what God has already revealed God is not sickle. And so back in Deuteronomy chapter thirteen, if a prophet or a dreamer of dreams arises among you and gives you a sign or a wonder And the sign of the wonder comes true, meeting one or two of the tests, concerning what he spoke to you. But yeah, so there's a sign associated with this message. Let us go after other gods whom you have not known, and let us serve them. That's the message, and there are signs and so on to uh attest to it. God says, you shall not listen to the words of that prophet or that dreamer of dreams, for the Lord your God is telling you are testing you to find out if you love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul. You shall not follow the Lord or you shall follow the Lord your God and fear him and you shall keep his commandments, listen to his voice Serve him and cling to him. But that prophet or that dreamer of dreams shall be put to death, because he has counseled rebellion against the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt and redeemed you And from the house of slavery, to seduce you from the way in which the Lord your God commanded you to walk. You shall purge the evil from among you. So if the message is inconsistent with and and particularly contradicts what God has already revealed, then you know it's not from God. That's the point. Uh even if there are miracles. Now how would those miracles happen if they're not coming from God? Yeah. Satan can can do certain things. Or makes make it look like certain things. Um so you've got to be careful. The critical thing is is it consistent with what God has already revealed So, top of page twenty-three, the conclusion is that Muhammad claimed to be speaking the words of God, test one, but since he did not tell the f foretell the future Or perform any attesting miracles, and more importantly, since his message was inconsistent with previous revelation from God, we know he was a false prophet. Um now at that point it's helpful to acknowledge that uh there are a lot of Muslims who believe that uh Muhammad performed some miracles, some of which showed up in the Hadith. Again, the Hadith are later writings that were compiled to describe what Muhammad said and what he did. And we'll talk about that whole um exercise later, but Uh in in this context, it's important to know that there are a couple of instances that I've listed here that claim that um Muhammad did some miracles. Well, um, first of all, the Hadith are not inspired and there's no Muslim who would claim that the Hadith are inspired. They're just they're just uh writings that were written down hundreds of years after Muhammad, uh built on a um a chain of word of mouth um uh transmission of these stories about what Muhammad said, what he did, and um uh Even devout Muslims agree that there's a lot of error in a lot of these writings of what these accounts of what Muhammad said and did. And so they have a very elaborate, very serious um science even of figuring out Which ones to believe and which ones not to believe. We'll talk about that later. I would can't I would say these are candidates for things not to believe, by the way. It is. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. And and so the hadith Uh the the need for the hadith is based on the command in the Quran for Muslims to follow the example and obey the commands and everything of uh even follow the way of life of of uh Muhammad. And so that's one way to help him do that. And so these miracles that are attested to him are things like um uh him uh water springing out from his fingers, fill pots and and so on. Um I I think I I think they may be Very um very connected to the fact that Arabia is arid and uh water would be a a a very welcome thing. And there are of course examples in the Old Testament of God bringing water out of a rock, right? And so anyway Uh yeah, yeah. Um I don't personally have a lot of knowledge about the Book of Barnabas Uh other than it it's it's in a category of writings that came after Christ that uh are not consistent with um uh scripture and uh I think that's a particular one. There are others as well that uh Muslims kind of attached to they they they cropped up just before uh Islam did. Um and to the extent that uh the Quran is more consistent with them than the New Testament, which one do you think they're going to believe, right? So um the the the key is to uh always be using scripture in our conversation. And uh that may involve uh explaining to them the um historicity of scriptures, the the authenticity and and so on. But yeah Um the the Arabic word Injil means gospel and the Quran uh views the gospel as as sort of Um the the long um it i th there's a a chain of revelation going back to uh even um Noah and then certainly Abraham and all these prophets that that the Quran acknowledges were speaking from God Um the last in the pretty much the last in that line of prophets before Muhammad, in their view, was Jesus. And so they view the Injil, the Gospel, as being um the the the ministry of Jesus to bring people back into the true religion which they think is Islam. Um They're not recognizing Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. No. No. It's it's this it's this um uh whatever Jesus said was trying to like all the prophets before him, trying to get people back to true religion. And um um In that sense, Jesus was no more well, they would they would see him as being the greater of all those earlier prophets, not as great as Muhammad. Um but he was in a long line of prophets who were trying to get people back uh true religion, which in their mind is submission to God, which is Islam. Yeah, I think most Muslims would be confused when they look at the New Testament, there are the Gospel of Matthew, Gospel of Mark, where's the Gospel of Jesus? And you've got four accounts here, but uh that is the place to take them into the gospel, particularly Luke. Okay. Um so I'm on page twenty-four here, letter D. So what was the source of Muhammad's preaching? Which ended up being the Quran? And I we made reference to this last week, I think. Second Corinthians eleven Uh Paul says, but what am I do but what I am doing I will continue to do so that I may cut off opportunity from those who desire an opportunity to be regarded just as we are in the matter about which they are boasting, for such men are false apostles, deceitful workers, disguising themselves as apostles of Christ No wonder, for even Satan disguises himself as an angel of light. Therefore, it is not surprising if his servants also disguise themselves as servants of righteousness whose end will be according to their deed. And I think I I mentioned uh last week that um you really can't read through the Quran without seeing Satan's fingerprints all over it. specific oper uh opposition to uh Christ's role as savior and so on. Yeah. Yeah, and there were there were um even before Muhammad there were already uh Christian cults really, spin-offs and heresies and so on, um that would make Well, the Nestorians, for example, were were part of that. Um would make c claims like that. And it's it's logical that some would arise because it's Kind of difficult to get your mind around Jesus being God, right? Or even worse, or harder, both God and man. Hundred percent each. That that took some time for even Christians to wrap their hands heads around it and and um become um established doctrine, everything to the contrary being heresy. That was a process for the early church to grapple with and and so on. But that was already pretty much accomplished by the time of Muhammad. Yet there are a lot of these offshoots that were out there that um were distracting. Anyway. Um yes. I don't yeah. Yeah, no I I um there The name of Barnabas may have been attached to it, um, I don't know how, but in reality, that Barnabas had nothing to do, right? He was a contemporary of Paul, not Um others may have come later saying attributing some writings to what Barnabas has said. Right. Yeah. Barnabas was a good guy. I I just think that's a good idea. Right. Right. Yeah, that's that's a son of encouragement. Um Acts five or six. Well that'll be your homework. Okay. Yeah, we'll talk a little bit um at some point, maybe next quarter about um the um the the the history of the New Testament canon and the aut the authority of of the scriptures because they get um um you know there's accusations from um not so much the Quran but Muslims uh that the scriptures have been corrupted. And so there's material here to help you deal with that question if it comes up Okay. That's right. That's it. I'll verify that. Not not permanently forgotten anyway. No, how he forgotten me. Yes. Yes. Okay. Well we weren't around with Barnfest like some of us. Okay. So um bottom of page twenty-four. Muhammad's role, obviously he was a religious prof uh reformer, uh religious founder, founding a whole new religion, a political leader. He presided uh beginning with the the community they developed in Medina. Um military leader and so um uh he had a lot of roles, wore a lot of hats, a very significant individual, obviously. Um but he's also, particularly these days, an object of love and devotion Which, according to the hadith, he strongly suggested or even demanded. Um so one of those quotes is, Allah's apostle said by him in whom in whose hands my life is. None of you will have faith until he loves me more than father and his children. And then In another account, he was supposed to have said, uh, none of you will have faith till he loves me more than his father and his children and all mankind. So uh that's not the Quran, that's sayings in the Hadith that are attributed to Muhammad. Anyway It is true today that anybody who would say anything wrong about Muhammad gets gets sinned, right? Um okay. I have a section here on Muhammad's character. Um We're gonna at least touch some of the high points here. The main point is that both the Quran and the Hadith make it clear that Muhammad was a sinner. And um I'm not aware of any Muslims today who would would argue that he was sinless. That's not really an issue. Um and so in the uh Quran, for example, uh and remember the the Quran is is spoken to Muhammad. And it's it very often says, here's what you are to say to people, but basically it's it's it's communicating directly to Muhammad. And so, for example, in Surah 40, patiently then persevere, for the promise of Allah is true, and ask forgiveness for thy fault. And celebrate the praises of thy Lord in the evening and in the morning. Uh Sarah 48, the last one there Verily we have granted thee a manifest victory that Allah may forgive thee thy faults of the past and those to follow Fulfill his favor to thee and guide thee on the straight way. Well, there are also several first hand accounts in the hadith, for example Uh one of them here on the bottom of page twenty-five, I heard Allah's apostles saying, By Allah, I ask for forgiveness from Allah and turn to him in repentance more than seventy times a day. Um and on the next page that he did it? Um, yeah, maybe except that in Islam and the example of Muhammad And we're going to see as we get into the various rituals that they go through. There is a much repetition. Um uh not only repeated times a day, but re repeated times in in the prayers, for example, um, repeating the saying of things multiple times at this time of day and doing it all over again this time of day and doing it all over again. If he were to include it in his normal daily Um five times the prayer, he could easily hit seventy. But I don't know what the content was or what it actually was, but it it I'm not necessarily doubting seventy Um the other interesting thing that I've documented here, I'm not going to spend a lot of time on, is that Muhammad had many wives. uh we've already mentioned his first wife, Khadija, uh while he while she was alive, remember she was I forget what it was, sixteen or so years older than him, I forget Um, she died before him and while she was still alive and they were still married, he didn't have any other wives or women. But after she died, he married on the order of ten to twelve. It's kinda hard to tell who were married who were just concubine and whatever. Um but it was roughly one additional one a year, not sequential but concurrent for the rest of his life. Now, obviously polygamy was quite common in Arabia at that point. I guess maybe it still is. Uh it was certainly common in Old Testament times. You see it in the scriptures, right? Um but what's interesting to me anyway is that in the Quran he stipulated that the maximum number of wives would be four For everybody else. Um however there's an exception for him. I think he already had more than four by the time this revelation came down. Um an interesting uh not only interesting but rather telling fact is that his favorite wife, Aisha He married when she was only six years old. Six years old. And they consummated the marriage when she was nine. years old. Uh and that's documented in the hadith and I've got that here for you. Uh so uh in the middle of page twenty seven when it mentions that she was six years old when they got married, consummated when she was nine, um she remained with him for nine years until his death, which means that when she died uh no when he died, she was only eighteen. And so he was forty four years older. than her. Well it's what Muslims claim, and I'm pretty sure uh none of them would argue with it because it's in the Hadith. These days, not then. Um I think it may have come to include that, but I think uh the origin of it is Um they become slaves because you've defeated them in battle. They're they're people. And so um Yeah. Yes. So if you as Muhammad did, and there's an example of it here on page twenty-eight, um making reference to the captives of the war. So they when they uh defeat a people, they're going to um focus on slaughtering the men and then taking the wives, taking the women as their wives And so it's it's it's taking them, sure, as as slaves. In fact, everybody who survived would be slaves if they've been subjugated But the women then are just fair game as the booty of war. Um so it is. It is. And there's reference even in the hadith here of um a seventeen year old who um uh he took as the booty of war. And um he took her that very night that he killed her husband. Probably during I don't know. Um yeah And um a related point to that that we'll get to later when we talk about their understanding even in um Well both the Quran and the Hadith, their understanding of the afterlife, they call it paradise. Uh there aren't gonna be many women there. No. Because they're women. No, the w the the the the women who you know are around here Um I think their their understanding of all those virgins who are going to be there for the men um didn't start out here. They're just created for them for paradise. Um well I wanted to wrap up here today on page twenty-nine um Muhammad's death and legacy. So he died in Medina In 632, at the age of around 62. I'm not sure I don't know if anybody knows exactly the the month he was born, but uh it was around the age of sixty-two And so then uh came a very interesting period of time uh because Neither the Quran nor Muhammad in his teaching or preparations or whatever made any preparation for succession. And there would need to be succession because of Muhammad's example of combining civil authority with religious authority. And so it was not just a question of continuing to do things in this new religion, but there now a a community that needed civil governance and there was no provision whatsoever uh given to them. And so uh shortly after his death His followers elected Abu Bakr. And uh that was actually Aisha's father, um, a very trusted friend. And he I think he must have died. He was old as well, just uh two years later. So he didn't really last all that long as the uh caliph. So a caliph here would be that supreme ruler and the uh his his reign, I guess you would call it, is referred to as the caliphate And uh particularly if it were to succeed from one generation to another, it's it'll long term caliphate. But in the early going, there wasn't much direction about uh who would be leading, how would they identify who's the leader. But anyway, Abu Bakr was elected the first uh uh caliph after Muhammad. And then we have a series of other caliphs, uh Umar, for example. followed Abu Bakr and he lasted about ten years until he was killed by a servant. And then Uthman followed him and he was assassinated by Muslims who thought he was behaving like a king. Now that should be telling, uh in modern days. Um you know very strict um um adherence to the the Quran and the hadith Um i is not really compatible with a monarchy, particularly if it's just civil authority. Um because it it needs to be both civil and religious. The two are indistinguishable But not um well there have been. Not so much here. These guys uh were were um well the example he was thought to behave like a king the kings around them were abusive and and it's it's my way or the highway. It needs to have been founded in the the truth, the Quran, rather than just his prerogatives and his his wanting everybody to serve him and and this kind of thing. Um so anyway, he was assassinated after twelve years of uh tenure. And then a very key person, Ali who was uh Muhammad's cousin, first cousin, I'm not sure exactly what the connection was, but um uh he reigned for five years and was kind of tricked out of it by the Umiyads But the the the point here that we're going to talk about later as we talk about the different Islamic uh traditions The Sunnis build their their uh history, their uh understanding of leadership and so on from this early period. Did I say yeah, the Sunnis, right Um the Shiites go back to Ali as really being the first legitimate one after Muhammad uh because he was a blood relative and it it it needed to have been hereditary from Ali down to the present Um and that hasn't worked out all that well. It's largely Iran, yeah. Uh most of the people in Iraq are Sunni uh Shiite as well. And in Lebanon a few may yeah. E except Iraq. Iraq they're the majority. Which was what the whole problem was. Saddam Hussein was Sunni Yeah, yeah. Anyway, um that's we're gonna come back to that th those early traditions of and how the different branches started at at another time, but it all started with Muhammad dying and not leaving any particular direction as to how to move forward. Yeah. I think so. I don't imposing oh yeah. I'm not sure exactly how all the Sunnis at the time or even now viewed that. I'm guessing that it wasn't very popular. Anyway, we need to close prayer. Father, as we uh delve into details about uh the origins and so on of of Islam, we're just reminded that Left to our own devices, all of us are wayward. Uh we are inclined to uh be like those in judges who everyone does what's right in his own eyes. And except for your interven intervention and revelation of your truth, uh, we would be just as just as wayward ourselves Father, we pray that um you would help us understand um what our Muslim friends are caught up in, maybe what some of their uh misunderstandings and traditions are so that we can uh be empathetic but also uh help them to see from scripture uh what you have actually revealed And that it is good news. Help us Lord to be faithful in that. May you be glorified, we pray