Well, we are on um lesson six today. On page forty nine. Uh we've made reference for several weeks here um to the hadith. And so we're going to actually take a look, a closer look at what the hadith is all about. And um The title of this lesson is the Hadith and the Sunnah, because they're interrelated, overlapping, and often confused between the two. So we want to provide some Some uh background there. Last couple of weeks, if you've not been with us, we've talked about the Quran itself, some of its um makeup, content. Um, uh origins, that kind of thing. And together the the Quran and the Hadith constitute the uh uh the basis for Islamic Sharia law. And so it's important to understand the hadith in that context. Okay. So the word hadith primarily means new um Like a news, uh something that's uh uh r retold, uh a story, a report, something like that. Uh it wouldn't have to be historical in the basic uh meaning of the term apparently in in Arabic. Um But in Islam it's come to represent the collective uh tellings of uh stories uh recounting what Muhammad said, what he did And how he reacted to other people saying and doing things. It's it's sort of a uh it's intended to be a compendium of all that uh kind of thing about the life of Muhammad. And um uh sometimes you'll you'll see the word a hadith, that's actually just the plural of hadith And um uh but you also hear about the word Sunnah. Sometimes you've heard Sunnah. You've heard probably the term Sunni Muslims. It has to do with the same concept, the Sunnah. The word Suna means literally a pathway. Uh you can think of it as as a way of a way of life, a course of life, that kind of thing. And in Islam, the the the sunnah that uh is important is the the way of life of Muhammad. How did he live? What was his his um example, his teachings about how to live and and do things? So this is not um This is not the same as the Quran, although the Quran has some content like that, but what Muhammad said and did kind of brings to life, if you will, the teachings, the instructions, and whatever that are in the Quran. So it's it's kind of a a running commentary on the responsibilities that Muslims have based on his life, his teaching, his example, and so on. And why is that important? Well the Quran itself, on the bottom of page forty nine here, in several instances indicates that it's important for Muslims to follow the example of Muhammad. That's one of his um purposes for them. And so for example in uh Chapter 4, several places here, but first of all, verse 64, we sent that and this is Allah speaking uh in this case about Muhammad to Muhammad, for him to ki to to pass that along to others. He says, We sent not a messenger, that is a prophet, But to be obeyed in accordance with the will of God. And if they had only when they were unjust to themselves, um Come unto thee and ask God's forgiveness, and the messenger had asked forgiveness for them, they would have found God indeed oft-returning, most merciful. Um but then it says they they can have no real faith until they make you judge, Muhammad Make you judge in all disputes between them, and find in their souls no resistance against your decisions, but accept them with the fullest conviction. So there's this need to obey what Muhammad as Allah's prophet was telling them. Uh later on in that Uh surah surah uh uh four. He who obeys the messenger, that is the prophet Muhammad obeys God. So it it elevates, you know, following His example and obeying His teaching with obeying the the will of Allah Surah 33, skip down a couple. You have indeed in the messenger of God, that is um Muhammad, a beautiful pattern of conduct for anyone whose hope is in God and the final day and who engages much in the praise of God. And if you click the page 047 at the very top of page 50, those who reject God hinder men from the path of God. The Sunnah of God, which is lived out by Muhammad. They hinder men from the path of God and resist the messenger, that is, the prophet, after guidance has clearly been shown to them. And so they need to obey again the messenger. Um and so it's always been, even from the the lifetime of Muhammad, that Muslims were being taught, trained, that the example, the way of life, teachings of Muhammad were paramount. Uh, they're n not quite as um elevated to the to the status of the Quran itself, which they take to be inspired by Allah. But it's right up there. It's it's second to none. none other than the Quran itself. And so both the Quran and then the the the way of life, the teachings, the sayings and so on of Muhammad become the basis for uh living out the Muslim life. Okay, so I think I saw a hand earlier on. Is there a question there? Oh that might have been me. I I think I have it. But um I was just wanted to confirm that this the hadith in the in the Sunnah were were two additional books. Right. So um uh no. They're not uh and that's why there's confusion. And it may take a little while to to uh understand the distinction. Let me start by giving you this this is um a copy of most of, I think, or at least the significant parts of one of the compilations of Hadith. Okay, so you you just flip this open and I've it it's got the Arabic and the English translation And they're just different sayings here. And in some of these they're they're categorized by theme and so on. But there are different ways to categorize these various uh recountings of what Muhammad said and did. But each one of these is a hadith. So there's it's recounting and and um uh Let me go to to page fifty, item C. I want to come back to this, but I think it would be helpful to to cover some preliminary ground here. So the hadith is a narration after the fact of what Muhammad is supposed to have said and done. While the Sunnah is the law that is based on his behavior Where do we learn about his behavior? In the Hadith. Okay. So they're they're connected. They're part of the same thing, but what the Hadith are just the individual recountings of these different episodes and and so on, the Sunnah becomes the the pathway for all Muslims based on that and based on the Quran. So much of his example uh was to live out what the Quran was prescribing. And so it added a little bit of flesh to the bones, if you will. Right? Uh adds some clarity about the the the way to do things or the the right attitude or whatever. And so a lot of times the hadith are uh people asking Muhammad in his lifetime, asking him, so what about this? And he would give them an answer. And it's recorded as a hadith. Okay? Other times he would just up and say something. He would see something happening or someone says something and he would say, ah, so and so. And so um people were hearing him. None of this did Muhammad write down. In fact, he told people not to write it down initially. We're going to talk about that. But eventually it became clear that it made sense to write it down as more and more people were becoming literate and it became more um uh consistent. You know, it it wouldn't keep uh evolving over time and so on. Um and so it has lots of benefits to having it written down So um some but not all sunnah is contained within the hadith. Some of the the precepts and things that would be part of the Sunnah Is derived from the Quran and some of it from possibly from some of the personal devoted companions of um Muhammad. Um the first four caliphs, the the successors of Muhammad, who we uh summarized a few weeks ago. Um as the Islam spread, um after them what constituted genuine sunna, because they were there with him. They could tell, oh no, he didn't say that, or he did say that. They were kind of arbiters. After they left, th and there are no actual particularly as the years went on, there were no remaining companions, as they say, of Muhammad then um it became a little harder to know whether this is something he actually said has been passed down accurately. and and so on. So there's a little bit of doubt the further you get from the actual time, right? Um Um but eventually the hadith, the things that were written down and agreed to and understood, uh became um a key basis for understanding the way of life, the sunnah, the pathway to fulfill their obligations to Allah. Um and therefore Some sunnah, some elements of this pathway you're to follow may actually contradict contradict some hadith. And we're going to see uh some examples of uh problems with uh the hadith. Um they were never written down until uh several hundred years after Muhammad. And so you can imagine this oral transmission of uh these accounts Um over time, some of them were probably more accurate than others. And um that introduces all sorts of problems, right. Um anyway, uh only some of the hadith is regarded as revealed directly by Allah. All of the Quran is viewed to be directly inspired by Allah. Some hadith they believe um are because it's it's what the Muhammad what w the their messenger, their prophet, was saying uh to give explanation of of the Quran. And I think we may have mentioned, was it last week or the week before, uh an example where they changed the where they would pray to, the direction they would pray to. Um that that was um I think um not something that was in the Quran the second time it happened Or the first time I forget which. Um, but it was something that is documented, I think, in some of the hadith. Anyway, it gets confusing, for sure. But think of the the um a hadith as just one little recounting of something that Muhammad said or did. But collectively, if you take all the hadiths together, they give, put meats on the bones, if you will, of what it means to be faithful to Allah the pathway of life, uh the the Suna, the way of life. Um and um And in many ways, that's not unlike our desire to be Christ-like. Right? Uh we have in Christ the primary example of what it means to be um uh godly, faithful, right? And they have a similar um devotion uh uh uh by command of the Qur'an to be following the example of Muhammad And so he is revered. He's not considered God at all. That would be blasphemy. But he is regarded highly as the the chief of all the prophets, the line of prophets who God had been uh sending over thousands of years. And so his example to them is uh im important to follow. And that's the Suna that they would be living. Yeah. Now um the you said A B or Is there a distinction between the collection of these statements called the hadith and a hadith? Um yeah, the plural is the word a hadith And that's multiple hadiths. But there have been many different compilations. And we're going to talk a few minutes about some of the key ones. But typically when people speak of the hadith using the word in the singular, it's it's meant to refer to a compilation of a hadith. So um That's yeah, that's usually how it's used. So do they have a series of genealogies that prove that Muhammad is actually or they just pack him on to the end of of what the Christians feed as you mean the uh the the line of prophets? Yeah that's over time? Well um they the the the Quran uh acknowledges and and respects uh even recounts some of the activities of uh prior biblical prophets and attests to their genuine genuinely coming from, in their view, from Allah. And that uh the and the and the Quran makes it clear that Muhammad is the last of those, the most recent, the uh preeminent of the apostles, or the apostles, the prophets. Um so that's just a a claim in the Quran. Okay. Um yeah, good question. I'm not sure uh how modern Muslims interact with the Hadith. I'm pretty sure there's a wide variation. I'm also pretty sure that most Muslims we would run into here. don't have much interaction at all with the hadith. That's my presumption. However, they've been taught things that are important that have their origin in the hadith. They wouldn't be able to say, you know, chapter and verse or this kind of thing typically, but they understand that that the Quran and the Hadith together um provide us our marching orders. Um Now, obviously there are those who have uh studied and and and so on, they're very diligent in their Muslim faith, and uh they would uh be much more well-versed in And the various compilations of the hadith and so on. But I think I'm I'm pretty sure the run-of-the-mill ones, run-of-the-mill Muslims are uh acting just on what they've been told, how they've been trained and taught, and so on. Well, anymore, they wouldn't be passed down so much orally, but in written form. Um and um uh you know it's been what 1500 years and so they're not still recounting it orally um independent of what's already been written down. It was a bit of a challenge when they started writing it down to figure out what was genuine hadith versus somebody just making up a story. Right? And so we're going to talk a bit about that. But once it was written down in multiple different independent compilations, that's not really been the issue. Um well, no, it i it it is still an issue because there's some that have been written down that are less Um genuine less there's th there's more doubt about the genuine s um what's the word? Um authenticity than others that they're quite sure is authentic. And s and there's a wide range in between as well. The the Quran is is presents itself as what Allah specifically told Muhammad. the the text actually the words to pass along to um everyone. And so it's it's direct revelation from Allah. That's how they view it. The hadith is more about the life and uh words, teachings, example of Muhammad himself, um to help give illustration of how to carry out what the Quran is teaching us to do. Okay, so it it's it's you can think of it a little bit like um A a book that would explain how to um live out the teachings of Christ. You know, there are lots of books written about different aspects of the Christian life. And they're trying to give illustration, example, uh maybe citing passages of scripture, um maybe not so much as commentary, but uh thinking through application. And much of the hadith are sort of like that where Muhammad is providing illustration, providing um uh answers to questions people had. So what does it mean when the Quran says this? And he kind of fleshes that out a little bit. So the Quran is is God's Allah's rev revelation and this is more building on that to actually live it out Yeah. So Well it's it's not for the most part it's not recognized as direct revelation from Allah. So yes, it's a little on the lower tier But because it's Muhammad's words and actions and the Quran says that's what you need to obey and follow, it's second only to the Quran. Okay. Okay, so um page fifty here, uses of the Quran, uh of the Sunnah. and the hadith and so on, uh, to help interpret the Qur'an. How do we live it out? Right? to guide Muslims in fulfilling the Islamic commands and obligations. We're going to talk in detail about what these commands and obligations are. Uh but it it helps them to flesh this out. How does it work out in practice? And as I mentioned, it forms the basis, along with the Quran, of Islamic Sharia law. So I've documented here a number of and by the way I can pass this around if people want to take a look I'll describe that in a few minutes. But that's compilations of the hadith. Yeah. Well maybe the best way to describe Sharia law is that it's It's um implementing the Quran uh so as to uh enforce people's compliance with the Sunnah, the way people should act. They should follow the example of Muhammad. And uh that's fleshed out for them in the hadith, the actual sayings and and and and activities of Muhammad. Together they f they illustrate what this path is supposed to be, the Sunnah. And that fulfills and is informed by and based on the Quran. So they're it's all together. Yeah, that's a good question. Um How concrete is Sharia law? As an outsider, my understanding, at least at this point, is that it's not completely concrete. It's sort of in the eye of the beholder. And it takes people, trained people to it it's sort of like what the Supreme Court does to kind of argue um how to implement the Constitution and there's views on both sides and there are people who are arguing, not a Supreme Court, but there are people who have argued over the years. uh how does all this relate to such and such an issue, right? And so um Sharia law is more this is again is my outsider's perspective on it. Sharia law is more um the the the the s standard of behavior that uh is based on the Quran and the life of Muhammad. And And uh so they would if if a a dispute comes up, if there's a question about what's right, what's wrong Uh the sources they would go to would be the Quran and the Sharia, the the the most respected uh do I say Sharia, I meant um Um hadith. Um and so because there's some In fact, a fair amount of uncertainty about which hadith are uh more respectable than others. Uh there's always going to be questions about um the the Sharia law standard for a particular issue. Um But that's what they seek to base it on, both the Quran and the the life of Muhammad. Depending on the issue, that's right. Yeah. So um I I think in practice there is a lot of that variation geographically. Uh what you would want and what they had for a while, I don't so much have any more, is a final arbiter. What you would want is a final arbiter to answer those questions, how does all this apply to this particular kind of situation? And at the moment they don't have a worldwide final arbiter. In fact, they've got lots of different um divisions within Islam, and they all come up with their own answers to those questions in different ways. So theoretically it wouldn't be up to each country to figure it out and then have inconsistent applications. Um there would be a final arbiter, but there isn't one. Yeah. Oh president, thank you, thank you. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um You know, even even in our system, and increasingly so, the laws that are written aren't all that clear. Right. And uh it's anticipated even by our form of government that the courts are going to need to sort out some of that. What was the intent of the law? Although they're getting away from that concept. Uh what were the actual words used in the law? Does it apply to this case? How does it apply? You know the courts would would be arbiters of that. And in I think most uh Muslim countries where Sharia law is in is intended to be implemented, um there are those who have to work on that arbitration process. You know, it the the Quran and the Hadith don't answer every question fully. I mean the reason we have a lot of the hadith is because even the Quran left open some questions that Muhammad's followers were asking Muhammad, right? And so a lot of the hadith are to to provide greater detail than the Quran itself. But Uh there are still lots of questions that are not explicitly dealt with in uh either the Quran or the Hadith. Or there there are angles to the situation that aren't covered and we need some judgment as to how to apply them. And that takes some arbitration that people uh uh countries have just worked out and are continuing to work out, but it's not one size fits all, uh black and white. Um and it's not that way in our law either. So I I wouldn't fault them for that. It's just that there needs to be some arbitration as to how to apply all of that in the current context. Margaret. Yeah. And so that would be um I think kind of like the lawyers we have today have to be educated into the kinds of things that are covered in the law, what the precedents have been in applying it over time and so on. They're not actually necessarily themselves becoming the arbiters like a Supreme Court would be or something. They're training lawyers. They're basically training lawyers. Yeah. Who are well versed in the the The the basic documents and and history and so on. Yeah, so there's some parallels there, yeah, for sure. Yeah. And a substitute example to follow. Well no, he's I don't think they would refer to him as a redeemer Right. Yeah. I think we're we're going to see as we go along, there's a lot of similarities, unfortunately, with Roman Catholicism. There's a lot of lot of parallels. Not not necessarily um uh branches of the same thing, but just you see Satan's fingerprints all over it. That's the point. Yeah. Um Um yeah, good question. What what um economic principles and laws and so on would be included. I'm not really sure. Yeah, I'm not sure. Yeah, yeah. Um well um The the main thing that stands out in my mind, just thinking through the Quran and Hadith, is um that You're right. Th there is no separation between um uh There's no separation between my my um citizenship responsibilities and my religious responsibilities. It's it's it's it's one thing. Um Uh you you've heard the term Islamic State, right? Uh that's this this melding together of um um uh Islam the religion and i Islam the the uh political um entity So in any given country or location, they're they're one and the same. And that traces all the way back to Muhammad's setting up the community in Medina um where he was the civil ruler and the religious head. There's no distinction, it's all part of the same. And that's how the the idea of Sunni law um began, really. They're there's one and the same. Uh economics It's nowhere near as explicit as the do's and the don'ts of the on the religious side. There are things like mandatory giving to charity Almsgiving. Um Yeah, I think I think there's there's some of that if I recall. Yeah, the uh uh any ru rules, regulations about um usury, excessive interest and and so on, I I think I think there is some there's definitely a a m one of the pillars is almsgiving. Yes. Um But in terms of free enterprise versus kind of a central government-oriented economy, I'm not aware that there's anything explicit about that. Right. Yeah, it it um remember the the very word um Islam means submission to Allah. And everything is about being submitted to Him. It's a theocratic kind of uh perspective And that has to do with my religious life for sure, but also every other aspect of life. And because it deals with every aspect of life, the sunnah becomes very important. How did Muhammad live? What did he say was the right way to implement the Quran? So Yeah, this is just fundamental. That's why we're s we're looking at this early on. Yeah. It's inevitable. Yeah, it's inevitable. Um I'm surprised it's not more pronounced even in Saudi Arabia, where they have um a monarchy. No. In fact I think that's why um that's one of the reasons why um Osama bin Laden, who is Saudi, I think, um, became such a radical because he was saying the way things were being played out weren't consistent with the Quran. Um But anyway. So a lot of this material here I have for you is just by re uh for the purpose of your reference. There are all sorts of different Well I I wanted to give you some examples here on page 51 so you can kind of see uh some typical um hadith. So they often start by being each each individual one is introduced by saying, the prophet of God said such and such. And so uh here's one that says uh who the narrator was, the one who's actually recounting this this story. So I heard the prophet saying, so he's saying, I personally heard The Prophet Muhammad saying, whoever is killed while protecting his property, then he is a martyr. Of course that has significance under the Quran. But That's something that Muhammad was supposed to have said, and it becomes the example to follow, the teaching to follow, and so on. Or like the second one here, it it might start by saying something like, it is stated by such and such who heard it from someone else that the prophet of God said this. So they're they're including in the in the um recounting of it, who heard it from who and and that obviously makes it a little bit easier to believe than some someone who's uh then an account that says um um it has been said and just not being very explicit of all at all about who said it But the more explicit they can be about how this came down to me, the more uh reliance they can give it, right? And so um There's an example there. The third one here just talks about what Muhammad did. The sun eclipsed and the prophet got up, being afraid that it might be the hour, in other words, the day of judgment He went to the mosque and offered the prayer with the longest uh kiam, bowing in prostr uh prostration that I had ever seen him doing. Then he said, These signs which Allah sends do not occur because of the life or death of somebody, but Allah makes his worshippers afraid of them. So when you see anything thereof, proceed to remember Allah, invoke him, and ask for his forgiveness. So it's some combination of them seeing what Allah what what Muhammad did, uh how he um commented on that or answered questions and just typical of that kind of uh that kind of thing. Okay. So starting with letter C on page fifty one You see various classifications of the hadith. So this first one is uh set of traditions. So th sometimes you'll see the word tradition. That is it's it's a passing down from even generation to generation, let alone person to person, but a passing down over time in this tradition of what Muhammad said or did So sometimes a hadith would be called a tradition because of this handing down from person to person. Traditions continuously handed down by a long line of narratives and have universally been accepted as authentic. Then you have other ones that are called well-known, those that have come come to be known by many people, but not universally known. This can have the force of law, but to a lesser degree than the first class. So you can see what these lawyers are studying all the time, right? Another category is isolated. They have come to be known by isolated numbers of people, and that usually has very little legal weight because it's More isolated probably just originated among them. Um So the authority of any given hadith is also based on the established trustworthiness, reputation, and moral character of the narrator and who he got it from. And who he got it from. The more you know about that, the more you can trust the statement. Which sort of makes sense. But makes it hard. Because these weren't written down for several hundred years. So we're talking a long line of narration of what Muhammad apparently said and did. Okay, let's go to page fifty two. During the f uh item B During the first 200 years of Islam, the sayings and traditions of Muhammad were both recited orally and increasingly written down. And Islam encouraged zealous Muslims to travel long distances if necessary to learn a hadith from respected authorities So in the early going, if they were mostly concentrated in what is now Saudi Arabia, people would be encouraged to come there to learn directly from those who were companions of Muhammad. Or those who were taught by companions of Muhammad, that kind of thing. Right? Uh they didn't have the internet. They didn't have everything written down all the time. Muslim scholars gradually wrote down the hadith, the ahadith, the plural, as well as reports on the lives and characters of the reporters, those who were cited as the immediate sources. Then again, there's more classifications on different standards. What I want to get to here is Well, yeah, I I gave passing reference to that. We're on page fifty two, item A. Um Ma'am apparently said, don't write down my sayings, which at the time they mostly abided by, but it didn't make sense for the long term. Um and um uh And other hadiths apparently give similar restrictions. And so there was very little written down during Muhammad's lifetime. However, much like the Quran itself, which wasn't written down in its entirety at least um and certainly not by Muhammad during his lifetime, uh it became clear that there was a need to have it written down, just for posterity's sake and and and And nailing it, right, and not having it so wishy washy. But it it took hundreds of years before they actually took place and so you've got these long lines of of uh transmission. Anyway, yeah I want to go to um Page twelve fifty 4. Number 2. How the authenticity of each hadith was purportedly tested by each compiler, particularly the better compilations. So first they tested the chain of reporters through which it was handed down. So who did you hear it from? Who did he hear it from? And if it wasn't recorded, there's no documentation, there wasn't any certain at all about that chain, then it was viewed uh with less reliability wisely. Right? But if there is a very specific chain of of reporters, as they say, you know, those who would pass along, then that strengthens the case that this could be authentic. Right? But also, not just who they were, but did the reporters have a good and reliable memory? When it wasn't written down. Now that seems like a pretty subjective question to ask, right? But more importantly, number three, were they pious Muslims? Um now that even that isn't isn't um a slam dunk, but it was important and uh they pursued that The most respected compiler, Al-Bukhari, and it's his collection that I've got circulating here, apparently made fresh ablution of the ceremonial washing. And offered two cycles of prayer, their prescriptive prayer, before writing down each hadith. So he was certainly pious, devout, rigorous So let's go to top of page 55, item 3. The most respected compilations of Hadith were compiled roughly around the same time. Um the uh Sahibhari is his name He may have had more names than that, but he lived around two hundred, two fifty uh years after uh well AH after the Hijraf, that is after um Muhammad fled from Mecca and they established the the early Muslim community in Medina. And so he was over he was writing this down over 200 years after Muhammad. He interviewed more than a thousand hadith experts who had already grown into a um a i it was a thing to be a a a hadith expert. But there's still a lot of just oral handing down and oral teaching and so on. But he interviewed more than a thousand of these these guys. while making his compilation, traveling very widely and taking sixteen years to do so. Um His compilation includes 7,275 traditions, hadith, that were deemed to be the most authentic from over 600,000 that he came across. So he's very selective, which is one reason um a and his methods here um are are reasons why they're most trusted today The next most um uh revered compilation is that of uh a guy whose name uh not coincidentally was Muslim. Uh Sahih Muslim. And he lived around the same time. He was born a little bit later, died a little later. It's it's um you You interview all these people who claim to have hadith, handed down to them all the way from the time of Muhammad, and you've got a long list of these separate little accounts. And you decide which ones are the most authentic. And then you compile them together into one book. And that book becomes called the Hadith, the comp compilation of the Hadith. But each one individually is a Hadith. If that makes sense. So sometimes we use the word hadith to refer to the compilation, sometimes to the entries in the compilation. Yeah, good question. And you could add into the list some of these other ones as well dating back to the same time period. Was there overlap? Was there inconsistencies or whatever? I don't know the answer to that, but I would be extremely surprised if that hasn't been a major course of study in Islam. And uh these lawyers are probably going all over that. Yeah. But that brings us to something I definitely wanted to cover here on page 55 Hadith forgery. The interesting thing is that both friends and foes of Islam Wrote down traditions, that is, hadith, supposedly passed down from Muhammad, knowing that they would become the basis of Islamic law or influence Muslim politics and the standing of various Islamic sects. So um That's why so much emphasis is placed on knowing the identity and character of each reporter, but that in and of itself is not um sufficient because they could be uh uh diametrically opposed to those who are trying to uh support Islam versus those who are trying to tear it down, might have their own agendas to derive something out of whole cloth, just something that wasn't um genuine but was made to appear that way. Muslim scholars unanimously agree that there has been widespread forgery. This is um Muslim scholars They agree that there's been widespread forgery among the Hadith literature, and it may be that comparison of various compilations contributes to that understanding. In fact, a large literature on the forged tradition has come into being. And so like everything else, they categorize these forgeries. And um there's a big question mark. Nobody knows for sure. It's just an ongoing uh discussion, debates about what's authentic, what's not, and um uh It's just a state of affairs. So, bottom line here is that there's some irony in the fact that just as Muhammad never read or had access to the Bible. And so based all of his references to biblical characters, events, and doctrines on secondary, often oral sources, which were often inconsistent with the Bible. And likewise his own teachings and legacy have been subject to erroneous traditions that have been attributed to him. It's like the pot calling the kettle black. Um in Galatians six seven of course It says, Do not deceive, deceived, God is not mocked. For whatever a man sows, that will be also reap. So Satan clearly um has been very active to set up this whole scheme. Uh you see it in the the teachings of the Quran um and so on. But he's not um omniscient. He's not omnipotent. He would love to be both of those. But he's not. He's not omnipresent. He'd love to be that, but he's not. Um and y you can even see in the pages of scripture that um Satan tried to trip up Jesus. That didn't work. He tried to trip up those who were following Jesus. He got one of them and he thought that by getting Judas to conspire with the the Jewish religious leaders, to get Jesus crucified, that would be the end of it. Not realizing it would be the end of him. Right? Um in the same way I think, you know, he builds this this incredible structure of legalism and and and and whatever that's Islam. Um not realizing that that's that's just um uh destined to fall under its own weight and be opposed by Christ in the the final you know the the playing out of God's um plan for history. He wants to have Islam be a worldwide um system where he has control. And uh it's gonna get close to that, but God's not gonna allow that to happen fully. Uh some of those things found their way into the Quran. Yeah. Yeah, well they would actually claim that that the they got an earlier start on that with the Quran by getting that final version just within um fifty, sixty years of Muhammad and it's carried through to be the same book today, but the hadith, it's all over the map. And it's the two combined that makes it such a such a um Um a big question mark. Yeah. Um excellent question that gets to the very foundation of of problems that people have with um Islam, uh they would be very confident that Uh the hadith as are in the the short compilation that I'm passing around here from Abu Khari are all genuine. There's greater question about other ones, but uh they don't need the the more questionable ones to constitute Sharia law. There are people who would advocate for it, perhaps But um they're they're very willing to put in the time to give the best discernment they can to what's genuine and what's not. and entrust that to people who are trained in this area and um um it's just a fact of life Yeah, we're gonna have to break off, but uh if it's a quick question with a quick answer. Maybe later. Okay. Um but yeah I don't I don't expect that most Muslims certainly haven't read everything that Al-Baqari has in that compilation. So in that sense, I'm probably more familiar with it than they are. But they have been taught these things are important. This is what you do. This is how you do it They don't need to know where chapter and verse it is in the Quran, where it is in the hadith, how it all fits together. They're just told this is what you need to do That's great.