So today uh we're on lesson seven, page fifty-nine. Does everybody have a copy of the notes? They're available electronically on our group in Hopebook. And there's some hard copies here you can borrow if you don't have one. The last few weeks we've been sort of giving an introduction to the uh nature of Islam, the history and and so on. And starting today we're going to delve into uh the nature of beliefs of Islam so that we can uh um understand or um interact with our Muslim friends, neighbors and so on in a sort of a knowledgeable way. In fact, it it's possible that um you would end up understanding more about Islam than they really know. What they know is a cultural manifestation, perhaps. Like many people who call themselves Christians, they have sort of a Christian culture around them and history, but they're not really believers That's not true of Muslims. Muslims, um you don't have to understand everything in the Quran to be a Muslim. You don't have to believe everything necessary the Quran says You just have to kind of fit in and be part of the culture. There are a few uh mandatory things, we're going to talk about that. But I'm pretty sure that most of the Muslims that we would encounter around here are pretty much cultural. um Muslims. Now that's not always the case, and it's hard to put everybody into a box, but um Um you've had that experience talking with Catholics probably, who understand what it means to be Catholic, to do Catholicism, but they don't understand every all of Catholic theology. Likewise, Jews, you probably know more about the Old Testament than most Jews. Right? So it's similar here, but there are a lot of differences as well So today we're going to begin that process of what Islam teaches by focusing on their God. Now um there are a fair number of people out there, including Muslims Who believe that we and they worship the same God. After all, we all agree that there's only one God. We all agree that he's our creator. We must be worshiping the same God, right? Wrong. We can tell from the Quran, which was supposedly given to Muhammad by their God, that he's not the same God. And in fact, as I've mentioned a few times, uh Satan's fingerprints are all over the Quran. And it's it's not the God of the Bible. Now, we have a communication challenge. And that is the word Allah is the Arabic word for God. And so if we were all Arabic speaking and I were teaching you a class, I would use the word Allah to refer to the true God of Israel. That's the word God in Arabic. The problem is the Quran and Islam generally Don't give him a name. You know, we refer to God as God, but God has given us some information about himself. Yahweh, right? I have always been. I am that I am. There is no such name like that. Now there are attributes, and we're going to talk about a lot of those probably next week mostly, but in terms of a name. There is really isn't a name other than Allah. And so when I compare and contrast the God of the Quran and the God of the Bible, I slip into this convenient terminology that our God is God and the God of the Quran is not a true God. And so I give him the name of Allah, but that's really the name God. You see the conundrum there? If I were an Arabic speaker, I would be speaking of the true God as Allah, the true Allah. And you'll see that in in the notes here and it it uh it's just a convenient um convention to refer to the God of the Quran, the God of Islam as Allah, which means God But it's if I use that name I can use I can make the contrast between that God and the true God. You see what I'm saying? It's it's it's However, when I refer to the Muslim God as Allah, as a false God. Um but I don't use the word false. I I just speak of the um the false nature of the God of of the Quran, the God of Islam, and I refer to him as Allah. Uh an Arabic speaker would probably be confused. Not knowing that I'm making this distinction between the false God of Islam and the Quran and the true God of the Bible, both of whom in Arabic are named Allah. So we need to be careful, but I want to give you a heads up here because in the notes I'm referring to Allah as His name rather than the word God. Okay? And so when I say Allah, I'm I'm referring to the false God of the Quran and not the true God of the Bible. Okay? Does that make sense? Yeah, I'm right. Does the God of Islam exist? In the minds of those who worship him. So when we're talking about their conception of God, we're talking about something that doesn't really exist. Well, it depends. It depends. Um you could argue that the revelations to Muhammad weren't from Allah through the angel Gabriel as they claim, but were rather straight from Satan. In which case the God of Islam does exist. He's our great foe. Satan. Right? Yeah. Okay, so we're on page fifty nine. And there's a little bit of review here. You remember When we talked about the history of of Muhammad and him receiving these revelations, if you will, that uh there were that that um Arabia, all the various Arabian tribes Each had their own god or gods, and together as an Arabian people, they acknowledged all of these gods. They were pantheistic. And in Mecca, in the Ka'aba where they currently serve only Allah, Allah was one of the many Gods who were worshipped at that time. And um You remember that Muhammad after he overcame the resistance in Mecca and he had uh a lot of warriors who came and and uh surrounded or at least approached the city, they gave up without a fight Uh the the Meccans gave up without a fight and adopted Islam. Abraham wiped out all those other gods, each of which, by the way, had a name. But Allah, who egg who existed in their pantheon of gods, existed long before Muhammad, Muhammad preached, that one is the true God. We're going to worship him alone. And so um uh uh you see evidences of their um devotion to Allah, to uh what they called God, um in uh people's names. It exists now, but it existed long before the time of Muhammad as well. Uh his father and an uncle, they all had uh this term Allah built into their name. And that's that's not an uncommon thing to invoke the name of God in the name you would give to people. Right, like um Israel or Joel Right? You're you're invoking the name of God, El Elohim, in even a person's name. And that was true of of uh the Arabic people as well, uh long before Muhammad Um I have a little piece in here about some confusion people have propagated about um Allah being basically a moon god and you see that crescent moon symbol in Islam and you see it on um flags and this kind of thing. Well, that predates Islam and it's not an Islamic inherently Islamic thing. Uh The Quran would unequivocally say that Allah is not, they're not worshiping the moon, they're worshiping the creator of the moon And so um uh any association of of uh Allah with being a moon god is just nonsense from an Islamic perspective Um so uh there's some references here as well. Okay. So the name Allah just means The God, as if there's only one God, except that um in the Arabian pantheon of gods before Muhammad, he was called the God, whereas all these other ones had their own names. Um okay. There's a bit more history, some of which we've already covered, but I'll leave that to you um and your reference. So let's go to item three here on page sixty. The Allah of Islam is not the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, even though that's what the Quran claims. And um this just leads to all sorts of confusion. So Who is Allah? Well, your base your your typical Muslim who has any kind of familiarity with the Quran and Islamic thinking will refer to him as, you know, our our creator. Um he's the one we're all subject to. Um, you know, those kind of things. And and that's certainly consistent with our understanding of the true God, right? Um the Quran Yeah, I I've cited here Surah fifty-nine, chapter fifty-nine, verses twenty-two to twenty-four, um, where it it um teaches that a law uh i i in in contrast with um My statement that he's not given a name, the Quran says, or at least Muhammad in in Islamic tradition says he's got 99 names But nobody underst nobody has any consensus about what those names are. The Quran here I mentioned Surah 59 says to him belongs the most beautiful names. Whatever is in heaven and on earth declares his praises and glory. He is most all exalted and wise. Usually these names, like in this situation, aren't really names, but they're attributes. wise, all-loving, all merciful, that kind of thing. And in some sense, that's much of what we see in the Old Testament about the true God. Some of the names given to him are tied to his attributes, right? Um and you know, the the Almighty right or um the the the god who sees uh all those all those kinds of names and you see similar things in in the Quran. But they're not the they're descriptions, they're not actually his name, like Yahweh. Yeah. So um All right, on page sixty one, Muhammad's claim of who Allah is. Of course, he's he begins by combating the historical notion that he was one of many Arabian gods. But he taught that this chief god of pagan Arabia was the same god as the god of Abraham, and that Muhammad's role, as revealed by presumably purportedly, the angel Gabriel in these visions. Uh he is Muhammad's role is to bring people back to the religion of of um Abraham. What was characteristic of the religion of Abraham? He submitted to God And it's that submission to God and his sovereignty that's the hallmark of, in fact, even the definition of Islam. And so uh Um it's very important in Islamic thinking that this is not new. It's it's merely calling people back to what things were. Um not just from the time of Abraham, but Abraham being um sort of a um Similar to the the the way even in um in Israel, Abraham seeing seen as sort of the the the beginning of God's relationship with his covenant people. It's a similar thing in Islam, except that it's not through Isaac and Jacob, it's through Abraham and Ishmael. And it's um It's sort of a starting point. But they look back very highly at Noah, viewing him as a prophet, and to some extent even Adam. They do in the Quran does teach that there is an Adam and Eve and so on. Margaret, you had a hand up? Yeah, about the nature of submission. In the Old Testament I think that Abraham's great quality was he believed God. He believed God's promises Is that the same as the submission here? Because it seems to me people can submit outwardly without believing inwardly. So uh how would we think about that? Well, um Well that's true. It's also not true in the sense that um Islam, the Quran, as we'll see in a few weeks when we talk about the actual doctrines and so on. that it requires not just outward not just submission for submission's sake, but it involves belief, faith. So it's not works only, it's faith plus works. Which equals works, but outwardly it's faith plus works. And sort of sort of like Phariseism, right? And really any other doctrine, any other religion out there is the doctrine of works. But they will put on a garment of, well, it's it's a faith. Well, certainly it is a faith, to believe that all that work is going to entitle you to heaven That's blind faith. Um but so there is that that confusion, Roger. Uh you mentioned uh their belief in Noah as a prophet. Um I guess in Adam as well. What we have is Old Testament, uh tensive well, just in Genesis along Do they how do they see that? Is it have they changed that? Um do they think that's been changed like other Yeah, yeah. So uh the question is w what about this relationship between what's revealed in the Old Testament, particularly Genesis, and the Quran and Islamic belief Well, um they believe that the Quran is God's ultimate and final revelation. that it's built on what the earlier prophets proclaimed, which they believe came also from the same God, this false God. And to the extent well and then but um Muhammad and most of his hearers at his time couldn't read and write. That was just normal. And so he wasn't he didn't have the copy of the Old Testament or the New Testament in his hands when he went down to to convey what's being uh revealed to him. Um he had in the back of his mind a lot of the stories that he would pick up over over time, uh from Jews, from Christians, and it's all kind of a uh uh some jumbled mess in his mind, I'm sure. Um and he pulls from that things that are names and and so on, like Adam, like Noah, associated with a big flood, and uh Abraham, and these stories and and figures get brought into the Quran. But there's no effort, there was no ability to compare that with what the previous record was at the time. It didn't take long, however, for people to who could read and write to compare the two and say, wait a minute. Um There's a mismatch here. There's some events, there's some people, and so on that are in common, but there's a lot of mismatch in terms of the details. What's what's up? Their answer to that, and even Muhammad's answer to those kinds of questions for people who were asking about that But more importantly, and more recently, um Muslim um apologists will say that the original that it was as the the previous revelations have become distorted um um And one of the main purposes of this final revelation is to set things straight. So that all the errors that have crept in over time, since the time of those earlier prophets We're now correcting and bringing people back to the true submission to Allah. Now we're gonna we're gonna address that accuracy problem Later. But that's that's the basic approach. Yeah. Um if we I think so like the things that um Christians are doctrines, they believe they seem that they believe in one and one God. Um but why do they hate the Jews so much? So it seems like they actually are saying the Jews were right you know, they go back to the the Abrahamic religion. Well it's it's yeah, the question is w um why would they be at such odds with Jews? I mean Arabs are Semitic. Um why would they be at odds so much with Jews? It's pretty easy to see doctrinally why they would have opposition to to Christians. Well the answer is that it's pretty easy to poke holes in um in Jewish Tradition, Jewish, um not tradition so much as um you look at Jewish history, what do you see? You see it documented in the Old Testament, but certainly even beyond the Old Testament. It's a testimony of unfaithfulness to God. Right. And here's the people who uh were given great uh grace and and um revelation and relationship with God and the for the most part they blew it. Right? Um and were not faithful to that. Even though freak often, repeatedly, they would say, Yes, you know, God would bring them back. and we're we're going to be devoted to you, but you just see what that led to over many, many years. God had to um uh punish them not just individually, but as a as a nation multiple times, put them under subjection to others. And the Islamic interpretation of all that, which is in some senses correct, that got that was God's dealing with them because of their unfaithfulness. And so they pick up the story saying, we're now trying to come back to the original submission to Allah, and we're going to be faithful. We're going to do a better job. Yeah. Okay. So um The the Islamic claim and all that As I recall, not all that pronounced in the Quran itself, but it's clearly embedded in the Arab um Arabic, the Arabian mind, is that they trace their their roots back to Abraham through Ishmael. And that the passage in the Quran that talks about Abraham sacrificing if being asked by God to sacrifice his son. They interpret that to mean Ishmael. But that passage also makes reference to Isaac. And it's a little unclear, at least as I read it. which of the two it is. But standard Islamic doctrine is that no, he was asked to sacrifice Ishmael completely ignoring or ignorant of the promises that were specifically given to Abraham and about Isaac and about that that lineage that would be through Isaac, the son of promise, which were repeated to Isaac. were repeated to his son Jacob. And I've uh if you look at page sixty and six or sixty one and sixty-two We've got this progression of God's reaffirming his covenant, his promise to Abraham through Uh and two, not just Abraham but also Isaac and and um Jacob. And The Bible can't be clearer, but that the the promise to Abraham was going to be fulfilled through Isaac and that lineage, not through Ishmael. Now, Genesis does say that God was going to raise up through Ishmael also uh many kingdoms and and so on, and and that's true. But um that's not the promise, the promise of of um uh the blessing and Many descendants and the promised land that was given to Isaac, not Ishmael. Well, uh about Isaac to um Abraham. And so it's quite clear that the account in the scriptures, the Bible It's quite different from the account and then the subsequent interpretation of the Quran on that score. Yeah. They apart from you know I've heard they have value in Christ, they think he's a prophet. And then the lineage is out in the scripture in the New Testament and it shows back through the lineage that you're just talking about how do they How do they um mix that with with their story about being passed down through Ishmael if if they also elevate Christ and Prophet Um I don't know if that came out later. Yeah. Um so The Quran does acknowledge or it claims that Jesus is a prophet. We would agree with that. He's in fact the prophet. the greatest expression of God ever given to men. Um but he's much more than a prophet. Right. And then shrink and then shrinking it back. Yeah, I I don't think there are many Muslims who pay any attention at all to those genealogies. Okay. Um So they think he's the prophet that has no attachment to the religion. Well they knew he was a Jew and that he was trying to call uh the their perception of the gospel is Jesus was calling the nation of Israel back to the belief, the the submission to God of Abraham. And that he, Jesus, is second in that regard only to Muhammad as calling them back to God's true religion. But they don't say a lineage back to that. No. The lineage of Christ isn't so much um um of value I don't think in uh for his uh being a prophet But rather for his being a king, to sit on the c on the throne of of his father David, right? Um But the fact that that all the promises would be through Isaac and Jacob, that's sort of um just either ignored or or um uh I I I don't think Muhammad was even aware. that um the Old Testament for uh thousands of years before him was already attesting to the fact that God's promise to Abraham was through Isaac. And that it's there in the scriptures. I don't think he was aware of that. Well one thing's for sure, we know Muhammad never read the Old Testament. Yeah, he couldn't read. Even if it had been translated into Arabic, he couldn't read it. There there was no translation in Arabic at the time anyway. That's true. But I mean just say if there were, he couldn't read it anyway. That's right. Yeah, we forget sometimes I think that Satan wrote a book, gave it to quote the angel Gabriel, who dictated it to Muhammad, and all its its purpose is to discredit the coming of Christ. And not just the not just the first advent. But the second advice. So we have to remember that when we start dealing with the Quran, with Islam, with any of these false religions. That their purpose is to discredit. I mean we'll go all the way back to Genesis three and we find the evidence of that in the beginning of it back in Genesis chapter three. Right. And we're gonna see a major piece of that here in a few minutes in terms of some of their their teaching in the in the Quran. So one other thing, uh they claim it was Gabriel but it was probably some demon that impersonated Gabriel because as far as we know, Gabriel is still a very servant of God. Couldn't have been Yes, yeah I think I quoted earlier that uh I have it here as well on page um seventy five Second Corinthians eleven. But I'm afraid that as the serpent deceived Eve by his craftiness Your minds will be led astray from the simplicity and purity of devotion to Christ. For if one comes and preaches another Jesus, you could say this is Jesus when it's not really Jesus. whom we have not preached, or you receive a different spirit, which you have not received, or different gospel, which you have not accepted. You bear this beautifully. For such men are false apostles, deceitful workers, disguising themselves as apostles of Christ. No wonder, for even Satan disguises himself as an angel of light. Therefore it is not surprising if his servants also disguise themselves as servants of righteousness, whose end will be according to their deeds. Okay. So I'm on page 63. Another thing we want to do here as we evaluate is this God of the Quran, the same as the God of the Bible, is to look at what is attributed to Allah in the Quran. It's a tr it's supposed to be his revelation to Muhammad. And so is it consistent with what we know about what God has revealed prior to that Through Moses and others. Well, there are several things where you get some clues about God's will, such as How one can treat one's wife. Okay. The Quran teaches that husbands may beat their wives Now that's inconvenient for a lot of Muslim apologists, and you can see some of the commentaries I've I've included here where they kind of dance around that. But the language is clear That um if they were um You y you've got the this escalating uh s t set of tools to use to bring your wife into submission And um when all else fails you can beat them, basically is what it's saying in Surah Four. Um And I'll let you read the the commentaries from it's not all that helpful, but the various comment Islamic commentaries as about what all that means. But um the the text, as I understand from people who know the Arabic, the test the text doesn't actually say beat them lightly, it just says beat them. And um the the um The effect of it is to force them into compliance, which is certainly not consistent with what God has revealed in Scripture. Um particularly Jesus and his apostles, who um Uh remind us that God's design is that husbands would um love their wives even as Christ loved the church. Right? And so a completely different message here. Completely different message. And so either The earlier message got corrupted, and we're going to deal with that claim. Or the second message It's from a different source. And that's actually the case. It's from a different source. Just uh uh going into how they switch things and so forth, I would uh suspect that you talk to a Muslim in regards to this. And so they're gonna concentrate on the fact that men are protectors and maintainers. And and that they would focus on the fact, oh no, we we we protect our women, that's what they're for. Of course if they've got a hand, you've got to correct them and so forth. And this is a loving thing to do. I don't know that they were associated with loving, but it's it's a necessary thing to do. Yeah. Isn't that what you said though that um the the water here is basically molded over to like it seems like it's it's been all of it wrong There's a lot of like substitution and we have to make the feeling how to do it and use the sort of Yes. And it's not surprising that um i if you're in a mindset of works it you have to compel people to to do the right thing. It's not coming from the heart. That's just it's over their heads. From the heart? What do you mean? Right? Um so it it it's consistent in that respect. Okay, on page 65, there are the there's the the next example of difference here, and that is with regard to divorce. The Quran assumes that husbands can divorce their wives for any reason, and that's a belief that Jesus had to deal with in Israel. And what the Quran does is it it adds some regulations. It doesn't deny the opportunity for men to divorce their wives for any reason, but it says you have to go about it the right way, essentially. And uh so there's some example, uh various examples of that here. I don't want to spend a lot of time on this because I've got more important things I want to cover But it's here for your reference. And but it's the same the same um conclusion. Either the original source, the Bible, has been corrupted And we need to get back to what Allah intends, or the second message is from a different source. other than from the true God. You don't really have too many other options. Right? And we're going to talk about again that claim that the biblical sources have been corrupted. Um it may be a few months before we get there, but it's there. Okay. So there are examples here from the Quran. There's commentaries by these various Muslim commentators. Uh i i it is true that that the Quran uh is pretty explicit about deviating from some of the cultural practices that were present in Muhammad's day in Arabia with with regard to divorce And so there's regulation here, there's qualification, uh but the basic premise that you can divorce your wife for any reason at all is not changed by the Quran. And it's not consistent with Scripture, and so it's that inconsistency that says these have got to be coming from different sources. And indeed they are. Just upon this quickly, uh maybe misunderstanding this, in a um closed box there which I presume is what the Quran actually says The second sentence said, And fear go of your Lord and turn them out and turn turn them not out of their houses but shall they themselves leave, except in case they are guilty of some open woundness. Doesn't that mean that the Quran sort of encapsulates you know the the command to divorce based on the wife's lewdness? I mean, there's another lane that you can divorce to work whenever you choose to or want to. Um there is some some overlap between uh the Old Testament um uh texts and uh Some of the Quran. But let's go ahead and read this here. We're on page 65. When you do divorce women, divorce them at their prescribed periods. And count accurately their prescribed periods. And uh th there's there's uh um Um the the the intent here was that they not divorce someone who could possibly be pregnant. That's the context here. And fear God, your Lord, and turn them out of their houses. uh nor they themselves leave, except in case that they are guilty of some open lewdness. Those are the limits set by God And any who transgressed the limits of God verily uh does verily wrong in his own soul, uh you know not if perchance God will bring about thereafter some new situation. Thus, when they fulfill their term appointed, either take them back on equitable terms or part with them on equitable terms. And take for witnesses two persons from among you, endued with justice, and establish the evidence as before God. Such is the admonition, give it to him who believes in God in the last day. So the the point is it it's not precluding the possibility of divorcing, it's just saying, do it in a prescribed way. So, yeah. Just to be clear, you could get the worser for nagging and everything listed on the above. But if the one when could possibly be pregnant, you have a time to wait Because there's some accountability there. Whose child is it who is it and that kind of thing. It's not that you can't divorce her, but let's do it in the prescribed way. Yeah. Um and so that that comes out in some of the the commentaries as well. But I want to get to page sixty-eight. Um sorry there's a lot here, but it's mostly for your reference and you can You can study it as you go along. But yes, there are some differences in in um how to treat women and particularly with regard to divorce, but Probably the most critical difference you'll find is what is the basis and means of salvation, right? And so the Quran teaches that everyone will be judged by God That's true. And that their destiny, whether it's eternal bliss or eternal damnation, will be based on their works. That's not true. Well, it's not completely true. It's partly true. For example, whether their good works outweigh their bad, whether they obey certain rules, and so on. And because it's based on works, like every other works-based religion, which is all religions except for biblical Christianity, there is no assurance of salvation. There cannot be Now, there may be some exceptions to that. You know, if you die as a martyr, you're you're promised to immediately go to paradise. And that was that was in place even while while uh Muhammad was in Medina and raising up the the army and so on. Um There are a few other things like that, but but uh as a basic rule for most Muslims, um they can have there is no basis for assurance of salvation. Um now um Two things on that. I said their eternal destiny, whether it's eternal bliss or damnation, will be based on their works. That's partly true. I mean if you go to Revelation twenty, the end of Revelation twenty where it speaks of the great white throne. How are people judged when they come to the great white throne? On the basis of their works. Of course, everybody who comes to the great white throne is an unbeliever. And their works are what judge them. God says, that doesn't measure up, therefore I'm going to cast you into the lake of fire. So they are judged by their works righteously. And there would we go but for the grace of God. Right? So, in a sense We are saved by works, but they're not our works. They're the works of Christ. Which are ours by grace. God imputes his righteousness, his good works to us, not because we deserve it. But purely out of his grace, which we respond to in faith. So, yes Our interaction with all that is not by works, but purely by faith. And repentance and all that is associated with that. But from God's perspective, you bet it was based on works. It's the righteous works of Christ. Who not only paid for our sin, and also our sins were imputed to him, but his righteousness, his perfect life is imputed to us. So when God sees us, what does he see? The righteousness of Christ. That's the works of Christ. Well That's an abomination to the Muslim mind. So what they have here, and I'll I'll show you here in in several of these. these passages is the fairly common misconception that almost everybody has that we're saved by works and so God's got the scale, right? And maybe you were of that frame of mind at one point. You you run into people all the time. Well, I think my good outweighs my bad. That's what they're saying, right? People think that intuitively because of this this sort of standard human nature of wanting to to um show ourselves to be acceptable to God. But when you think about it, you've got the scales, and w what's the idea? My good outweighs my bad. They're not claiming they don't have any bad, but they're saying the good outweighs the bad. And to them, that's justice. That's the justice of God. Well, that's a very low view of God. It's a very low view of the holiness of God, because if there was only one teensy weensy little thing in here that was wrong on this this side over here Doesn't matter what's on the good side. I'm worthy of separation from God for eternity. Muslims think they have a very high view of God and the holiness of God. They don't. If you believe in the scales, you believe in a very low view of the holiness of God. And it isn't even logical. Think about that. Let's say I've got all these good works. And they outweigh my bad works. Well, how do you characterize those good works? They're what God requires. Is there any excess in any one of those? No. There's no excess goodness. It's just what I was supposed to do in those cases I did. Right? There's no excess So what about these bad things? If God is holy, every single one of these bad things is incompatible with his very being. Right? So there's no excess here to compensate for the bad And if I think that that that doesn't matter, then I've got an extremely low view of God. And that's what they have. Okay, so look on the bottom of page sixty-eight from the Quran. Say, and this again, this is purportedly Allah through Gabriel telling Muhammad what to say to the people Say, shall I seek for my cherisher other than God, when he is the cherisher of all things that exist? Every soul Draws the mead of its own acts on none but itself. No bearer of burdens can bear the burdens of another Your goal in the end is towards God. He will tell you the truth of the things wherein you dispute it. No bearer of burdens can bear the burdens of another. What's that referring to? Vicarious promise. Vicarious. Um the the substitution of someone else, meaning who? Christ the substitutionary substitutionary death on his that he experienced could apply to us is something categorically denied in the Quran Surah 7. And verily we shall recount their whole story with knowledge, for we were never absent at any time or place. The balance that day will be true to nicety. Those whose scale of good will be heavy will prosper. Those whose scale will be light will be their souls in perdition. For that they wrongfully treated or signed. You see this good scale, bad scale thing? It comes up again. These two things are intertwined. Surah 17. Who receiveth guidance receiveth for his own benefit, and who goes astray does so to his own loss. No bearer of burdens can bear the burden of another. Nor would we visit with our wrath until we had sent a message to give a warning. Then Surah 23 on the top of page 69. Again, those whose balance of good deeds is heavy. They will attain salvation, but those whose balance is light will be those who have lost their souls in hell. They will uh in hell they will abide. And again, this this notion that no bearer of burdens can bear anyone else's su in a substitutionary way just comes up over and over and over again. And so no one else can do it, therefore it's all up to you. It's this this scales kind of thing. It is sad. It's a motivation if you're a Muslim and this is all you know, but to us who know better, it's sad. It's sad. Yeah. Like the way that it's so emphasized over and over again and just these passages you pull just tells you it's from the devil. Oh yeah. Like telling you there's no chance. That's right. Like what if that thing looks like? That's right. Yep. In a sense, no one can vicariously atone for another is true if you think Jesus is only a man. Right. If they say he's a prophet but nothing but a prophet, then he doesn't have the power of the party to give time for the morning. Yeah, that's that's true, but it's interesting. We're gonna see when we talk about their concept, their understanding of Jesus, that um if you take the Quran literally, you'd have to um refer to Jesus as holy. He's even referred to as a holy child in the Quran. Muhammad's never referred to as holy. Um now they don't believe that that means that Jesus is God, far from it. But um They also agree that he was virgin born. They don't understand why he needed to be virgin-born other than just as a sign. I don't know what it means. Um but um yeah to think that he is actually God would be something that Satan cannot abide by. Yeah. Okay. Um so um Pages 69, 70, there are more commentaries and things here. Uh and then I introduce of course verses that you're probably much more familiar with from the scriptures that speak about our salvation being based on uh the works of Christ on our behalf uh and our response to that in repentance and faith as opposed to a salvation of works And yeah, you you you can't read through Romans or Galatians and and and so on and not come away with a very clear understanding that salvation um is not by our works. Um and um so That's something that again either tells us that the earlier revelation prior to Muhammad is has been corrupted and is Just made to say what people wanted it to say later, or the subsequent revelation, if you will. comes from a different source. And indeed it does. It comes from a different source. Not the true God. So that's the family, um I mean I have family members who are professing Christians who believe that the God of Islam is the same as the God of the Bible. So how would you in one sentence review that how how would you 'cause this is great, but How would you, you know, if you just came across that person and and you had this five minute conversation, how would you repeat that in one in one session I would invite them to read the Quran and the Bible and make their own decision. Oh, oh. Okay. Rather than speak out of ignorance, have them speak with um some familiarity with both sources. A lot of people make very compelling arguments about the Bible and they're clueless about the Bible. The same thing is true of the Quran. Just have them read it. Yeah. Um the god is the first you fell off and it's hard to differentiate I guess to them what you're talking about against the God or so right, leaving said they just get called Sutra God Yahweh, is that how you would Um is the context of this maybe in your conversation with Muslims, for example How do you refer to them? Probably the thing to do is not to make a big issue about whether Allah is a false God. Don't make that an issue, especially early on. You want to draw them to the scriptures to see what God really has revealed. And chances are real good they're not all that familiar with the Quran anyway. But get them familiar with what God has revealed. Let His Word be used as only the Holy Spirit can use it to draw them. to him. Now if at some point in your overall in your conversations uh they see maybe some d differences between what the Quran is teaching or what they understand the Quran is teaching and what they see in scripture, um uh you might have to start talking about, well, some of that history and and the the the accuracy of the of the uh uh the Bible texts and so on. And I'm going to provide you lots of information about that later. But I wouldn't start there. If they have the presumption that you're talking about the same God or creator, just go with that for the time being And eventually um they'll start putting two and two together and maybe ask more um appropriate questions and so on. Okay. Um so it's not like the teaching of uh the cr the the Bible and the Quran that that don't always match up, but various historical facts. And another very crucial historical fact that the Quran misses big time, not only misses, but gets it wrong. Is that the Quran teaches very specifically that Jesus Christ was not crucified. Now it does acknowledge people thought that he was crucified. But they didn't understand what they were seeing. It's not all that explicit about what they were supposed to draw from that. But it's very explicit that Jesus was not crucified. Which why do you suppose that's there? Satan again is trying to undermine the ministry, the the the uh the substitutionary role, the the whole sal basis of salvation, so that it could be more this lockstep salvation by works. And you um and so it it's extremely clear in the Quran and it's fiercely defended in Islam. So we didn't have the formal heroes again. There is no resurrection, but there is an ascension. He ascended into heaven. They admit to that. But no resurrection from the dead because he didn't die. So no gospel. No gospel at all, isn't it? Well, there is a gospel in their mind. They were the Injiel is what that's the Arabic word for gospel In their thinking, the Injiel is the message that Jesus proclaimed, which is, let's get back to the original submission to Allah that began with Abraham. We can't do the fail actually. What's that? The Old Testament just showed you how you cannot just follow the law. Over and over again. It shows that that's the fail. It's supposed to be the lesson people draw from it, but um the the the the impact here in terms of Islam is this is now God's final revelation to to um bring everybody back and and And um everybody's responsible to falling. We're gonna have to close real quickly here. Jesus was virgin born. They believe he was holy. They believed I don't think most Muslims would believe he's holy, but the Quran says, refers to him as a holy child. And also that he is tended. It's amaz if if you claim that it's amazing that they draw some conclusion other than that. It's Satan's modus operandi is um deception. And the best way to deceive is to use a little bit of the truth, twist it And he's been doing that since the Garden of Eden. Okay. Well there's much here along those lines that um um more other things that you can delve into on your own. But you get the point that either either those those earlier revelations have been corrupted and Thanks be to Allah for giving us the Quran and getting us back to the true religion, or those haven't been corrupted and it's coming from a different source. And that's what we're doing with. Let's pray.