Okay, is there anyone here today who is does not have a copy of the notes, either electronic or hard copy? I think we have some extra copies. So Elsie, do you have Yes, th there's a distinction I should make there. You can purchase a copy, it's ten dollars. Is that right, Elsie? Or you can borrow one just for today, as long as you don't write in it. Right? So we have some for visitors and temporary use, but um uh you can get your own For ten dollars or download. Um we don't have the link here today, but um Um so is there anybody who needs a copy for today? Would like to borrow one? Okay. Why don't you go back and see LC? Yeah. So last week we began with sort of an overview of some of the uh important reasons for us to be aware of um Islam and and to be better prepared in um uh sharing our faith with uh our Muslim friends and co-workers and so on And today we're going to build on that, and we're in lesson two on page 13, looking at the historical and cultural context of Islam's origins. Um and so uh it's helpful to realize that uh Muhammad uh was born around five seventy AD, and so Islam began uh in early um Well, late 500s, early six hundreds uh A. D. So we're talking 500, 600 years after Christ. And uh that's significant because some things we're going to focus on here today. But it's helpful to know what the landscape was like in his area in Arabia, what is now Saudi Arabia, um, in the sixth century AD. Most of the people there are, as best we can tell, descendants of Shem. Now who was Shem? Son of Noah. One of Noah's three sons, right? Ham, Shem, and Japheth. And um who else was a descendant of Shem? Abraham. Right? So the the reason the Jews are referred to as Semitic is because they're descendants of Shem Well guess what? The Arabs are also, for the most part, descendants of Shem, making them also Semitic. Um we use the term Semitic to refer to just Jewish these days, right? But it's it's more broad than that. In fact, Muslims and even the Quran are very clear about their presumption that they are descendants of Ishmael. One of Abraham's sons. And they consider Abraham to be the first Muslim. By way of example, he was submitted to to God. Okay, so the people of Arabia in the 6th century A. D. It came from a lot of different um uh um tribal um uh clans and and so on. And some of those are mentioned in scripture. And so In 1 Kings 10, there's reference here to several key names. The one you'll probably remember is the Queen of Sheba. Well Sheba was a descendant of Joktan. who was Shem's great great grandson. And you can actually see that on page f uh fifteen, where you have uh some of the the key descendants of Noah with particular emphasis on the right hand side here, the ones that are thought to have um contributed to the Arabian tribes. Many of these are are mentioned like in these passages, 1 Kings ten. Also descendants, presumably, of Ishmael. They they they pride themselves as being, you know, the the Arabs as being descendants of Ishmael, but I don't think all of them were. Um sort of like the US is a melting pot, Arabia was something of a melting pot with all these different tribes intermarrying and and and so on. And then Ketura, you remember who Ketura was? Abraham's uh second wife, if if you don't count um Hagar. Well s actually Katura is referred to as early on as a concubine. Yeah. Um but yeah, his second or maybe third wife, Ketura. Um I always find it interesting that Abraham himself was concerned when the Lord told him he would have a son, and he and his wife, Sarah, would have a son in her old age. And he was as concerned about his old age as he was about her old age. And yet after she died, he had lots more he had more children through Katura than through anybody else. Um anyway, God has a sense of humor, I guess. So uh as you can see in that chart on page fifteen, you've you've got all these sort of people's um and descendants. Some of them have names that are the same from these different lineages, and so it's hard sometimes to figure out which one they're talking about. But um Uh generally you have these Arabian tribes uh coming through those lineages. And uh another reference here is to uh Midian, you remember um uh m Moses' father in law was um from uh the land of Midian. He was a uh uh a priest there, I guess, right? And Midian was uh one of the sons of Abraham and Keturah. And they're referenced also in Exodus here. So um these peoples in in Arabia uh many of them became either um uh nomads, very much like Abraham, Isaac, Jacob. Uh so they would have uh animals and flocks they would move from place to place and and uh get get um sustainable conditions in uh Not just one location, but keep moving around. But sometimes they they They uh pursued their livelihood through various trades, and so you've got these caravans that go through and um Several references to those in Scripture, including, for example Uh in Genesis 37 you remember when Joseph was sold by his brothers, who picked him up? Midianite traders who came through and they're on their way to Egypt. And um Uh they would typically have, you know, these these for protection and and and and for just the logistics of it in terms of carrying cargo and their goods and so on. They would have these caravans of uh typically camels, maybe mules. Um And they would go from place to place. And uh this is going to feature fairly significantly in the life of Muhammad later. So we had those. And one thing that stands out in um In the early history of the nation of Israel, is that these peoples, the Arabians, were among the people who were antagonistic toward the Jews. And uh there's several examples of that, but here on page fourteen, you see, for example, um in 2 Chronicles 21 The Lord stirred up against Jehoram the spirit of the Philistines and the Arabs. Philistines on the west, the Arabs on the east and and south, um, the Arabs who bordered. the Ethiopians. And 2 Chronicles 26, verse 7 I've highlighted there, God helped him. The hymn here is Uzziah. God helped him against the Philistines, against the Arabians who lived in Gurbaal. and others as well. So these various tribes, even though they had Uh some overlapping um uh heritage and and so on, they would often be at odds with each other And they'd have their own individual interests and and so on. The Arabians particularly were known as desert dwellers, and that's logical because that area is largely desert. Right? Jeremiah, for example, says, by the roads you have sat for them, like an Arab in the desert. And so just bringing up the name Arab would conjure up the idea of someone who is living in the desert. Later in Jeremiah chapter 21, all the kings of Arabia and all the kings of the foreign people who dwell in the desert. So it's making reference. uh to them. Now in biblical times, even in the New Testament, um Arabia um w was a larger area than what we think of now as like Saudi Arabia. And it's going to be a while here before we get a map. But on page twenty, there's a map of the Arabian Peninsula that starts with um uh The area between the Euphrates and the Mediterranean, where you've got Syria and Israel and Jordan, and that whole area to the south and east. East, of course, being the Arabian Peninsula. But even at the time of Jesus The area of Arabia, you didn't have to go very far from where they were. You can cross over the Jordan River and before long you're in the area that was called Arabia. In fact, that's what Paul did when he got saved. He was in Damascus, right? God took him to Damascus, Damascus. Um and uh he ran into some opposition early there. And so you remember the story they let him down through a basket. over the wall and he uh kind of fled incognito and where did he go? To Arabia. Which wouldn't have had to have been terribly far. It's not like he went all the way down to to um Mecca or something. Just a little bit into the desert area, and that would have been referred to as Arabia. Okay, so Desert Dwellers. I'm on page sixteen now. What was the religious climate of the sixteenth century Arabia. Well, it was very much like Did I say sixteenth? Sixth century. Yeah. So keep keep me honest here. I I I I sometimes say things I don't realize they're saying. Uh the sixth century Arabia Very much like what we would see in in the Old Testament, particularly where you've got every sort of people group. uh clan or tribe has its own God essentially, right? Uh it was very much still the same way in Arabia um 600 years after Christ. And uh so there were Arab, lots of Arab tribes, clans and so on, and they tended to have their own Uh their own gods that had their own features, um uh different characteristics uh of each one are just sort of evolved over time I guess. Um but what's interesting here is that Mecca, and here again you might want to refer to the map on page twenty Mecca um is uh between half and two thirds of the way down And on the western edge of the Arabian Peninsula near the Red Sea, do you see that? It's actually spelled Maka on this map. Mecca was the um in our way of thinking, in our day we would think of it as the capital. But I don't think they thought of it quite that way. It was it was nonetheless a commercial hub. A lot of the trade routes went through there and it was a um uh populous area and um it became a central um worship place because people from all these tribes were coming through there and they would have uh opportunity to worship their god at the um uh Ka'aba in Mecca. So the Ka'aba is their their central worship place. It's still there today. Uh it's on page sixteen. KA Uh apostrophe B A H. I don't know how you pronounce it. Uh Kava. But um um At that um holy sight in their in their eyes, this is this is before even uh Muhammad, right? At that holy site you would have opportunity to worship your own god, any of the gods you wanted, because all these idols representing all these different gods were there in the Kaaba. And something like uh three hundred and sixty-seven of these gods were all there on display. Uh at least um um um idols representing them, you know, there. And so it was kind of like lowest common denominator, you know, uh y'all come, doesn't matter whose God you are, um you come from a different tribe, uh your God is here too. You know, we're kind of like flying the flags, right, of all the different uh uh tribes and so on. Um one of those gods was named Alot. And again this was before um Muhammad. And uh the The other gods had names associated with them, and there's some references here. Some of them were goddesses. Um Al-Uza, Allat, and Mana. They had names, but this one only had the name God, the God, Allah But he was one of the the tribal gods. In fact, he was the god. I say he. But Allah was the god of the Quraysh tribe who were the ones who actually resided at Mecca. And Muhammad was from the Quraysh tribe. So his God, the God of his people, was um Allah and um Allah was known as The God who would oversee and protect commercial trade. Which made sense because Mecca was all about the commercial transactions and and so on. And so even the other tribes appreciated the fact that there somebody had a God who was looking over that Right? It was a dangerous business and and so on. And um and so uh It that that was the the lay of the land in in those days. Um It's also interesting to know, and here I'm on point C here on page 16, these pagan Arabians before Muhammad instituted several religious practices that carried over into Islam. Like praying toward the Ka Kaaba in Mecca five times a day. That predated Muhammad. 30 days of fasting. Again, predated Muhammad. Pilgrimage to Mecca. was was happening, particularly among um some of the tribes and so on. Now, the Arabs at that time, the Arabian um uh peninsula had a lot of Jewish influence by this time. And so um Obviously this area included, particularly in the northern part of it, the places where Moses and the Israelites wandered for a while That was in the very northern um edge of this. But and of course even Mount Sinai is somewhere in that in that area. But after the dispersion of the Jews, there was a lot of fleeing in all directions, including into Arabia, and there were significant populations of Jews. uh in Arabia. The most significant one in terms of Islam was um the dispersion of Jews to Medina. And you can see on your map on page twenty, Medina actually spelled Ma Dinah the way you would say it is just kinda north of Mecca. You see that Medina at the time of Muhammad was about fifty percent fifty percent half uh Jews. And Medina, as we'll see in a minute, was where Muhammad's mother was from. She married into the Kraish tribe and they were he grew up in Mecca, but um she was from Medina and again that's going to become very significant to us in a bit. Uh at the time that was called Yathrib. Yathrib and Medina, that's the same place. Okay. Well, they had a s significant Jewish uh influence, and they also had significant Christian or Christian in name at least influence. Um and Acts 2, for example, you remember all the different people groups who assembled for the Pentecost festival? Among those were Arabians. Arabian Jews, I'm sure. And so Acts two verse eleven refers to Cretans and Arabs as being among them. Um the Cretans of course were from Crete, but um uh pe uh Arabs generally, and so they could have been from um lots of places within uh what was then called Arabia. And so presumably some of those people who were there at Pentecost at the first preaching of the gospel publicly. uh may have been among those those Arabians may have been among the first several thousand who came to Christ in those early weeks. Uh we don't know for sure how they all um dispersed, but um it's clear that um uh um Christians of various stripes. By the time you get five hundred years after Christ, you get a lot of watering down of genuine Christianity, a lot of splinter groups and and even cults and so on. But I have a qu extended quote here on page 17 from a very helpful book written by a Muslim about Muslim history and so on. He says, um veterans of the Hejaz, again I don't know if I'm pronouncing that correctly, but the Hejaz is the western edge of the Arabian Peninsula where where uh Mecca is located, uh, on their caravan journeys to Syria and other Christian centers, undoubtedly carried back with them a superficial knowledge of Christian beliefs and customs. So you know these caravans are are uh doing their their traveling, they're making the trade, they stop at places, they interact with people, they're around the campfire, they s exchange stories and and so they hear about the the the gods of these other p places. And clearly among those were both Jews and Christians who they encountered. As a caravan leader, we're going to get to this in a minute, Muhammad is said to have befriended a Christian monk, Bahira. and to have worn tunics, which were the gifts of other Christian monks. Two Christianized Arab tribes uh Judham and Udra roamed the Hejaz. It is not unlikely, that are in other words, it is likely. that Muhammad may have exchanged religious views with monks and even Christians who possess some formal knowledge of Christian theology. Monasteries astride caravan routes were open day and night to traveling caravans and roaming bedouins. Here, besides receiving food and shelter, they undoubtedly had occasion to observe such practices as praying fasting and almsgiving. Three of the five basic injunctions that ended up in Islam, although much different. Anyway, the Nestorians had established schools and some churches in many of the towns frequented by Arab tribesmen of the Hejaz. So um y you've got sort of a big mixture of um religions and in terms of Christianity a big mixture of how orthodox some of these groups were. And you've got this Hajjpaj that um the Arabs of the time and indeed even Muhammad were exposed to. And uh I'm gonna pause there. I want to start actually the next lesson to talk about Muhammad himself because it dovetails with this. But I want to pause and see if if there are any questions or thoughts at this point so far. Yeah, Larry. Where did the Persians come in? The Muslims you mean? Yeah. Much later. Yeah. Yeah, they they wouldn't have become um Muslims um until significantly after Muhammad's time. We're going to talk about the split between the Sunnis and Shiites a bit later. Now There may well have been uh uh traders and caravans and so on from Persia as part of all this mix, but that really doesn't figure into um how Islam got started. What's King James? Oh. Oh, are you am I on a different page? Yes. Oh, we need to be on the same page. We do Um the only difference here No the No actually they should be the same. I changed the formatting which impacted the pagination. I put in some It affects your brain. Okay. Well, you can download the electronic version to compare. And we may have to have translation Uh for those of you with the King James, you have to go to page so-and-so. And the later editions, yeah. So who was ruling in Scotland, for example? Nobody ruled. In fact, they they they've never ruled. They've always had their own opinions. Well, you know, five hundreds, early six hundreds AD, there already have been major church councils Right. Right. Settling very significant uh doctrine and the the uh canon of scripture, all that stuff is already done. Um uh we've not gone to the New World yet. Yeah. Pretty much. Pretty much. Okay. Yeah. Um, any other thoughts, questions here so far? Just a little context and background is all. Yeah that's that's that's the King James Version. Yeah. But um so um There may be some chapter differences too. Yeah. Well Anyway, um do you have a a uh lesson three? About Muhammad? Yes. That's okay, let's move there. What page is that for you? We're at page 18. Okay. Same info. Yeah. Which um Constantine came along a little later, I think, right? By Sanctium, right. Okay. So with that sort of context, in in comes Muhammad. He was born around 570 A. D. Uh and he was uh orphaned very young in life. His father um uh uh actually died before he was born. His mother died when he was six years old and he had a lot of um Uh a lot of his upbringing was uh among his uh relatives, the grandfather and uncle and and so on. Um and they were his grandfather particularly, and I'm pretty sure this would have been his father's father uh was custodian of the Kaaba. And so he was uh referred to as the virtual head of the Meccan Commonwealth Yeah, he was a very important VIP in Mecca. But little Muhammad, as he was growing up, uh ended up not having either parent. and um uh various relatives helped him to to um to learn and get plugged in I guess. So As an early adult, he eventually began working for a wealthy Quraitiite, a woman from the Quraish tribe, a widow herself uh named Khadijah, helping her to operate her caravan trade business. And so he would go off on these caravans um being um very widely traveled and have all the kind of interactions we were just talking about with people from everywhere. I'm I'm sure he was just Enjoying learning about people and their customs and this kind of thing. Something else you need to know about Muhammad is that he was very much like um most of the people, most of the other Arabs, in that he was illiterate. He couldn't read or write. But that was common. They would learn and communicate orally. It was a very oral culture, which was not strange at all to that time or those peoples Um but he's on these caravans and he's interacting with people who have uh practices, beliefs, stories, and so on that um uh expanded his horizons in terms of what people people's religions were, what they how it impacted their their thinking, their their lives. And um Um when we get to uh the section on the Quran um it it may become more obvious that a lot of these these interactions he's had he's having with people on these caravan routes from all these different religious traditions Some of those things find their way into the Quran. Some of those stories. Some of those Uh and and even even stories of um that parallel sort of parallel biblical events and stories But um they kind of show the signs of not going to the source but relying only on third party conversations about some of these stories. And so the accuracy is suffers as a result. Well anyway, he's doing that for several years, but when he was 25, he actually married his boss, Khadija. And um she was something like fifteen years older than him. And so he not only had a good job, but he married into wealth. Shrewd guy, right? Um and um Together, they had two sons, both of whom died in infancy, and they had four daughters. Two of whom are very significant because they later married the second and the fourth caliphs, leaders who succeeded Muhammad. And um became very central in the progress of Islam after Muhammad's death. Something like that. Yeah. So uh During that time, now that he doesn't have to be just a hired hand, but he's actually the he's he's married into all this this wealth. Um he can allow other people to go on these arduous journeys and and so on. Um he um He had more time to uh uh do what he kind of liked to do, which is mull things over in his head, apparently. And he would do that um a lot. So among the things he was thinking about On on the second half of page, I'm not gonna quote page numbers anymore. Item C, religious evolution, you got that? Um So he he had been exposed to a lot of Jews, a lot of Christians, both on his caravan journeys, and some uh relatives of his, apparently. Of course his mother was from Yathrib, Medina, and that there were a lot of Jews there, so he probably already um had some uh interaction with Jews and therefore their beliefs, uh their scriptures and and so on. Yes. Yeah, the question is um would the Arabs have already understood at this time that they were descendants of Abraham? I don't know for sure, but I'm I'm suspecting yes to some extent. Um But I don't I d I I I I can't quote a source about that, but I'm assuming that they had a general idea the Jews Uh a and Muhammad wasn't unique in having this interaction with with Jews and and others. Um and just tracing their lineage probably as best as anybody kept records. Of course the Jews kept amazing records of their lineage. I'm not so sure about others, but um Uh they were very um dependent on and used to an oral tradition. oral communication and history and so on. And so it wouldn't surprise me that there was some kind of awareness of of um common ancestry if you go back far enough. Yeah. Uh So some references here on page 18. He had an uncle who was a monotheist. What's a monotheist? Only one God. Well, a lot of these tribes believed in um their one God, but they also believed that other tribes had their own gods, and they were kind of polytheists in their in their overall thinking, even though they were associated with just one God. Well, his uncle was a monotheist uh purely And that is there is only one God. And so that was that was some early influence on Muhammad actually from an uncle And um Khadija, his wife had a cousin, Waraka, who um was more familiar with the scriptures, he presumably I'm guessing could actually read, had more familiar familiarity with uh the Bible, especially I'm guessing the Old Testament. Um and so that had some impact on on um Muhammad's growing understanding and and and um And so on. Neither the Old Testament nor the New Testament were available in Arabic at this time. And that's significant. It's maybe just as significant as the fact that uh Muhammad and most Arabs couldn't read or write anyway. Um Um but even if they could, there wouldn't have been uh an an Arabic translation of Arabic translation When? Yeah. I don't know. Oh okay. I don't know. But um it probably coincided a bit with uh greater literacy among the Arabs and then people whether both Jews and Christians, I'm not sure if both, but certainly Christians would want to make sure the scriptures are translated. So Yeah. Yeah, so ev anybody living there would be able to communicate. Uh and in fact uh Arabic has a lot of overlap with um Hebrew, just the Semitic languages. Uh they're not the same, but um um so yeah people would have been forced to and therefore become very proficient at at communicating with the local people, particularly if they're they're living there. Uh tradesmen who are just kind of traveling through pick up bits and pieces. But people who actually live in an area over time would become pretty proficient. Um well he's he grew up in Mecca, but it requ the um Yes, at this point he's still in Mecca. Yeah. But he of course traveled a lot during his his days with uh the caravans. And uh several people I've read about have mentioned that he was apparently influenced greatly uh by Nestorianism, that's a a an offshoot of Christianity, a uh a cult really that taught that Jesus was not God. And that comes up big in the Quran Yes, there was a historical Jesus, he was a great prophet, he was not God. And so that's consistent with Nestorianism, which um uh he would have had uh direct contact with and so on. Nestorianism was uh condemned as a heresy uh over a hundred years before Muhammad was born And and yet the news that it was a heresy probably didn't make its way to Mecca very very quickly. Anyway, um even Khadija had some Ebionite Christian uh influence in her um In her background. And they also denied the deity of Christ, claiming that Jesus' role as Messiah was merely to call everyone to obey the law. And that's exactly what you see in the Quran. that the role of Jesus, like all the prophets, was to call people to adhere to God's rules, the law. Okay, so uh I mentioned that because he married into wealth, he had opportunity, he had time on his hands. And one of his favorite things to do, uh, since he didn't have too many options, people were just surviving and he didn't have to do much to survive He would spend a lot of time in contemplation, and a favorite spot was in a cave overlooking Mecca up in the mountains. And um He it's kind of like in in today, you know, if if you've got time to think about you read the headlines and so on, you think about what's going wrong with the world. And what should be done about this and that. And that's kind of naturally the kind of places his mind would go. Uh he was concerned about Uh the the treatment of orphans having been one. He was sensitive to that Uh he was quite uh challenged, maybe isn't the right word, um concerned about all these many gods that were recognized in the Ka'aba in Mecca, and he keeps hearing in the back of his mind. Um that really there's only one God. And so he was predisposed to what was going to happen next, I think. And what happened next was um he had visions that um actually not not so much he but others in his family eventually concluded must have been um Allah speaking to him through the angel Gabriel. And His first reaction was, I'm going crazy, apparently. Um and it was his close family members who convinced him, no, this is something big. Um so and th this started at the age of forty in A. D. six eleven. Up there in that cave on Mount Hyra. And um, uh I forget if I have reference here to his family convincing him, but Yes. Uh right below the map where it says Muhammad's prophecies. Uh his initial reaction was that he had been possessed by evil jinn. Who were jinn? Devils? Devils, yeah. Um you know the word genie? It comes from this word jinn. It's what we call genies. They were not Angels, uh they're not humans, they're somewhere in between and um uh they didn't have a real good reputation among the Arabs. But he thought there was some evil jinn who was um uh trying to distract and and um um confuse him But it was his wife Khadijah and her cousin Waraka, this monotheist guy, who convinced him that he was visited by Gabriel with a message from God, commissioning him as a prophet. And so he eventually um accepted their explanation and these visions kept happening. Yes. Well, yeah, he he his first reaction was um I'm going mad. I didn't sign up for this. This isn't what I was expecting. And uh it was confusing and and so on. Um yeah. Um at this time I'm not sure. In fact I'm not um I'm not sure. Yeah. Uh but he was having these visions sequentially uh over some period of years. And um uh Um, uh, yeah. This was this was uh God, who to him was this very God Allah, who was part of the pantheon in Mecca, because his name was the God. Well I know of one, my explanation. I i if you read the Quran, and um uh Margaret has a copy of it circulating, I think, um if you read the Quran you just see Satan's fingerprints all over it. And we know that Satan even disc disguises himself as an angel of light. And I think that's exactly what's going on here. Yeah. Um okay, so that was in AD six eleven and it it proceeded over uh several years. And as we'll see later, um he wasn't writing this down because he couldn't write. And so it came to him in uh chunks that he could uh r remember and recite. So that others could hear it and he would uh th and you know, that would seem like a challenge to us, but that was that was what they're used to in the oral um communication. You you you hear things and for the most part you can repeat them, right? Um And they were probably more accurate at it than we would ever be, because that's that's all they knew, that's all they could do. They developed the skills to do that. But much of the the Quran begins, much of the little sections of it begin with recite, say this telling them exactly what needs to be communicated. And so that's how it evolved. Well, he uh went back to his cave and more revelations came and he was telling family, he was telling uh others around, and he was convinced this was a message for uh first and foremost the Arabians, because they had no messenger to them up until this point. uh but ultimately uh for the whole world. And you can imagine the reception he got in Mecca at this time, with all those gods and And and all the the uh the uh tribal loyalties and and so on Um he faced a lot of opposition. The idea that there would be only one god, are you kidding me? Look at them all. And Mecca's the great uh gathering place of all these gods. Um not very well received. And um within ten years Um most of the in fact all I guess of his followers and his immediate family and relatives and other friends who became convinced Uh there's something like a hundred of them. Uh they fled to Medina, Yathrib. And he eventually also escapes from um Mecca um just of barely avoiding assassination himself. Um And so he ends up in Medina and they establish a a uh really the first Muslim community within the confines of Medina. But of course, um Islam is not compatible with other ways of thinking and Medina is uh largely Jewish at this point. And um uh They obviously were initially, I mean the Jews were receptive to them hospitably, not to their way of thinking. Um but eventually the uh uh Muslim colony in Medina um Out of necessity, forced Muhammad to become not just their religious leader, but their civil leader as well. uh the their their governance. And so they this they established then what became the first um uh Muslim community and really the model of this this uh uh no separation at all between church and state and church, right? Religion. I mean it's all it was all one cohesive thing. It was all about not only what you think and how you worship, but how you conduct your life. It was all one thing and Muhammad was the the leader of that. And that became the pattern for later Muslim uh communities and and so on. Uh by the way, when he fled from Mecca to Medina to to begin that process. Um that's called uh the Great Migration, which in Arabic is um Hydra. It's the Hydra, the the Hydra, when Muhammad fled from Maha t from Mecca to Medina to begin the first real Muslim community. Why is that significant? The Muslim calendar starts on that date when he fled in the Hydra to Medina. Yeah. It's basically the the the beginning of official Islam as a as a community, as a as a um way of life um yeah surround uh uh arising from the um uh the teachings they were getting in the Quran, which of course there was no Quran yet. It was just these recitations from Muhammad he was getting from uh those visions. So it was really the beginning of Islam, as they know it. Yeah. Okay. And um While in Medina, they gained not only enemies who they cast aside, but they gained a lot of converts. And they grew um kind of the way they've been growing ever since, both by um uh example by the the organized way of life and teaching, but also by force. And so uh a lot of people would, you know, they they would, for example, and this is kind of ironic Muhammad used to lead trading parties on caravans, and from Medina he would lead raiding parties on those caravans. So they would um uh get a lot of their wealth and so on by raiding uh the caravans coming through and in the process trying to convert them to Islam And a lot of uh Muslim uh teaching and so on is is uh kind of arises from that context and this this battling and and so on. So um Yeah Uh no. No. In fact the the Hajj is not annual. It happens annually, but any one person doesn't do it annually. Once they pick a one thing. Yeah. Um No, that um there there were pilgrimages to Mecca even before Muhammad, and so there there was a tradition there that this that kind of got absorbed into into Islam Anyway, uh I wanted to real quickly here um So they consolidated, and then on January 1st, 630 A. D. , Muhammad led an army of 10,000 men Toward Mecca, that was the inevitable um foe at the time, to bring it into submission to Islam. So he had now he'd built up a ten thousand man army, and Mecca surrendered without a battle. Um and for the most part, people submitted to Islam and um Some left, I think, but for the most part, people then just converted to Islam. Muhammad himself personally destroyed all the idols in the Ka'aba, because there's only one true God, right? Um And in six thirty one, by the next year, uh more and more Arabian tribes followed suit, not just the Quraysh in in Mecca. And so by this point now, Muhammad's a national hero and the rest, as they say, is history. So uh we're gonna look a lot more extensively at Muhammad himself later, but that's sort of the the historical uh background and and uh beginning of Islam. Okay, well, we better close in prayer.