They were on lesson fifteen. Uh I mentioned last week, you know, um uh Uh both the Old Testament and the New Testament, according to the Quran, uh speak of Muhammad coming. And we're going to um uh see what they're referring to when they say that and have a a way to answer uh any any claims of that sort that we might come across with our Muslim friends. So I'm on page one eighty nine. Uh last week we began um uh a couple of lessons here that focus on misconceptions that Muslims have about Islam. And then for most of the rest of our quarter, we're going to be looking at some of their misconceptions about Christianity. So first What does the Quran say about the the uh uh prophecies contained in both the Old Testament and the New Testament about the coming of Muhammad? Well If you look at Surah 3, get them on top of page 189, it says, Behold, God took the covenant of the prophets, saying I give you a book in wisdom. Then comes to you a messenger confirming what is with you. Do you believe in him and render him help? God said, Do you agree and take this my covenant as binding on you? And they said, We agree. And he said, Then, bear witness that I am with you among the witnesses. If any turn back after this, they are perverted transgressors. And so, as we saw before, there's this reference to prophets coming beforehand and the message of of Muhammad being consistent with and and affirming that. But then in Surah 7, more specifically It says, those who follow the messenger, the unlettered prophet, who's that? Muhammad. Muhammad. Those who follow him, whom they find mentioned in their own scriptures In the law, that is the Torah, and the gospel For he commands them what is just and forbids them what is evil. He allows them as lawful what is good and pure and prohibits them from what is bad and impure, and so on. So there's a very explicit um claim that uh Muhammad is foretold. Um Um even specifically in both the law and the gospel. Well, but you didn't know that. I've included some commentary here on these passages, but uh we're going to touch on some of the points made there, but I want to uh talk about some specific claims that they make first. Go down to claim number one here on 189. In Deuteronomy 18, 15 through 18, they say, Muhammad is the prophet who is said will come. You know, there will be a prophet coming. So um they'll refer to uh Well, first fifteen, for example, from Deuteronomy eighteen, the Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from among you, from among your countrymen, and you shall listen to him And that the claim is speaking of Muhammad. Well, it's pretty easy to claim that unless you actually read the entire passage in context. Right? So let's go ahead and do that. Starting in verse 14. For those nations which you who is he speaking to here? Israel. For those nations which you shall dispossess, this is uh Deuteronomy, right, you know, right before they enter the Promised Land. Um For those nations which you shall dispossess, listen to those who practice witchcraft and to diviners But as for you, the Lord your God has not allowed you to do so. The Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from among you. From your countrymen you shall listen to him. This is according to all that you asked of the Lord your God in Horeb On the day of the assembly, saying, Let me not hear again the voice of the Lord my God. Let me not see this great fire anymore, or I will die. The Lord said to me, This is now Moses, they have spoken well. I will raise up a prophet from among their countrymen, like you, and I will put my words in his mouth, and he will speak them to them, all that I command him. It shall come about that whoever will not listen to my words, or he shall speak in my name. I myself will require it of him. But the Lord, but the prophet who speaks a word presumptually in my name, which I have not commanded him to speak, or which he speaks in the name of other gods That prophet shall die. You may say in your heart, how shall we know which uh the word which the Lord has not spoken? And here's the answer. When a prophet speaks in the name of the Lord, if the thing does not come about or come true That is the thing which the Lord has not spoken. The prophet has spoken presumptuously, you shall not be afraid of him. So When you read that, you realize that several things here. Let's kind of work through here on page 190. The prophet who is foretold who would come from among that your people from among you, he's speaking specifically to um uh and through Moses and the Israelites as they're about to enter the land. Um And he s he speaks of um countrymen and this phrase among your uh brothers Countrymen. And that is a is a very common phrase in the Old Testament and it always is used in connection with the um uh r relatives, the kin of the people who are being spoken to. Um Muhammad, of course, was uh a descendant of of um Shem, just like Abraham was, but not from Isaac. They're mostly from Ishmael, remember? So when he's speaking to Moses here much later, he's speaking just of someone who would be raised up from and for the nation of Israel. Now, we know that Jesus was a prophet, was that prophet. Right, not Muhammad. For several reasons. Well, he was an Israelite from the tribe of Judah. He wasn't a descendant of Ishmael, but rather of Isaac. Um he spoke what the father revealed to him, which is one of the the parts of the prophecy here. He acknowledged his role as a prophet, communicating God's word to men. And the people of Israel recognized him as the prophet or a prophet. And Jesus, unlike Muhammad, was like Moses in that not only was he um uh uh from the Israelite people. But they were both targeted For deaths as babies? That's probably a minor point in the overall thing here, but they both authenticated the divine origin of their words by what? Miracles. Right? Moses delivered the Israelites from bondage in Egypt. Jesus delivered from bondage to sin. Both of them spoke face to face with the Father, with God, right? And that's specifically referenced here in the text. And Moses was the mediator of the old covenant, whereas Jesus was the mediator of the new covenant. Um and Jesus, I'm on top of page one ninety one now Jesus taught his disciples that this and other references, other prophecies in the Old Testament referred specifically to him. That God had already revealed that he would be coming. And so he claimed that not just to his disciples, but even to those who were accusing him. And so in John 5, for example, do not think that I will accuse you before the Father. The one who accuses you is Moses, in whom you have set your hope. For if you believed Moses, you would believe me because he wrote about me. Right? And likewise right after or soon after his uh resurrection and his resurrection appearances Jesus said to his disciples, These are my words which I spoke to you while I was still with you, that all things which are written about me in the law of Moses And the prophets and the Psalms, all three parts of the Tanakh, must be fulfilled. Then he opened their minds to understand the scriptures. And likewise in Acts 3 there's a specific reference to this very prophecy where uh Peter's saying, and now, brethren, I know that you acted in ignorance, that is, in crucifying Christ. just as your rulers did also. But the things which God announced beforehand by the mouth of all the prophets that his Christ would suffer, he has thus fulfilled. Therefore, repent and return, so that your sins may be wiped away, in order that times of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord. And that he may send Jesus, the Christ appointed for you, whom heaven must receive until the period of restoration of all things, about which God spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets from the ancient time. Moses said, The Lord God will raise up for you a prophet like me from among your brethren, to whom you shall give heed to everything he says to you. And it will be that every soul that does not heed that prophet shall utterly be uh utterly destroyed from among the people. And likewise All the prophets who have spoken from Samuel and his successor on onward also announce these days. And then he goes on to talk about Abraham and the covenant and so on. But What's interesting to me anyway about this fairly typical taking a verse out of context and say, oh, that must be speaking about Muhammad. is that they keep reading in that passage, they they see that actually um it it it works against their their argument, right? So it says back in Deuteronomy It shall come about that whoever will not listen to my words which he shall speak in my name, I myself will require it of him. But the prophet who speaks a word presumptuously in my name, which I have not commanded him to speak Or which he speaks in the name of other gods, that that prophet shall die. You may say in your heart, How shall we know? Um uh the word which the Lord has not spoken? Well and the answer is when a prophet speaks in the name of the Lord, if the thing does not come about or come true, that is the thing which the Lord has not spoken. That prophet has spoken presumptuously, you shall not be afraid of him. So rather than foretelling that Muhammad would come as a prophet, Deuteronomy eighteen warns about the people like Muhammad and that you shouldn't um Place any any faith in what they say. So in that sense, Deuteronomy 18 does anticipate the coming of Muhammad But not as a prophet, but as a false prophet, among many others who come. Not specifically Muhammad, but you know, as an example of those who would be false prophets So I've included here, starting on the bottom of page 191, some questions you can ask as you, and this is the typical thing to do when they make a claim or have a question. Go to that passage and read it in context. Help them to wrestle with what it's actually saying, who is it to, what it's about, and provide any sort of historical context that might be helpful. But just walk through the passage. Let the scriptures themselves guide them to some clarity here. And so I give you some questions here, a few cross-references and uh even the answers that should be obvious to them when they walk through the passage. Okay. Um just to help them to see the the kind of person um that this particular prophecy is talking about. And then, you know, so who who might that have been talking about? And you can talk about uh the fulfillment of it in Christ. Okay. Does that make sense? Margaret. Well um That's a good question to answer them, but don't try to answer that outside the context of seeing what this verse is actually saying on other points Right. So um where it says um In verse 18, I will raise up a prophet from among their countrymen like you. I will put my my words in his mouth. And he shall speak to them all that I command him, that the message of this future prophet are going to be consistent. With the mess the the message that was delivered through Moses, right? And so there's a opportunity to see, well, is the message that came through Muhammad consistent with and as we've been seeing, no it's not. Right. So there's a key test and um in Uh you can flip over to page one hundred ninety two. What were the notable characteristics of Moses, which his listeners would have anticipated would have been true of this prophet to come? He was a both a deliverer and lawgiver. And they could make some claims that uh Muhammad had some of those characteristics, for sure. Um but uh There is a um I I've given some cross-references here to how that that role of Moses was deliver was described in in several other passages, which say that Uh he was a deliverer uh from bondage, right? Um The Arabs weren't in bondage to anybody. He delivered them possibly from polytheism. into monotheism, but that wasn't exactly a bondage. Um but also um uh The nature of the law in 2 Chronicles 30, for example, the law that God instituted through Moses was characterized by um um dealing how to deal with sin. And a a prominent feature of that was a picture of the substitutionary nature of the sacrifice for sin that had to be made, right? So had all the animal sacrifices and all the rules around that. And it was a b um uh a covenant uh in blood as um as we see throughout uh the Old Testament examples here from 2 Chronicles 30. Well um Jesus specifically makes mention that the new covenant is a covenant in his blood. It's the ultimate sacrifice that these previous sacrifices were picturing. And um that's not at all uh the nature of the law. The law of of uh if you call it a law of the Quran is just works. You're saved by your works. Maybe if God if Allah looks well on you. Um but the whole point of the law of Moses was to show them that uh yeah, there were things that they needed to do, but those things were to point them to the need to the the fact that Nothing they could do would make them have right standing before God because it was needed over and over and over and over again. And as as um Uh we read in places like Hebrews, uh that uh Jesus not only covered them their sins, but actually uh took away their sins. And unlike the high priests under the old under the old law Um as our great high priest, he did it once for all. And it was all about um redemption from sin And fulfilling what that Old Testament law was all about. The the Quran and whatever law comes out of the Quran and the Hadith and so on um aren't about redemption from sin, it's all about trying to do good And trying to earn your salvation. So it's it's not a fulfillment. It's not uh compatible with Muhammad or with with Moses because of that. Yeah, we're gonna we're gonna delve into that a little bit more, but um um uh Um they they don't have a concept really like we do of sin. So um uh it's all about uh what we do in order to obey and submit to Allah in hopes that maybe He'll let us in. Yeah. For sure, for sure. Yeah. Yeah. Um Uh my guess is that if you work through a passage like this with them, uh it's going to uh uh um springboard into lots of other very fundamental issues that are going to be helpful for you to cover. This about sin, for example, and about uh the whole notion of of someone delivering from s someone delivering us from our sin as a substitute, that is explicitly denied by the Quran. And so um that just gives opportunity to say, well, what does the Bible actually speak? And if if if the the law, the Old Testament generally, clearly, and of course the New Testament, speak to that, how can the Quran claim to be consistent with it? Right? That's the point. So um it just gives opportunity to help them see what the text actually says and um to help them see that the there's no specific reference here that that um there are a lot of people who came to to uh um you know, people would point to as deliverers and uh you know, rescuers and uh instrumental in in um uh legal um things. And y you know, anybody can make all sorts of claims, but if you look at the text, what it's actually saying about the nature of the person Um they have to come to the conclusion that yeah, it's not clearly talking about Muhammad. And They may not believe that it's referring to Jesus either, but it ought to be become clear that they're taking this verse out of context. Anyway, let's look at the another related one here in Deuteronomy 33, uh on the bottom of page one hundred ninety-two So their claim often is that and again, this might not be every it it may not be any of the people you talk to. But in the event that they've read something or they've been taught something, and just to help you not be too surprised, I wanted to be sure to help you have some responses here So, Deuteronomy 33. 2, they say, refers to three great prophets, Moses, Jesus, and Muhammad. And so you read that. Now, this is the blessing with us, which Moses, the man of God, blessed, blessed the sons of Israel before his death. And he said, The Lord came from Sinai. and uh dawned on them from Seir. Uh he shone forth from Mount Paran, and he came from the midst of ten thousand holy ones at his right hand. There was flashing of lightning for them. And they're thinking this has got to be talking about this progression from, you know, got Moses and you've got Jesus and you've got Muhammad. Well, the reality is that all three of these are referring to the Lord, not to prophets. It specifically says that. And it's referring to past events. It's it's hearkening back to what was. as a as a uh I guess an encouragement uh in the present as they're about to enter the land. Sehir. What's Seyir? That's kind of the mountainous area where uh Esau migrated. It became uh it was called often Edom because of that, Sayir, the Mount Sayer. And what's the connection with the Israelites? Well they had to go through that area as they made their way um up to the top of uh um the Dead Sea before entering the Promised Land. They went through say year. Uh and God um um worked through their um their their uh migration to the given to that point uh and dawned on uh dawned on them from seir, uh and shone forth from Mount Paran. Where's Paran? Well, it was that large desert kind of area that they went through as they were in their wilderness wanderings between um between Sinai and And say yeah. And so this is just harkening back, reminding them of recent events, well, recent over the last 40 years, before they enter the Promised Land, that Um the Lord is the one who um gave them the law on Mount Sinai. He um dawned on them from Seir and shone forth from Mount Paran. And He came from the midst of 10,000 holy ones. Now, holy ones is typically in Scripture in the Old Testament referred to a reference to angels. And you see um examples of that in Daniel, for example. Uh and Um the flashing of lightning is presumably the reference to what happened at Mount Sinai just before the giving of the law. Look at Exodus 19. So the point is that the meaning of this passage is that Moses, at the time of his death, just before they entered their promised land, was recounting how the Lord had appeared to, uh protected, and guided the Israelites on the way to the Promised Land, giving them this kind of a pep talk, an encouragement. And um and so on um in numbers ten, for example It says now in the second year, the second month, on the twentieth day of the month, the cloud was lifted. This is the cloud that that was you know uh uh pillar of cloud by day and of fire by night, right, in the wilderness, was lifted from the tabernacle temp uh testimony, which means what? It's time to move So the sons of Israel set out on their journeys from the wilderness of Sinai. The clouds settled down in the wilderness of Peran, and they moved there, moved out there for the first time, according to the commandment of the Lord. through Moses and then again in Deuteronomy two uh they they set out um We turned and set out for the wilderness by the way to the Red Sea, as the Lord has spoken to me, and circled Mount Seir for many days. And so here's some of these accounts that are being referenced by Moses as they were about to enter the Promised Land. So Again, some questions you can walk through with your Muslim friend to just help them to make observation from the text itself what it's actually saying, what it's not saying. And uh it might be that you can help uh you know if place names aren't aren't um all that well known to them, you can kind of point out what the places are and the context of the timing and and so on. And um Uh it it's pretty clear that it's it's not talking about three different prophets, Moses, Jesus, and Muhammad. So Usually that's the case. You you work through it, you see the context, and it becomes clear that taking it out of context is not workable. Now here's an interesting one, the third claim on the bottom of page 194. They would say, some of them would say, well, you know, Deuteronomy 34, 10 indicates that the subsequent prophet could not have been an Israelite. And so it must have been Muhammad. Well why must it not have been an Israelite? Well Deuteronomy 3410 says, since that time, no prophet has arisen in Israel like Moses. Whom the Lord knew face to face. See that, so there were no prophets like Moses, so it couldn't have been um um an Israelite, or it wouldn't have needed to be. Um it makes sense that it would be another descendant of Abraham. Well, again, that's taken out of context. So on the top of page 195, I've got the whole context here. Let me go ahead and read it. Now Moses went up from the plains of Moab to Mount Nebo to the top of Pisgah. Now where are we at here? This is right before Moses dies, uh, and right before they enter the Promised Land, right uh And the Lord showed him, he's on top of Mount Pizzah, showed him all the land, Gilead as far as Dan, and all Naphtali, and the land of Ephraim and Manasseh, and all the land of Judah as far as the Western Sea, Moses was not going to go into that land, but the Lord in his grace allowed him to see it, right? And the Negev, the whole southern area as well, and the plain of the valley of Jericho, the city of palm trees, as far as Zoar. Then the Lord said to him, To Moses, this is the land which I swore to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, saying, I will give it to your descendants. I have let you see it with your eyes, but you shall not go over there. So, Moses, the servant of the Lord, died there in the land of Moab, according to the word of the Lord. And he, God, buried him in the valley of the land of Moab, opposite Bethbaor, but no man knows his burial place to this day. Although Moses was 120 years old when he died, his eye was not dim, nor his vigor abated. So the sons of Israel wept for Moses in the plains of Moab thirty days, and the days of weeping and mourning for Moses came to an end. Now Joshua, the son of Nun, was filled with the spirit of wisdom, for Moses had laid his hands on him, and the sons of Israel listened to him and did as the Lord commanded Moses. Since that time, no prophet has arisen in Israel like Moses, whom the Lord knew face to face. for all the signs and wonders which the Lord sent him to perform in the land of Egypt against Pharaoh, all his servants, all his land, and for all the mighty power, and for all the great terror which Moses performed in the sight of all Israel. So, in what sense had there not been a prophet like Moses up to this point? Well, no one had done that kind of uh miracle working to attest to the authenticity of the message he was proclaiming, right? Um So um that closing section of Deuteronomy um wa was obviously written after the death of Moses. It wasn't written specifically by Moses, but rather by, presumably Joshua, to kind of put a put the uh well to tie up the loose ends of the ministry of of Moses. Um However, the writer emphasizes that although Joshua had received authority from Moses and wisdom from God and uh would would lead into the promised land. It emphasized that neither Joshua nor any other prophet ha had arisen who was like Moses when? At the time it was written Not at the time we're reading it, at the time it was written is what it's saying. Right? So that concluding chapter to the Torah Was written many years before Christ And um again the passage indicates that uh the that um What's anticipated is someone who comes in in sort of the likeness of Moses in ministry and in in uh some of the purposes as well. And did Jesus perform signs and so on that would attest to the authenticity of his message from God? You bet. Right. Uh but at the time it was written, uh the closing words from Deuteronomy, which was not all that In the overall scheme of things, not all that long after the death of Moses, there wasn't a lot of time for anyone to fulfill that, but certainly afterwards there was. Okay, so again, some examples here. If if you take take your friend through the actual text that they're taking verses out of. And then ask them questions just to observe the context, when it is, where it is, what it's saying, and it's pretty easy to get them to see that when it says um uh no one has No profit has arisen since that time, that's not referring to now, it's referring to when it was written. Okay. Then let's go to bottom of page one hundred ninety-six, claim number four. Now we're in the Psalms. They would say that Psalm 45, 3 through 5, describes Muhammad coming in armed might and victory. So it says, gird your sword on your high, on your thigh, O mighty one, in your splendor, in your majesty, and in your majesty ride on victoriously for the cause of truth and meekness and righteousness. Let your right hand teach you awesome things. Your arrows are sharp. The peoples fall under you. Your arrows are in the heart of the king's enemies. That sounds like the kind of leader, warrior we have in Muhammad. It must be referring to Muhammad, right? Well Again, you've got to read that in context. Read it with them in context. Where in verse 1 it says, My heart overflows with a good theme. I address my verses to the king. My tongue is the pen of a ready writer. You are fairer than the sons of men. Grace is poured upon your lips. Therefore, God has blessed you forever. Gird your sword from on high, and and and the passage that we read. Then in verse uh six Your throne, he's again speaking to the king, your throne, O God, is forever and ever. A scepter of uprightness is the scepter of your kingdom. You have loved righteousness and hated wickedness, therefore, God, your God, has anointed you with the oil of joy above your fellows. So it's being addressed to a king. Who is fairer than the sons of men? He's not just your typical man. He's called God and distinct from God. Now that's a puzzle that they're gonna wrestle with, right? Uh his rule is eternal. And he's characterized by the attributes of grace, might, splendor, majesty, truth, meekness, and righteousness. So The New Testament affirms that that passage is referring to Christ. So when you go to Hebrews 1, uh I'm not going to read the whole thing, but it begins, of course, God after he spoke long ago to the fathers and the prophets in many portions of many ways. In these last days he has spoken to us in his son, whom he appointed heir of all things. And he goes on to um introduce that and ex uh expand on that that theme. But then he quotes this this psalm And in verse 8 he says, But of the Son, he says, your throne, O God, is forever and ever. And he's quoting here from Psalm 45. So it's it's not a a um casual claim that this must be speaking of Christ. It's actually scripture that says this is speaking of Christ speaking of Christ. And it was um that psalm was long recognized as being messianic anyway, just because of the way it was was um uh characterizing who he's speaking to. So you can explain to them, and this is almost always if if if you get into this passage Because of this this um terminology of of uh the Sun and the deity of of of Christ, that's going to make a um make for an interesting conversation with them. They're gonna have s lots of issues with with um the deity of Christ. It's been ingrained in their heads, of course, we talked about this, that um there can be no one equal to God and so and God it having a son that's You know, he's far above all that nonsense in their view. Um but Scripture, and here's an example, is very explicit about the sonship of the Messiah. And um as this passage in Hebrews who which quotes it goes on, it refers to Psalm two and it is brought up there as well. Uh we're gonna we're gonna spend uh several weeks on how to help them grapple with the deity of Christ. And but just in answering questions like this, you go to verses that they point to, you look at them in context, and all of a sudden there are issues there that they would deny. And they're face to face with the scripture. This is what it says. Right. Um and and by the way, what's interesting is if if they see those kind of things, let's say in Psalm forty five And they say, well, you know, um the the um the scriptures the the uh the law, you know, the Old Testament, even the New Testament, they've been corrupted over time, right? Well that's an interesting claim to make. You're making a claim that's speaking of Muhammad and yet it's corrupted documents that are speaking of Muhammad? Do you see the circular reasoning there? Um anyway. I need to get really quickly to a a couple of New Testament ones, but before we do, some very quick On the bottom of 198, Isaiah 21, 7, they say, describes Jesus as coming on donkeys and then Muhammad coming on camels. Well, again, you read it in context, and it's obvious that that's that's not what it's speaking about. Bottom of page 199. The claim is that Habakkuk, can you imagine that? Habakkuk? 3-3 describes Muhammad coming from Quran in Arabia. And um uh again, you've got to read the entire thing in context and I've provided it for you here. And just take them through what it's actually saying. And um even uh um Uh a skeptical, casual uh reader can see that this is speaking um Not of Muhammad. So anyway, I I've provided some questions again that you can help them interact with the text. see that for themselves. Okay, here's where I wanted to get. Page 201. They would claim, some do, Maybe they've been taught, some of the people you speak with. They would claim that um Jesus himself referred to Muhammad coming. And so they go to John 14, 15 to 16, this upper room discourse. Where in John 14, 16, Jesus says, I will ask of the Father, and he will give you another helper that he may be with you forever. And that um that word helper in the Greek is paraclete, one who would come alongside to to uh comfort and and uh uh aid us. So Jesus is uh saying that I will give you this other helper Later in John 15, 26, he says, When the helper comes, whom I will send to you from the Father, that is, the Spirit of truth, who proceeds from the Father, he will testify about me. And then later in chapter 16, he says, But I tell you the truth, it is to your advantage that I go away, for if I do not go away, the helper will not come to you. But if I go, I will send him to you. So they pick out of those passages this term helper, paraclete, and say that Uh well let me take you first of all to the Quran here in Surah sixty-one. middle of page two oh one. And remember, Jesus, the son of Mary, said, O children of Israel, I'm a messenger, I am the messenger of God sent to you, confirming the law which came before me and giving glad tidings of a messenger to come after me, whose name shall be Ahmad. That is Muhammad. So the Quran is saying that Jesus told them that Muhammad would be coming. And so that sort of obligates uh um serious Muslims to check the record to see where uh Jesus spoke of Muhammad and they came across these verses and they said, Aha. Well why would they say aha? Because as this commentary here uh mentions on page two oh one Ahmad or Muhammad, the praised one, is almost, now I've made that bold, almost is important, almost a translation of the Greek word perklitos. In um and that word peraclitose is uh if you look toward the end here, our doctors, that is our our um Professors contend that peraklitos is a corrupt reading of paraklitos. And that their original saying of Jesus was a prophecy of the prophet by that name. So paraklitos is apparently, when you when you read it in in Arabic is Ahmad, which they take to be Muhammad of course. And so there you have it. Um It's it's uh in their mind this is what the Quran was referring to as Jesus Um uh referring to this this uh helper who would be coming, who actually would be Muhammad. Well So if you if you get by the almost and just wave your hands a little bit, you can say that's what it is, right? But again, what do you need to do? Take them to the text. Have them read it in context. Right? And in that context, Jesus is very explicit Who he's talking about here as being the helper. And we read one of those things. He says, that is the spirit of truth. And other passages he says in John 14. The Spirit of Truth, whom the world cannot receive because it does not see him now, but you know him because he abides with you and will be in you. Wait a minute, is that talking about Muhammad? You know him now, and he will be with you, and he abides with you now and will be in you? That can't be referring to any human being, let alone Muhammad. And it would have had to have been someone who abided with them now when he was speaking to them, right? Later in John 24, Jesus says, These things I have spoken to you while abiding with you, but the helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, He will teach you all things. So he's very explicit who he means by the helper in those verses. Later in John 15, he speaks of him as the Spirit of Truth who proceeds from the Father. He will testify about me. And Again, later in in John sixteen is referred to as the spirit of truth and so on. So those descriptions can't apply to Muhammad. You just read the thing in context and how Jesus explained who he was talking about, they can't refer to Muhammad Um so I provided a little bit of extra um context, other some other verses that help you to to uh um help them see that uh this is speaking about the Holy Spirit. And then um On page 203, again, I just have some questions that you can walk through these various passages with them to get them to read them, to get them to answer questions, just obvious questions of observation. Um what are the characteristics of this helper, this comforter? And um They should be able to see that it's it's not what it might appear to be when you take something out of context. And that's typical. By the way, um My observation is that Muslim apologists, in other words, those who are advocating Islam, maybe in debates and this kind of thing. They will quote the Quran out of context and make it say things that it isn't sane. And so it shouldn't be surprising to us if they would quote the Bible out of context to try to make it to say things that it's not saying. But um I find it interesting that the Quran itself uh Ought to convict them about that. So the Quran, I'm on here the middle of page two oh four. The Quran acknowledges that false prophecy, that is characterizing something as truth that isn't, and rejecting the truth, are grievous sins. So for example, in Surah 6, it says, Who can be more wicked than one who invents a lie against God or who says, I have received inspiration, when he has received none? Or again, who says, I can reveal the like of what God has revealed? If you can but see how the wicked do fare in the flood of confusion at death The angels stretched forth their hands, saying, Yield up your souls. This day shall you receive a reward, a penalty of shame For you used to tell lies against God and scornfully to reject his signs. So there's a recognition here that uh Um being a false prophet is a grievous problem, right Surah 39. Who then does more wrong than one who utters a lie concerning God and rejects the truth when it comes to him? Is there not in hell an abode for blasphemers? Strong language. Surah 52. Verily the doom of your Lord will indeed come to pass. There is none who can avert it. On the day when the firmament will be in a dreadful commotion, and the mountains will fly hither and thither, then woe that day to those who treat truth as falsehood. That play and paddle in the shallow trifles, that day they shall be thrust down to the fire of hell irresistibly. And this, it will be said, is the fire which you won't dare deny. Is this then a fake, or is it that you do not see And so on. Surah fifty-six. And if he be of those who treat the truth as falsehood Who grow wrong, who go wrong, for him is entertainment with boiling water and burning hellfire. So the irony here, of course, is that when you when they make a claim, when the Quran itself makes a claim That previous prophecies from God not only foreshadowed but specifically prophesied about the coming of Muhammad and so on And you you look at those passages in context and say, it's not at all talking about that. What are you left to conclude? You've got a false prophet here, right? And the Quran itself will say and does say that false prophecy is a grievous error in sin. And so there's a bit of irony there. Now you don't have to necessarily point out that irony to your friend. It might come up, but you need to get them to realize that if these claims they make out of context are shown to be in error When you look at the context and interact with the actual words of Scripture, what conclusion ought to be coming to their mind? that there's error that I'm dealing with here. One or the other is wrong. And um if if they see the consistency of scripture and how it all flows in its theme and and uh uh foresees the coming of the Messiah and so on, then um God can use that. Now they may become heartened and and resist and just throw up their hands and leave, but be praying that God would uh soften their heart and would open their eyes to uh the scriptures, which is why you need to be using the scriptures themselves, not just your eloquence or your your arguments. Okay. Okay. That was a lot, but are there any thoughts, questions so far? Well, you know, it it's a Yes. That's interesting. Why why wouldn't Christians hate Jews because the Jews cope Christ? Well even the Quran says that no one can bear the sins of someone else. Um Um that everyone has to face the penalty for their own sins. So why would it be consistent for us to hate today's Jews who have nothing to do with the death of Christ? Right. Um so that should resonate with them that God is not um um a god of of uh genocide and and this kind of thing. Uh in fact salvation comes to us through the Jews And God has a plan for the Jews going forward. Now that that may take a little um preparation to be able to show them that God still has a plan for the Jews. It's not over yet. Um but um Mainly you just want to say that that um God m most of the original Christians uh were Jews until quite a long time afterwards. Um and they were preaching. Take them to to uh Acts 2 and 3 and show how Peter was preaching to the Jews That God had fordained that. Um but many Jews were coming to Christ uh through that preaching. Um so maybe that would help. Do I see a hand? Okay. Well So starting next week, we're getting into actually the the more evangelistic part Where they're going to have some lots of confusion about the nature of Christianity, Christian doctrines, and so on. And uh the intent here is to help them Again, see what the scriptures say in context so that they can deal with issues about the deity of Christ, the nature of the Bible, and so on. uh be praying that God would use that to draw them to himself. So let's let's go ahead and close in prayer