So we're on uh lesson twenty today. We're down the home stretch here. Page 253, responding to Muslim Misunderstandings about Jesus Christ. And that, I think, should be obvious. Is Really at the heart of the gospel, uh, the heart of uh the confusion that most Muslims will have Um if you need a copy of the notes, I think um um yeah there's one. Elsie has Okay. So uh page two fifty three Now we've mentioned a number of these things before, uh and clearly uh Muslims have very fundamental misunderstandings about Jesus Christ. It's helpful though to understand that the Quran does acknowledge several key things about Jesus. He is called the Christ, although I don't think they understand what that means. The Quran does affirm that he was conceived supernaturally by a virgin named Mary. That's that's good. Uh we saw was it last week or the other week? Um that there's a reference to him being God's word, although um they might not understand that verse to actually be saying that, and even if they did, it wouldn't be the way we understand. uh Christ being the word. But uh it's close. Uh he was a prophet who communicated God's message. And that is true. Jesus was a a su actually the supreme example of of um And it's fitting with his title, The Word of God, to be a a uh an ultimate expression of God, revealing God to man. And he um uh spoke with authority from God, of course. The Quran confirms that he did not sin. It doesn't even say that about Muhammad, but it is affirmed about Jesus. And that he performed various miracles. Now, the miracles that it specifically cites are, and we're we'll see here later, are um uh not biblical. They're actually sourced in uh post-New Testament writings that are basically apocryphal And it affirms that he ascended bodily into heaven. So that kind of misses some of the key points, but it does affirm that he ascended bodily into heaven. However, the Quran exhibits several misunderstandings and errors about Christ, some of which we've touched on already, particularly this first one The basic misunderstanding here is where they say that for God to beget a son would require that he engage in sexual relations, which would be beneath God. Now, what I would recommend to you is to agree with him on that point. It would be beneath God To have sexual relations with whether it's a goddess, which doesn't exist, or with a human being, but tell them that's not what the Bible says Yeah, I agree that that would that would be beneath God. Um and actually you can um I think this is the only example in the Quran that says this is something that would be beneath God. There may be some others, but this is the primary one. And I've given you some examples of it here from the Quran. But for what it's worth, a little sidebar here, that would be a useful observation to make about other aspects. uh like um you remember the scales weighing the good versus the bad and how I I Uh said that that is a low view of the holiness of God because it allows if if If God allows someone into heaven whose good outweighs the bad, what does that say about God's treatment of the bad? It's okay with that God, as long as you've got enough good to outweigh it. That's a low view of the holiness of God. A a biblical understanding of the holiness of God, God would treat that those bad things as what? Needing punishment, right? All these things are expected. These things are the issue Right? That's a low view of God if He's just kind of turning a blind eye to sin. And so you can tell him, you know It's beneath God to accept any sin into heaven. And that kind of language, I think, would resonate with them. It's beneath him because he's pure. Anything less than 100% is unacceptable to him. It's beneath him to allow any sin into his presence. Right? So anyway, that yeah. How does that that square with point B above. That he was conceived supernaturally by a virgin named Mary, I'm not sure what the question is. Well, it says here that for God to beget a su beget a son would require such a relationship. Oh that one says he was conceived Supernaturally. Yes. Yeah we're gonna well we're gonna talk about that. Oh okay fine. Yeah. Yeah. So um Let's read, for example Let's see where that's covered. Okay. That's that's our second misunderstanding. We'll get to that in a few minutes. So I would recommend that when they say it's and they maybe even quote this verse, several verses, that say it's it's beneath God to have a son and what they're thinking is to have some uh some kind of sexual relations, whether it's with a goddess Which doesn't exist, or with a human being, and just agree with him. Yeah, that that would be beneath God. But that's not what the Bible's saying. And then that opens up the question Well what is the Bible saying? Right? And so here you go. We covered some of this when we talked about their confusion about the Trinity, because it's all part of the same confusion to some extent. But uh for example on page two fifty-four, uh you can take them to Psalm two where it says Um you are my son, today I have begotten you. Well the point is to look at the context, right? And the context is God installing in Psalm 2, God installing his king over all these earthly kings who were mocking God and such. And um he says, for me I have installed my king upon Zion, my holy mountain. I will surely tell of the and then This king says, I will surely tell of the decree of the Lord. He said to me, You are my son, today I have begotten you. Ask of me, and I will surely give the nations as your inheritance. and the very ends of the earth as your possession. This whole psalm, even the Jews understood to be messianic, is talking about the the reign of the Messiah. uh the his jurisdiction over all of the kings of the earth who were mocking him. Um and um what you ought to do and and b by the way and this is this is um uh kind of related to the conference we had this weekend um You remember often I I I said that that there are various places in the Quran where it's crystal clear it just has Satan's fingerprints all over it. Right? And this is one of them where it says very explicitly that Jesus is not God in various ways and so on Well, when you're interacting with someone like that, what kind of battle is this? It's a spiritual battle, right? And Think about the spiritual armor in Ephesians six. What do we have for offense in that battle? God's word, right? So um most pretty much everything else is defensive. protecting your hi mind, right, and and your heart and everything. Um but use the word of God to accomplish what only the Word of God can do. So like we've been doing before, the point is to take your friend to Scripture. And in this case, it would be Psalm 2. And just have the person read it. Usually these would just be short segments you could read to make sure you get the thing in context. And then ask questions and have them interact with the text to make sure he's seeing what it's saying. Right? And so here on page 254 He's read through Psalm 2, and then you can ask, well, so who are the rulers of the earth rebelling against? And you read it. Well he's there the kings of the earth take their stand and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed. Okay. Well that, and then you can explain. That Hebrew word that's translated anointed is the word Mashiach, which is sometimes translated as Messiah. which means anointed one. It's the root of the word Messiah. And you can kind of throw in a little um Parallel there in the New Testament, the parallel is Christos, which is the title Christ. The Quran uses the word Christ as basically a last name, Jesus Christ. And that's actually how a lot of people think. But really it's a title, right? It means Messiah, it means anointed one. Um Pastor Fuller? Yes. Can you have point A, like of of on page two fifty three where you said they will they believe he is in Christ? What do they by Christ there. Um where's that? Um page two fifty three um and Iran acknowledges that he is the Christmas they mean well uh uh uh that what the what the Quran the way the Quran uses it is basically it's just a last name. It has no reference at all to his his um uh messiahship, his his role. It's just basically used as a last name. But it's used. It's it's Jesus Christ. I mean it's and you could see it. Um Sometimes it may be Christ Jesus. And it is. In four in 4171 on page 253. Uh don't see anything of God but the truth, Christ Jesus, the Son of Mary, was no more than a messenger. So it's it's just used as a name. Yeah. But you can explain what that may mean and how it's used in scripture. Right And so that's the point here, to explain what anointed, what the anointed one is in the parallel with the Greek. So then in C, you say, well, according to verses 4 and 5, who speaks against these rebellious earthly rulers in verse 6? And so you look at verse 6. But as for me, I have installed my king upon Zion, my holy mountain, I will surely tell And it's it's it should be obvious to him that who's speaking there is the one who has installed the king. who will rule over all these other kings, and that's uh referred to as the Lord. And who is that? It's obviously God, who's responding to these um rebellious kings. And according to verse um six, who has the Lord installed in Jerusalem? His king? And you just get him these things in brackets are meant to be uh the correct answers, which if he looks at the text, it's going to be pretty easy to see, right? Don't give him the answer, but it's there for you just as a reference. So um, or if he doesn't get in the uh you can kind of read it again and say, okay, so um uh I have installed my king upon Zion. So it's pretty obvious. And then you can ask him, well, in verse 7, is that a continuation of what the Lord is saying? So let's look at verse 6. But as for me, I have installed my king upon Mount Zion, my holy mountain And it kind of helps us this NASBY puts that in separate quotes. And then verse 7 starts another quote. I will surely tell of the decree of the Lord. He sent me, he said to me, You are my son to have begotten you. So who is speaking there? Is it the same person? No. And you can tell just from the context that it's not, even if those quotation marks weren't there. Um And so who is speaking in verse seven? Well, the king the the Lord's anointed. You know, he hasn't he has um uh Today you are my son, today I've begotten you. Ask me, I will give you all the nations as your inheritance. He's speaking. the the the anointed one is speaking about what the what God has said to him. And I think if he reads it a couple times he's going to see that. Then letter G. By what title is he referred to in verse seven? My son, whose son? The Lord's son, God's son. Right? That is this king, this anointed one. And what did the Lord say he did on this day? He begot the Son, the Messiah. Today I have begotten you. So, what role would the Son have with respect to the nations and the ruler who had mocked God? Well, as the anointed sovereign king, he would rule over all the nations. And there those nations, as you continue reading on, were strongly urged to submit themselves to him. Yeah, in reverence, take refuge with him and so on. And so then you can explain I'm on the top of page two fifty five that the Hebrew word begotten is often used in connection with giving birth to offspring, but it's also more generally used simply of bringing something forth, bringing forth something. Now one thing obviously you can bring forth is a baby, but there are other things you can bring forth. And um So you can ask, what evidence is there in the context of this entire psalm that the word begotten means to give birth to? There's nothing there about giving birth to anybody. Right? It's what is the context? Installing this king over all the nations So what evidence is there in the passage that the word begotten means declared or brought forth in a different sense? Well, from beginning to end, the psalm is about the rule of the Messiah over the haughty rulers of the earth. It's not his birth that is meant to subjugate them, but rather his divine sovereignty, and that's highlighted in verses 8 and 9. His sovereignty and his power. Also, it says that the Son is begotten on that day, what day? The day he's installed in Jerusalem as king over all the nations. Having nothing to do with physical birth. And the Lord addresses his son directly on the day in which he is begotten. And when you obviously that suggests that the son now perceives what what God is saying, which an infant would not on the day he's born. So, in what sense is the word begotten being used in the psalm? Hopefully they can begin to see that it's not being used in the way of natural childbirth. Which is their hang-up, right? But it's being used in a different way. Then you can take them to Isaiah 7, 13 and 14. Uh familiar passage to you. Then he said, Listen now, house of David, is it too slight a thing for you to try the patience of men? that you will try the patience of my God as well, therefore the Lord himself will give you a sign. Behold, a virgin will be with child, and bear a son, and she will call his name Emmanuel So you ask him to read the passage, just two verses, and then you start asking questions. About what he read. So what miraculous sign did the prophet Isaiah reveal that God would provide for the descendants of David? Well, the sign would be a virgin would conceive and bear a son. And that should resonate with a Muslim Who is the only one who has ever been born of a virgin? And they will probably already know the answer is Jesus. Well, indeed, Jesus, a descendant of David, was born of a virgin around 700 years after this prophecy was given. Now, what name did the prophecy say he would be known by? And you look back at the text, his name shall be called Emmanuel. What does the Hebrew word Emmanuel mean? God with us. And so they might not know that. You can help them understand that. Right? Yeah, this prophecy confirms not only the virgin birth of Christ, but also that he's God manifested to men. In some way. We don't know all of that, all of the manners in which he would be called. The significance of the Emmanuel, we don't see it fully fleshed out in this passage. So let's look at Isaiah 9, 6 through 7, just a couple of chapters later, where it says, and you have him read it. For a child will be born to us, a son will be given to us, and the government will rest on his shoulders, and his name will be called Wonderful Counselor. Notice there's no comma there. It's not wonderful. Counselor like in the Handles Messiah. That's all because of the music. Wonderful counselor. Mighty God Eternal Father, Prince of Peace, there will be no end to the increase of his government or of peace on the throne of David and over his kingdom to establish it and uphold it with justice and righteousness from then on and forevermore. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will accomplish this. And so you ask him: this passage foretells the coming of the same child. How is this prophecy similar to what we saw in Psalm 2? Well, it focuses largely on his sovereign rule, right? So what aspect of his name In other words, his nature or role is described here as well as in Isaiah 7. 14. Well here it says he's mighty God. And seven fourteen says his very purpose is God with us, his name. God is with us. So how could he be called mighty God? Could he have been born a human and then become God? No. Human beings don't become God. Okay, I agree with you. Yes, and eternal father really means Well, no, I I should say I I tell him yes, I agree with you. He wasn't a human being who became God, so what then must it mean? It must mean the other way around. God took on human flesh to accomplish his purposes. Right? And then look at this name, Eternal Father. What that really means is Father of Eternity, that is basically Creator from Eternity Past. Right? How could a child be born on earth at a point in time and yet be the father of eternity? That's a hard question. Particularly if if you don't understand that God stepped into time, took on human flesh, but that's what this is saying. It had to be, right? What's that? Well I never saw that one. Um So you can begin to see that even in the Old Testament, God was revealing that His plan for the ages was that the eternal God would take on human flesh and not just become a man, but be born as a baby. And then you take them to Micah 5, 2. Have him read it. But as for you, Bethlehem Ephratha. Too little to be among the clans of Judah. From you one will go forth for me to be ruler in Israel. His going forth his goings forth are from long ago, from the days of eternity. And if you like you can you can read through the passage in Matthew two where the magi come to to Jerusalem and start asking around where is he who was born king of the Jews, which wasn't a very smart question to be asking of Herod the Great. Who figured he was the king of the Jews, right? But he asks um in verse four gathering together all the chief priests and scribes of the people, he inquired of them where the Messiah was to be born, and they knew. In fact, it's interesting the the verse here says Where the Messiah was to be born. So he must have understood the messianic nature of this question that they had: where is he who is born king of the Jews? And so What answer did he get? He got the right answer from the chief priests and scribes and so on. They said to him in Bethlehem of Judah, Judea, for this is what has been written by the prophet, and then they quote this passage. However, it's interesting that they stop quoting in the middle of the verse and don't comment on the last part, which is his going forth or from long ago from days of eternity. But they understood that that was a messianic prophecy about the birthplace of of Christ. In fact, later when Jesus is ministering, uh some of his naysayers will say, This guy can't be the Messiah because we know where he's from, up in Galilee. The Messiah is going to be coming from Bethlehem, right? Now they didn't know that's where he was born. So it was well understood that the Messiah would be born in Bethlehem, being a descendant of David, and it was all making sense to everybody. Well, um so you can ask him, did the Jews of Jesus' time understand that this is where the King of the Jews would be born? Absolutely. What other characteristics of this king did Micah 5-2 describe? Well, even though he wouldn't he would be from Bethlehem, his real origins were from eternity past. What does that mean? Right? So who alone existed in the eternity past? God. It's like one of those fifth grade questions in Sunday school. God is always the answer, right? So what is this prophecy indicating about this king? He would be born, and yet he existed from eternity past. He had to be God if he existed in eternity past, and yet he stepped into time, took on human flesh. and became a human being. That's exactly what it's saying. So is it saying that God would create a some a a son sometime in the future No, what it's saying is that he already existed as God from eternity past, and that he would be taking on human flesh, being born in dustland. So just walk them through the verses to say, you know, it to emphasize that Being the son of God isn't God creating a son or being involved in procreation, thinking of it in human terms. You're right, that's beneath God. What it's saying is that God Himself, who has always existed, steps into time, takes on human flesh, becomes a man to accomplish his purposes. And the only way that would be possible would be the virgin birth. Now it's interesting. The Quran affirms the virgin birth of Christ, but I don't know that there's any Muslim who can explain why. it had to happen, their only answer probably would be God just wants it and it happens. Right? It's a demonstration of God's Sovereignty, his power, and has no particular inherent meaning or necessity. When in fact it does. It has lots of meaning and lots of necessity Right? If he weren't born of a virgin, he he wouldn't be human and he wouldn't be sinless. Anyway, that's another topic for another day. And we're going to get there. So now we're getting to Bill's question here. Second misunderstanding on page 257. Jesus' mother conceived him while she was still a virgin, but Jesus was created by Allah. That's sort of the misunderstanding. So he was conceived in Mary's womb, but God just Well, in fact, look at the Quran here, Surah 3, verse 59, the middle one there. The similitude of Jesus before God is that of Adam, that is, the way Jesus is similar to Adam is this. He created him from dust and then said to him, be, and he was. So it's just an act of God to create Jesus in the womb of Mary. Well that's true, isn't it? Um we're gonna get to some nuances there. Yes, it's partly true. And you see the commentary here from the the Arabic translator. But flip over to page two fifty-eight and and walk through some questions here again with your Muslim friend. So you and I and the Quran and the Bible agree that there are important similarities between Adam and Jesus. Definitely. They're both unique in several things. For example, neither of them was conceived in the natural way. God created both of their physical bodies supernaturally. Neither of them had a human father. Right? However, did you realize that there are other similarities as well as differences between them? For example, did you realize that there are only that these are the only two men Who have ever lived, whose spirit, soul, in other words, was not created at the moment of their physical beginning. So that's true of of Adam. You can read, if you flip back over, the bottom of page 257, Genesis 2. 7, then the Lord God formed the man of the dust of the ground, and then what? breathed into his nostrils the breath of life and man became a living being. Right? So he first created Adam's body And then gave him a soul. He became a living human being. Um And you could suggest to the person so far at this point that the same is true of Jesus. The fact that his physical body that he took on had a beginning point doesn't necessarily mean that was the same beginning point of his soul. Right? So then take him to um Isaiah 9 and Micah 5 2, the ones that we just talked about, about um the the the fact that Um Jesus existed from eternity past and would take on human flesh. Right? And so What do those messianic prophecies say about the existence of the Messiah who would be born in Bethlehem? Well, he's from eternity past. And so what are we to conclude from the fact that he was conceived and born in a baby Yet he existed from eternity past. Well, his body was created, but his spirit or soul already existed. As God from eternity past, he merely took on human flesh. Right So given that Adam received his spirit separately from his body being created, is there any reason to believe that Jesus' spirit had to have been created when his body was created, particularly since his conception was miraculous, like Adam's No, there's really no reason to suggest that would be the case. The body and spirit are separate, and since Jesus was not conceived in a natural way, his spirit could have taken on flesh that was created in Mary's womb as a separate act. So the bottom line here on this one is top of page 259. The teaching of the Bible, both the Old and the New Testaments, is that Jesus, the Messiah, has existed from eternity past as the mighty God, referred to in Isaiah 9. who merely took on human flesh. So can you see the fact? Can you see that the fact that he took on human flesh? by being conceived in the womb of a virgin does not necessarily mean that a spirit was also created. And hopefully you can get them to see that possibility. with um uh evil spirit possession of bodies that we see and testory and so forth and people case Um Jesus casts out the spirits. They're not souls necessarily, but the spirits they possess something that was created by God and so forth Is that something similar in paraplace? Do they have so they have these uh gins. No, I think that would be a different um you know demon possession of a human being. That human being already has a soul. already has a spirit, and so the demon possession would merely be an attempt to control that person and and so on. That's not the person himself. That's That's a demon possessing the person. So in the case of Jesus, he wasn't being possessed by someone else. He was. The eternal God taking on human flesh. And so his soul and his spirit he referred to even on the cross. was eternal. Um and he wasn't possessed by any other being. So they might bring that up, but yeah, I was saying. Before you move on to the next planning, I hope I'm not going over something you've already discussed, but how would you address the topic? So you're talking that Christ is Basically, from my understanding, that Christ is equal to God here. How do you address the topics where the Muslim says, well, the highest evil is compared to something to God. I think that would be their pretty much standard argument against this standard. Yeah. We covered that back when we talked about the Trinity. But we're e elaborating on it here, actually. Um the point is is um What do they mean by what they're saying? And what does the Quran mean by what it's saying? What they mean is there's only one God, and we agree with them, there's only one God. What they don't understand is that God has eternally existed in three persons. And that's what we talked about in the in the chapters we went through on the Trinity. Here we're speaking specifically about Christ because some of the hang-up is the language, begotten. And that's beneath God, right? And agree with you, yeah, that's beneath God. If that's what you're thinking, it's it's procreation. Um So depending on where their hangup is, their question is, their confusion, that's where you can go to kind of clarify it. It may be that their earliest discussion will be about the Trinity, you know, they believe that there's three gods, Allah, Jesus, and Mary That's their conception in the Quran of the Trinity. See, that's not what the Bible says. See, take them through, what does the Bible say? Let me let me clarify that because I didn't Actually I meant Muhammad because they actually declare that to consider Christ above Muhammad is a greater sin, as far as I Well have you briefed that? Um indirectly. Yeah. And that's true. God has no equals. But what they conceive that to mean is, well, they say God has no partners either. And thinking that this whole and and the Quran specifically says don't say Trinity, it's it's it's it's nonsense. But their conception of it is wrong. And the point is to help them understand the conception of it. And if they under if they understand what the Bible is actually saying They can draw their own conclusion about Jesus relative to Muhammad. The greatest sin is to the shirk in Islam. The greatest sin is to um um believe that there's anyone equal with God. Um and That's their hang up. And so you help them kind of understand the misunderstandings and and Real quickly, misunderstanding number three on page 259, Jesus performed miracles as a child, including the creating of a live bird during his life on earth Um I don't need to go through all that in detail. I'll let you read through that. Um What I would suggest on page 260, and the questions you ask him, what would be the purpose of a prophet performing miracles? The correct answer is to authenticate his message as coming from God. And there's even a hint of that in the Quran, in Surah V. But you might take them to Acts 2, verse 22. Men of Israel, listen to these words. This is Peter, right, uh preaching on the day of Pentecost. Jesus, the Nazarene, a man attested to you by God, how? With miracles and wonders and signs which God performed through him in your midst, just as you yourselves know. So that's the point. these miracles point to his um the that God is the source of what he's saying. It's not just about the miracles, it's to attest that what he's saying is from God. And even Nicodemus got that, right? He comes to Jesus at night and says, uh, Teacher, we know that you are from God because no one can do the things you do, lest God be with him. He got the point. Um I wouldn't necessarily recommend that you um uh offer this number three here. Since the Quran acknowledges that Jesus performed many miracles, healing the people born blind, raising the dead, and so on, but it makes no reference to Muhammad performing any miracles. What does that suggest about the difference between Jesus and Muhammad? Now it may come up in your conversation. I wouldn't recommend starting there. But it does Attest that, like Nicodemus testified, that um Jesus spoke from God Okay, another common misconception that not only Muslims have, but others as well, Jesus didn't claim to be God Well, I've provided for you here lots of verses you can go to that Jesus did directly claim to be God That on page 261, the Jewish leaders clearly understood from his words and deeds that he claimed to be God, and for that reason they sought to, and eventually did, kill him. And on page 262, that Jesus accepted worship as God. He didn't correct people who were trying to worship him. And so, again, you can go through these kinds of questions. Go through the verses, have them read them, ask them questions, have them interact with the text of Scripture And let God use his word to accomplish his purpose in the heart. So I won't go through all of those. They're pretty straightforward. You understand the passages and just gives you some suggestions as how to ask questions about them. But let's go to page two sixty-five. Misunderstanding number five. Jesus called himself merely the Son of Man, which indicates that he did not claim to be the Son of God. He didn't say Son of God, he said, I'm the Son of Man. Well, if you deal with the first question, we he did directly answer the question, yes, about his deity. But let's deal with the question about the title Son of Man that he gave himself. Uh and it's probably better to go to page two sixty-six where we have the questions With these questions, I kind of bring out the material that I list under point A, the facts. That's why I'm skipping the facts, going directly to the questions. So on page 266. Did you realize often that when Jesus referred to himself as the Son of Man, he did so when it was clear that he was claiming to be God? So take them to Mark 2. And Jesus, and have him read it. And Jesus, seeing their faith, said to the paralytic, and this is I think is is where they they lowered the paralytic down from the ceiling, right? And he said to the paralytics, Son, your sins are forgiven. But some of the scribes were sitting there and reasoning in their hearts, why does this man speak that way? He is blasphemy. Who can forgive sins but God alone? And immediately Jesus, aware in his spirit that they were reasoning that way within themselves, said to them, Why are you reasoning about these things in your heart? Which is easier to say to the paralytic? Your sins are forgiven? Or to say, get up and pick up your pallet and walk? So what is the answer to that question? Which is easier to say? It's easier to say your sins are forgiven. But so that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins, he said to the paralytic, I say to you, get up, pick up your pallet, and go home. And he got up and immediately picked up the pallet and went out in the sight of everyone so that they were all amazed and were glorifying God, saying, We have never seen anything like this. So what did that miracle cause them, ought to have caused those people to conclude? What's that? That he was able to forgive sins because he's able to rise this raise up this This paralytic, right? It's the miracle attested to the accuracy of his message. I think in today's vernacular it will be uh anybody once saved. You can prove those things. Yes. That's exactly right. And it it's easy to say that. Yes. This is God speaking here. This is God acting here. Right? So the question is, why do the religious leaders take issue with Jesus in this passage? Because he claimed to be able to forgive sins, which they interpreted as blasphemy, since only God can forgive sins. I mean, they had a very natural reaction. At the very best, people ought to be skeptical here, right? So why did Jesus heal the paralyzed man? To prove that he is God and has the authority to forgive sins. So how did he refer to himself in that context? As a son of man. And was there any confusion on the part of his audience what he meant by that? No. That was all. Did that undermine his claim of divinity? No, he proved it. Right? By healing the man. Well, let's go to Mark 14. Have him read it. But he kept silent and did not answer, and this is during Jesus' um uh so-called trials. um before his crucifixion. And he was silent, and the high priest was questioning him, saying to him, Are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed One? And Jesus said, What? I am. And you shall see the Son of Man. Here he's quoting from Daniel: you shall see the Son of Man. Sitting at the right hand of power and coming with the clouds of heaven. Tearing his clothes, the high priest said, What further evidence? Or what need do we have of witnesses? You have heard this blasphemy. How does it seem to you? And they all condemned him to be deserving of death. Okay. So the question you need to ask here is, what did the high priest ask Jesus at his trial? Just point blank. Are you the Christ, the Son of God? How did Jesus respond? Yes. Positively. What else did Jesus say to emphasize his deity in verse 62? Um he can read what he said here, but it might not um uh connect with him. Yeah, he would See the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of power, coming with clouds of heaven. Say, that's right. Did you realize that he was quoting from the prophet Daniel? And actually in the Nasvi here, Old Testament quotes are in all caps. So it's a clue. You know, look on look in the Old Testament for the origin of that. But before we read that, how did the high priest respond after Jesus said that? The towards close. significant that's the the uh the practice under the law of response to various things including blasphemy Karen Close. Yeah. Karen Priestley Close. Yeah. And I think that's a good thing. Just uh it's it's um what, the uh supreme Um response to um something that's an affront to God, I'm thinking. Um And clearly in several places in in the life of Christ, you see the leaders um responding that way. And it's because and you see from the context, um Tearing his clothes, the high priest said, What further need do we have of witnesses? You have heard this blasphemy. So when they are you know, if if they were not to tear their clothes in response, it would be as if They're letting that slide. It's acceptable. Uh we can just ignore it. But he can't ignore it. And um He views it as blasphemy and therefore what what further need do we have they all contend them to be deserving of death because of that blasphemy? And one comment about what further need do we have of witnesses. Is that a legal problem? I mean, wouldn't they be convicting him of a capital crime on the basis of self Testimony? Self-incrimination. They if you remember the accounts of the trials, they were concerned about that and they tried to get witnesses who would agree with each other about things, but uh they didn't really succeed. And really all they could pin on him, which is what they they um pled to Pilate was that he claimed to be God. And that's deserving of death. So they had to get pilot to agree to it, but even that wasn't a true thing, right? Well, so then you can take them, yeah he he made reference to to the Son of Man. Did you realize that that's from Daniel 7? So you can take them to Daniel 7. Where God revealed in a vision to the prophet Daniel Who, by the way, uh Muslims would be very comfortable with. He's one of the long line of prophets that God used in their view. So Daniel writes, I kept looking in the night vision, and behold, with the clouds of heaven, one like a son of man was coming. And he came up to the ancient of days and was presented before him. And to him was given dominion, glory, and a kingdom. And that all the peoples, nations, men of every language might serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion which will not pass away, and his kingdom is one which will not be destroyed. Which, by the way, the Jews, and particularly even the Jews in Jesus' time, understood that to be a messianic Prophecy. And this reference to the Son of Man is um um the the Messiah. And speaking of him as Son of Man, Son of God, it's it's all the same. And so the questions you can ask would be, for example, what had the prophet Daniel been shown? Would be given to the Son of Man. Well, a kingdom. What people would be in this kingdom? It's interesting. All peoples, nations, men of every language. And how enduring would this kingdom be? It will last forever. Given these attributes, does it appear that the Son of Man who will reign over this kingdom is a mere human No, it's eternal. It's over the whole world. Indeed, the Jews clearly understood that this was a messianic prophecy. This is the reason for the reaction of the high priest in Mark 14 after Jesus applied this prophecy to himself as the Son of Man that's referred to. Now, they didn't understand, Jesus did, that this reign over all the nations Isn't going to happen now. It's going to happen later. They were afraid for their position, right? And he wasn't claiming that it was going to happen now, but He's ba he is saying, I'm the one this is referring to. And they would have nothing of it. For what it's worth, um I don't know that this is um Uh something you can take to the bank, but my la my second point here on the end of page 267 is at least the way I think about it. Wouldn't it make some sense in the context of a triune God for the one who, though he was eternal God, took on human flesh to be be referred to within the Godhead as the Son of Man? But from man's perspective it makes sense to think of him as the son of God. But from God's perspective it makes sense to refer to him as the son of man. And that's how he referred to himself often. That's a very interesting perspective. That shift of view between the two. Yeah. I I don't know if if that's at all at play here, but the biblical teaching clearly is that he's fully God and fully man. And um it it may be that Sharing verses like this and having them wrestle with the text and and see what the text is actually saying might be something God would use to Um clarify confusion and then maybe soften hearts and maybe draw them to Christ. If not, that's all in God's hands. But yeah. it would be um it would be beneficial to to because the emphasis is kind of lost here. The the Pharisees knew the I mean they could recite all of Daniel. They knew these prophecies. And they knew that one would come to fulfill those prophecies. So when this man Jesus Christ was claiming these things He was literally saying, I fulfilled these prophecies. That's why they tore their clothes and reacted like crazy. And that's also why it was said of them that they are without excuse for denying because he fulfilled each one of these prophecies. And he reinforced that when you're speaking to a Muslim, that might bring some life some some life to this discussion because they might think So they they lose the emphasis of how much the Pharisees knew about the prophecy. Yeah. Well it should be pretty clear from the text that they understood exactly what Christ was saying. Exactly, yeah, the Pharisees do. And but we, two thousand years removed, kind of lose you know, we lose that understanding a little bit. So it's kind of nice to paint it you know, adding color to the story. Right, for sure. Sort of speaking. Yeah. So he didn't um He's not he's not saying here that he has already fulfilled or is now fulfilling Daniel 7. He's that's still in the future, right? Even now. But he is saying that's who that's speaking of me. Yes Yeah, and that's the thing. And they were concerned that he was intending to take over now. I'm sure that's what that was in their thinking. regular person would have got his phone for a second. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Actually he he kind of you know, in those instances where they wanted to, he you know, he was able to Yeah. Because his hour had not yet come. Real good. Well, we gotta wrap up. Any other quick question, observation? Yeah. But in response to that question, um but that comment, um you have to remember that Paul knew the scriptures thoroughly. He was startling And he didn't understand that Christ was a fulfillment until he had a personal encounter with Christ. Yeah. And on the raising of the S Uh they knew the scriptures and they believed them. But until Christ opened their eyes, they were blind they didn't look like seeing what Sarah understands understand the words, it still takes the supernatural touch with God. It does. Yeah, and and even it's it's not unlike the fact that the disciples who for the most part got it didn't get it. Anything about the crucifixion, the resurrection, um, the fact that um his kingdom is not of this world Uh that came later, after they saw the risen Christ. Well that's supplies there was mystery. Yes. And Right. We really can't put ourselves in that position. Yeah. We would have been exact uh responding exactly the same way. If not worse. Now on the second side of point your point of situation, I agree. Uh there was the if you think at the time the Pharisees were they were in in one sense trying to maintain the the scriptures and things, you know, the purity of the scriptures. And there were many false prices at the time. Many people claiming to be So they were going around all who's out there trying to eradicate these false kind of upstarts and so forth. And it wasn't only through buying new revenue, it was only through Christ making you alive through the spirit, which is still the same today. But they recognize that he was who is uh so so the the Pharisees and questioning Jesus and and reading their Close. I think oh here's other load guys and they're and they're they're they're blind as as Peter's talked about their blind tests. you know, be careful how we treat this man because we might find ourselves uh opposing God. Uh and the tradition is that eventually when Paul is being a Christian the the the tradition is the Gameleon also keep this like you're right. Whether that's true or not. Indeed. Well, let's uh close in prayer.