Okay, so today we are on lesson twenty three. Uh our last topic today and next week. We've covered a lot of ground in terms of misunderstandings that that um Muslims have, and this one, this series is about their misunderstandings about salvation. We're really comes down to the the nuts and bolts, right? Is there anyone who needs a copy of the notes? We're all good? Okay. So I'm on page 293. So the first misunderstanding here is they would say that man does not have an inherited sin nature. All that Allah would hold us accountable for, they say, is our own sins. And so what what this is getting at, of course, is the question of original sin. Um It's possible, in fact, probably fairly likely, I'm guessing, that this won't come up in um in conversation with your Muslim friends unless as you're going through scripture about other things it comes up. And so um I want to make sure that your Uh you have resources here to help them think that through and see what the scriptures actually say. Okay? And I'm going to come back to what would normally be or what would more likely be the topic on their mind. Um well maybe I can introduce it now. Well let me ask you a question. Um Do people sin because they're sinners, or are they sinners because they sin? Yeah. Good answer. Any clarity people want to uh add to that? Uh second second doesn't count. It's only first. They sin because they're sinners. They sin because they're sinners, which is to say there is original sin. Right. Um So we're not sinners because we sin? So they're both true. That's the tricky part, right? Sin confirms that we're sinners. It is indeed it does. Yes, it certainly does. The the the chronology of it is we're conceived in sin, we've inherited sin, but the obvious effect of that um is that we sin. Now, um most people who are not saved and are not familiar with scripture have Questions and concerns about that first part. Would God hold me accountable for something I didn't do? Right? And my experience is you don't really have to dwell on that. If you dwell on Their sin. Will God hold you accountable for your sin? That's adequate. Um For them to understand the need for salvation, the basis for salvation, and to come to Christ. And later, God can open their hearts and minds to see in the scriptures that in fact Something came before that, original sin, and that's how it crept in. That's how we inherited us in nature. Um And so even when you're talking with your Muslim friends, um you may be um able and completely effective focusing only on the consequence of their own sin. And that is something they will agree with you about. I mean, at least the Quran does. In fact, uh look at the the uh A couple of quotes here. Um, particularly the first one from Surah Thirty. Set thou thy face steadily and truly to the faith. Establish God's handiwork according to the pattern on which He has made mankind. No change let there be in the work wrought, what God has done, by God. That is the standard religion, but most among mankind understand not. Turn ye back in repentance to him and fear him, establish regular prayers, and be not among those who join God with God. So The second passage I have here from Surah 20 refers to Adam, and it doesn't even say in the Quran that he sinned. what all it all it says really is that he had sort of a a lapse of memory or um he forgot uh no firm resolves. He kind of um smooths over the seriousness really of Adam's sin. Um And so they they don't view it I mean because of of that, but they don't view it as something that would have uh been passed on down through all generations. And uh even Adam himself, I think, um uh in their thinking would have had the same opportunity that people today do through their good works, through their change of heart, through their repentance, whatever, to make up for that. So it's not all that explicit in passages like here's Surah 30 But if you look at the commentary, you see the the standard doctrines that have flowed from um what the Quran says. And so the commentator here, and again this is the the translator of the most respected English translation of the Quran He says, as as turned out from the creative hand of God, in other words, as as man was created and is continuing to be created. Man is innocent, pure, true, free, inclined to right and virtue and endued with true understanding about his own position in the universe and about God's goodness, wisdom, and power, and so on. That is his true nature, just as the nature of a lamb is to be gentle and of a horse is to be swift. But man is caught in the meshes of customs, superstition, selfish desires, false teaching, all those external things, right? The environment, they're saying. This may make him pugnacious, unclean, false, slavish, hankering after what is wrong or forbidden and deflected from the love of his fellow men and pure worship of the one true God. The problem before spiritual teachers is to cure this crookedness and to restore human nature to what it should be under the will of God. So you see this foundation of man's inherently They they claim on the surface of it that man is inherently good. I mean their their doctrine doesn't necessarily um mesh with that all that consistently. But they will say that man is basically good and it's this environment that's accumulated over time, particularly that exposes them to evil and and and um uh but man can um by doing the right things make up for all that And so it is this religion of works. It is possible for people to to um do enough. that would please God and attain um they don't often call it uh salvation, more often it'll be called paradise. So that's the general teaching. Um and so Adam, yeah, he was in the same boat. Uh he had um uh drawbacks and lapses of judgment and this kind of thing, but he was equally able to overcome those. And um we're all in the same boat. That's that's the position that they take. So um if your conversation Goes back to Adam and whether there is original sin. This next, this section here helps you to have an approach To go through the scriptures to help them see that is what it teaches. Yeah, Margaret. So their remedy is to cure the crookedness. But the only remedy they offer is more piety, more works, right? Sure. And we know ultimately that does not satisfy person's need for um relationship with God, do you think that would drive a person to do more work, be more um extreme in their devotion to this? Would that possibly explain some people's desire to to murder uh for For the cause of Islam? Yeah, if if if they're convinced that various uh works, both the routine works and the extreme works are things that would make them more accessible to Allah, then yes, that's that's their motivation, they would do that. So it's it's essentially it it boils down to works to make up for the fact that they know that they're not perfect. S and some they know that. Yeah. Right, right. I was gonna say we have the biblical example of Paul before he was converted. Right. Was dream in his devotion to Judaism and to the point of killing Christians. Right. Yeah. And um The irony is that that um you know he thought he was doing the supreme thing that would honor God, and in fact he was doing the opposite. And but the other good lesson from that that example is that God can intervene. Blinded him and all that sort of stuff. But God can intervene and he does intervene And the fact that someone is is caught up in a a mindset of works, even to the extreme, does not mean that they're um unable to respond to God's intervention. So let's be praying for those. Yeah. So on that note, we're here learning about how we can witness To the Muslims, and knowing that God is sovereign on who call He calls to Himself or not, including the Muslims, we should have the freedom to simply talk to them. and present the gospel and the best of our knowledge that God has given us to just let them know God's word says to let God do His sovereign work on calling them. We just get the joy of seeing them come to Christ. Right. Let God's word do what only God's Word can do. Not that it not that God would always choose to save them. But he will he will use his word. For the same reason for that person who was didn't come to know Christ until they were eighty, ninety, hundred years old, laying in the deathbed, and they confess with their mouth that Jesus is Lord and all that stuff, right? Exactly. For us it's just simply present the gospel not knowing who God is calling to Himself. Definitely. Right. So if this this question of original sin is um uh something that's they're wrestling with, or or even not wrestling, but perhaps thinking there's no way that can be true. You know, if that comes up in your conversation, uh either way. I would encourage you to walk through the scriptures, and particularly the ones I've got for you here. So on the bottom of page two ninety-three Let's see what the Bible says about that. You can take them to Romans 5. Very directly talking about sin came through one man, and so all sinned because we're all in Adam, right? And uh but by the same token, Paul is saying, uh through one man, the obedience of one man, Jesus Christ, Salvation was made available, uh, made possible for all. So again, the the things that we've been um talking about so far is uh the the procedure really is to take them to the passage, have him read through the passage, right, and then you interact with him about it. So what do you think it means when it says this And why is it saying that and and that kind of thing? So that begins on page two ninety four. Um and so for example you would read through he would read through it and then you would say well who is the one referred to through whom sin entered into the world And it's clear in Romans 5, that's Adam, right? So what was the consequence of that sin Well, in verse 12 it says the consequence was death, which spread to all men. That's why we all die. Right? So has anyone been exempt from death? No Why has everyone died ever since Adam? Well, verse 12, because all have sinned, because ultimately Adam sinned. Well, have Adam's descendants been able to choose not to sin? No. I mean the language there is they were made sinners. They didn't make themselves sinners, they were made sinners. In the passive voice. So how has God responded to Adam's one transgression? Look at verses sixteen and eighteen. Well, all men are under his, God's, condemnation because of Adam's sin. Condemned by God to what? Death. So who is Adam being contrasted with in this passage? And that might not be quite as clear to him, but if you read verses 14 and 15, it's very explicit, Jesus Christ. And so, in what sense was Adam a type, that is a parallel or counterpart or foreshadowing of Jesus Christ? Well, they were the only two men who entered in this world as sinless human beings. And what they did affected many others standing before God. They had a lot in common. Um Jesus is uh elsewhere called the second Adam for that reason. So why has everyone else's sin, ever since Adam, not been like Adam's sin? See what verse 14 says. Nevertheless, death reigned from Adam until Moses, even over those who had not sinned in the likeness and the offense of Adam So in what sense was everyone else's sin not like Adam's? Because unlike Adam, we have each been born with a sin nature, which we inherited from Adam. Adam didn't inherit a sin nature. He acquired it. He earned it. He um started it. So um Once you get them to wrestle with a passage that's very direct and clear on that, you can bring up some other passages in Scripture that affirm that same thing, both Old Testament and New Testament. Uh Roger? Just a quick question. Uh I don't know whether that's wrong. When was death a a racial part of that? When did death enter into that uh story for them? Um I think they would I'm not sure that the Quran has any explicit teaching on death being a consequence of Adam and Eve's disobedience. But I think they would acknowledge that everybody has died. They probably wouldn't put two and two together. I don't think there's any verse explicit in the Quran. That says because Adam and Eve sinned, all everybody now dies. Um but So that but but still that would be a point to make to them. You know, why do people die? The reason they die is because of sin. Sickness and all that. Well that wasn't part of God's original design. God's merciful Allah quick. So I think that would be a point that would help to help them to wrestle with You know, things are not today the way they were when Adam and Eve walked with God in the garden. Why? Well, they would say, well, because society well there was no society back then, it was just Adam and Eve, right? Um Yes, there has been an accumulation of evil and all those sorts of things, but um Um get in and think that through. Do you do you think Allah would have created mankind to die as part of the design and to have sickness and this kind of thing? That could help them to think that through. Yeah, good point. Actually I have an Afghan friend that he mentioned just that he was he called himself now an Afghan Agnostic. He was Muslim. Now he's agnostic. He'd say he was atheist before. So when I asked him, so do you believe in a queen being or anything? Yeah, I believe in a lot. So then I was like, you're not atheist, you're agnostic. So I'm trying to take him out of that you know, agnosticism to um belief in God. So he mentioned that if God was or is the supreme This is his question. The Supreme Being. He created us, but He knew us because he knew that this is going to happen. Seeing is going to happen. and we're going to die. Why he created us in the first place. And I gave him a Bible and I was just like, read it and we're gonna continue. But I don't know if you have an answer for that question for I was Yes, it is clear that God knew that sin would enter the world. Um because we know that he has chosen us in Christ since before the foundation of the world. Right? Um and so in that sense, Adam and Eve's sin and the repercussions of it was not a surprise to God. And so it does raise the question, why would God have done that? Um I think the short answer is Um God created us in his image, uh which means we have intellect, emotion, will, a capacity to have relationship with him, unlike the animals And even though we have the ability to choose, we have a will, we have the ability to choose, it's under his sovereign direction. But it is nonetheless an ability to choose. And he knew that uh these um humans who he created in that capacity in his image would choose to disobey, to sin. And knowing that, why would he even start that process And my understanding is, and you know, we'll have to ask God for sure when when we get to heaven, but my understanding is um A lot of things about God are evident generally, you know, general revelation, you know, um Uh the heavens declare the glory of God, right? Creation um tells us that there is a God, there is a creator. And that he must be all powerful to do that. And he's also created us with a conscience. Uh each of us has a conscience to know that there is right and wrong, and there is a God. Um but Even through general revelation, both through creation and our conscience, we don't have the full picture of God's character. We can grasp his omnipotence. We can grasp his even omniscience, possibly. um and things like beauty and and glory and and so on, but we're not going to know about his grace. His mercy is um primarily his grace just from general revelation. That, in order for us to understand his grace, his mercy, his forgiveness, his love, we need special revelation. Special revelation being God directly communicating through prophets and therefore the scriptures, ultimately communicating through Jesus Christ Himself. That God is not only omnipotent, omniscient, and omnipresent and all those things, but He's also a God of grace. Now, how is he going to put his grace on display? Well, he did it by allowing sin to happen. and providing a solution that put his own grace on display. Um there may be a lot more reasons than gu and how do you really fathom the the thinking of God, right? But um I think part of it is uh being true to his character, uh he wanted his character to be known among his creation because he wants relationship with them. And um Adam and Eve first learned of and experienced God's grace when in chapter 2 of Genesis, God says, In the day that you eat of it you shall surely die? But in the very next chapter, after they ate of it, somebody else died in their place. Actually it was an animal. And so God in his grace Provided a substitute, not only for them, but as a picture of the ultimate substitute, Jesus Christ. Who he spoke of in verse fifteen of chapter three of Genesis, where in condemning the serpent, he said that uh the seed of the woman is going to um crush the head of um the sea of the serpent. Yeah. So that was also a picture of God has the solution And he had the solution all along even before the problem presented. Um and so they had a picture of very um in some ways uh um thirty thousand feet altitude looking down kind of general idea of God's grace. But they saw it very uh they experienced it. By God killing a substitute for them, covering their shame with the skins of the animals. And they began catching a glimpse of who this God is. Who they serve. Because even mentioned multiple times life is a test. And if life is a test, you can fail And that's why they're always in the in the fear that they will fail. That's good. And I mentioned the book of John and then Romans ten, nine, and ten. And he was like, this is too easy I cannot take. So it was like slow heart of making go back to understand that this is free man. This is you don't have to pay for it. Yeah. So but for them, especially when they have been so indoctrinized, they're so hard, some of them, so hard to understand that this is free. This is not that you have to paint, not that you have to kill yourself, you know, do some sort of crazy stuff. This is free, that's it. Believe and confess Yeah. Um of course Paul addresses that in Romans where he says, What then? Should we sin that grace may bow? Right? And he says, obviously not. Our response to God's grace is love, loving Him, obeying Him, serving Him, not I've got a get out of hell free card, now I can do whatever I please, because that's not genuine repentance, genuine faith. Um yeah, Linda. And Romans eleven it said that God designed the the salvation so that no man may boast. God is not wanting to be Right. To have him understand the verdict is already in. The verdict is not when he dies. The verdict is it's already in the wrath of God right now. The verdict is in. So that's his problem. What does that mean? He's under the wrath of God's judgment. He's under God's judgment. Yeah. So if he's by nature we all were by nature children of wrath uh that God's judgment is not at the end, it's right now. The verdict is that he's under God's wrath. Yeah, and so that that gets that gets to you remember the scales? Um And um in fact No, I've got it later. Um but helping him to see that because God is perfectly holy, it doesn't matter How many good things you do that could conceivably outweigh your bad, if you've done anything bad, you're disqualified. So the judgment is in, right? Have you d have you done any sin at all? Yeah. Then there's no question. You're guilty, right? And um apart from God's grace, there's no hope. And so That would be the kind of of conversation I think to to lead him through that that any any sin disqualifies us. from um from heaven, from paradise, uh whatever. Um God's purpose in all that He has done is to display His glory that we might praise Him and enjoy Him. Revelation's talk to uh talks about About um the Christians whose names were written in the book of life of the land who was slain before the foundation of the world. In other words, the lamb was slain as a part of God's plan before he ever created anything. Right. And his glory, the pinnacle of his glory, is in revealing his grace. In his creation. Um that's the pinnacle of the story, is the display of his grace in Christ. Right. And it's related to the question, why doesn't he just take us into heaven immediately upon salvation? And I think part of the reason is um his working in the life of each saved individual to be to gradually bring them into conformity with the perfections of Christ and using those very same Sinful people who are now saved, to bring other people to Christ and to be a testimony of God's grace in our lives. Again, Why does God do that? I think it's partly because it just brings in glory. Um other things that bring into the head Is that we think in a linear fashion. Each moment succeeds another moment. So we're talking about for the foundation of the world and these kind of things. But God is the creator of time and He's outside of time and and for our brains to even imagine how would be to see all of time and extra what outside time altogether at once is impossible. I mean how how can you Outside of our experience capacity. Not being a time function doesn't mean there isn't sequence. You know, there's still sequence in the way that does things outside of time. Uh I mean that that for my own mind that would make it a little bit uh Yeah, I I'm just having a hard time understanding how it uh even I even comprehend something like that. We one Yeah, or when we get to that stage, it's not gonna matter. Plumbing the depths of God's Wisdom and omniscience and yeah. You may see if I flip to this back, I will see Adam from his creation to death. To Adam, you proceed it linearly from one smoke to the next. can begin a genesis again that she's well interesting stuff um so What I do here is start in the middle of page 294 uh bring in other passages that speak of original sin. So Psalm 51. Uh the key one in sin my mother conceived me. That doesn't that's not about the sinfulness of his conception, but that Um I mean the act of his conception wasn't sinful, but he himself was sinful, even from the point of conception. And elsewhere in the New Testament, 1 Corinthians 15, Hebrews 7, it's a parallel concept. But then on page 295 you get both of these these twin topics. One, we're by nature dead spiritually. That's our condition. But each of us has sinned. So um if if they're struggling with with um uh the concept of original sin Put that in the on the in the parking lot. Put that in in the on the the back page or something temporarily and say, well let's forget about that at the moment. Let's talk about you Um have are you sinlessly perfect? And I'm pretty sure they'll say, No way. I'm trying hard, but No, I'm I'm not perfect. And you take them to passages like Romans 3, which actually is a condensation of a number of Old Testament uh statements to that same effect And to see the agreement here that all of us are in the same boat. Um, there's none of us who has not sinned And then what are some of the the consequences of that? Well, sinful man is unacceptable to God. Uh on page two hundred ninety-six, sinful man is unable to understand spiritual truth or to please God. And so these passages in First Corinthians two, Romans eight, use the word cannot He cannot understand them, the the natural man cannot understand the things of the Spirit of God. And Romans 8, those who are in the flesh cannot please God. It's not just that they will not. Or might not, but they cannot, please God, they cannot understand these things. Um There's no hope. That's what you need to get them to see that in our sinful state, even if it's just our sin, there's no hope in and of ourselves. Right. That sin separates us from God, multiple passages again, and those in sin again are without hope. Uh explicitly see that in Ephesians two. Okay. Um you don't want to leave them on the notion that there is no hope. That ought to lead to God's solution to it. But I'm presenting here, before we get there fully Another misunderstanding that's very related here. So they're thinking that no, maybe there is hope. By showing forgiveness, mercy, and grace God can allow the good works of believers to overcome the effects of their sin, they would say. This is misunderstanding number two, top of page 297. So the point here is that sin doesn't violate the character of God. It's merely a moral failure that needs correcting. Like the way you would correct a child to get them to mature, right? God forgives when someone changes his attitudes and actions. God is like that. they would say. And there is lots of examples of that in the Quran, and some of which I've provided for you here. So again, what I would suggest is that you take them to Scripture. Say, well, yes, God is loving. Yes, God is forgiving. But let's not assume things about what that means. Let's see what the Bible teaches us. And so um you take them to passages like Galatians 3. For as many are of As many as are of the works of the law are under a curse, for it is written, cursed is everyone who does not abide by all things written in the book of the law to perform them. How many have violated at least one of those commands? Everybody, right? So we're all, um as far as that is concerned, we're all under God's curse. Why? Because he's holy. James 2, for whoever keeps the whole law yet stumbles in one point, has become guilty of all. For he who said, Do not commit adultery also said, Do not commit murder. Now, if you do not commit adultery but do commit murder, you've become a transgressor of the law. You don't have to have violated both of them to become a sinner. Just one makes you a sinner. Matthew 5:20. For I say to you that unless your righteousness surpasses that of the scribes and Pharisees, You will not enter the kingdom of heaven. Now, what's significant about that? The Pharisees particularly We're very righteous people. What does righteousness mean? Mean right with God. And follow the law. Doing the right thing, basically. It's a it's an action kind of thing. Doing the right thing, hopefully, to put you in right standing with God. But To live righteously, to do righteousness, is to do the right thing. Those Pharisees were doing basically all the right things, plus more. And their contemporaries who were listening to Jesus would have said, whoa, if my righteousness needs to be more than that, there's no hope for me. That would have been their response to what Jesus said. But he said, unless your righteousness surpasses that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will not enter the kingdom of heaven. Now, there's probably two aspects in which that's true. One is even those very righteous Pharisees were not sinless. There were clearly things in their lives, like everybody else, where they were unrighteous. They were sinful. But I think maybe more importantly, and he gets at this in the rest of the Sermon on the Mount Unless your righteousness is more than external, which it very much was for the Pharisees. But your righteousness is coming from a righteous heart of of submission to God, obedience to him, and love for him. You're doing the right things for the right reasons, in other words. Which the Pharisees weren't. Um so that's even the higher standard. It's not that you always have to do the right thing. You have to do the right thing for the right reasons. From the heart. That's a higher standard. He says, unless that's true of you, you will not enter the kingdom of heaven. So is that encouraging or hopeless? That's hopeless, left unto ourselves, right? It's not only we have to do all the right things every everywhere, every time, completely, but for the right reasons? Are you kidding? And he says a few verses later, therefore you are to be perfect, as your Heavenly Father is perfect. Pretty tall standard, right? There's no wiggle room there. That's the point. And um what we're getting at here is the holiness of God. Anything that departs from the holy standard of God is sin. And needs to be judged. Then on top page two ninety eight you can take them to a variety of verses. That make it clear that when we sin, we're sinning against God, ultimately. It could also involve sinning against other people, but Like David said after his sin with Bathsheba, Against you, you only, Lord, I have sinned and done evil, what is evil in your sight. So that you're justified when you speak and blameless when you judge. And you see that throughout Scripture, that our sin is a violation of not only the commands of God, but the very character of God. He is holy. Um so you can ask him some questions about those verses. So then say, well, okay, that's So what would be the perfectly just thing for God to do? To wipe out everybody? Right? He sort of did that. At the time of Noah, wiped out everybody except this one family, to start again by his grace. But God could do that anytime he wanted and be perfectly justified. So let's see how he responds to sin. And you see repeated over and over. that God's response is wrath, judgment, where without excuse it is just. To be just is to do what is right. Justice and righteousness are pretty close to synonyms. God is just in that he always does what's right. Um whether it's in judgment or in forgiveness, he's always just And so part of what you want to communicate here is that um Our our context is that they say, well, yeah, but God is loving, He's forgiving, right? And and you you see this not just with Muslims. A lot of people are relying on the the love and forgiveness of God to kind of Get graded on the curve, right? I'm not as bad as these people. Um but God never acts in violation of any of his character. So, yes, he's loving and forgiving, but not at the expense of violating his holiness and justice. Everything he does is consistent with his character. Um and You have opportunity here to help them see that his character is purity, holy Right? Any sin is a violation of his law and of his character and deserves his wrath. So you see you see just examples of that there. And so on page 299 you have the question, is it right that God punishes every sin with his wrath? And here, you know, you you see those statements frequently. God is a righteous judge and a God who has indignation every day. Psalm 9. The Lord abides forever. He has established his throne for judgment, and he will judge the world in righteousness. He will execute judgment for the peoples with equity. Psalm ninety-seven, righteousness and justice are the foundation of his throne. He always does what is right, in other words. Psalm 111. The works of his hands are truth and justice. They are upheld forever and ever. They are performed in truth and uprightness. Um 1 Peter 117. If you address us, Father, the one who impartially judges according to each one's work, conduct yourselves in fear during the time of your stay on the earth. Because He is completely impartial. He is completely righteous. He always does what is right And so then down toward the bottom of the page in item five there, so what can man do to pay for his sins? Well, take them to Romans. By the works of the law, no flesh will be justified in his sight. What is justified? To have right standing before God. So there's nothing we can do to have right standing before God. Romans four. If Abraham was justified by works, he has something to boast about, but not before God. We brought this up earlier, right? And of course in Ephesians 2, 8 and 9, that our salvation is not a result of works, so that no one would boast. So There's nothing we can do because we are sinners. We have sinned. That sin needs to be paid for. God is completely just and righteous And requires, because of his very nature, that that sin be paid for And if that's the end of the story, then all of us are doomed. And Whether it's your friend is Muslim or not, it's helpful to get them to that point where they see that apart from Christ, we're doomed. Because of God's nature, God's um the pervasiv pervasiveness of our sin and the purity, holiness of God And the only right thing for him to do would be to wipe us all out, if that were all we knew. But it turns out God is gracious. And so um we're gonna have to hold on till next week to talk about the righteousness of God or the grace of God. But um any questions so far? I I just I just have one I have a verse that I thought about for you that we didn't do things, and that's uh you know the the the well-known verse of John 316 um uh sort of the world. But if you go on to like verses seventeen and eighteen, uh eighteen says, for whoever believes in him is not condemned. But whoever does not believe is condemned already because he has not believed to be one of such God. So that the you know verdict, like I said, the verdict is things. Yep. Good good example. John three sixteen through eighteen, I guess. Right. Right. Yeah. I would like to mention something. Yes. Um so uh I have a Muslim employer So when I first went there uh about um about six years ago, she was listening to something and And I heard things like, you know, outfits. So I asked her what she was listening and she told me, oh, she was she said she was listening to Res La at Land Have you ever heard of Reza? Reza Esplan? Reza Esplan is an Iranian American Scholar of the Sociology of Religion. Writer in the religion of a climate to evangelical Christianity from She had Islam as a youth. Islam eventually reverted to Islam, but she continued to write about Christianity. So she said she was listening to him And she said it all right. Okay? So I don't know what to agree, you know. I I I I looked up on him on YouTube and I see him like on some TV station talking about something but I I know that, you know. His understanding of Christianity is so flawed that he would convert back. So um so I I I I do know that my employer must have uh explore around Christianity and things like that. It tells me that because that all makes sense. But I don't really know what makes sense to her. I have not asked her I haven't seen it. Yeah. What what part of that makes sense? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So but um when I gave her the Bible I told her This is not human opinion. Yeah, the Bible explain each other. It it's not um systematic. Things are all mixed up, jumbled up. That's why here is a footnote. And there is like a ref reference, right? To look back you have to open, you have to like see it. And then um draw the guard for a setting book tell So I I I told her that uh this is another human of opinion. have to be have to be some studying. You know, I I I said that, um so, you know, I I just want to I I hate to push it to understand um the literal doctor because I was provoked yeah, I was provoked with my curiosity about the truth, right? I was provoked so um in sometimes people come to Christ just by e I mean by God's grace easily you say some, but some uh along and hard roads like to find out things right So you know so because yes she has already explored in my um in my understanding because she said that, I want to provoke her more to you know, to curiosity but that that was my you know that that was my um my intention when I did that. I just don't want to leave it But she she doesn't believe room to like uh passive station, so so that was my that was my um I it we did not go forward that was something that we might go forward, but yeah, so i i it it it I think it would be good to know No, but the red the red art has money about stuff that you know, what would make interesting people Yes, that's good for Afghanistan if you talk to Afghani people. They're uh they're Shia. So they're more towards Irani and if someone from Iran converted, they have the Iranian people have bigger standards. They follow what they follow. So that would be a good for Afghanistan as well. least for the Sunnis I I don't think they will like that. Interesting. Um So Deanny, uh y yeah, yeah, it's possible that God can use um um even even that to to to challenge her thinking, to um get her to, like you were saying in your own case, to explore uh the truth and to to look in the scriptures for the truth. Um keep praying for And for opportunities to get a word in on occasion in response to something she might say or whatever. Um but Yeah, God must have you there for a reason. I don't know you before I have David Wood yet. Sh he um he oh I would say probably um of his most friends who have passed Yeah, he debased a lot, so you know it it it's you know, it's I like it's all got tolerance, but you know people in many ways different ways. Indeed. Um the scripture says that they went out from us to show that they were not other It it was God's intention to expose their unbelief. And if they were not saved, if they did not have the Spirit of God, even though they made it confession. They, as you mentioned in one of the Bible passages, they cannot understand. And what is it they can't understand? They can't understand the Um the the person on the cross is the God of glory, right? Right. Uh and of that If you don't understand that, if it's just a philosophical system, then okay. Yeah. Foolishness is what they would say it is. Yes. Yeah. um ideas and everything. I have encountered other people that have the motor systems are quite well. uh nihilist idea and all that and I'm like, where do you get that from these alpha? And I say, he's just still a human I challenge you to read the Bible. So I send you a picture. He's reading the Bible. I challenge him to read John. And I read Puran. Give me what surah you want me to read from this Quran. Can you convince me or you convince? And he was like the one from Prophet Muhammad, I think it's 18. And I was like, okay, I read So he reads that. And then he reads me a lot of questions. But he wants to challenge this as is written by another human. You know, but he doesn't want to read it as it comes from God. But my question to him is why you accept so easily the book written by Nisha And he's no other a a follower than um Greek philosophy. So he basically fights against Plato. Plato is the master of Everything has an order. You know? And Nietzsche is everything is abstract, everything is crazy, there is chaos, there's nothing. So while you accept that idea But you don't accept what other great philosophers thought before him and thought everything has a structure, everything has your order and if it does uh order, someone created this order So simple as that. But isn't that it's very um lenient towards that craziness of abstract And um paradoxes and those ideas that cannot be really um Yeah, no, it it for sure. Um when someone is blinded to the truth, no amount of convincing argumentation or whatever is going to change them, God has to take the blinders off. So that um they can now perceive truth and So the more we use the scriptures appropriately and help them to see what God says, perhaps God will use that to um begin taking the blinders off. And in some ways those false ideas accord more with our own nature. A lot of times. But people are willing to believe anything. The greatest great one of the greatest examples of this, of course, is evolution. People are willing to believe that, even though it flies in the face of uh everything they really know. Um because they can't and won't Settle for believing the opposite. Because the opposite is God created us and we're accountable to Him. They don't like that accountability part. And so they're more willing to believe a lie than the truth. And there's nothing that we personally as human beings can do to alter that. God can. And God does. But um So it's it it's it's more effective just reciting key Bible verses and praying for them. than to engage them in argumentation on their terms. For sure. I mean have you ever heard two identical testimonies? God is just so unlimited with the way he saves people. Right. Uh and it's just always just wonderful. Say, yes, God's in charge and we can move ahead. Right. With confidence and hope. Indeed. Yep. Well, we need to wrap things up here. Let me go ahead and close in prayer. Father, um when we ponder the the truth that all of us, apart from your grace, are are subject to your wrath, um it makes us all the more thankful that you didn't leave us in that condition But you sent Christ to live a perfect life on this earth as a human being, to um die in our place, fulfilling all the the prophecies and pictures of that in advance So that even by his resurrection, we would see that you have once and for all defeated sin and death. And we thank you that you have opened our eyes to that truth, that you have led us into faith and repentance, that you have Even in our lives worked to make us progressively more like Christ for your glory And Father, we pray that as we interact with unbelievers, whether they're Muslims or not, that you would help us to be your ambassadors. Communicating your word, what you have actually said in Scripture, that uh you would use all of that to open the eyes of our our friends, neighbors, coworkers, whoever they might be. Ultimately Lord, for your glory. Help us to be faithful to that mission, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.