Today we're on lesson thirteen. So we're we're uh making a big transition today. Not only is it a new quarter in our quarterly system, but in our in our study here, up till now we've been doing the understanding Islam part of the title. And this quarter we're going to be focusing on how to evangelize Muslims. And so grounded in a better understanding of where they're at and what is in the Quran and the Hadith and a lot of the cultural things and so on. We want to think through various from various different perspectives how to be effective in our uh conversations with and evangelizing of uh Muslims. Um maybe I'll also mention at this point, if if I haven't already, that um it it seems pretty obvious that God has brought a lot of Muslims to this area. And it's a whole lot easier to reach out to them with the gospel here than it would be in some Muslim country, right? Where many of them are from. And then you've got Americans who are converting to Islam and so on. And it it seems like God is giving us an open door to reaching out to them with the gospel. And like anyone who's caught up in a works religion, um where they have no hope. Um they may say, Well I I I hope. I end up in paradise. Uh but that's not the hope that we have in Christ, right? There's no certainty there. It's all a big question mark. until I die. It's still a big question mark. So um one of my desires would be that we as a church can facilitate um over the longer term, uh this kind of outreach, equipping people who No Muslims either at the job or in the community or whatever, maybe some things we can do strategically as a church to reach out together. I don't have any particular ideas and um I can't I don't have time to do it myself, but if we can uh if if if God can grow in us a a a burden for the lost generally and even for these specific groups of people, um there's no end to what God could do. So be praying for that. So our lesson today, lesson 13, is how to present the gospel to Muslims. And um you may think, well, I I have uh a pretty good idea of how to present the gospel and that's helpful. But there's some things you might want to be aware of and and be sensitive to as you present the gospel to Muslims. So what I wanted to do first of all here is make sure that we understand evangelism from a biblical perspective. And that particularly it's the gospel that saves, it's not our eloquence. It's not our uh apologetics, right? It's not our logic. It's uh it's the gospel that saves And so, for example, in Romans 1. 16, Paul says, I'm not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes. To the Jew first and also to the Greek. And that, by the way, includes everybody. What he's referring to here is Jews and non-Jews. Right? Everybody's saved the same way, by grace, through faith, by an act of God's sovereign will. Look at down at 1 Corinthians 2. 1 through 5. And when I came to you, brethren, I did not come with superiority of speech or wisdom, proclaiming you to you the testimony of God, for I was determined to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and Him crucified. I was with you in weakness and fear and with much trembling, and my message and my preaching were not in persuasive words of wisdom But in demonstration of the Spirit and of power, so that your faith would not rest on the wisdom of men, but on the power of God. That pretty much sums it up. Secondly, and it's already alluded to there in those verses, God uses his word to produce saving faith in an unbeliever's heart. So it's not our words, it's not our persuasion, it's not our argumentation, it's his word that he uses to Penetrate the heart. Look at Romans 10 there. For Moses writes that the man who practices the righteousness which is based on the law shall live by that righteousness. But the righteousness based on faith speaks as follows: Do not say in your heart, who will ascend into heaven, that is, to bring Christ down, or who will descend into the abyss, that is, to bring Christ up from the dead. But what does it say? The word is near you, in your mouth and in your heart. That is, the word of faith which we are preaching. That if you confess with your mouth Jesus as Lord, and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. For with the heart a person believes, resulting in righteousness And with the mouth he confesses, resulting in salvation. For the scripture says, whoever believes in him will not be disappointed. For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek, for the same Lord is Lord of all, abounding in riches to all who call upon him, for whoever will call on the name of the Lord will be saved. So um God uses his word to um work in people's hearts so that they would be drawn to him, so that they would call on him. And um It's it's you know he God can use any part of his word, but clearly the gospel is central in communicating with unbelievers. Third point here is that all evangelism is spiritual warfare So we should do it in God's power. Now, it's spiritual warfare, not because we're doing battle with the person we're speaking with, right? But where is the battle? Spiritually. It's it's it's um God doing spiritual battle with uh Satan and and evil and and um This person we're talking to is not the enemy. He may be strongly influenced by the enemy, but he's not the enemy. He's a victim. And we need to uh love Those who are caught up in Islam genuinely. So 2 Corinthians 10, for example For though we walk in the flesh, we do not war according to the flesh, for the weapons of our warfare are not the flesh, but divinely powerful for the destruction of fortresses. What kind of fortresses? Spiritual forces, right? Philosophies of men and so on. We are destroying speculations and every lofty thing raised up against the knowledge of God, for we take we are taking every thought captive. to the obedience of Christ. And of course Ephesians six lays out our spiritual armor in that spiritual warfare. And that provides for us a summary here of the essential components of effective evangelism. Right? So it speaks of the belt of truth. So we should be speaking only the truth, not speculation, not opinion, but speaking the truth, right? The breastplate of righteousness What is righteousness? It's doing the right thing. And so our walk needs to match our talk. If we're wearing the breastplate of righteousness, then um uh the people around us, the people we're speaking with, particularly these these Muslims we're seeking to evangelize, will see something different about us because of Christ. It's the righteousness of Christ. And then the feet shod with peace. We are representing the Prince of Peace. in love. And um the more they can see that, the more they they they understand that that we represent the Prince of Peace, um true peace God will use that. The shield of faith. Rather than being doubtful that this friend of ours, this co-worker or whatever, could come to Christ. uh we should believe god that God can do that. And rather than think, woe is me, who who am I to lead a Muslim to Christ, we should be Convicted that, Lord, you can do that through me, I'm available. That's the shield of faith. And that our faith in Christ is solid. Right? It's not um um a a a wavering thing. The helmet of salvation So the fact that we know that we are saved by the grace of God and that our eternity is secure ought to motivate us. to uh be uh what, protected against the the uh arguments or or questions and doubts and confusion that Satan may want to uh throw our way. uh because our our head, our thinking, is protected by that salvation. And The sword of the Spirit is what? The Word of God. And so as we wield that properly, then Uh we're not only protected, but we are um having um a spiritual impact on those we're speaking with. And of course, then Paul uh in in that context says Be in prayer, be in much prayer. Stand firm and be in much prayer. And so we need to commit the person and ourselves to God in prayer. Uh this is not um a a physical battle, it's a spiritual battle, and that needs to be bathed in prayer Okay. That's true no matter um whether it's a Muslim or anybody, right? You're you're sharing the gospel with. Fourthly, the Holy Spirit empowers us to communicate the gospel. He is the one who convicts sinners of their sin as God draws them to saving faith in Christ. Um it's it's God uses his word and it's the Holy Spirit who um uh causes that to penetrate the heart of an unbeliever. Uh According to his will. So look down here at 1 Thessalonians 1:5. For our gospel did not come to you in word only, but also in power and in the Holy Spirit, and with full conviction. Just as you know what kind of men we prove to be among you for your sake. And of course, um Jesus said in John sixteen Referring to the Holy Spirit, when he comes, he will convict the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment. He's the one who uses his word to convict people of their sin and their need of a savior And likewise Jesus said in John 6, no one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. And so The Holy Spirit is a part of that drawing people to Christ process as well. Okay. So that's all pretty much true of any kind of evangelism. Um any questions so far? Okay. Well, something else that's very fundamental here is to not only understand what evangelism is, but understand the gospel itself. So uh I think it's going to be useful to review that and be committed to that. So first of all, um Most people, Muslims or otherwise, and particularly everybody who's caught up in a works mentality tends to think that, okay, you've got God who is here, and I'm here. There's a gap. I think most people will will acknowledge that there's a gap. Um but they're thinking various things about how to deal with that gap. And so typically people think that uh well I'm not evil, right? I haven't killed anybody. I don't plan to. Um I I'm It's basically kind and and generous. I'm a pretty good I'm probably better than average, in fact. So clearly my concept of God is that He's loving and forgiving. So Um I'm gonna believe that he's gonna forgive me and I'll he'll make up that difference. People generally are thinking that. Otherwise, God wouldn't be loving and forgiving, right? I'm going to be the object of his love and forgiveness. Well, the problem with that is that God is not here. He's way up here. People, and we tend to have this problem too, people generally have a low view of God. A low view of God's holiness, particularly, and his justice, right? So God is not Here and is just a short jump to get there. He is beyond our reach. My arm is not long enough. The other problem is that we have too high a view of man I'm not here. I'm way down here. And that chasm between us is something I can do nothing about. It's there. And it's there because God is holy and I am not. Right? Most people have a pretty comfortable idea thinking about salvation when God is only here and I'm all the way up to here. But if they understand that God is there and I am way down here, they begin to say, how then can I be saved? Right? And some people do. Look at Acts 2, right? How then can we be saved? And That's a work of God to reveal to them, open their eyes to the fact that God is completely holy, separate from sin, and we are not. And therefore, because of his justice, we're accountable to him and we have no hope. Unless they reach that point, they're going to invent some nonsensical solution to this little bit of a gap in their mind. And none of that holds water. Right? So when we talk about understanding the gospel, the first thing you want to communicate to people is God's character. And then reveal to them our character, according to Scripture. So God's character, he's our sovereign creator. Muslims won't have any problem with that. He is loving. They're not going to have any problem with that. He is holy. They're going to agree with that, but they don't understand it. What is it they don't understand? That holiness means completely separate from sin, morally pure, beyond Any kind of imperfection, impurity, and intolerant of any impurity in his presence That's a much higher view of the holiness of God than a Muslim can comprehend, unless God reveals it to him. And we need to use God's word to help them see it. Alright? You remember we talked about the scales? That's a low view of God's holiness. If uh my good works can balance or overcome my bad works, then um God in essence is allowing those bad works to be compensated for by our good works, which are as filthy rags. In his sight. And that's a low view of God's holiness. Secondly, it's just. They're not going to argue with that. Secondly, and that's fourthly. But he he always does the right thing, and the right thing to do about any sin is what? Punish it. And what is the punishment? Eternal separation from him. Right? It's not doing extra um paying extra alms or uh feeding the poor or saying extra prayers It's eternal separation from Him that's the penalty. Right? And so they'll use some of these words. You need to be sure that they understand a biblical um understanding of those words. Particularly holiness and justice. Yeah It should challenge them. Um when they understand that holiness is moral purity complete separation from anything um other than that, that should challenge their understanding of of God. And that's a good thing. challenge their understanding of God. You don't have to be confrontational about it, but let the little gears work in there as they see what Scripture is saying. God can work on their heart to say, oh, then maybe my understanding of Allah is not consistent with how God has revealed Himself in the Bible. Well, make make sure that you're saying that from scripture, not just your opinion. But yes. So then his then his um And the response ought to be there's a difference between what the Bible is saying and what the Quran is saying. And that's what he needs to deal with, right? So it's not your opinion versus his opinion. Right? Yeah. But yeah, just uh a an accurate understanding of God's character is going to if God's drawing them and opening their heart, it's going to draw them to make those kind of um conclusions. And that's a good thing. A step in the right direction. Yes, separateness. Completely separate from but it's separate not just from people. They would say yes he's separate from people. But it's separate from any impurity, any sin. No, we we have too low a view of God ourselves. We're all deserving of being zapped. And right. Yeah, we're we're all needing to understand that left to our own devices, even our own devices in interpreting scripture, we're inevitably drawn to have too low a view of God. Exactly. And yet, as he reveals himself, he's even beyond our comprehension as to his holiness, perfections, and purity. Um and it's partly because all that we're surrounded by is the opposite of that. Sin. Right? And to us that seems normal. Um even though we don't like it and uh we've been our eyes have been open to the r reality of it and w we seek to oppose it, we're still uh um We're still um well, efficient In our understanding of the holiness of God. So we shouldn't be judging other people for having a low view of God. We should help them to see what the scriptures say About God, so that there's no misunderstanding. But the same thing is understanding man's character Um we need to um ourselves, but also we need to communicate that um Um left our own devices, we tend to have too high a view of man, particularly ourselves. So they need to understand that he's created with perfect sinlessness to have fellowship with God and to exercise stewardship over the rest of creation for God's glory. They're not going to have too big of a problem with that. The first man and women woman sinned by disobeying God's clear boundaries. They're going to quibble about the language on that one. They don't believe in original sin. They believe that Adam and Eve were um uh what They don't use this word, but the word that comes to my mind is klutzes. That they were sort of um they made mistakes and and and so on, but it it certainly didn't um create a a sin nature in everybody else's sense. That that does not compute for um Muslims You don't have to dwell too much, I don't think, on original sin unless it comes up from them as an issue. Because, you know, it's it's the old question, are we sinners uh because we sin or do we sin because we're sinners? Which came first, the chicken or the egg, right? Well, it is true that there is original sin and that we sin because we're sinners. Um you don't have to teach an infant how to be selfish. It comes with a package, right? But there's no denying that all of us are sinners by our own works, right? So w you don't have to dwell too much unless it comes up with them on original sin. Just deal with the fact that we are all fallen short. And if they're committed to this works kind of um process for salvation, they're gonna know very well that they fall short and that they need to um uh pursue perfection by Allah's standards and so on. And so the the fact that we all sin won't be surprising to them. And that you can focus on. Okay. Thirdly, by God's judgment, all humans ever since have inherited a sin nature from our first ancestor Adam. and each one has committed acts of sin. So it's that last part that's sufficient for you to focus on uh for now. Eventually, if particularly if they get saved and they're they're really studying the scripture and maybe they they see for themselves that it teaches original sin and and so on, then by all means Don't apologize for that. Talk about it. Look to see what the scripture says and and its implications and so on. But I think in most evangelistic contacts you have with pretty much everybody, you're not going to talk about original sin. You're going to talk about their own sin and our own sin, right? And that usually is sufficient for now. So the more we understand that our sin, even if it's only one it'sy bitsy little teeny weeny Sin, it falls short of God's requirements, that's sufficient for eternity and fire. If they understand that Then they're going to understand that we're in a dilemma. And that dilemma is that either We pay for that sin, which is what? What is that payment? Eternal separation from God. Or we find someone else to pay for that sin. Well, who else would be qualified to pay for that sin? It would have to be somebody who doesn't have his own sins to pay for, because otherwise he's also spending eternity in hell. Who has ever been qualified? Only one person. Jesus Christ. They would not accept the notion that Muhammad was qualified. They wouldn't say he was sinless at all. Um and that there's no doubt about that. Um But It is interesting, and we'll look at this some actual verses in the Quran. Jesus is referred to as holy in the Quran. Particularly as a child, holy child. Um, but Muhammad never is Right, so they would use the term holiness in that context, in most contexts, as devout, real dedicated to Allah. Right? Devout. And in that sense, I'm sure that's true. But it has nothing to do with holiness the way God has revealed Himself to be holy. Yeah. Yeah Scripture. So the thing is to take and we're gonna get there here. Um take them through Scripture, particularly in the Gospels. To help them see the life and work and teaching of Christ from eyewitnesses. And um Um that goes a long way to you know the Holy Spirit uh showing them that Jesus was no mere human being. And he was perfect, he was um sinless, and even his enemies agreed that. Um So just just get into the actual life teaching and works of Jesus. I would include them for sure. Exactly. Those kinds of things. Yep. Yep. But I wouldn't I wouldn't uh just take a verse out of context and and and say, see, there you go Show them the entire event, the entire context, and have them work through uh what was going on, uh what was said, what wasn't said, what the implications are, what other people concluded about him and and so on. Um just take them through uh one episode after another in context. Yeah. Okay. So um Once somebody understands that salvation is outside of their reach, that God is holy fully holy, we are a sin sinners and accountable to him and the accountability is uh eternal separation from him. Uh and that ought to Put them in a frame of mind that is maybe one of despair, then there is no hope. And that's that's a good stepping stone. If they're at that point, then there's nothing I can do to earn my salvation. Then they're ready for the solution. God's solution. And so um Um with that foundation, you know, if you if you start if you jump into the solution before they understand the problem, it's not going to connect. So they need to understand the problem first. And that may take a while. But once they basically say then how then can I be saved? What is the solution to that dilemma? Then you go to Scripture. God, in His love and grace, provided a perfect substitute for man's sins. So either I pay for it or someone else does, right? And that someone else who does has to be sinlessly perfect. And Jesus is the only one who was, and was the only one who did take those sins upon himself. So he sent his own son, the Lord Jesus Christ, the eternal second person of the Godhead. to take on human flesh, live a perfect life as a real human being, and offer himself up once for all as a blood sacrifice for sin by dying on an executioner's cross. This little summary is not here for you to read to them. It's just to summarize the the basics here of the gospel. On that point they're probably going to be tripped up by their uh the traditional teaching and the the contention in the Quran that Jesus is not God. In fact, it says that he didn't even die. He was it wasn't him on that cross. And so here is where you may get a lot of conversation, depending on how much they've been told and how much of that they remember and and want to discuss. And we're going to spend the rest of this quarter talking about how to address those kind of questions. Okay? So that's where some of this might come up. But it's also important to lay the groundwork that not only did he die, but he lived a perfect life. Making him eligible to take on our sins. Not only that, but Our sins are transferred to him, and his righteousness, his good deeds, is transferred to us, as if we did them. And that is fantastic. That's good news. That's what the gospel means. And so through those discussions you can cover that kind of material. Then of course on the third day Jesus bodily rose from the dead in victory over sin and its consequence, which is death. And after appearing to many over the course of forty days, he ascended back into heaven, awaiting his return to culminate God's plan. And so Again, you don't have to just assert all that, just read it with them through the gospel messages. Okay? Just what the events were and how this what the significance was. And so on. Third, Jesus' death satisfied God's wrath against the sin of man And all whom God has chosen, he also calls to repentance and faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. So that our salvation is by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone, no one else. And um again, you don't want to just assert things like that. You want them to see it in the scriptures. But it's not enough for us to know what that solution is. We need to respond. Right? And our response is that we must each repent from, that is, forsake our sin. Believe on, that is to rely completely on the Lord Jesus Christ as our Savior and Lord, apart from any merit of our own, and call on Him to save us. Because we certainly can't save ourselves. Saving faith always produces works of righteousness. That's the fruit of repentance. And those good works are the fruit of God's work in us after salvation, not the prerequisite for salvation. Remember back in Romans 10 We read earlier that if you confess with your mouth Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart, God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. For with the heart one believes, resulting in righteousness Not with the heart someone is righteous resulting in salvation, but uh with the heart a person believes Resulting in righteousness. It's the belief, it's the faith, it's God Himself creating the righteousness in us after salvation, not as a prerequisite for salvation. And uh lastly, those who reject God's provision for their sin. remain under God's wrath and will be separated from Him in torment for eternity. That's going to resonate with them. But The fact that it's what hinges here is responding to God's solution for sin as opposed to having good works that outweigh bad works. That's the issue Okay, so uh quickly, understand the nature of evangelism, understand the gospel itself, thirdly, understand the basics of Islam. We spent a whole quarter on that, right? We'll understand more of it as we go along in this quarter. But don't assume that all Muslims are intellectually aware of or committed to all of the fundamental teachings of the Quran or the Hadith. any more than a lot of cultural Christians are familiar with Scripture, right? Some are to varying degrees, but But at this point you may know b more about the Quran than some of your Muslim friends, which may be surprising to you, right? Okay, fourthly, establish contacts with Muslims, and that may have already happened. Maybe in the workplace, in your neighborhood, whatever. And begin um uh sharing lives, sharing information, sharing backgrounds In many cases, particularly if they're from another country and they've come here, there's great opportunity for you to be genuinely interested in um their home country, their their culture, uh why they came here, uh what are some differences they see here versus there. Just general um uh very genuine curiosity that and they'll probably have questions for you. So why do Americans do such and such, you know And some of it's probably going to be humorous, some of it you can kind of clear up some confusion. But there's a lot of opportunity there. And in the process, you can you can cultivate uh relationship and trust and uh conversation and you that can lead to um you know some of those differences will be religion Right? And so you can just genuinely say, well tell me about Islam and and how it's practiced in your country. Is it any different here and for you and and that kind of thing? And usually they're going to be open for a two-way street on that conversation, so you can talk about your testimony, how you came to Christ. I wasn't always this way, right? So you want to avoid unnecessary cultural mistakes. And you know, I I I can't make a list here for you for all of them, but be sensitive that if if they seem to be offended by something you've said or done from a cultural perspective, seek to understand what that was and then be genuinely um um uh repentant and and and trying to certainly not to offend them and and so on, um just out of ignorance. Yeah. Yeah, real good. Um So uh I I have listed a couple of examples here that uh you might not have thought of. If if you put your Bible on the floor, Muslims are trained to expect that you don't value that very much. They would treat the Kur the Quran with much honor, which is keep it elevated, keep it uh at a place of of honor. And um We'll come back to that a little bit, but I I I think there's an extent to which they worship that and without realizing it. But be sensitive to the vast differences in gender roles between maybe where they've come from particularly and what they're seeing here. And um Some of that is probably uh a a difference that aligns more closely with your thinking anyway. But um just be sensitive and don't let that be a stumbling block. So uh don't intentionally offend and and and that kind of thing. kind of thing. You know, we have much freedom in Christ, but it's also abused a lot, and so uh we don't want to defend that abuse, for sure. And just obviously just be sensitive to their various religious practices. And if you are, then they may well be willing to hear about and even participate in some of yours. Okay, so your approach. Some do's and don'ts. Let's start with the don'ts. Don't be argumentative. Again, they're not the enemy. Their eyes have been blinded by the enemy, but they're not the enemy. Don't focus on cultural, national, ethnic, or even religious practices. You can be sensitive to them, but don't um Unless they bring it up as maybe a question or or whatever, uh don't don't focus on the minors, the minor issues. Don't make your friend immediately defensive by giving him the idea you're going to prove Islam wrong. Just imagine what you would do if he took the tactic of trying to prove Christianity wrong. You would go into argumentative mode and apologetics mode, possibly What really is needed is the word of God. And so um Building it on a a genuine relationship and friendship often is is the most helpful And again, don't address subsidiary issues. One way to discern the seriousness of a of a question is to say to him, Well, that's a good question. I'd be happy to explain that to you, but before I do It's important to get some foundation here. Um to see what the Bible actually says about the person and work of Jesus Christ. Would you mind if we focus on that first and then with that understanding address your question? And th that's that's helpful whether it's a Muslim person or not. Just to keep focusing on the fundamentals and not get distracted by a lot of smoke screens. And and often the question later never comes up because it was just a smokescreen. Don't treat the gospel as purely academic or intellectual. But it's changed your life. Right? And it ought to be apparent that it's changed your life And the more apparent it is that it's changed your life, they're going to be interested. Don't argue with your friend when he is responding emotionally to Scripture. He reads something that just seems entirely foreign to him about the deity of Christ. And he starts to boil. Um rejoice in your heart that he's boiling at that point because he's seeing the issue. Right? Wait for another opportunity perhaps to continue the discussion. If he s sees and reads in the scripture evidence of the deity of Christ and it it doesn't shake him, God's probably not yet working on his heart. Uh some do's Again, do pray for him that God would open his heart to the truth. Because only God can do that. Pray for wisdom for yourself. Be genuinely loving. Be interested in him as a person. He's not the enemy. He can be a friend. Be a good listener. Begin by being sensitive to Muslim sensibilities. We talked a bit about that. Communicate the gospel, letting the Bible speak directly to him And introducing him to the person and work and teaching of Christ And we're going to introduce a bit of how-to's on that in a minute. Eventually get to the point where you can probe his heart's reaction to the scriptures that you discuss and be patient. Don't expect that you're gonna read through a little booklet and in 20 minutes he's gonna get saved. Be patient. So, communicate the gospel. I would recommend, and a lot of people I have read and respect, say a great place to start with Muslims is the Gospel of Luke. Normally for a young believer we would get them into the Gospel of John, but with the Gospel of John, you've got a huge stumbling block for most Muslims right at the get-go about the deity of Christ. But if you start with the Gospel of Luke, there's a lot there in terms of the the words and the works and the teaching. And miracles and so on of Christ. And they see the life of Christ in context. Um It it it often is is transformational, and God can use that to To draw them to himself. So you can give them a copy of a text, the whole scriptures maybe, in a good modern translation. And then Plan ahead and and read through um a certain scenario uh event you know in the life of Christ. You don't necessarily have to start with the beginning, but it's not a bad idea to just work all the way through the Gospel of Luke chronologically. But take it in little pieces and Read through the selected passages together. I would recommend you have him read it. If his English is okay. And then stop and discuss it. Ask questions that force him to understand what he's just read about the person and work of Christ. And I'll give you examples of that. It may be that you'll have to explain some background information for about the context. If you work through it chronologically all the way through the Gospel of Luke, a lot of those questions take care of themselves. But you may have awareness of like Uh the way tax collectors were treated in in Israel in time of Christ, they might not readily understand that they were sort of pariahs to the Jews, right? And you may have to explain that, but uh it'll be obvious in the text that that's the way they're freezing, right? So there may be some some cultural things like that to explain. And uh Yeah, I'll let you read the rest of that advice there. But go to the section 8, sample evangelistic Bible studies. And I just want to give you an example of how you might walk through a passage with them. So You can introduce them by questions like why did Jesus come? And you can read a couple of different accounts in the Gospel of Luke. that are back to back here. The first one's in chapter 5, 17 to 26. And so you read through that. And uh it has miracles and um his encounter with the um Pharisees and so on, and his forgiving sins, and so there are some pretty significant issues here. And so you can ask questions As you go through the passage. Well, read it first and then say, okay, well, what kinds of activities did Jesus do in this account? Well, he was teaching, he's healing, forgiving sins. That's interesting. Well, what was the nature of the group of people who were with Jesus? Well, there was a large crowd, but it also included Jewish leaders. That's obvious in the text. And just ask him, how did the common people respond to Jesus? He just looks back here, well, they brought their sick to heal him. They must have believed he could heal them, right? How did Jesus respond to the paralytic? He forgave his sins. Right? It wasn't just a healing, it was forgiving sins. That's interesting How did the Jewish leaders respond to that? Not very well, right? Only God can forgive sins, they said. And how did Jesus respond to those Jewish leaders? Well, only God can forgive sins to show you that that I am God, which is harder. To heal the man or just to say your sins are forgiven? The harder thing from our perspective is to heal him. And he says, Rise, take up your bow and walk. So not only does he have the power to heal, he has the power to forgive, because he's God. Right? So which was more central to Jesus' mission, healing or forgiving sins? Pretty heavy passage Right? Then you can go on to the very next passage, 27 to 32, where again, well you've got uh the calling of of Matthew, tax collector. And um So you ask the question, how were tax collectors viewed in Israel's time during uh in Israel in during Jesus' time? And you can explain that to them. Well, why did Jesus ask the tax collector? Well what did he ask him to do? To follow him? So you might ask, well, why do you suppose he asked a tax collector to follow in? And the answer is he was repentant. How did Levi respond? By leaving everything to follow Jesus and by hosting a dinner and many of his fellow tax collectors and other sinners for a banquet, showing his repentance. He was turning away from that that um extortion of his fellow countrymen. How do the Jewish leaders respond to that? Grumbling, as is usual. Why? Because he was friendly with sinners, associating with sinners. And of course, Jesus said, well, how did Jesus respond to their concern? He said, I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. Again, just driving home the work and ministry of Christ. And so I've got a number of different examples here of you look at a text of Scripture and here are some questions. Uh y you don't have to memorize these questions, but you just get used to the the process of reading a text and And asking questions about it, right, all the way in chronological order, so that they can interact with a text and come to the conclusions that God wants us to come to the conclusion of from that text. About the person, the teaching, and work of Christ. Right? So a number of examples here, and there's others other passages with topics that are listed on page 173. So work through those if you've got any questions. We can talk about I think it should be pretty obvious. Just examples of how to interact with scripture. with your Muslim friend. Okay? Uh we need to break here pretty quick, but are there any last-minute questions? Okay. You got the general idea. So for the re pretty much the rest of the quarter, we're going to help you from the Quran and the scriptures. to address questions that you may get as you're walking through these kinds of things with your Muslim friends. Okay? Well let's pray