Welcome everyone. Uh we are on lesson seventeen, page two seventeen. Got that? And if you were with us last week, you'll remember that we um saw that um whether they understand it or not, Muslims have a dilemma. And so on the one hand, the Quran supports the Bible as being previous revelation that was to have been obeyed and so on. On the other hand, the Quran, the Quran's teachings are in very fundamental ways diametrically opposed to what the Bible teaches. So those two don't appear to to reconcile. And so today we're going to uh uh walk through some of the uh responses you can have to the The primary response that Muslims have when you put that dilemma to them. Their primary explanation for the dilemma is that the Bible has been corrupted. So it may appear to be a mismatch between the, in their view, it may appear to be a mismatch between the Bible and the Quran. Uh but that's only because um what we have in the Bible now is not the original, it was corrupted and and And that kind of leaves a wide open door for pretty much anything, doctrine-wise. And so they will point, uh some of them at least will point to a couple of verses, particularly in in Sura 2, that very long one. And I've reprinted that here on 217. So verse 75 there says, Can you, O men of faith, Entertain the hope that they, and here the context is the Jews, that they will believe in you, seeing that a party of them heard the word of God and perverted it knowingly after they understood it So they would point to this this claim in the Quran of the perversion of uh particularly the Old Testament in this context Sura five is also sometimes pointed to, although it's not quite so direct. Um but it is interesting that in um uh Start in verse 47 there in Surah 5. Let the people of the gospel, who would that be? Us Christians, us. Let the people of the gospel judge by what God has revealed therein, that is, in the gospel. If any do fail to judge by the light of what God has revealed, they are no better than those who rebel. To you, Muhammad, we sent the scripture. And here it's referring to, of course, the Quran. In truth, confirming the scripture that came before it, which was All of the Old Testament and the New Testament, it's what I was referring to, confirming the scripture that came before it and guarding it in safety. So judge between them and what God has revealed, and follow not their vain desires, diverging from the truth that has come to you. And so Um it's interesting that uh verse uh what is that forty seven Is that right? Yeah. No, 48. It says, To you we sent the scriptures in truth, confirming the scripture that came before it and guarding it in safety. And the commentary here from the translator, and again this is the most respected English translation of the Quran, and his commentary carries a lot of weight. He said, after the corruption of the older revelations, the Quran comes with a twofold purpose. To confirm the true and original message. And to guard it or act as a check to its interpretation. So it's um very interesting that their position depends on um God Allah being able to preserve and prevent distortion and corruption of the Quran But he didn't see to it to do that same have that same role in the earlier scriptures. But that's that's what they're left with. Well, so how do we respond to that? Well, um Let's look at some facts. First of all, the Quran was written over 500 years after the New Testament, and obviously much later than the Old Testament. And it urges Muslims to read and obey the Jewish and Christian scriptures that were available to them at the time. And so we covered that last week. Now, Suratude, verse 75, which I read earlier, doesn't actually teach that the scriptures have been corrupted. If it had, that would have been meaningless then to urge Muslims to read and obey those very scriptures that they claim were corrupted. Instead, the context, which I'm going to read through with you, makes it clear that the Quran says that following the Jewish and Christian scriptures will lead to eternal reward And it accuses most Jews of dis disobeying what God had revealed to them. So it's it's um It's their hearts that were corrupted, their lives that were corrupted, not the text of the scripture. And and um you can even see that in the um Surah. So if you change if turn over to page two eighteen. Um I want you to see the entire context here, and I've emphasized in bold the portions that are really specific to what we're talking about here. But I want to read through it, and it's kind of hard because it's it's not English that I would have um assembled. Anyway, those who believe in the Quran, and so we're we're starting way above verse 75. Which you see want to get the context here. Those who believe in the Quran and those who follow the Jewish scriptures and the Christians and the Sabaeans Any who believe in God in the last day and work righteousness shall have their reward with their Lord. On them shall be no fear, nor shall they grieve And remember, we took your covenant, that is the law of Moses, and we raised above you the towering height of Mount Sinai, saying, Hold firmly to what we have given you, and bring ever to remembrance what is therein. Perchance you may fear God. But you turned back thereafter. Had it not been for the grace and mercy of God to you, you had surely been among the lost. And well you know those amongst you who transgressed in the matter of the Sabbath. We said to them, Be ye apes, despised and rejected. So we made an example to their own time and to their posterity and a lesson to those who fear God. And remember, Moses said to his people, God commands that you sacrifice a heifer. And they said, um Make makest thou a laughing stock of us? And he said, God gave God saved me from being an ignorant fool. And they said, Beseech on our behalf, thy Lord, to make uh plain what to us uh to us what heifer it is. And so he describes the the nature of the heifer that's supposed to be, which actually is not consistent with the actual commands in the Old Testament. Um but that's another issue. But uh pick up again in verse um well seventy-one. He said he says a heifer not trained till the um to till the soil or the water or the water of the fields. Sound and without blemish, and they said, Now you have brought us the truth. Then they offered her in sacrifice, but not with good will Remember, you slew a man and fell into a dispute among yourselves as to the crime, but God was to bring forth what you did hide. So we said, strike the body with a piece of the heifer. Thus God brings the dead to life and shows you his signs, perchance you may understand. Thenceforth your hearts were hardened. They became like a rock, even worse in hardness. You see the the corruption of the people it's talking about here? For among the rocks there are some from which rivers gush forth and so on. Verse 75 Can ye, O men of faith, entertain the hope that they will believe in you, seeing that a party of them heard the word of God and perverted it knowingly after they understood it Behold, when they meet the men of faith, they say, We believe. But when they meet with each other in private, they say, Shall You tell them what God has revealed to you that they may engage you in an argument about it before your Lord. Do you not understand their aim? Know they not that God knows what they conceal and what they reveal? And there are among them illiterates who know not the book But see therein their own desires, and they do not conjecture. Then woe to those who write the book with their own hands and then say this is from God to traffic with it for it is miserable for its miserable price. Uh woe to them for what their hands do right, for the gain for the gain they make thereby. And they say Fire shall not touch us, but for a few numbered days. Say, Muhammad, say to them, Have you taken a promise from God? For he never breaks his promise. Or is it that they say of God what you do not know? No, those who seek gain in evil are girt round about by their sins. And they are companions of fire. Therein they shall abide forever. But those who have faith and work righteousness, they are companions of the garden. That is paradise. Therein they shall abide forever. And remember, we took a covenant from the children of Israel to this effect. Worship none but God. Treat with kindness your parents and kindred. And orphans and those in need, speak with uh speak fair to the people, be steadfast in prayer, and practice regular charity. Then did ye turn back, except a few among you, and you backslid Even now. You backslide even now. And remember, we took your covenant to this effect, shed no blood amongst you. Nor turn out your own people from your homes and so on. And then um down uh A bit more where it's bold. Then it is only a part of the book that you believe in, and do you reject the rest You see how it's it's it's not the book that's getting corrupted, it's the people. They believe some, they don't believe others, they they uh obey some, they disobey others parts But what is the reward for those among you who behave like this but dis uh but disgrace in this life? And on the day of judgment they shall be assigned to the most grievous penalty and so on. Verse 87. We gave Moses the book and followed him up with a succession of messengers. We gave Jesus, the son of Mary, clear signs and strengthened him with the Holy Spirit. Is it that whenever there comes to you a messenger with uh what you yourselves desire not, you are puffed up with pride? Some you call impostors, and others you slay. And they say, our hearts are the wrappings. Little is it they believe. And when there comes to them a book from God confirming what is with them, this is the Quran confirming the Old Testament and the New Testament. Although from of old they had prayed for victory against those without faith, when there comes to them that which they should have recognized, they refuse to believe in it. But the curse of God is on those without faith. Miserable is the price for which they have sold their souls. in that they deny the revelation which God has sent down. Um And then later verse 91, when it is said to them, Believe in what God has sent down, they say, We believe in what was sent down to us, yet they reject all besides, even if it be the truth confirming what is with it what is with them. So there's a bit of a grudge here, you know, they even if they do uh believe what God has sent down, in other words his prophecies, um uh Um the the commentary here or the the the statement in in the Quran is well if they believe that they should also believe the Quran, what Muhammad is saying. But the fact that many of them don't, uh, is condemning them here. Uh why then have you slain the prophets of God in times gone by if you didn't believe Uh there came to you Moses with clear signs, yet you worshiped the Cas even after that, and you did behave wrongfully. And then toward the end, in bold, they said, we hear and we disobey. Like they're proudly admitting their disobedience. And they had to drink into their hearts of the f uh the taint of the calf because of their faithlessness. Anyway, if you read that whole passage, and it is hard to digest, I know Um you you see the the principal argument is that the people have been corrupted, they've been faithless, they've been disobedient, not that the scriptures themselves are corrupted. And is that true? Is it true that Uh the the the Jews and even many of those early Christians were disobedient to the scriptures and uh corrupted in that way. Yeah, that's probably pretty true. It was one of the things Jesus had to deal with, right? Even with the Jewish leaders. And so it was no secret by the time of Muhammad that this was an ongoing problem. And that corruption and disobedience to the scriptures uh was was well understood and in Muhammad's thinking and in the revelation, uh quote unquote revelation he was getting, um, this was now a a w a once-for-all solution to all that backsliding. And disobedience. That is this new revelation. Um Let me go ahead and read here again on page two nineteen that commentary from the translator. Um and this relates to 66, which is two-thirds of the way down on page two eighteen. So the argument of 276, Surah 2 verse 76 is continued. The Jews wanted to keep back knowledge, but what knowledge had they? Many of them Even if they could read, would no better than illiterates, for they knew not their own true scriptures, but read into them what they wanted, or at best their own conjectures And so even the commentator is saying the problem is not the scriptures, the problem is what people read into them or ignored about them. And in fact, I think for the most part he's right. Um okay. Does that make sense yet? Kind of kind of um you know the the reason I belabored that is um It it's a v extremely common claim that the Quran um points to the corruption of the scriptures, therefore we can just bypass what the Old Testament and the New Testament say. And that actually even looking at the Quran is a pretty flimsy argument. So that's not exactly what it's saying. Well, at best there's an inconsistency. Yep. Well um I I mention here on the bottom of page 219, point number three, that uh Muhammad, like most of his Arabian contemporaries apparently never had any access to either the Old Testament or the New Testament in Arabic, and it wouldn't have done him any good anyway because they're all illiterate. So the knowledge they had about the scriptures came from the Jews and the Christians, or those who were nominally Jews, nominally Christians. um at the time. And they would come in contact with these in their caravan runs and hear the stories, uh, some of them from scripture, some of them not from scripture, but they're just for other Jewish writings or um uh apocryphal writings who that were available um at that time. Remember that was uh a good About six hundred years after Christ. Well, um so it's it's it's Not I mean from my perspective it's not very surprising that given that was their and and Muhammad's exposure to the scriptures. It's not surprising that what shows up in the Quran making reference to the scriptures is frequently, if not almost always, inaccurate. And then that inaccuracy and that inconsistency is being blamed on the corruption of the scriptures rather than the the um uh dubious origins of the Quran. And so um There's no reference to Paul or Paul's writings in the Quran. And there's reference to the Gospel, but that doesn't mean the four Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. as as uh presented in the Quran. I think we had a verse about it here. Um is is thought to be the message that God gave to Jesus to proclaim to the people to get back to the original uh religion, the religion of Abraham Uh it was a call to repentance, a call to uh getting uh getting serious with with God, calling them back to um just like Muhammad's role was purportedly to be to again call people back, and specifically in Arabia, but then ultimately all the world, try to get back to the same message as what they're saying And so they haven't really read the gospels. And when you read the life and the teachings and the the the works of of Christ, um Yeah, exactly. Yeah. So like we've we've said uh previously, and we'll see a whole lot more as we go forward, what you need to do is get them into the word. Get them into the Word, have them read it, and particularly getting them into the gospel so that they see the real person of Christ. That's what they claim anyway. They claim right now, I mean uh if even if you don't convince them that uh um about the accuracy of of the Bible, they believe that the Quran supersedes it because it's the ultimate revelation, it's it's Its main purpose was to correct all the errors from before, and this is now what we need to believe. Good question. We're going to talk about that right now. Um So look at point number four on 219. Jesus and his apostles quoted the Old Testament extensively as part of their teaching, right? And they consistently testified to its authority and its messianic message, which was fulfilled in Christ. There's a consistency between the Old Testament and the New Testament. There's it's it's one God revealing the whole thing. And They taught that many of the Jews misinterpreted or disobeyed the Old Testament, not that the scriptures had been corrupted. Yeah, Jesus was clear on that. You know, heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will never pass away. I have not come to abolish the law, but rather to what? Fulfill it Yeah, there's a consistency there. So if either the Jews or the Christians had attempted to change their scriptures, It's unlikely that they would have left in them the various accounts of disobedience and the lack of faith that many people had at critical times. I mean there's a lot of dirty laundry there about the sin, particularly of Israel, right? Um and Unsurprisingly, the Bible warns strongly against making any corruption of its text. Whenever anyone attempts to modify the words of Scripture, other believers Correctly protest, exposing the modified version as a perversion of the true word of God. And so you see that in both the Old Testament and the New Testament. Well, let's then talk about the the um uh accuracy uh first of the New Testament and then of the Old Testament. So in item seven there I've listed a lot of the key early Manuscripts of portions of scripture, and when they came w when they're dated to, and uh what was included, and so on And you see very, very early that um uh you get the whole New Testament, you get significant parts of it, and and so on. And furthermore, on the number eight here, there's a listing in that chart on the top of page two twenty-one of uh many of the early church fathers who in their writings, not that their writings were scripture, but they quoted scripture in their teaching. And so you see here in that chart uh basically the the range of dates involved and how many quotes they had of the Gospels and Acts and Paul's epistles and so on. And what's interesting here is point number nine. There are enough quotations of the New Testament in those early writings that using just the writings within the first 150 to 200 years of the time of Christ. We could assemble the entire New Testament from their quotations with the exception of just 11 verses. And that's within 150 to 200 years of the time of Christ Now it's um it is significant But not for the reasons they think it is. It is significant that there are about people have counted something like 200,000 variant readings of the New Testament text In the thousands of ancient manuscripts that are currently available. However, more than 99% of those are completely unimportant. Like maybe a letter was dropped from a word, or the reversing of two words. And uh or maybe a completely missing word. Only about forty of those variants Are really significant, but none of those has any bearing on any Christian doctrine or moral teaching. And so by comparing all of the available manuscripts. and and and see where they uh uh um agree and where there are slight variations between them We can deduce with great certainty what the original text must have said. And so take this example here in the middle of page 221. Let's say if one variant says Jesus Christ is the Savior of the whole world. Now this is just an illustration. It's not from actual texts of the manuscripts, but it's just an example of a sentence, right? Well, if another one says Christ Jesus is the Savior of the world, what's the difference between one and two? Nothing substantive. Nothing substantive. It's just the order, is it? Christ Jesus or Jesus Christ, right? Uh how about Jesus Christ is the Savior of the whole world? Well, no, I'm sorry, three is, see I even read it wrong. Jesus Christ, the Savior of the whole world. Is that even a sentence? There's no verb there. What's the verb? It must be is, right? Yeah, but the the the originals were probably in Greek. Um how about number four? Jesus is the savior of the Whatever that word is, world. Any guess what that world sh word should be? Whole, right? I mean I mean you know from the context and you know that's not actually a word without the letter O. Now it could be I, while, but that wouldn't make it a sentence, right? So it's pretty clear what it's supposed to be. Dropping a letter, it doesn't really change the meaning. Jesus Christ is the Savor of the world. Right? So there it's missing the word whole. um misspelled savior and misspelled world. But you can still sort of see what it is, and particularly when you compare it with other variants, you know exactly what's the original must have been. Right. So the point is having those variants and comparing them actually makes it easier to know what the original was, even if you don't have the original. Because you've got all these variants that are coming from the original, and you can work back to just logically see what the original must have been. If you have those variations and then all but one of those are eliminated you don't have the other data to go from to know how to get back to the original. So you see how those variants actually help It would have been ideal for it to have photocopying and printing presses and no problem. Well sometimes even with photocopying, you get bad copies, right? But It actually works to our advantage to have these variants because we can have greater confidence that we know what the original must have been, given that we don't actually have our hands on the original. Right? And by the way, why don't we ha why didn't God um preserve the originals, manuscripts? Let me ask it the other way. What would have happened if we did have the originals? And worship them? Yeah, I think that's why we're not going to discover Noah's Ark. People would worship it rather than God. Yeah. Okay. So yeah, that's that's the point that um it's not a mystery what the original must have said. We actually have pretty strong confidence. Now what's interesting here, point D on the bottom of page 221, most study Bibles, and probably you're familiar with this, Most study Bibles based on modern translations indicate where variant readings occur in the ancient manuscripts. And when there is any question about what the original must have said, these translations generally put the greatest weight on the earliest manuscripts, closer to the source. But even even so there is there's kind of a heads up that uh there are some variants here, but um they they typically um Okay. Um well I also make a point there that in contrast if someone had successfully destroyed all but one of the biblical texts like uh the Muslims did early on after trying to settle on what the Quran in writing actually should be. then um we would have lost any way to piece together the original text. And that is the problem with the Quran. They have a version that does date to within Was it 50 years or so of the time of Muhammad? But all those variants that they had at the time were destroyed, or at least they thought they were. There's some have survived Um making it much harder to know what the original would have been. And so that's a bit of a problem. Okay, uh item 11 here on page 222. And you're probably somewhat familiar with Dead Sea Scrolls and the significance of that find. Nineteen forty seven, you know, the shepherd boy uh lost some sheep and he there's a lot of caves in Qumran. And so he throws a rock into one of them hoping to scare off the the sheep and he hears something that wasn't a sheep or wasn't rock. It sounded like something breaking. It turns out it was some pottery that broke some large urns. And that of course led to the find that there are a lot of manuscripts, documents, and so on Preserved in these urns in the very arid climate close to the Death Sea. And Scholars fairly quickly realized that it was not just the Old Testament scriptures that were contained here. There were things like uh municipal records, um marriage licenses or deed or deeds to sale of things, and there's a variety of things. uh presumably associated with that uh that uh Essene community that lived in that area. But the most significant thing of course is that um uh the Old Testament scriptures, lots of portions of the Old Testament scriptures were discovered there. And they were very readily dated to have been around 150 BC That was about a thousand years earlier than the oldest manuscripts we had up to that point. A thousand years of transcription of the Old Testament From around 150 B. C. to around uh 980 A. D. And so it just takes us back a thousand years. And so what's the obvious question? What's the correlation between the two? Has there been much migration in the text? Extremely, extremely little. It's like perfect almost. And It's just a testimony both to God's preserving his revelation and doing it through the dedication of these transcribers who in order to get it right would do things like um uh uh count the words to make sure they got the middle word in in the in the I don't know if the paragraph or maybe the whole book as well. And also letters to make sure that they they got the right letters and just double checks and double checks and triple checks. And they, out of dedication to God, committed themselves to getting it right. And over a thousand years, I mean it's not that that um It's a rare thing that any of these documents would have lasted even a thousand years, let alone a longer period of time than the originals. had been written from. But the fact that we had this little glimpse into God's preserving the Old Testament. Um is just an amazing find. And frankly, the one of the unfortunate things, of course, is the significance of it was not lost on a lot of these archaeologists and and scholars and so on. But they've tried to control the uh the the message coming out of this so that it hasn't been um given the prominence that it really deserves Um and just giving glory to God for for that consistency. Um and by the way, while I'm at it We were in um Israel in 2017 with a an American pastor named Joel Kramer. He's uh studying archaeology in Israel, living in Jordan. Uh fascinating guy, lots of lots of uh uh keen insight. But he took us into one of those caves in Qumran and showed us around and they're not terribly big. But he had with him a a book that was um I forget exactly what the name of it was, but it was a compilation of all of the Old Testament texts that were found in the Quman Dead Sea Scrolls. And it was excluding very, very little of the whole Old Testament. Of course it didn't have any of the New Testament that came later. But One of the most profound things that he said to me I'd never thought about before was in the context of people um Fairly quickly trying to downplay the fulfillment of prophecy that's given in Scripture And particularly in the life of Christ, um, you know, you you can say, well, you know, it's not not all that much of a miracle if if the prophecy actually w came after the events and just made it look like the prophecy came before the events, but they'll they'll hypothesize that the events came first and then the prophecy about it came later. Well and people would make that argument about Christ fulfilling prophecy as well. Well, the reality is when Jesus fulfilled those prophecies, those documents were in those caves in Qumran. Containing the prophecy about Christ who's now fulfilling them in real time. And nobody can argue with that. They were in those caves when when he was crucified between two robbers and buried in a tomb of a rich man. Isaiah 53 is in that cave. And it it it just puts to to to um to shame any who would suggest that the the writings came after the events. Those writings were there uh long before it actually took place. That's cool. That's cool. Okay. Uh item twelve on page two twenty-two. Another interesting point is that um Muslims are in their apologetics are often quite ready to quote liberal critics of the Bible. as saying the same thing that they want to be saying, that things are not accurate, they're um uh they're they're corrupted or whatever their argument wants to be, they'll feel pretty free to quote Not Muslim critics, but anybody who's a critic of of um say the Old Testament or even the New Testament. Well, the problem with that is that what's motivating those those liberal critics is a s a um A firm belief that there is no God, there's no supernatural, so these things can't be true. And those very same critics would say the exact same things about the Quran. And so they can't have it both ways. If they're going to rely on those critics to point at the Old Testament and the New Testament scriptures Um they ought to be listening to what those same people are saying about the Quran, it's going to be the same arguments. And um they can't pick and choose And then 13. As we've already seen in a number of places, Muslims routinely appeal to various verses in the Old and New Testaments, both. uh to support their teachings or uh to like we saw a few weeks ago, uh they interpret some verses to be pointing to Muhammad specifically coming, and that was foretold in the Old Testament scriptures. And so they'll they'll rely on uh some verses from the Old Testament and New Testament, picking and choosing ones that they think will support their position. And of course, even when they do, they take them out of context. Right, we saw that. Um But they're they're drawing these verses from from books they say are corrupted. And like like somebody was saying earlier, I how do they know what verses can be trusted versus what verses have been corrupted? They offer no um uh guidance other than they use the ones that they think will support the cause. And the others are where where they disagree with the Quran, they must have been corrupted. That's that's their approach. So there's an inconsistency there. Um it might help to point that out Okay. So if you get into a conversation about this with some Muslim friends, um Some of that information I just covered might be helpful, but it might be better. to ask that second question. What Bible was the Bible corrupted before or after the time of Muhammad? Okay, just to get them to think. Okay, it's corrupted. Let's say it's corrupted. So when was it corrupted? Before or after Muhammad? Well, if it was m corrupted before Muhammad Then why does the Quran urge Muslims to read and obey the Bible? Wouldn't that make Muhammad a false teacher since he characterized a corrupted book as the Word of God? Coming from Allah. And why doesn't the Quran clearly warn about corruption in the biblical text? And they'll probably take it to Sura tube, but if you look at it in context, you see what it's really talking about is the corruption of the people, not the text. And thirdly, why would Jesus, whom Muslims believe was a prophet of God, claim that the Old Testament scriptures spoke of him and that he fulfilled all of their messianic prophecies? And we're going to talk a bit in future weeks about those prophecies and the nature of the work of Christ and how uh You can point to that in your evangelism. But then number four, given the consistency of the many early manuscripts and quotations of the biblical text By writers soon after the original events and writings, then when did the corruptions creep into the text? When they were first written down or later? Well, if if they be if they were corrupted right at the beginning, when they were first written down, then how could the inspired writers, most of whom were eyewitnesses, many of whom were prophets commended by the Quran or those directly taught by them, how could they have corrupted what the Quran acknowledges God inspired them to write? Doesn't make sense, right? Well, if if those writings were curr uh corrupted later, that is, after they were written down, but before the time of Muhammad, How could all of the known manuscripts and quotations by early church fathers, very early, share a consistent biblical text? If they don't trace back to the same original inspired text, wouldn't you expect there would be at least early evidence of an uncorrupted text? If others were corrupted? I mean if you if if the corruption happened after they're written down, then you would expect there would be some variation in corruption versus not corrupted and And um and yet you don't see that. Um, so then, well, okay, then they must have been corrupted after the time of Muhammad. Well then how do you explain the fact that we have numerous biblical manuscripts predating Muhammad that are the basis for all modern translations? Right, from the early um uh two hundreds, three hundreds A D And there were hundreds of thousands of copies of the Bible in many languages scattered over much of the world by the time of Muhammad. It would have been impossible to have gathered them all up in a coordinated effort and burned them, right? So that there would only be this one corrupted version that everything flows from. It just didn't happen. They were all over the world uh already uh by the time of Muhammad So if you get them to think about the timing of it, none of their it leads to a dead end, no matter where you go. So then you can ask them in number three there, did you realize the Jews had elaborate painstaking procedures for making accurate accurate copies? And you know, take a look at the Dead Sea Scrolls and the significance of that Uh it's it's pretty amazing. But even more importantly, is it likely that The Almighty and Sovereign God of the universe would allow his written revelation to have become corrupted over time? Even the Quran claims that God's word can't be changed. And so um the the point is that yes, God took the initiative to um Inspire the word in the human authors. But he also superintended its transmission over thousands of years. Uh that was not just left to chance. God was sovereign over that and superintending it. And so that what we have now, going back to the earliest manuscripts, uh we can have confidence that it's um Uh if not identical to the originals, it's faithful to the originals in every important respect. Okay, any questions at this point? Thoughts? Oh start there, yeah. Yeah, uh it it actually says um ask the people of the book about it. Say I'm one of the people of the book, let's talk about it. Well, I wouldn't start with John. Oh no. You're going to start a fight right in verse one. Yeah. What would you start with? Uh we're we're let's see. Um I would start with with Luke or maybe Matthew. Um Luke is good because he explicitly set out to put everything in chronological order and covers Um a l probably the largest percentage of all the accounts in the Gospels. Um Um and um it's a good place to start. Um we're going to cover that as in in fact even starting next week. It'll depend on whether if if they have a question, then go where that question can be answered, for sure. But if they're just saying, I need to learn more about the Bible, I would suggest to them that what you probably need is to understand the the life and the works of Jesus as recorded by his followers. and contemporaries. Good. Any other thoughts about Larry? Right. Right. So you know, remember a few weeks ago when we started talking about uh the principles of evangelism and how they apply to uh reaching out to Muslims. Um it starts with prayer because only God can work on the heart and that's what's required. Yeah, I think I think in the verses in the Quran, it it's not so much explicitly the heart, we would put it that way, it's more about them being disobedient. and not believing. And um where does that happen? It happens in the heart. But the it's not actually characterized as a heart issue. It's more an external obedience and And uh belief, expression of belief thing. But yeah, there's a lot of irony here. There's a lot of irony. Any other thoughts or questions? Yeah. So I I um made the comment earlier that you know we're used to the concept that a lot of people um particularly in the Western nations, identify themselves as Christians. We know, however, that from scripture that just growing up in a Christian country or in a Christian family or going to a Christian church doesn't make you a Christian, right And so there's a lot of nominal Christians who were kind of used to that. They know very little about the Bible. They certainly don't obey it. Same thing is true of Jews. Most Jews have very little understanding of the Old Testament, other than the traditions that they follow, and so on. Well, the same is true. Well no In the case of Jews, the fact that they're nominal and not well acquainted with the Old Testament text doesn't mean they're any less Jews. They're still Jews, but they're they're so far removed from the scriptures that um um Uh it's not helping them. Well, the same is true with Muslims. That um particularly ones we would come in contact with, but probably Almost anywhere. Um, and particularly if they're not Arabic speaking, uh they're not going to be well versed in what's in the Quran And, you know, just taking a course like this, you're going to probably be more familiar with what's in the Quran than they are, in many cases. The same thing is true with you in the Old Testament. You probably know more about the Old Testament than most Jews you run into, right? Well, the same is true here. Now the problem is those people are Muslims. But the Christians who are nominal are not Christians. But it it's not the same, right? Um there are uh lots of Muslims who are not as as uh educated or well versed or even um because of that, obedient to everything that's in the Quran. Um but they're still Muslims. Yeah. Any other thoughts, questions? Okay. Well, next week we're going to and I I really like um these next several sessions here where we get into their hang up about different Christian doctrines. And it'll help us to be uh better prepared to explain and defend from Scripture these doctrines and how um it's not just philosophy or tradition, these things had to be. And um so hopefully that'll be helpful to you. But let's close in prayer.