Okay, we are on lesson four today, on page thirty. We're going to spend a couple of weeks here looking at the Quran, getting some orientation as to um uh well, characteristics of it, but then also some of the teaching in it as well. So First of all, the significance of the Quran. The Arabic word means recitation or reading. Um in Muhammad's case, uh it was very natural for him to think of it as recitation because he was actually um in these visions being told to recite this to the people. So it's a re recitation. Muslim regard it as the final revelation of Allah, where previous revelations would have included things like the Old Testament. And um they usually don't think in terms of the New Testament. What they think of is the teaching and the preaching of Jesus. which um they completely misunderstand, but they see that as a continuation of the prophecy that Allah was providing to people. Uh Muslims show absolute respect for the Quran. They would be aghast when we sit in a pew in the worship center and we put the Bible under our chair and so on. That would be such a uh degradation. of um they they would never do that. They would keep it higher. Um they would keep the Quran higher as respect. So it's almost In fact, we're going to see this in a couple of places. It's almost a worship of the Quran as as well as worship of Allah. Many Muslims memorize the Quran in Arabic, even if they don't know Arabic. They have a great motivation to do that, to be more Um devoted to Allah, it would be a sign of that. Um But even Arabic-speaking Muslims, but certainly non-Arabic speaking Muslims tend to have very little understanding about um the teaching and the content of the Quran. And you can imagine that because a lot of people who think they're Christians have very little understanding of what the Bible says, right? Uh there are a lot of Jews who have very little understanding of the Old Testament. And so it's it's not really a whole lot different with many Muslim families. Okay, so uh the Quran is um I wouldn't say written by, but it's um authored by one human author, which is Muhammad. And I won't say written because he was illiterate. He couldn't read or write. But that was common. And so he would recite these things. Um And so he received this revelation not in one lump sum, but spread over the last 22 years of his life, from 611 to 632 A. D. And so the Quran makes the claim that what what is now called the Quran and you can And um Tusk Margaret has a copy of it there, right? Um but that is a um an exact replica of the eternal Quran which is in heaven with God. And so um There's a quote here from uh chapter 85. Uh Nay, this is a glorious Quran inscribed in Al-Lu'ah Al-Mahufuz, the preserved. tablet. And there's some references elsewhere to that. Uh this is page thirty. And so um um It's possible that this could this notion that there's uh um an eternal version of the Quran uh in heaven uh on uh tablets of stone might have been sort of somehow inspired by uh Muhammad's um hearing the stories from the Old Testament of the tablets of stone of the Ten Commandments and so on. I don't know. Yes, we can do it. Yes, we're gonna get to that in a second. Right. So uh during his lifetime there were some people who were writing down what he was saying who uh but they weren't very numerous because most people were just learning by hearing and reciting and repeating and so on. But the w the process of writing it down began in a ad hoc way, even during his lifetime. It wasn't anything systematized. So th this idea that the the Quran that uh supposedly revealed to Muhammad has uh i i is all drawn from uh what's in heaven somewhat problematic, right? Particularly since there's evidence that we're going to get into that there are others who had influence over its content. It wasn't just new s material coming down from on high. But In Islam, even doubting Allah's absolute authorship of the Quran is serious blasphemy. And um so it's uh kind of a a blind faith, if you will Well, the the um uh the language it was uh uh um Given, let's say, in in these visions and so on, was Arabic. That's what uh Muhammad knew And the Quran actually refers to that on top of page 31 by the book that makes things clear. We have made it a Quran in Arabic. That you may be able to understand and learn wisdom. And verily it is in the mother of the book, in our presence. High in dignity, full of wisdom. So the mother of the book is the source of the book you see here. The mother of the book is in the presence of Allah in heaven. Yeah. So that was in Arabic from the seventh century. What people memorize today, is it still Arabic of the seventh century? Pretty close. We're gonna get to that in a second as well. They even if they speak and read modern contemporary Arabic Like that would be almost like a foreign language. Almost, probably. Yeah. And does it suggest that there's something superior about the account Arab the Arabic language compared to other Moscow. Yes, that God refers one language or Or at least he uses that. This is his ultimate revelation. Yeah. Yep. Okay. Um But and because of that, uh for a long, long time, it was and probably in many places still is, the conviction that it should not be translated from the Arabic into any other language. And if it is, it's inferior. It's inferior. That was that was the prevailing view for a long, long time. I'm not sure sure it's maybe w among the most Um conservative, that's still maybe the view. But um there have been lots of other translations now and and so on. The one I quote from that's translated into English is what I understand to be the one that's most the translation that's regarded to be most faithful to the original. I don't know. I don't know Arabic, but I'm I'm told that it's it's the one that's most faithful. Can I share a little bit? I actually was able to visit that that the mosque that I called. Ah, yeah. So um and I I speaking to the Imam, um what he allowed me to go into the prayer. The young Abdul go to a class they have uh a school there. And they had young men um who were learning the Quran and they were learning it in Arabic. Of course, most of them are from um the Baltimore area. So they don't speak Arabic. So um pretty much um um confirm would you been would you teaching. Um they don't know Arabic, but they're memorizing it from the beginning to the end and it's a the whole class and that's what they're all sitting on the floor. Um they're you know, legs crossed and that and that kind of thing. And um and I asked him about the um the English version, you know, and he's like, yeah, you know, the the Arabic is superior, but just for learning they have English versions and like the Bible But there's there are several several different translations. So he actually gave me a copy, so I I have one to read. Um so yeah, I kinda It it just it just kinda fits. It it's pretty nice because the with in the class it helps me to frame questions to him. Mm-hmm. No, it's a gentleman that I I met, um, he was a Hooper passenger and he he invited me to come see him. So I took him up on it. He was a little he's like, Oh, no one ever takes me up on it. So so so I I I went and um you know, I he took me everywhere. I met other imams, I met some of the some of the w you know, um he wasn't afraid to meet or to meet them and so forth. Um I saw the students there. They they have a I I I saw him I said, well actually you're you're pretty much like our like my church except Islamic versus the Bible they they have a school and they provide a lot of different services um and they reach out to the community. So and we said that we wouldn't do that. Just a note at the top of page thirty-one, this quote, this surah. Yes. Very curious. Yes. Um I thought I had a footnote about that earlier than this, but this may be a good time to reference that Uh almost every time in the Quran Allah is speaking directly about um himself and and and and so on. It's in the plural Um but that's the royal we. Does Allah ever refer to himself as a king? Um I forget. I don't think so. So maybe you say requiring complete submission, if that's your definition of king, maybe so. I don't think the I don't remember the word king, but maybe. I I just wonder if we're imposing a translation or an assumption on that when we say it's a royal we, if he's never referred to as king. And why Well it wouldn't just be royalty who would use that that structure of speech. Um yeah. Kind of a colloquialism or whatever. Um I don't know. I think it's very similar to It is, but that's that's actually my understanding is that's faithful to the the Arabic. That it's it's it's always almost always, not always, but very often. Um in the plural. And yet it's very, very, very, very clear that the worst sin in all of Islam is to uh consider other gods other than the one God Allah. And so um that's why um you know if if if you ask if you ask any um Any any Muslim who understands that this is the translation in English and maybe even, I presume, also in Arabic, the they would just say, well uh that's because he's a lie and he's he's majestic and beyond us and he just speaks that way. It's the royal we. Um Uh I don't know that they would necessarily use that phrase royal we, but it's it's the concept that he's most high and and um Most glorious, and those are terms that are frequented um in every surah. Um so yeah, Rebecca. In Victoria saying we are not in the drawers from so sometimes people will say B like, Oh yeah, we don't want to do that. And you're like, Yeah. Yeah. It's sort of a um well in in in in English anyway, it it tends to be um attributed even um well uh to royalty or or whoever um uh when the singular, which would be strictly correct um wouldn't be as exalted as we want to be in our language. And we just don't have the words to make it as exalted. You know Um when we address a judge we say, Your Honor. It's trying to be um respectful. Um But it has nothing to do with his honor really. It's just a title that we we use to be respectful. Sure. Right. So um but we address him as the uh as the the visible you know manifestation of all that. Anyway Yeah, good question. But that that you'll you'll see that throughout in a lot of the quotes that we have here, uh the term we. Yeah. And you're saying here that quite a number of Muslims uh memorized A lot of it or even all of it. Yeah. I have a copy of the English the Quran in English. I mean that's not a small book and it's hard to imagine memorizing that whole thing. Yeah, that's quite a commitment. I I when I was about thirty five, I committed one year to memorizing one chapter of the Bible each month for a year to see if I could do that. And I ended up actually doing about fifteen chapters, but that took a year. Even as old as I am, I would never face you know, the end time I could never memorize that. Right. That's a significant task. Oh yeah. Particularly if you don't know the language. Now the Quran is actually um you know compared with the Bible, it's it's nowhere near as long as the Bible. I mean the you've got the Quran there and that's both trans that's English as well, right? Yes. So a and the Arabic probably takes a bit more space than the English does, actually. It's English and Arabic on the other side. Each page has both languages. Right. So if he had just the English or just the Arabic would be quite a bit smaller even than that. But still quite a significant uh thing. They spend their entire education. Memorizing. They don't learn science or I don't think other subjects. They just spend their entire education memorizing Yes. Young kids could probably do that more easily than adults. That's an understatement. Strong. Some people are good at it. Yeah Okay. Well, the Quran was purportedly revealed to Muhammad by the angel Gabriel. Uh Muhammad presumably would have been familiar with stories about Gabriel appearing to various people from uh his Jewish and Christian um contacts. And um the Sura to actually includes uh reference to to that. So many questions, but w we should assume this is not the same Gabriel uh we see in the Bible Because he brings a different message. Yes. Well that's why I say purportedly. They exp they their understanding is it's the same Gabriel. Their understanding is that Allah is the God of the Bible, Yahweh. That's their understanding. Our understanding is there's no way Gabriel could have said these things because he's a messenger from the true God, right? But their understanding is one and the same. It's particularly unfair to steal the name of the real Gabriel and use it this way. Yeah, well, you know, uh Muhammad, as I mentioned, um had this this extended period of time where he was on these caravan travels and coming in contact with all sorts of different people, different backgrounds, um Jews, Christians, Christian cults, off offsets, uh offshoots and so on. Um and just a hodgepodge of stuff, plus all all of the um Arabian um background and culture and baggage and everything. And uh my understanding uh from reading through it and from what others have have written is it's it's just a byproduct of that. And it's all kind of jumbled together. That truly shouldn't surprise us at all that uh They take names or stories or whatever else and appropriate them and twist them. That's exactly Satan is not creative. Satan is a copier Mm-hmm. So this is basically that Yeah, and we're gonna see in a few minutes some examples of other writings that made their way or or influenced uh the content of the Quran for the same kind of reasons. Yeah Okay, so I mentioned Muhammad didn't write it down himself. He wouldn't have been able to, being um illiterate. Instead he recited it Lots of people were then, if they were um uh interested once once they became kind of committed to this this whole thing. uh then the actual words to them were uh took on great importance and significance so they uh would uh have him repeat him I guess and he they would they would uh memorize it and and so on. Um But nobody by the time he died had written it down in its entirety. There was just ad hoc pieces of it that were written down for people to use as their own notes, I guess. And it wasn't anything systematized until later. So shortly after Muhammad's death many of his companions who had memorized significant portions of it were killed in battles. And it became clear that um We need to have a way to transmit this over time without losing its um you know a significant portion of it. And so Muhammad's very next successor, his father-in-law, Aisha's father, Abu Bakr, commissioned one of Muhammad's young aides, Zayd, to write down the entire Quran as best they could compile it. Although that's my commentary on it. That wasn't his. They they just wanted a a f an official written version of it. Um my understanding is that Muhammad actually did um um Preferred not to have it written down during his lifetime. And kind of discouraged the idea of writing it down. But uh events sort of made it necessary and so uh shortly after his death that process began. And so there was a version that was completed uh during that first uh caliphate and that was only just within a couple of years of of Muhammad's death. But Uh there weren't obviously many copies of it. It wasn't well distributed. It it wasn't um even all that well uh recognized or or uh um so on. And there's still there were people who were were Muslims who were um uh w without a copy of it and weren't original hearers of it. And so they were Some of groping along, trying to understand what is what is the truth, what is the way we're supposed to to live and so on. And um Different people had different takes on what the actual meaning was or what the text was and it wasn't widespread. There was a lot of confusion in those early years apparently and resulted in in quarrels and it became increasingly obvious that we n we need something authoritative. Um uh Um and so uh the third successor to um Muhammad, Uthman He he uh ordered a once and for all, let's get this right kind of uh order to get the Quran. um uh in writing. And so actually yeah. Is there agreement when you say with Muslims that there was this period of time that it was disagreement with about what text was the you know right one and not right one. Yes. In fact all my sources here is from this guy Farah, Cesar Ferrer. Who is a Muslim, a very good historian, very well respected. So if you were to talk to him closely today, you could point to that as Dorothea. Thank you. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, and and it it it just became obvious to everybody that um without something that's that's um uh complete, authoritative, widespread. Uh we're going to continue to have these um squabbles and confusion and and so on. And so just out of a practical uh sense of need, he said, let's just let's just do it. Right? And it makes sense. And so actually the same guy who was commissioned earlier, this Zayed guy, uh, led that second effort as well and produced um what has become the authorized version of the Quran at that point. And that was completed um In six fifty seven. So that would have been uh Six fifty seven, twenty five years after Muhammad died. So pretty pretty close. I mean um all the major players were were contemporaries of of uh Muhammad and and so on. Um However, um well let me say first of all that that that version is uh demonstrably ninety-nine point nine nine percent accurately the same as people have today in Arabic. Um now I don't know if if there have been actually um uh sort of Translations into modern more modern Arabic over the years, I'm not sure, but they're always basing it on that final version And that's that's a that's sort of known, uh they've got that. And um and so they actually take some pride saying that, you know, we we don't have any any um different different versions of the Quran. There's only one Quran. We know it's the same. It has been forever. And uh you know, you look at the Bible, there's all sorts of different versions, who knows what's right, and and so they point to that as a as a point of uh pride. Well the problem though is um It would have been real nice to have had that first take at writing down the entire Quran. Much like uh textual criticism using it in a positive way, um, of the scriptures, the more different ancient train uh manuscripts you have, the more insight you can get on what the original must have been. And we're going to look at that um later. But you don't have that with the Quran. All you have is this just one, it's this and everything else was burned. And so you you can't really triangulate into what The original might have been. Um you just stuck with the one version, for better or for worse. Um, Okay, so how is the Quran organized? You know, when you think of the Bible, you can describe to people, well, there's an Old Testament, there's a New Testament. There's uh uh historical books, there's there's uh teaching books, there's poetic kind of books, prophetic And then there's in the New Testament after the time of Christ there's additional revelation and you can kind of describe sections of the Bible, right, and different types of books, and even within any given book of the Bible uh you can describe whether it's primarily history or whether you know what type of uh content it is. You don't really have that in the Quran. There's um the each chapter, surah is is unique. It's um the the ordering of them is seems to be almost random Uh they're not in any chronological order, either with regard to when they were supposedly revealed or what um uh time period uh they're talking about there's really no time periods, it's not really history. Um although there is some there is some looking back at some history that Uh it's meant to parallel with previous revelations like in the Old Testament. But yeah. But in our scripture, the the chapter is taken verses But not part of the original textual writing and writing as we have first. That's the same thing here too. They did not. Right. So this is that. But the ordering was there. The ordering was there and later on the chapters and uh the verses were were pretty. Yeah. Um They're not organized by way of themes, really. Even within a surah, it could jump around quite a lot about the subject matter. And The the the best people can do that I've read and observed to describe how it's organized is that it tends to be organized such that the longer surahs are first and it it gets they get shorter and shorter as you go toward the end For whatever reason. And nobody knows particularly why or pays really much attention to it. It just is what it is And so I've listed here on the next several pages what the the chapters are, the surahs. And uh each one has uh an Arabic name associated with it And I've given you the English translation of those names, how many verses they have, and for our purposes, I think, most importantly When it was written, that is when it was supposedly revealed, not so much written down, but when it came to Muhammad and when it was proclaimed. And that's important, as we'll see later. And so you might want to refer back to this as we're referring to differing um uh verses. And say, well, was this before this one or after this one? It makes a big difference. And so the periods written here refer to early Meccan, which is before the Hijrah, right? He he started in Mecca and then fled later to Medina. Do you remember? And um then they were in Medina, they grew in strength, they organized themselves as a community. Eventually with a lot of of warriors he came down and subjugated uh Mecca and all Mecca became Islam at that point. And so you've got early Meccan, you've got Medina, and you've got late Meccan. And those are the major periods here, and it's important in interpreting some of the content to know when it was supposedly revealed. And so we'll get into that later, but this is where you can come back to get that. All right. Um There's more there too, I'll let you I'll let you uh uh Investigate those on your own. Okay, so I'm on page 35. There are some curiosities. Many of the surahs, not all of them. Begin with one or more unexplained letters, or even partial letters in the Arabic. Um and no one really knows what these mean, even Muslims. They don't know what they mean, but they're they're there. And um the less people know about the real origin of them and the meaning of them, the more um uh mystery and and and awe and so on that they they generate. But um nobody has a clue. Anybody hear of Salman Rusty? You've all heard of him. And he wrote a book, I think, right? The Satanic Verses. Well, what he's referring to there were some verses I'm on page thirty-three, not thirty-five. Um While he was still in Mecca, some of the verses that Muhammad apparently had revealed to him were these? Did you consider Al-Lat and Al-Uzzah and Almanat the third, the other? Those are the swans exalted. Their intercession is expected. Their likes are not neglected. Well, those are three goddesses who were among all the false gods worshipped in Mecca at the time, at the Ka'aba. And those original verses were sort of exalting them, even such that you would pray to them, they would intercede for you, and so on. And apparently some people pointed that out to Muhammad. And so later, Muhammad claimed to have received new revelation. which is uh actually in the Quran now, Surah 53, uh have you seen Lot and Uzzah and another the third goddess, Manat? What? For you the male sacks, and for him the female, behold, such would be indeed a division most unfair. These are nothing but names which you have devised you and your fathers, for which Allah has sent down no authority whatever. They follow nothing but conjecture and what their own souls desire even though there uh there has already uh come to them guidance from their Lord. So um That's supposed to replace the earlier verses. And indeed it has in the official Quran. That's that's those are the verses that are there now. Yes. Yes. And Muhammad's explanation was that Satan had deceived him and inserted the false verses without his knowing it. He's the only prophet who who gets vision from both God and Satan. But um The Quran itself, and I've I've got here from Surah 22, it it says, um, Allah here is now speaking, never did we send a messenger or a prophet before you. But when he framed a desire, Satan threw some vanity into his desire, but Allah will cancel anything vain that Satan throws in, and uh Allah will confirm and establish his signs for a law has full knowledge and so on. So um there's there's also I'm gonna get to it I forget now when I get to it, but there's a doctrine of abrogation, which uh is derived from the Quran. Next week. I'll leave that to next week. But this is this is related to um how Muslims even today by the authority of the Quran And the example of Muhammad can play a little bit fast and loose with with uh what's purportedly revealed. Anyway, um another good example of some of these things is that much uh significant number of Incidents that are recorded in the Quran appear strikingly similar to earlier writings. uh uh quasi-biblical stories and this kind of thing. And so there's some examples here. Um one of the earliest ones pointed out is that there are four verses, I'm on page thirty-six. There are four verses in the Quran That were actually written by the famous Arabian poet Imra Keis, who lived just before Muhammad and whose other poetry was included in the collection of poems that were suspended around the Ka'aba in in uh Mecca before and during Muhammad's lifetime. And the Quran, including these verses from the poetry, uh makes no reference to the fact that that's where they're from. And so I've I've uh included I've I've highlighted them in bold in the b larger context in which they're inserted. So in verse 1 of Surah 54, the hour of judgment is nigh, and the moon is cleft asunder. And then later in that surah in uh verse twenty-nine, but they called their companions and he took a sword in hand and hamstrung her and so on. So you see these these evidences in that one. Surah kind of scattered throughout the the chapter. Well, when that poet's daughter Heard these verses from the Quran being recited by Muhammad's daughter, Fatima. She immediately recognized them as her own father's poetry. That's embarrassing. And she demanded to know where they had uh how they had become part of what was supposedly an eternal book revealed to Muhammad And um but that was after Muhammad's time and that wasn't changed. They're still there. Anyway, um uh There's also listed here a number of accounts in the Quran that seem like they were largely influenced by previous accounts, mostly apocryphal. In fact, entirely apocryphal, if not heretical. So in Surah V, there's a story about the burial of Abel. Alright, so Cain kills Abel. It's referenced in the Quran as well. But in Surah 5 it says, recite to them the truth of the story of the two sons of Adam. Behold, they each presented a sacrifice to Allah. It was acceptable from one, but not from the other. Alright, this is not news, right? This has been around for hundreds of thousands of years. That's not the point. That's not the problem. Said the latter, be sure I will slay thee. Surely, said the former. Allah does and this is using the the old translation here, the King James kind of translation of the of the Quran, Allah doesn't accept of the sacrifice of those who are righteous. If you stretch out your hand against me to slay me, it is not for me to stretch out my hand against you to slay you. For I fear Allah, the cherisher of worlds, of the worlds. For me, I intend to let you draw on yourself my sin as well as thine For you will be among the companions companions of the fire, that is, those who go to hell uh in their sins. Um and that is the reward of those who do wrong And um top of page 37 continues, the selfish soul of the other led him to the murder of his brother. He murdered him and became himself one of the lost ones. Then Allah sent a raven who scratched the ground to show him how to hide the shame of his brother, that is, how to bury him. Woe is me, said he, was I not even able to be as this raven to hide the shame of my brother then he became full of regrets. On that account, we ordained for the children of Israel that if any one of them slew a person, unless it be for murder, or for the spreading of mischief in the land, it would be as if he slew the whole people. And if anyone uh saved the life, it would be as if he saved the life of the whole people. Then Although there came to them our messengers, that is prophets, with clear signs, yet even after that, many of them continued to commit excesses in the land. That's sort of the nature of the Quran. You read through it and it takes a while to make sense of it, right? Well, it turns out that In the um late one hundreds to around two hundred AD, there's There's a Jewish tradition written down by uh Rabbi uh Eliezer, which says Adam and Eve, sitting by the corpse of Abel, wept, not knowing what to do, for they had not as yet knowledge of burial. A raven coming up took the dead body of its fellow mate, and having scratched up the earth, buried it thus before their eyes Adam said, let us follow the example of the raven. And so taking up Abel's body, buried it at once. And then there's a later uh uh Jewish Mishnah, again, pre uh Muhammad. That says, we find in the case of Cain who murdered his brother, the voice of his brother's blood cries. It is not said here blood in the singular, but blood's in the plural. Man was created single in order to show that to him who kills a single individual, a human being, it shall be reckoned, counted, that he has slain the whole race. But to him who preserves the life of a single individual, it is counted that he be preserved, uh that he has preserved the whole race. So this account in the Quran seems to have borrowed heavily from both of those two earlier writings. They're not exact quotes because Muhammad didn't have those texts. All he had was a recollection of these stories and so on that were recounted to him. in his various travels. to people. But then I I would say he actually believes that that this recounted to him and he's in his dream. And why I'm bringing this up is because the there's someone I know right now who claim to have dreams. But much of what she dreams is stuff is found on the internet. But she's very serious about the fact that God is presenting presenting this this knowledge to her. So I'm I'm I I'm I'm saying, you know, a a one-to-one relationship here. you know, Muhammad apparently experienced the same thing. I I I don't I don't I I wouldn't even say that he he doesn't he he may not even have even realized. that he had already had this knowledge that he he just he just Satan allowed him to believe that, hey, you're you're dreaming all of this stuff Yeah, I think that's probably the case. He wasn't he wasn't um ness I I don't believe he was intentionally drawing from these other sources to fabricate something and say this is what Gabriel has revealed to me. I think he really did have these trances caused by whatever. Um and but all this stuff was still jumbling around in his mind And like you're saying, it it it contributed to the way things finally got presented. Yeah. And um You know, given what's in the Quran with Satan's fingerprints all over it, uh you can see him using a process like that to fabricate these kind of things. Yeah. So um there are a few other examples here. I won't go into as much detail with all of them, but there's an example of um uh Abraham being saved from the fire in chapter 37 of the Quran. But there's a very similar story in a second-century Jewish folktale called Midrash Rabbah. And It's not again word for word, but it's a striking where you get this idea unless it's from this other source, right? Uh and and one explanation is that well Satan was the source of both of those. Um and that's probably true. Another interesting one on page 38 is Zacharias and Mary. You know, Zacharias is the father of John the Baptist. Mary is a a sort of distant relative, at least of Elizabeth. And um the Quran says on page thirty eight, um Oh, by the way, uh Imran is referring to uh the father of Moses and um uh Aaron and Miriam. Uh in in uh the Hebrew it's Amran, but it's it's it's the same reference here. And so the Quran is saying, Behold, a woman of Imran said, O my Lord, I do dedicate unto thee what is in my womb for thy special service. So is um by the way, the Quran does acknowledge the virgin birth of Christ. Which is interesting. Not that he was God, but that it was a miraculous birth. That's not the reference here, though, it's a different story. A different uh angle on it So accept this of me, she says, uh, for you hear and know all things. When she was delivered, that is when the baby came, she said O my lord, behold, I am delivered of a female child. I'm sorry, this is Mary's mother. I'm sorry, I forgot. This is Mary's mother, and she's giving birth to Mary. So this is basis that the Catholic Church was opening back in the U. It's not the basis of it, but it sounds pretty consistent with it, doesn't it? So I have named her Mary, and I commend her and her offspring to your protection from the evil one, the rejected. Right graciously did her Lord accept her. And he made her grow in purity and beauty. To the care of Zechariah she was assigned. Every time that she entered her chamber to see her uh he entered her chamber to see her. He found her supplied with sustenance. He said, Oh Mary, whence comes this to you? She said, From Allah, for Allah provides sustenance to whom He pleases without measure. And what's interesting here is that um There is a second century Christian quote-unquote Christian fable called the uh Protevangelum of uh James the Lesser That says, when Anna, the wife of Joachim, answered, As the Lord my God liveth, whatever I bring forth, whether it be male or female, I will devote to the Lord my God. And it shall minister to him in holy things during his his whole life, and called her name Mary, and the high priest received her. Now Zacharias was not the high priest, right? The high priest received her and blessed her and said, Mary, the Lord your God has magnified your name to all generations, and to the very end of time, by you will the Lord show his redemption to the children of Israel. Um but Mary continued in the temple as a dove, educated her there And received food from the hand of an angel. And the high priest, Zecharias, entered the Holy of Holies, taking away with him the breastplate of judgment and so on. So a lot of similarities show up in the Quran to this earlier fable that has no historic authenticity at all. Likewise, the Quran actually claims that Mary gave Mary herself gave birth to Jesus under a palm tree. Even though the Bible makes it clear that it was in a stable in Bethlehem. And you see that account in the second century, this is now 400 years before Muhammad. apocryphal fable and very similar content and and so on. Um Another interesting thing in the Quran, chapter 3, I'm on page 39, chapter 3, verse 29. claims that Jesus miraculously spoke to his mother while an infant in the cradle. So he he just miraculously spoke. It's uh one of his miracles. And so the Quran says, but she pointed to the babe, and they said, How can we talk to one who is a child in the cradle? And he, that is Jesus, the baby, said I am indeed a servant of Allah. He has given me revelation and made me a prophet. And he has made me blessed wheresoever I be, and hath enjoined on me prayer and charity as long as I live. Um and so on and so on, such was Jesus, the Son of Mary. Well, that story sh shows up in um There's actually an Arabic version of what's called the first gospel of the infancy of Jesus Christ. Again, this is 400 years before Muhammad. And it says the following accounts we found in the book of Joseph, the high priest, called by some Caiaphas, he relates That Jesus spoke even while he was in the cradle and said to his mother, Mary, I am Jesus the Son of God, that word which You brought forth according to the declaration of the angel Gabriel to you, and my father has sent me for the salvation of the world. So um that concept of him speaking even in the cradle was already 400 years old before it found its way in the Quran. Another example is in the Quran there's the claim that Jesus as a young boy shaped clay into um a a bird and then breathed life into it and it flew away. Uh you see that in Surah uh three and uh five. Well it turns out that um the uh Thomas's Gospel of the Infancy of Jesus Christ, again a second century apocryphal fable It says, then he took from the bank the stream of some soft clay and formed out of it twelve sparrows. Then Jesus, clapping together the palms of his hands, called the sparrows and said to them, Go, fly away. So I'm sorry, what did you say that story came from? Top of page 40. The second century apocryphal fable called Thomas's Gospel of the Infancy of Jesus Christ. People probably pretty quickly after seeing the gospels were saying, well, we've got this big gap between um the the birth of Christ and when he's twelve, and then another big gap between then and his public ministry. And so it's not surprising people try to use their imagination to fill in the gaps. This is one of them. And then there's there's a uh repeated account in the Quran. that one of God's miracles for the nation of of Israel as they were fleeing uh uh uh Egypt and um wandering in the desert and so on, getting the law from Mount Sinai, one of his signs was that he lifted Mount Sinai up and hovered it over them. Right. And turns out there's again second sense second century AD was kind of rife with with uh uh yeah speculation. But there's a Jewish Talmud called Abu Dhazara and uh it it mentions pretty much the same thing. Um so you know it it's not all that surprising that that many of these stories uh they're they're um It's one of the the disadvantages, I suppose, to an oral culture where people aren't literate, there it's just it's word of mouth, um and you hear things and they kinda get jumbled together and you it's not like you can research it like you can if it's written, right? And and and s stick with the the text. It it kind of jumbles and morphs over time. Um I I can't even remember. You know, I study scripture and then, you know, maybe I haven't read for a while and I'm trying to think back on some particular detail and I get it wrong. And I know I know I'm getting it wrong, but I've got to go back and study it. So it helps. Yeah. Now in fairness to them though, if if you had always grown up in an oral culture you wouldn't find that as hard. Right. You would remember it better because you had to. Um but even so, we're human, right? And and it um and that's the funny that And what do you say to people who would level the same accusation against the Bible? Because the Bible wasn't written um exactly, you know, a year well most of the New Testament thing narratives were not written exactly one year after Jesus went to heaven. Um there was quite a bit of that oral tradition that existed at that time, even though most of what we know So so how do you respond to that? How do you differentiate the oral tradition at the time that the Quran was written and at the time that time that what's the the New Testament. Yeah, so there there's a similar question about the Bible and it's a fair question. We're going to spend the whole week on it. It's coming up. Yeah. And many of the men who were with Mohammed who who heard him speak, they were killed in battle. They were what killed in battle. Oh, um So a lot of the people who had it completely memorized as they understood it back then, w they were dropping off. Yeah. And so fewer and fewer people had it in their head. And it became more and more important for it to get written down so that it wouldn't be lost forever. And that was a logical conclusion they came to. So with the New Testament in particular, you know, these men wrote what they knew before they died. Yes. And then you have other folks copying it. Right. So so right there we have. Right. So we're we're gonna we're gonna look at that in depth because that's a question we need to be Well prepared for. This sounds a lot like the game we used to play. Get a group in a circle and somebody says makes a s sentence. Whisper down the alley. And then you go around a circle and they repeat it to each other quietly. And they end up with comparing where started with where it ended and you know. Never the same. Yeah, it's just it's uh I I'm I'm quite confident that in that culture, in that time, they would have done a lot better at that game than we do. But even so, um it's better to have it written down. Yeah. Um that was the Middle East I expect to know And uh I I learned that the Quran, the first time that was written was one hundred and fifty years after the death of Muhammad. So the the the the soonest time that we have that somewhere recorded anything about him was as uh a century and a half after he died. But the the gospel, the soonest gospel that we have of John is about sixty years before after the death of Christ. So if we want to see something chronologically what was you know closer and probably you know more reliable and more close to the truth, uh they admit that Christianity has probably the advantage over them because the time was lost. time 150 years. They don't know if that was the the the original uh message from uh from God to Muhammad. Uh was that referring to the Quran or the Hadith? To the Uh uh I think I think it's probably the hadith now that you mentioned that. Yeah, I think it's a hadith. Yeah. Yeah. If if not more. Right. Now we're going to talk about the hadith in a few weeks. Sorry? That was only the life of Muhammad. It was about him, yes, what he said, what he did. Uh it was written down to be a guide to Muslims. It wasn't rev revelation. And they don't view it as coming directly from God, but they the Quran commands them to follow the example of Muhammad, and so what he said, what he did, became very important And that's why it was written down. Was it reading by someone specifically or um we're going to talk about that in two weeks. Gotcha. Yeah, that's the hadith. It's coming up. Yeah. The Quran itself was in writing within 25 years of, I mean the current version was written within 25 years of Muhammad's death. Uh we don't know that it's um uh as accurate as everything that he actually said, but it's probably pretty close. Um Yeah. Thank us. Yeah. Okay, well, we need to close.