Well today we're on lesson five. Last week we began our overview of the Quran and it's um uh origin, structure and and and so on. Uh we focused a bit on some prior material that seems to have heavily influenced the content of the Quran. And um Today we're continuing that a little bit, but we're focusing more on evaluating portions of the Quran from Scripture. So there are some accounts in the Quran that are intended to to um uh communicate, uh build on things that were already revealed in uh the Old Testament particularly and to some extent the New Testament. Um but As we'll see, there is some glaring uh problems in in that. So uh picking up on what we started last week. I'm on page 41. So we're on page 41, inaccuracies in the Quran. So it's not just that some of the material is is from uh prior sources, or at least heavily influenced by it. But uh where it speaks of things that are addressed in Scripture, how do th how well do those things stack up with what's in Scripture So the first one here is um you remember Miriam, who's um the sister of Moses and Aaron? Well, it appears that she's somewhat confused with Mary, similar name, the mother of Jesus. And so as you look in the Quran in Surah 19, again surah is just their word for chapter. It says, uh relate in the book the story of Mary when she withdrew from her family to a place in the East. She placed a screen to screen herself from them. Then we went and sent her our angel and appeared before her as a man in all respects. And she said, I seek refuge From uh thee to Allah most gracious. Uh come not near me if thou dost fear Allah. And he said Nay, I am only a messenger from thy Lord to announce to thee the gift of a holy son. And she said, How shall I have a son, seeing that no man has touched me, and I'm not unchaste? And he said, So it will be. The Lord saith that it that is easy for me. And we wish to appoint him as a sign to men and a mercy from us. It is a matter so decreed. And so she conceived him and retired with him to a remote place, and the pains of childbirth drove her to the trunk of a palm tree, and she cried in her own anguish, Ah Would that I had died before this. Would that I had been a thing forgotten about and out of sight. But a voice cried to her from beneath the palm tree, Grieve not, for thy Lord hath provideth a rivulet beneath thee, and shake toward thyself the trunk of the palm tree, and it will let fret fall fresh fruit uh ripe dates uh upon me. Uh so eat and drink and cool your eye. And if you see any man say, I have bowed to fast To Allah, most gracious, and this day I will enter into not talk with any human being At length, she brought the babe to her people, carrying him in her arms, and they said, Oh Mary, truly an amazing thing you have brought. Amazing because she's not married, right? And then they address her, O sister of Aaron, thy father was not a man of evil, nor thy mother a woman of unchaste. But Mary was not a sister of Aaron, right? In fact, um a different tribe. Mary was from the tribe of what? Judah Judah, right? Aaron's tribe of Levi Levi. Yeah. And of course they're just a mere Thousand plus years apart, you know. Um And so later, we went through some of this uh uh uh last week, but uh verse thirty-four, such was Jesus, the son of Mary. In the statement of truth about which they vainly dispute, it is not befitting to the majesty of Allah that he should beget a son. So glory be to him. When he determines the matter, he only says to it be and it is. So we're going to come back to this when we talk about their their doctrines, but they The Quran uh clearly admits that Jesus was virgin born However, God just says be and he's he's not you know when they think of um Uh the claim that Jesus is the Son of God, they're thinking Son, Father, okay. That's that's procreation. Well, it's beneath God that he should be involved in Procreation, he just says, Let it be and it happens, right? Well, that's partly true. He just says, Let it be and it happens. That's how the whole world was created. But um they're missing the point about the relationship of father and son in the Godhead. Um but anyway, this is clearly talking about the presumed um um start um birth of Jesus and referring to his mother um As the sister of Aaron. So there's a a glaring mistake. Then later, or actually in Surah 3 Mary's mother is referred to as a woman of Imran. That's the Arabic counterpart to um the uh Amran of the Old Testament who is the father of Moses and Aaron and Miriam, right? And so presumably Mary's mother in this account is addressed as a woman of Imran, connected again with this confusion between Miriam and Mary, the mother of Jesus. Um but it thinks it's talking about Mary. The and so she's assigned to the care of Zacharias apparently, who is her you know, the the the husband of her the you know the the the father of John the Baptist, that that Zecharias. Um Her Mary's uh cousin distant cousin, Elizabeth was married to him, so um Where that all comes from, I don't know, but it's just inconsistent with the facts. Um wrong tribe, uh wrong Mary. Um And there's no historical uh evidence that Zacharias took care of Mary, it was just flat out wrong. Okay, so I'm on page forty two. Another example here, the Quran claims that Abraham separated from his father on spiritual grounds before his father died. They had a falling out, if you will. And so in Surah Nine Uh in verse uh one thirteen it says, It is not fitting for the prophet and those who believe that they should pray for forgiveness for pagans, even though they be of kin. After it is clear to them that they are companions of the fire. And Abraham prayed for his father's forgiveness only because of a promise he made to him. But when it became clear to him that he was an enemy to Allah, he, um, Abraham disassociated himself from him. For Abraham was most tenderhearted, forbearing. Well what do we know about the relationship between um Abraham and his father? They uh were in Ur of the Chaldees Sort of around the Babylon kind of area and the Tigris Euphrates area. And God called Abraham to go to a land he had never been to before and he wasn't even sure where it was at this point. Um and he and his father went as far as where? Haran, which is a little bit to the north. You follow the the cr Fertile Crescent up to the north and before coming down south into the Israel area, what became the Israel area, you get Haran up there in the Syria-ish kind of area. Um apparently named after one of Abraham's or one of Ur, one of um Nahor's Sons. Nahor being the father of No, Terah. Hang on. Terah is the father of Abraham, right? And he had a son called Nahor. He had another son called Haran. And he had a son, of course, Abraham. Um so anyway, they they get as far as Haran and apparently settle there for a little while, and it's there where his father died. And we learn um from for example uh Acts seven in Stevens Testimony. Hear me, brethren and fathers, the glory of God appeared to our father Abraham when he was in Mesopotamia. That's in Ur of the Chaldees. Before he lived in Haram. And God said to him, Leave your country and your relatives and come into the land I will show you. Then he left the land of the Chaldeans, settled in Haran, and from there, after his father died God had him move to this country in which he were now living. And that's consistent with what we see in Genesis eleven as well. Um so um uh there's no evidence in in scripture that there was a falling out between um Abraham and his father. However, we do know that the people Abraham were was coming from had th they were exposed to and and participating in false gods and and that kind of thing. Um but What we see in scripture is that Abraham left uh Haran only after his father died. And it had nothing to do particularly with any falling out. There's no reference to that. Point C though, Abraham is characterized in the Quran as having sacrificed Ishmael as opposed to Isaac. Right? So there there is this this acknowledgement that uh uh God had uh called Abraham to sacrifice his son, or at least to get to the point of sacrificing him. And yet the Quran claims it was Ishmael, not Isaac. And so in Surah 37, it says He said, I will go to my Lord. He will surely guide me. And this is now Abraham. My Lord, grant me a righteous son. So we gave him the good news of a boy, ready to suffer and forbear. Then when the son reached the age of serious work with him, he said, O my son I see in a vision that I offer you in sacrifice. Now, see what is in your view. In the sun said, O my Father, do as you are commanded. For you will find me, if Allah wills, one practicing patience and constancy. So of course, Ishmael was great in faith, right? So when they had both submitted their wills to Allah, uh and he had laid him prostrate on his forehead for sacrifice. We called out to him, this is Allah, O Abraham, you have already fulfilled the vision. Thus indeed do we reward those who do right. For this was obviously a trial. And we ransomed him with a momentous sacrifice, and we left this blessing for him among the generations to come in later times, peace and salutation to Abraham. Thus indeed did we reward those who do right. For he was one of our believing servants. And we gave him the good news of Isaac, a prophet. One of the righteous, we blessed him and Isaac, but of their progeny are some that do right and some that obviously do wrong to their own souls. So that passage is not at least in the English, uh as far as I know that's a pretty accurate translation. It's not all that clear that it was Ishmael who was sacrificed. But because Isaac is named afterwards, they're assuming, I think, that it was Ishmael. But that is just rock solid um standard doctrine in Islam that it was Ishmael who Abraham um sacrificed. But we know for sure From Genesis 22, which existed long before the Quran, that it wasn't Ishmael, but rather Isaac. Right, the son of promise that the promise that God would uh was promising to uh Abraham would be fulfilled not through Ishmael, but rather through Isaac. And that made the sacrifice of Isaac all the more uh important. Um just testing God's God's or God testing Abraham's um faith, obedience. You know, if I'm gonna kill this boy, how are you gonna fulfill the promise, right? But as Hebrews eleven reminds us that Abraham understood that Okay, God's the one calling the shots here. If he's going to fulfill the promise through this sacrificed son, then he's going to probably raise him from the dead. I got to see that. Right? Anyway, um so we have the account here from Genesis twenty two as well. And um What's interesting is that as Christians, as we see the whole sweep of God's intervention And his promise and his fulfilling the promise in Christ and everything pointing to the sacrifice of Christ on our behalf on the cross. We see what God was doing here in Genesis 22, right? That he was foreshadowing the sacrifice of his own only begotten Son. Um and how much of that Abraham understood at the time, we don't really know. But um Uh in uh having the benefit now of looking back and seeing all of Scripture, uh we see that's exactly what God was doing. And um what's ironic about that is that even though um well the Quran takes that, shifts it completely, and says, oh, it was Ishmael, because in their view, they would be descendants of Ishmael and therefore the more favored people and and and so on. But it dismisses completely what God was doing there in foreshadowing the sacrifice that needed to be paid, a sacrifice that the Quran denies needed to be paid. So uh it kinda helps their point, I think, to shift it over to Ishmael, their ancestor, as opposed to Isaac. Okay, there's several other interesting uh inaccuracies in in the Quran Page 43. Moses is said to have been adopted by Pharaoh's wife rather than who? His daughter. Yeah. And so you can read the account there. But That's that's the kind of little detail that probably would get um blurred and and changed. If you're relying on the stories you've heard as you've taken these caravan trips and you've heard them recount this and that and whatever and all gets jumbled in your head and uh But details are important, and the fact that it was Pharaoh's daughter was documented a thousand years earlier, more than a thousand years earlier. Pastor Cole, um can you come back to page forty two for a second? Um in the um Quran account at the bottom The pronoun we. So we gave him the good news of the good boy and we gave him the good news of Isaac. Um book the weeds? Yeah, good question that came up Wasn't it last week? No. Yeah. And sorry you missed it, but it a lot of people here probably weren't here last week. That's what we would call the um Royal we so it it's like and that's uh that's sort of uh what is that? It's uh linguistic tag that's put on that structure of speech where like uh royalty would would speak in that way Right. Um English particularly doesn't have a good set of pronouns to deal with different hierarchical levels. And so that's why a lot of people these days um sort of associate the these and the thou's kind of language with uh more exalted um um Status and and so on. Well it turns out that the King James was written in the everyday language, not in the exalted language. Um But this has nothing to do with King James, except that um the Quran in almost every con every Situation where Allah is supposedly speaking of himself uses the plural. Okay And to think that God would be plural is completely foreign to the Quran. It's just the absolute worst sin possible in Islam is to associate Allah with other gods. However, just to uh elaborate on that, Allah never speaks of No. So why would we assign a royal pronoun to a I think the the word royal is just the the n nomenclature that that people use. Um it doesn't need to be someone in royalty to to say that. It's just a a a a sign of i it's a it's a gesture of respect. And so the fact that Allah would be demanding respect from them is sort of consistent with it. Um that's all I know. Could this could this also be the cause of an understand of misunderstanding of the word Elohim in the Hebrew Bible? It's possible. Which they believe to be plural and then they can God to be plural. in their own vernacular, even though they say that only there's only one God. Yeah, but but the Jews don't do that. I know that. But the when when they're confused and everything else, they might as well be confused. They might as well be. Yeah. Yeah. Could it be Satan's attempt to um mock or imitate the Trinity? Possibly. Possibly. Yeah. Um I haven't seen or uh any any Muslim commentary on that question. Um But it's very clear that the Quran uh won't tolerate any thought other than that Allah is one God. Nobody else. And um how they it I I think it's just the Semitic mind that that that um and way of capturing these thoughts in language Yeah. Does Arabic um or Muslim culture use this exalted per noun in any other situation like to address um a sheep or a king. That would be interesting Yeah, I I'm not sure about the plural use. Um but I know the Quran uh uh Every surah it just um um intentionally Refer when whenever there's reference to Allah, He's most glorious and merciful and just exalting praise after praise and and so on. Um So it it it it's possible except that they wouldn't want to treat humans the same way. I don't know. Okay. Well anyway, on page 43, item D here, Moses is said to have been adopted by Pharaoh's wife. We talked about that Um really it's his daughter. There are some similarities in the in the accounts, and so it seems reasonable that he heard these stories that people were recounting from from From uh Exodus and it just kind of got morphed into what's now in the Quran. Page forty four. The Quran indicates that Haman was a co-conspirator with Pharaoh at the time of Moses. They're there's uh bedfellows, right? Um so in Surah twenty-eight, Pharaoh said, O chiefs, no God do I know for you but myself. Therefore, O Haman, light me a a kiln to bake bricks out of clay, and build me a lofty place, and so on. Surah 29. Remember also uh Kuran, Pharaoh, and Haman, and there came uh there came to them Moses with clear signs, but they behaved with insolence on the earth And they could not overreach us. And so several places here, Haman is connected with Pharaoh, when in fact Haman lives when? Esther's time. So that would have been during the Babylonian exile of Israel, which would have been um Maybe pushing two thousand years between 'em. Mm-hmm. Right? Yeah. Okay. Uh And why not? Letter F here. The Quran says it was the Samaritan who led the Israelites astray and made the golden calf for worship while Moses was on Mount Sinai. That's convenient. Um and you see the account here and and so on. And and Aaron figures in the story, but he wasn't he wasn't the the the key player here, it was some Samaritan. Um well Samaritans didn't exist then, right? Samaria um came into being um twenty two uh Yeah I've got a it's uh a letter F here in the middle of page forty-four. Um they came into being with the northern tribes of Israel uh was built and named by Omri, the king of Israel, and that took place of course long after Moses and uh The like. But it was a cool name, so why not? Okay. G. The Quran claims that the heifer to be sacrificed by Moses, as a requirement of the law, was to be yellow. Well the Baba makes it clear it was to be read. Very minor detail, but it's those minor details that get missed when you've got this oral tradition and you're picking up things as stories and and so on. Okay. H. The Quran indicates that Zecharias, the father of John the Baptist, was made ab unable to speak for three whole days. Because he asked for a sign that his wife would bear a son. But what do we know? He was Uh unable to speak for nine months. Right. Um, I think that's a good thing. Those are some of the key glaring inaccuracies that are intended to be consistent with prior revelation, but in fact are not. Uh we're gonna come back to how they deal with that these days later But before we do that, it's important for us to cover this concept, this doctrine of theirs called abrogation. I'm on page 46 What is abrogation? Well, even though the Quran claims to be eternal, uncreated, It's it's nigh unto being a god, right? In their view. It also claims that later verses sometimes abrogate, in other words, annul or replace, annul and replace. verses that were revealed earlier. So Allah kind of plays fast and loose with with what's real here. And so there's actual uh justification for it in the Quran in Surah sixteen Allah says, when we substitute one revelation for another, and God knows best what He reveals in stages, they say, Thou art but a forger, but most of them understand not Right? They haven't been enlightened. And Surah thirteen, God blots out or confirms what he pleases. With him is the mother of the book. That's the Quran that's in heaven and uh the basis for all revelation. Um I wonder if it does that mean that the mother of the book um sections of it get abrogated over time as as I I don't think they understand it that way. I think they understand it that what comes down to earth gets abrogated on occasion. For God's purposes that we're not supposed to understand. I guess that's so in Surah 2, I've got a couple different translations of the same verse, verse 106. Just to kind of get different perspectives on the translation. None of our revelations do we abrogate or cause to be forgotten, but we substitute something better or similar. Knowest thou not that Allah has the power over all things? So Muslims, because of well the Quran, Understand that Allah is completely sovereign, and that doesn't mean that we need to understand His choices. He's sovereign, he does what he pleases, and that's That's actually um part of that is is true of God, that He's sovereign, He does what He pleases, and He doesn't ask have to answer to us But he does invite us to understand as much as possible, right? That's what he's revealed things. Anyway, the other translation here Uh this is not the one I normally use. The first one was the translation I normally use. But this is the way of putting it is any message which we annul or consign to oblivion, we replace with a better or similar ones Do you not know that God has the power to do and to will anything? So that's the concept. He can change what's previously revealed and make it something else. And so Take for example here what have become known as the sword verses, Surah II and Surah IX. They're said to annul many verses that encourage tolerance, like in Surah 43 and 47. So Sura 43 and Surah 7 are from the late Meccan period. So this was before the Hydra. This is when What's his name? Muhammad was in Mecca and it's before he fled for his life and went up to Medina. That was the Hydra, right? So it's from that period before he left. So this this is very early. And so in that early stage, we see Surah 43, Allah has knowledge of the Prophet's cry, O my Lord, truly these are people who will not believe. But turn away from them and say peace, but soon they shall know. That's a rather non-confrontational advice that he's giving to Muhammad, right? Surah seven, if you call them to guidance, they hear not. You will see them looking at thee, but They see not. Hold to forgiveness, command what is right, but turn away from the ignorant. Again, it's sort of a a a passive uh non-confrontational uh direction instruction there. Well that was very early in in Muhammad's uh career here. Surah II and Surah IX, however, come later, in the Medina period. And uh before I forget, last week we had on pages starting on page thirty-two We had a listing of all of the surahs, all of the chapters in the Quran, and various things about them, including when they were written. And the when they were written here I've taken from the Muslim English translation of the Quran that has commentary in it and lots of helpful information, including when they were written. those were were not so much written but um revealed. And so you can use that as a as a resource to go back, okay so when was that? Was that? Okay, that was later in things, or that was earlier in and you can uh interpret it better. So later on here in the Medina period, he says, fight in the cause of God, those who fight you. But do not transgress limits, for God loves not transgressors, and slay them wherever you catch them. And turn them out from where they have turned you out. For tumult and oppression are worse than slaughter. It's better to slaughter them than to have continued tumult and oppression. But fight them not at the sacred mosque unless they first fight you there. But if they fight you, slay them. Such is the reward of those who suppress faith. And then Surah 9 But when the forbidden mount months are past, then fight and slay the pagans wherever you find them, and seize them, beleaguer them, and lay in wait for them in every stratagem of war. But if they repent and establish regular prayers and practice regular charity, in other words, if they convert to Islam, then open the way for them, for Allah is oft-forgiving, most merciful. So uh when people point out, well, it it it's it's often the case When shrewd Muslims in debates and in conversation are confronted with verses like these sword verses, they will say, Well that's not the Quran. The Quran says, and they're referring to these earlier verses Um and they understand abrogation, but they they ignore it when it suits their purposes. Right? No, the Quran is talking about peace and and just turning away from the ignorant. Um but they can't have their cake and eat it too. Either either abrogation is is um um True. It's it's what they believe and therefore these it and it's consistent in the Quran that the the uh the sword verses, the the the the the fighting and and the beheading and all those sort of things, those are later in the Quran, the the chronology of when they were revealed. uh than the verses that were about peace and non-confrontational and so on. Um And the inconsistency they explain when pushed to do so by abrogation. God just um um um superseded the earlier verses with the later ones. But if you don't raise it in that context, they'll say, oh no, the Quran is all about peace and all about um Yeah. It was very disappointing when President Bush repeated that. We should not make that mistake. Right. That's right. And sites here, see out of the border, is jihad. Oh yeah. Yeah. We're going to talk a lot more about jihad later, but this is just a an early example here. Yeah, then so you're saying that all of the changes or always um the inconsistencies are already No, it's not it's it's um two revelations attributed to Allah. Okay. The earlier one was superseded by the later one. And they're both are in the Quran. Which raises some interesting implications. And so they uh the the shrewd ones will kind of um uh make use of both when the when it suits their purposes. Right. Yeah. I I think it's not easy to to see how this would have evolved. When Muhammad was weaker it was peace. When he was much stronger it was you know he became intraman of anyone who did have peace Right. It's not only weaker and stronger, but um he wasn't in charge in Mecca. He was in charge in Medina. Okay, another example of abrogation in the Quran is that early on Muhammad directed his followers to pray toward the Ka'aba in Mecca. where they were located. And of course, praying toward their object of uh veneration and and the symbol of where God is. uh i is not unique to uh Muslims but um for them the uh the qibla qibla is the the place where you're to pray toward. Okay. Is that the big map square in that office? That's that whole area is the Kaaba, yes. Yeah. And the Qibla? The Qibla is is the name given to um the the place where you orient yourself when you're praying. So um early on in Islam it th the the Qibla, the the place that w the name of the place wasn't Qibla, but it was The Arabic word for for what it represented, the place where you pray toward, that was was the the uh Ka'aba in in Mecca. However Later, uh particularly when they um relocated to Medina um That changed because now Mecca was was the enemy essentially. Right? They had booted them out and um So they fled from Mecca, ended up in Medina, and so at that point the Qibla was changed to Jerusalem. They should pray toward Jerusalem. But then, seventeen months later. God was God apparently had revealed to them that it had to be switched back to Mecca. And so this was all done at the the presumably at the behest of Allah. Um but no, you get this inconsistency So in Surah II, there's an account about this where it says, the fools among the people will say What has turned them from the qibla to which they were used to? And we always used to pray toward Mecca And say, Allah uh to Allah belongs both East and West. He guides whom He will in the way that is straight. Thus have we made you and ummat justly balanced, that you would be witnesses over the nations, and the messenger a witness over yourselves, and we appoint the qibla to which You were used to uh only to test those who followed the messenger. Um and so it it continues to go on. But Um apparently God changes his mind. There's some commentary here. I I don't know if this is my first example of that, but um the English translation I have of the Quran has with it pretty extensive commentary, which I found to be very helpful, elaborating on their their thinking about how this should be interpreted and so on. And so in many places I quote extensively from that commentary, which is respected among uh um Muslims And uh so it describes some of this change back and forth and uh it's rather matter-of-fact. Uh, okay. There's another example here on the top of page forty-eight where the second caliph Umar is quoted as saying, verily, God sent Muhammad with the truth, and he sent down upon him the book. Accordingly, the verse of stoning was part of what God Most High sent down. The stoning is the adulterer's due However, the Quran today actually stipulates a lesser penalty, a hundred lashes. So that's just uh another minor detail. However, the the main thing I want to talk about here is the implications of all this. on page forty-eight. So uh first of all, there are implications of this for Muslims. And the reality is there's no consensus about what verses have been abrogated and what verses abrogate them, what superseded what. There's no real consensus there. There is some logic to understanding when various verses were supposedly revealed. So The earlier one presumably will not abrogate a later one, but the other way around. The later one abrogates the earlier one. And so that's why having the notes on when they were supposedly revealed is helpful. But there's a whole um Muslim science on how to figure all this out. And they have a name for it. And so that that just raises all sorts of and and for them it's kind of um I think It's kind of a mystery for them to explore and and to to grapple with and that's um um Uh because that's the way Allah is and designed it, uh we can't necessarily know the plumb the depths of of Allah's thinking and his will, but uh it's helpful for us to wrestle with it. Well they wrestle, I'm sure. But secondly, since they believe that God reveals progressively cancels one revelation with a later one They've got no problem whatsoever that the Quran supersedes prior revelation, the Bible. That just comes naturally to them. And that doesn't even need to be consistent with the Bible. God has corrected things, he's superseded things. This is now the final revelation. That doesn't mean that God hasn't revealed things earlier, but this is what you really need to pay attention to because it supersedes everything. So that's a mindset. That even if they don't have a name, if the person you're talking with might not have a name for that, they might not understand the implications of it. That's probably what most of them are thinking. The Quran supersedes the Bible. And so that has implications for us as Christians too, right? In in communicating with them. When we're evangelizing Muslims, we need to be prepared to explain the historical facts and the revealed nature of God can't change. Uh you can't just make history um be what you want it to be. And um the historical record can't just be manipulated. Um and so when you make those errors about things that were were um recorded and and and so on many, many years in advance. You can't just play flat uh uh fast and loose with the facts. Right? That's not abrogation. That's that's um getting the facts wrong. Um, but yeah. Bill. Will they will they go as far as say that the Quran is in error? No way. No way. They won't they won't cling to that. No. So best of only uh uh Muslims do not uh subscribe to the immutability of God. Because I suppose if you say it's one thing to say that God changes the ground but he doesn't change, it'd be quite a different thing to say that that doesn't change. Yeah. We're going to we're going to talk um extensively here starting in a couple of weeks. about the Islamic understanding of Allah. And compare, contrast that with our understanding biblically, of God's nature. Um and there are some things that are basically the same. There are some things that are similar, maybe overlapping, but there are significant differences in what we mean by this versus what they mean by that. And that's one of them. Yeah. Do do you think that most Muslims understand that the Bible was written way ahead of time? Or do you think that like if you're evangelizing to them and say, well, typically this document changed first and it's been preserved. Yeah. Would they would they just automatically be like, oh well, we believe that the revelations could change Or would they even know that you know, because a lot of people don't understand technicity or mechanics like that? Right. Well there um Yes, they understand and and the Quran is clear that there were these earlier revelations, earlier prophets, and what we have of the Old Testament and even Um they'll call it the Inji of the gospel. They're believing that what Jesus preached was uh part of that long line of prophets. Um that all of that happened But there are two things. One is abrogation that God can supersede. The other, the more frequent, I think, response is oh, those things have been corrupted. We don't necessarily We can't trust that record because it's been corrupted over time. So they don't believe that God has campus protect. Right. Unless it's the Quran. They apply that to the Quran, but not to previous revelation. Like in the later documents that cron, they hit X out something from I mean they keep it in there, but It supersedes the old. Yeah, it gets it gets kind of inconsistent, but that's the position. The Quran supersedes, it can't even supersede itself. So that that's a huge challenge when you're interacting with with Muslims. Now I'm guessing that most of the Muslims like your neighbors, coworkers, people you'd run into, um most of them probably won't be all that um well educated on the Quran, even some of these doctrines that we're talking about. And so don't don't just Challenge them with how inconsistent the Quran is and all these crazy ideas. Don't raise it. But have it in the back of your mind in case they raise it. Okay. And if they raise something like, well yeah, um um how can I trust The Old Testament. How can I trust the New Testament? Now there's something we can provide them information about, right? And I'm going to provide you with info to help you do that. But d don't start on the offense trying to challenge their their uh doctrines and this kind of thing because they might not even understand them or hold them themselves. Right. But it's helpful for you to have the understanding in the background that this is likely to be the the the challenge. They're gonna Well almost anybody, even if they're non-Muslim, they're going to wonder, you know, can I really trust those ancient documents? You know, why why put my faith in into that, right? People often have that that concern. Muslims probably even more so. Even if their their theology, their their um argumentation is not as uh well developed as Muslims who would specialize in debating, for example. But they would have a general idea that the Quran supersedes. Yeah. Okay. Um I've included here some passages from scripture, of course. that teach us that God doesn't change, His Word doesn't change, His revelation doesn't change. Uh the grass withers, the flowers fade, but the word of God stands forever. And Deuteronomy twelve. Whatever I command you, you shall be careful to do. You shall not add to nor take away from it. Jesus, of course, in the Sermon on the Mount said, did not think that I came to abolish the law or the prophets. I did not come to abolish, but to fulfill. For truly I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not the smallest letter or stroke shall pass away from the law until all is accomplished. Whoever then annuls one of the least of these commandments and teaches others to do the same shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven. But whoever keeps them and teaches them, he shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven. Jesus in Mark says, heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away. And of course it's about the immu immutability of God, Hebrews thirteen eight, Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever. He's not changing Uh and a similar uh warning in Revelation twenty-two about adding or taking away from the words of the prophecy, right? So that's going to lead us a lot into our understanding of this the nature of Allah as revealed by the Quran. And how that stacks up against our understanding of God's true nature, which we see in Scripture. We're going to talk about that in a couple of weeks. But before we do that, we're going to talk next week about the hadith and the Sunnah. Because that along with the um Quran forms the basis of Sharia law, their understanding of how to live and That kind of thing, and taking together their um their guide for life. Okay, so with that are there any quick questions? The Quran what? Name of their value, right? It's the name of their scriptures. They don't call it Bible, right. But right Um the word Quran in Arabic, as I recall, means recitation, to recite. That's what um Um Muhammad was told to do to recite this to the people. All right. What are the male cars? Where is Mecca? Where is Mecca? It's in t what today we call Saudi Arabia, on the Arabian Peninsula. Sort of on the well there's there's uh a map on I have it here a little bit ago. Page twenty. It's kind of central in the Arabian Peninsula, way over to the western side by the Red Sea. It's not on the Red Sea, but it's not too far away. It's called Makah. in that old version. Medina is to the north of there, a little bit to the east, uh spelled the old way, Medina. Yes, Margaret. Yeah, I'm not sure if it's all of Mecca or it's particularly the holy place, the Ka'aba. For certain not the I think they control the voters in too. Right. And I have a question about page forty-eight zoning is still done in parts of the Northern World, isn't it? Like in Afghanistan? And can anybody survive one hundred lashes? Well the force, I suppose. Yeah, I don't know. I think I read something, I can't remember if it was the paper or what, but some dissidents in Saudi Arabia was sentenced to 100 lashes and in order to help him survive it they would meet out like thirty or forty, allow 'em to heal in prison, and then bring 'em back and do forty more until the turn the the the punishment was Well if you had the choice of that versus cutting off, you know, one of your hands and one of your feet. I don't know which is worse. The more the more I understand the um um the Quran and the religion of Islam, the more I'm just grateful that God has opened our eyes to the truth. And uh that He's revealed uh as much as he has in scripture so that we're we're without excuse even without scripture actually but he's given us even more revelation and um So our hearts really ought to go out to those who are caught up in the delusion, the um So with any one of the mentions that are like believe that you have to do work to get saved? Yeah, well that's a safe question because every religion except for biblical Christianity is a works based religion. Mm-hmm. Islam is a workspace religion in space. In other words, on top of it there are guys who can Yeah, and they they can have partly because of that, and partly because of any works based religion the adherents of that religion can have no possibility of assurance that they're gonna make it. And that's very, very, very true. And that's one of the most discouraging things for most Muslims. They they will never know until that fateful day. Which drives many of them to suicide attacks. Because that's supposedly a guarantee that you'll be in paradise. And that was a rather shrewd um uh teaching that Muhammad promulgated when he was trying to establish power in Medina and beyond his warriors were became fierce at the prospect of, well, okay, and we're gonna talk about this. Uh I win either way. Either we win the battle or I win paradise It's up to Allah. So that makes them pretty fierce. Except they're sadly disappointed. When it's too late. When they enter the turn of the biggest thing. Yeah, when it's too late. Well let's pray.