Okay, so we are on lesson 19, page 237. Today we're in the section that I really like where We're uh getting our minds around uh biblical doctrine so that we can apply it well in our conversations with Muslims who have concerns and questions about some of those very same doctrines And so yesterday well last week we began addressing their confusion about the Trinity. We're continuing that today. So on top of page 237, we have their second major claim about the Trinity, and that is that the Christian Trinity is Allah and Jesus and Mary. I don't know if that comes as a surprise to you, but that's that's their understanding, and they get that directly from the Quran. And so in Surah 5, verse 116, the Quran says, Behold, God will say, Oh, Jesus, Son of Mary. Didst thou say unto men, Worship me and my mother as gods in derogation of God? And he will say, that is, the Quran claims Jesus will say, Glory to thee, never could I say what I had no right to say. Had I said such a thing, you would have indeed known it. You know what is in my heart, and you know not, and I know not what is um what is it thou I know Not what is in thine. Right. For thou knowest in full all that is hidden. Anyway. So it's it's pretty much a consistent misconception among Muslims that the Trinity is Allah and Jesus and Mary and that is just um uh heresy in their in their view. Well, as it turns out that is kind of heresy, right? Mary is not God. Uh where would they have gotten that idea? Catholics, yeah, it was uh it was uh uh a a tradition and understanding even among early Christians uh by the time of Muhammad. Um but um When they have a misconception like that, it's basically an invitation to say, well, well, that's not exactly right. Do you mind, you know, we can look through what the Bible actually says and uh uh learn that that's that's not what the Bible teaches. Right? And so um Uh actually connected with this, this whole mindset, you know, uh Allah, God, and uh Mary and Jesus. Um the the the hang up is that Jesus is called the Son of God And that he's begotten, the only begotten Son of God. And so that triggers the thinking, okay, son, father, and son, that means there must have been a birth There must have been procreation going on here even with God. And as we see multiple places here in the middle of page 237, The Quran says, no, that that God is way above that, uh having having uh uh children is uh far beneath his dignity. And so what they're thinking about is this human uh uh process of procreation, right? And uh that uh and so it's it's logical for them to insert Mary into that because the the mother who bore this son um uh must have been a part of that that uh procreation. So uh you can sort of understand their confusion But it it and so it's it's an opportunity to just take them to Scripture and show them what the Bible actually says. And that can open up lots of true fruitful discussion. Right? So um I'm not going to cover all the details there, except to say in the middle of page 238 Um instead of uh Jesus being created having a beginning, he actually has existed eternally. We covered all these things before. Um, but he took on human flesh He became human, having already eternally existed as God, took on human flesh. And so that becoming flesh, that's what the word incarnation means, taking on human flesh, um was certainly possible only as a miracle of God. And that should resonate with your Muslim friends because as we'll go into more detail next week, uh the Quran's very explicit that Jesus was born of a Virgin Mary. That's not an issue. They don't understand why he was born and conceived of a virgin. And so this is opportunity to help them to see how this all fits together. Right. Um Okay. We're gonna cover a bit more of that later, but um I introduced last week some things that are that are actually here in a little bit more detail today. So let's see if I can summarize this. Um the New Testament often Refers to Christ as the only begotten Son of the Father. Right? And that word only begotten is is is a compound word in the Greek that um doesn't actually mean um uh created by birth, which is what begotten normally means, right? It has more to do with um uh the relationship of the father and uh the son. And so we see An example of that actually in the relationship of Abraham and Isaac in Genesis. Where in Genesis uh what is it twenty two? Uh before the Before God told Abraham to take his son well in fact let's let's read it. If you got your Bibles there, if you turn to Genesis 22. So in verse 1, now it came about after these things that God tested Abraham and said to him, Abraham, and said, Here I am. And he says now in verse 2, take now your son, your only son whom you love, Isaac. And go to the land of Moriah and so on. Now, take your son, your only was Isaac his only son at that point? He had Ishmael already. He was like twelve years older. Um take now your son, your only son, whom you love. He kind of builds this description of who this is. Your son, your only son, whom you love, Isaac. He's very specific now. And um the New Testament actually in in Hebrews Um quotes that verse, makes reference to it. So if you go to um Uh was it Hebrews ten? No eleven. Hebrews eleven. Verse uh seventeen. Actually you could start a little bit before seventeen. Uh no, seventeen's good. By faith, this is this this hall of faith, right, of all these uh have we gone before By faith, Abraham, when he was tested, offered up Isaac, and he who had received the promises That is Abraham, was offering up his only begotten son. It was he to whom it was said, In Isaac your descendants will be called. And so Abraham knew when God gave him that command that all these promises that God gave to Abraham were going to be fulfilled through Isaac. He already knew that. And so in verse 19 it says, he, Abraham, considers that God is able to raise people even from the dead. From which he also did receive him back as a type, that is a foreshadowing of what? Christ and his resurrection and and and death and so on So Isaac was to be a a type, a a foreshadowing of the Messiah And it's not insignificant that God told Abraham to go where to do this? Moriah. Well, to the land of Moriah, to a place God said he will show him. Uh for what it's worth, I don't think it was Mount what we could now call Mount Moriah, Temple Mount. I think it was Golgotha, where he told him to go. He says, To a place I will sh I will tell you. He described it to him before he even went there. Anyway, um what is how is Isaac referred to here in in um Hebrews eleven. Offered up Isaac Um his only son. His only begotten son. It uses that same term. It's the same term in the Greek. Only begotten Son. Was he his only son? No, it's not about um only in the way we use the term only, but it's it's only in the terms of um supreme. It's a compound word. It's not only and then begotten. It's only begotten, which means preeminent um um uh uh i the the the in in Isaac's case, meaning the son of promise You know, through whom the promises would come. Um but he was special. Sure, he had He had um Ishmael, in fact earlier he had pleaded with God that, oh, that your promises could could be fulfilled through my son Ishmael. God said, no, no, it's going to be through through this one who has come, Isaac. Anyway, so that term in the New Testament, only begotten, is used certainly of Isaac there, but mostly it's used of Christ. as the the special, the the supremely loved, the um the the the Son of Promise in in and the full fillment of that really. Um it doesn't mean Um begotten in the way we look at the genealogies and so-and-so begot, so-and-so begot so-and-so. Only begotten is about the relationship. And the specialness of that relationship. Then there's the confusion in Psalm two, which again is quoted many times in in the New Testament, where where God says to the uh to his son, uh, you are my son, today I have begotten you. Right? And the context there in Psalm 2 is the basically the coronation of the Son as king over all these skeptical kings of the world. And there's no reference, no context there at all about his uh birth, his the way we would normally use the word begotten. But that word in both the Hebrew and the Greek fundamentally means, and sometimes is translated, brought forth. So we use the terms in English like um begotten but also um born Um but more fundamentally it's it's brought forth, presented um that kind of concept. And uh personally, I don't know, I may be the only person in the world who believes this, but um I I don't see a uh a one-to-one correspondence between only begotten and today I have begotten you. They're actually teaching separately separate things about the nature of the Messiah. And they're not teaching that he had a beginning. They're not teaching that um In either context, it it was about his physical birth, um, but rather In the case of only begotten, it's about his relationship with the Father. And in the case of Psalm two, it's about his being presented to the world. And that one of the one of the primary Places where Psalm 2 is quoted in the New Testament is in Acts where it's connected with his resurrection. and being raised from the dead and presented. That's not a an ultimate fulfillment of Psalm 2. That ultimate fulfillment will be the coronation When he's placed on the throne, uh, in Jerusalem, in fulfillment of the Davidic covenant and and all the other things. Um However, both words, only begotten and today I've begotten you, can easily conjure up in the mind of Muslims. This is just talking about. normal birth of an individual who has a beginning, just like we all do, right? They're thinking in human terms, the father and the son, and begotten, and all that And so they get caught up on the physicalness of this and the the humanness of it And they can't get around it enough to understand that Jesus is actually God When both of these passages are speaking about his character and and role as God. Anyway, last week we talked a lot about the uh the Trinity, we're going to be looking more about the deity of Christ as we go along. But anyway, I've got some of those verses here for you and Hopefully they'll be helpful in your in your research and so on. Okay. Where I wanted to go here is the questions. On page 239, questions to ask your Muslims who make this claim that the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit Or that the Father and Jesus, or actually Allah, Jesus and Mary, are what's meant by the Trinity. Um a really helpful opportunity you would be given right there. to open the scriptures and say, um, d do you mind if we actually read what the Bible says about that? So you could take them to uh Luke 1, for example, and and talk about the the um The enunciation from Gabriel to explain to Mary what's about to happen and the character of Christ and his role and so on. And And then ask these questions. On page 240. So what did the angel Gabriel say that indicates that Mary was not God? Well, in verse 30, she has found favor with God, so she must be inferior to him Right? And in verse thirty-five, her pregnancy would be the result of God's supernatural work in her, not a natural pregnancy. Um so um that begins to suggest that um she wasn't God. But look what Mary herself said in verse 34 She asked, how could this be? She didn't have understanding. How could it be that God didn't have understanding? Right? And verse 38, she submitted to God as his bond slave Right? And in verse 47, she admitted she needed a savior, and that this child to be born, she believed by God's revelation, would be her savior. Um something by the way I think the Catholics need to understand as well. And so as we look at that passage, you can just interact with your Muslim friend, what is it actually saying, right? About the the nature of Mary and Mary couldn't be God. She was just a normal teenager at this point. And God, um, in his own sovereign way. um worked through her and in her to accomplish his purposes. Then you could take them to Matthew 28. And this of course is the Great Commission passage. It's one of the places, of course, that uh uses uh the names of Father, Son, Holy Spirit in in one in one sentence really. Jesus came up to and spoke to them all, saying this is in his resurrection appearances. Or one of them. And he says, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. Go therefore and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name singular. of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. Notice it doesn't say names plural In the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe, and so on. So you can ask them, so um How did he instruct his disciples? Well, to baptize them in the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit, and he gave them to say, uh, to observe It doesn't say names. It's singular. There's one God. Any mention of Mary? No. So that should be telling. Then you could take them to Titus 3. But when the kindness of God, our Savior And his love for mankind appeared, he saves us not on the basis of deeds which we have done in righteousness, but according to his mercy, by the washing of regeneration, rebirth. and renewing by the Holy Spirit, whom he poured out upon us richly through Jesus Christ our Savior. So that being justified by his grace, we would be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life. So, in verse 4, who is acknowledged as our Savior? God. It says God our Savior. In verse 6, who is acknowledged as our Savior? Jesus Christ, our Savior. So what does that imply? Jesus is God. Who else does it indicate has a central role in our salvation in verse 5? The Holy Spirit. In verse six, who is the whom who was poured out that is given to us? Well, the Holy Spirit. Okay. So also in verse 6: who poured out the Holy Spirit? God the Father through Jesus Christ. So do you see that the Father, the Son, the Holy Spirit are all referred to here as God, who did what was necessary to save us? One God, three persons. So then you can take them to John 1. You don't want to start with John 1. But John 1 is very helpful to see them grapple with, particularly the deity of Christ. So you read through it in the beginning, or get him to read through it. Or her. And they read it. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God, all things came into being through him, and apart from him, nothing came into being that has come into being. And then later in verse 14, and the word became flesh and dwelt among us. And we saw his glory. Glory as of the only begotten of the Father. Okay. So you ask him then, well according to verses one through three, when was the word of God created? He wasn't created. He's always been. That's what it says. Who was the Word of God with at the beginning? God, that's what it says. Who was the Word of God? God Himself. That's what it says. Right? And what role did the Word of God have in creation? He created all things. So you just ask him questions of what is he observing from the text, right? And then say, well, uh read verse fourteen again. What is the unique, what is unique about the Word of God? He became flesh. That is, he took on human flesh. He became a human being. And who is that referring to? Look at verse 17. Jesus Christ, the one who was full of grace and truth. So in your communication then with him, let's let's think about this. Verses fourteen and eighteen refer to the Word of God as the only begotten from the Father, and the only begotten God who is in the bosom of the Father. Did you realize that the term only begotten does not refer to physical procreation? As with human reproduction, in the original Greek in which the New Testament was written, this is one word which means unique, favored. uh extremely loved and so on. When used of humans, it doesn't necessarily mean that the only begotten had no siblings, for it's also used of Isaac, who had an older half-brother, Ishmael And as such, he was foreshadowing the Messiah who would come, which is Christ. Top of page 242. So again, you're interacting with your Muslim friend. So, what do we see from these verses that indicates that the Son of God, that is the Word of God, did not become the Son of God by sexual union Between God and Mary. Well, verses one and two says he's eternal. Right? Verse three says he created all things. So he existed before anything was created. And verse 14 says, he took on, he became flesh. He became a human. God, the eternal God, became A man, a human being, even a baby, in space and time. He stepped into space and time to accomplish his purposes. That should blow their mind. That's a good thing. It should it should blow our mind. Um Now, that may lead you to days and weeks of conversation and looking through scripture. I'm just looking at a piece of it here. uh hopefully that will get if if God's if God's working on their heart, it's gonna be something that's that's gonna be drawing them to to to Christ. Something that they might not realize is that the Quran itself refers to Jesus as the Word of God. And a couple of places here, particularly Surah 3, where it says, Behold, the angel says, O Mary, God gives you glad tidings of a word from him. His name will be Christ Jesus, the Son of Mary, that is you, held in honor in this world and in the hereafter, and so on. And then in verse in Surah 4, Referring to Christians, O people of the book, commit no excesses in your religion, nor say of God aught but the truth, Christ Jesus the Son of Mary was no more than a messenger of God and his word, which he bestowed on Mary, and a spirit proceeding from him. So that's one of the places where they are seeing very clearly there's it's it's um blasphemy to even consider the concept of of uh Trinity But in the context of that, it's referring here to Christ as his word, God's word. Now There are split interpretations among Muslims, Muslim commentators about what it means here that in particular in Surah 4, that who hi or who or what his word here is. I mention here that the translator of the most respected English translation of the Quran says that he thinks this word here is really a word from from God, just like in creation, he says You know, God speaks and it happens and it it it becomes into being. But that also happened here with Jesus, and that's the word he's speaking about B. And there are verses in the Quran that that um uh in fact there's one here that's given to you, uh Surah three verse fifty nine. But you look at the language there, and that's a pretty a pretty flimsy interpretation of what the Quran is actually saying. But more particularly, Sura 3 couldn't be more explicit. It's kinda hard it's kind of hard to um think of this other than that the word here is referring to Jesus. It's describing who he is. um claiming he was only a messenger, um but it makes reference to him as his word. Now that that is not a hugely significant thing to be Hung up on, you don't have to get into arguments with Muslims about that. We know that Jesus is the Word of God because we see it in Scripture. The fact that the Quran is is mixed up doesn't um um really affect anything. Uh but and and here again this is something you probably don't want to get into arguments about with with your Muslim friends. But at the very bottom of page 242, Muslims believe that the Quran is the Word of God which is eternal. And again, the same commentator says God's message is not ephemeral, it is eternal. The tablet is not to be understood in a material sense made of stone or metal. It is preserved or guarded from corruption, for God's message must endure forever. That message is the mother of the book. That is the origin of all revelation that God gave to man. That's what the Quran is saying. Well, take that to its logical conclusion. If the word there, the mother of the book, is eternal, uncreated How can it be eternal and uncreated without also being God? And if it is separate from God and eternal and uncreated, then they really believe there are two gods. Allah and the Quran. Um you don't have to get in an argument with them about that. I wouldn't pursue it personally, but you just for your own edification need to realize it's all inconsistent. Right. No, no, no. They're saying that the the way Christians teach this Trinity and their concept of what the Christians are teaching is God, Mary, and Jesus. They don't believe it. They're saying this is in fact they say that's nonsense. And so don't use the word Trinity, don't believe anything about the Trinity. That's what because that's what Christians say and they're wrong. That's the point. And our opportunity is to show them, well, no, that's not actually what the Bible says. Right? Yeah, but okay. Okay, well, more uh important things here. Actually number three here on page two forty-three. It's pretty simple. You might hear the argument, well, you know, the word Trinity is not even in the Bible. So it's wrong to hold it as a true doctrine. Come on. The Muslim word for the doctrine of God's indivisible unity, tawied, is not in the Quran either. So what's your point? I mean it it's a word that aptly, succinctly describes the concepts that are described in the Bible The word itself can be a brand new word, doesn't have to be um uh in in the text itself. But it's an apt summary of the teaching that is in the text. And so that's a non-issue. But let's look at number four. The doctrine of the Trinity is incompatible with the oneness and uniqueness of God. And this probably will come up And it's an important place to camp out for a while and take them into the Word. So we've seen some of these passages before from the Quran. Um that that teach that um well take for example 364. Say, O people of the book, come to common terms as between us and you, that we worship none but God, that we associate no partners with him, that is, equals. That we erect not from among ourselves lords and patrons other than God, right? Staunchly monotheistic. And of course you should say, well, I'm also monotheistic. There's only one God. And we've talked about that, right? And Surah VI. Verily, my Lord hath guided me to a way that is straight, a religion of right, the path trod by Abraham, the true in faith. And he certainly joined not God with God. And so say this is the Quran, the Quran and and supposedly Gabriel telling Abraham, uh Abraham, uh Muhammad, this is what he used to say to people, truly my prayer and my service of sacrifice, my life. And my death are all for God, the cherisher of the world. No partner has he. No equal. There's no one equal with God. This I am commanded, and I am the first of those who will bow to his will. What's interesting is Surah 7, verse 191, says Do they indeed ascribe to him as partners things that can neither that can create nothing, but are themselves created Well, again, it's interesting that the Quran claims that Jesus created a bird and breathed life into it and it flew away. We're gonna talk a little bit more about that next week. Uh a no, actually it's it's um Yeah, it's next week. Uh and so there's some inconsistency there. He created, even according to the Quran, now of course that's apocryphal, that that appeared in some some uh early um uh Christian apocryphal non-biblical writings between the time of Christ and and Muhammad. And that got incorporated into among all the stories that Muhammad was hearing. But even on that, there's there's inconsistency Okay, so on page two hundred forty four, um if it helps Here on page 244, uh just reviewing here, and again the the the the basic claim that we're addressing here is that uh the doctrine of the Trinity is incompatible with the doctrine of the unity of God. And as we talked about that, was it last week or earlier, that um The doctrine of the unity of God, there is only one God, is really the foundation of our understanding of the doctrine of the Trinity. Because if Scripture was not clear, and it is very clear that there's only one God, but if Scripture were not clear our our understanding of Trinity would be three gods rather than the correct biblical understanding which is one God and three persons eternally And so first several things I list there are just summarizing that and there are places you can go back to. the previous chapter. But I also offer a physical analogy here that may or may not be helpful in your conversation with Muslims. The point is that even the physical world, there are things we can't wrap our minds around all that well, such as the triple point of water. So if you if you have a phase diagram, and this is that's a little schematic of a phase diagram, where you show all the combinations of pressure and temperature, and it's not just water, other elements do the same thing. You know, as as you at let's say atmospheric pressure, if if you go, if you increase the temperature, you go from a solid, which is what? Ice. And then it transforms at the melting point or freezing point, depending on which direction you're going, to another phase, which is liquid, water And you keep heating it and it transforms to another phase, which is what? Gas, vapor, whatever, at the boiling point. Right? And at different pressures, it those things happen at different temperatures. And you just trace out what they are. And scientists have done this, you know, long ago. Well, it turns out that water and and some other compounds exhibit a triple point. So at at those lines, as you're as you have ice that's at the the point of melting If you hold that condition steady, it's existing as both ice and liquid water simultaneously. Both are happening at that point. And whether it transforms entirely to one or the other depends on which direction you're going from the line. But on the line, it's technically both at the same time. But there is a point, a triple point, where if you get just the right pressure and the right temperature, it's all three at the same time. Solid, liquid, and gas. And if you change the pressure and temperature combination, it's going to go into one of those phases. But at that point, it's all three simultaneously. All three are H to O, the same essence, but they They're existing in different phases as we describe phases. Solid, liquid, and gas. Now, that doesn't prove the Trinity. What it does prove is we can't get our minds around even things that are physical, that can be proven by physical observation. So why should it surprise us that we can't get our minds around the character of God, given that we're so finite? We're created He's our creator. It shouldn't surprise us. That's not a cop-out, but it shouldn't surprise us that we can't plumb the depths of the nature of God. Apart from what is revealed to us So what has he revealed to us? Well and that's what we're going through. That he is eternally existed in three persons. Um okay. So page two forty five. I hope I have time to cover this. This is this is Cool and it actually fits in well with the significance of today Claim number five. God will not forgive those who believe that there is any other God but Allah, or that Allah has divine partners. That is the supreme unforgivable sin called shirk. Now that's not shirk like we shirk responsibilities. This is a Hebrew term. Not Hebrew, Arabic. But that is an unforgivable sin, according to the Quran. So look at Surah 4, verse 48. God forgives not that partners should be set up with him, that is, equals. But he forgives anything else to whom he pleases To set up partners with God is to devise a sin most heinous indeed. Well, um As we've already seen, um a lot of the misunderstanding here is um this concept of the father-son relationship and that must in their thinking be associated with uh procreation and um if if God procreates with Mary, um whether she's a god or not you know, Jesus would have had a beginning and and that doesn't make him God and and just all sorts of confusion. Um But on page 246, what I suggest is some questions you can ask your Muslim friends. Just start out by saying, you know, what's your understanding of what the Quran means by setting up or assigning partners with God? What is meant by a partner? And so they'll say something like an equal. Someone who is, if he's equal with God, he must be also a God. And that's that's that just can't be. There's only one God. Right? Well, then you can say, do you realize that the biblical doctrine of the Trinity does not do that? Would you like to see what the Bible actually teaches about God's nature? And so again, here's another opportunity. We can review the scriptures, get into the actual scriptures, have them read the text and and um um help him to observe from it and draw the right conclusions. So the third question here, did you realize that God had to take on human flesh? Maybe you haven't thought about it that way. Did you realize that God had to take on human flesh? Well, first of all, God Himself Had revealed that the consequence of man's sin was death. Right? Separation from him included a physical death and a spiritual death. And so what's interesting, if you go back to Genesis two, God um On day six of creation, even before he created Eve, he told Adam, you know, you've got you've got all this that I've made for you. Uh but this one tree in the middle of the garden, the tree of uh the knowledge of good and evil, you are not to eat from that. Everything else you can eat. And he said there, he gave Adam this warning, for in the day that you eat of that tree, you will surely die. And then we read in Genesis 3, the very next chapter, of course, both Eve and then Adam ate from that tree. Did he die in that very day? No. It set in motion his eventual physical death, right? But he didn't die physically that day. What did happen? He died spiritually, which is um uh alienation from, separation from God. Right? And in that in that sentencing in Genesis 3, he told Adam By the sweat of your face you will eat bread till you return to the ground, for f uh because from it you were taken, for you are dust, and to dust you shall return. So he spoke of a future physical death on that day. But Adam didn't physically die on that day. But later in chapter 3 of Genesis, we read that he kicked him out of the garden, kicked him out of his presence. And sin of course had all sorts of of um uh consequences that uh Adam and Eve, both and all of us since have experienced. Okay. Um then uh The point on the top of page 247 is that ever since then, all of us have sinned We're we're born with a sin nature, um and that sin separates us from God in the several verses there under item B. And then item C, since we have our own sins to pay for, none of us is eligible to pay for anyone else's sins. And that is something that the Quran would agree with To a fault, actually. Psalm 49 says, uh no man can by any means redeem his brother or give to God a ransom for him, for the redemption of his soul is costly And he should cease trying forever. So um uh none of us can pay for anyone else's sins. Why? We have our own to pay for, right? So the only one who could ever pay for our sins is someone who didn't have his own to pay for. And so, point D here, God from eternity past made a plan to save some humans from this dilemma. He would provide a sinless substitute who would pay for our sins by shedding his blood in death for us. And so We see the first glimpses of this even in Genesis 3, in that initial sentencing of Adam and Eve, where In verse uh, well, we can go ahead and read 14. The Lord said to the serpent, Because you have done this, cursed are you more than all cattle, and more than every beast of the field, on your belly you will go. And dust you will eat all the days of your life. And I will put enmity between you and the woman, between your seed and her seed. He shall bruise you on the head, and you shall bruise him on the heel. Even Jewish commentators recognize this as a foreshadowing of the Messiah who would ultimately defeat Satan. And God is uh uh hinting at that whole plan, even at the moment where he's judging the very first sin And it's referring obviously to who? Christ. The seed of the woman. Actually, this is the only place where in Scripture where Uh a woman is referred to as having seed. Usually it's the the father, right? Uh and so it it it you know in looking back at it we see it's actually making reference to the the virgin birth of Christ Then of course you can take them to Isaiah 53, where you have this prediction, this prophecy of the coming Messiah who would bear our sins. and uh in lots of uh detail provided there. So um The point is this, that on page two hundred forty-eight, God provided many illustrations of this plan This is not plan B. It's it's still plan A, the only plan God is implementing to to save us. And so through the prophets, through the law itself that was given to Abraham, God just showed pictures of what was to come. Uh the sacrifices began right back there in the Garden of Eden where God sacrificed um Uh the first death of any kind in creation was God killing one or probably more animals to uh uh not only picture the the substitute nature of God's salvation He said, in the day you eat of it you shall surely die. Who died? Those animals. A substitute. Right? And he used the skins from those animals to cover the shame of Adam and Eve. And picturing the substitutionary solution payment of sin that God was um foretelling even in in Genesis 315 and the whole law, the whole sacrificial system was pointing ahead to that that um That one ultimate sacrifice by the Messiah that would come. So either we pay for our sins or we find a substitute, right? But we can't. So what are the qualifications of a substitute? Well, there must be the shedding of blood in death. It has to be a human. Those animals can't do it. They're only a picture of what's to come, right? Um it has to be a human Shedding blood in death, and it has to be a sinless human. And so we see throughout these passages I have here from the law and in in Genesis and so on, had to be a an animal that was unblemished, again picturing the sinlessness of the ultimate sacrifice Christ. So the substitute had to shed blood and death, had to be a human, had to be sinless. Well God in all that is being true to His holiness and justice The sin has to be paid for. It's incompatible with him. Um But it was only about his holiness and justice, he would have wiped us off the earth But it's also about his love and his grace. And to be consistent with both his holiness and justice and his love and grace and mercy and all that. There's only one way to provide a solution. And that is God had to take on human flesh. It had to be human blood. He had to be conceived of a virgin. Why? Because otherwise he'd inherit a sin nature. He would sin, he'd be no more qualified than we are. So he had to be separate from sin even from conception. And then he had to live a sinless life. And then he had to voluntarily give up his life in payment for our sin. And uh it's not just the physical nailing to the cross. It's more importantly, while he was on the cross, God the Father turned his back on God the Son because he became sin for us. Right? And then he had to be resurrected. Otherwise, there's no defeat of sin and death. That's where it fits into today. All that had to happen. There's no other solution. If you're God, you're going to be true to your holiness and justice and your love and your grace. It had to be. Now maybe he's he probably is wise enough to think of something else, but this clearly seems it's it's the only way it could happen, given God's character. And God's demands. And so I've got more there that you can look at. But let's look at the last page, 252, real quick. None of that would have been possible if God had not taken on human flesh. And because God, by his nature, is not only holy and just, but also loving He had to implement this most gracious plan to remain true to himself. Look what Ephesians 2 says. It speaks of course of our sin and and and so on, but it says verse four, but God, being rich in mercy, because of his great love, with which he loved us, even when we were dead in no transgressions Made us alive together with Christ. By grace we have been saved, and raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus, so that in the ages to come he might show the surpassing riches of his grace. In kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. For by grace you have been saved through faith and so on. General revelation, you know, we read in in uh Romans one, for example, that All men are accountable, all people are accountable to God because of general revelation, both what they see in creation and what God has put in our hearts, in our conscience. That there is a God, we're accountable to Him, and there's certain basics about God's nature that are obvious to everybody. Uh Romans 1 refers, for example, to his eternal power. You know, the God who created all this must be um certainly all-powerful, right? But there's some things that general revelation don't reveal to us. General revelation is just given to everybody. Right? So it's our conscience, creation, what we see. Everybody can look at the the heavens and see the the glory of God, right? But Not everything about God can be revealed or is revealed in general revelation. That takes special revelation God revealing by his word through prophets and ultimately by Christ things that were not revealed By general revelation. And one of the main things, or category of things, that we understand from God's special revelation Things about God's character would be His mercy, His grace, His love. Unless there had been special without special revelation, we would be clueless about his mercy. We would think of him as a powerful, wrathful God. We would know that we're accountable to him, but there wouldn't be much hope built into that. That hope comes from the revelation that God is also gracious. Loving, and he stepped into time to bear the sins, the punishment, the wrath of God that we deserved. And having done that, he died a physical death, and yet overcame it by the resurrection. That's a good place to end today. Okay, I hope that helps. Let's pray