Well good morning again. Uh today we are on uh lesson nine in the books. Is there anybody who needs a hard copy of the book today? Diane has some over there. Um and again if if you don't have one yet of your own, we'd highly encourage you to get one. Particularly if you're used to writing notes and scribbling and whatever. But the PDF is available also in the Hope Book group for this class. And if you need help finding that, Diane can help you there too. All right. So we're on Lesson nine, page ninety-two, the doctrines of Islam. We talked a lot about the background, the historical development, and uh some of the key characteristics of Islam, but we're going to start today by getting into what it is they teach, what it is they they believe, and so on. So It shouldn't be surprising that given that every religion other than biblical Christianity is a religion of works. And if you ask them to describe um what is w what is it we are to do, what is the basis for our having a relationship with God, uh they'll very freely tell you it's faith plus works. Uh as if that makes any sense whatsoever. In Islam, however, I don't know that they would say this, maybe they would, but it's not just faith plus works, it's faith plus works kind of modified by or multiplied by, if you want, an equation. Fate. Uh they are very strong proponents of the sovereignty of Allah. And uh there is the Quran is actually uh consistent with and very um um transparent with the reality that if if your salvation is based on faith plus works, you really can never know if you're saved. And it just goes for the turf. Um if it's not based on God's grace alone, then you can never know if you're good enough to um satisfy God. Well, that's true in spades, in in um in Islam because the Quran very specifically says that even if you've got good f faith and good works and you don't completely know, it's really up to God anyway. And uh so this this astr this aspect of fate is sort of the trump card. So uh You can look, for example, at the top of page 92, where there's a quote here from Surah 5 in the Quran, to those who believe and do deeds of righteousness So there's the faith and the works. Um to them has God promised forgiveness and a great reward. To those who reject faith and deny our signs will be companions of hellfire. So we're going to talk today about the faith component. What are the basic essentials they are called to believe? And then next week we're going to talk a bit more about the actual works they need to perform as part of that. So there are six essential doctrines in Islam. And there are a couple of verses here we have on page 92 that kind of survey these categories. So one is from Sura 2, which by the way is is um I think far and away the longest of uh chapters in in the Quran. And so here we're looking at verses two hundred and eighty-four and two hundred and eighty-five. You know how long it is, right? Anyway, it says to God And here's this doctrine of one God. To God belongs all that is in heaven, in the heavens and the earth, whether you show what is in your minds or conceal it, God calleth you to account for it. So judgment. That's another key doctrine. God calls you to account. He forgives whom he pleases and punishes whom he pleases, for God has power over all things, and that's this aspect of faith. The messenger, that is Muhammad, believes in what has been revealed to him from his Lord, as do the men of faith Each one of them believes in God and his angels, that's another category of doctrinal um importance, angels. believes in God, his angels, his books. That's referring to the scriptures, both the Quran and, according to the Quran, all previous revelation by God. which we understand to be uh reliable. Uh and his messengers, other prophets, in addition to Muhammad, all those prophets who were instrumental particularly in um God's previous revelations. So we make no distinction uh between one and another of his messengers. They're all part of God's revelatory work. So let's take a look at these doctrinal categories in a bit more detail. The first one is the doctrine of God, and more specifically, that there is just one God. Um that came as a very um startling thing in pagan uh Arabia at the time of Muhammad, that there would be just one God, but That is the the hallmark of Muhammad's preaching, teaching the Quran. Just one God. And so Look, for example, here toward the bottom of 92 from Surah 4. God forgives not that partners should be set up with him Partners meaning someone equal with God, right? Uh God forgives not, doesn't doesn't forgive that anybody should set up partners with God, but he forgives anything else. To whom he pleases. To set up partners with God is to devise a sin most heinous indeed. And so that sin of of having any gods except Allah, the one God, is the sin they call shirk I don't know if it's related to our use of the word shirk, like shirking responsibility. Probably not. But in Arabic, it's it's the sin of shirk which is setting up uh believing in uh any God who would be um well any God at all, but particularly anybody who's who's um Equal to God. That kind of thing. That is actually unforgivable, according to the Quran. No, there's no hope for you if you've believed that. And so it ought not to be a big surprise that there They're uh predisposed to not only disagree with but um reject Christianity. Right? Look at the top of page 93 from Surah 5. They do blaspheme who say God is one of three in a Trinity. For there is no God except one God. If they desist not from their word of blasphemy, verily a grievous penalty will befall the blasphemous among them. So um you know I I've mentioned here repeatedly that As you read through the Quran, you see the fingerprints of Satan all over it. Here's an example. uh a direct attack on the doctrine of the Trinity as revealed clearly in scripture. So this reminds me of when Satan wanted to be like God. Satan's one and he's setting up Allah as one. Is there a connection here, do you think? Is this a thing a big greasy fingerprint? Yeah, that's a good way to think about it. Um you know the the the irony here is that the temptation that Satan gave to Eve was that, you know, if if you eat of the fr this fruit, you'll be like God And the the idea of being like God, um uh that's c clearly been Satan's mode all along. But the irony is God wants us to be like him. He commands us to be like him in his moral attributes. Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, self-control, holiness. His moral attributes are are communicable. He wants us to be like him. But what Satan had in mind was to be like God in other respects. His non-communicable attributes like sovereignty, power, all power, uh, and those kind of things. And Satan is definitely not those things. But if he can get people to think he has those things, it it uh may give him some leverage and so on. So that's what he tried with with E Anyway, again, the irony here, and we're going to develop this a lot more later as we get into a lot of the specifics about reaching out. to Muslims in their misunderstandings. But uh the irony is that we are also Monotheistic, staunchly monotheistic. The only difference is that they are Unitarian and we are Trinitarian. And monotheism and Trinitarian doctrine are hard to reconcile in particularly a fallen mind. How can it be that God is three in one? God can say, as he does here in the middle of page 93, Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one. Which indeed is true. How can it be that this one God has eternally existed in three persons. And that is not tri theism. It's not polytheism. It's um It's the truth is that God is is one. And it turns out that um the doctrine of the Trinity Uh depends on the unity of God, the oneness of God Without the oneness of God, there really could be no doctrine of the Trinity. What you would have is polytheism. And we'll we'll talk about that in a lot more detail. But You remember when Satan is described as deceiving Eve in the garden? Uh how did he do that? Same way he's always been deceiving, to twist the truth. To say some of the truth, not all the truth, to give it a direction that wasn't intended, all those sort of things, to twist it. And uh here's a good example. Uh setting up a straw man that uh you know we believe in one g that God is one and therefore you don't. Well no, we actually do believe that God is one. Um but twisting it out of out of um well, both ignorance and ulterior motives. um is sort of the the standard um modus operande that Satan follows Of course, Jesus said, I am the Father of One. He who has seen me has seen the Father, right? The ultimate expression of the eternal God. And as we'll see when we look into this more fully, uh there are substantial uh indications uh in the Old Testament of the Trinity. It's not just a New Testament concept. It's been there all along. And we'll see that as we go along. But anyway, that's one of the the pillars in in uh Muslim doctrine that there is only one God and there They're uh staunchly Unitarian in their thinking. Um this This was in Surah too. It's uh um the Sagical doctrine. So what what it makes me believe is At that time when Muhammad was writing this or was conveying this to people orally, um people were questioning him about Trinity. That's why he wrote this I don't know that people were questioning it. They may have been. Or they may have been saying things like, well we we hear the the Jews believe this, we hear the Christians believe this, and you know we're w where do we stand in all that? It's possible that could happen? I think it's just as possible, and maybe more likely, that he had these things jumbling around in his head for years prior to these these revelations and um was conflicted in his own mind as he talked with with Jews and with Christians and people who were influenced by Christianity but weren't really Christians. Um and this whole idea of Trinity naturally seemed not to make sense And I I think he probably was already predisposed to that conclusion long before this happened. And so he was a a good tool for Satan to sort of codify that. Yeah. That's presuming that he actually said these things just people remember that when you were recording that. It does, but um I I think that's probably Uh an excellent assumption to make that this is this was his message all along. Yeah. Okay, let's go to Angels, page ninety-four. Uh Muslims believe that there is a hierarchy of angels and that they serve as intermediary intermediaries between Allah and man, and so there is in many respects A lot of similarities between what God has revealed in Scripture and what we end up seeing in the Quran. Um there's reference specifically to both Gabriel and Michael. And I'm that's not all that surprising because those names probably came up in those conversations he had while he was on his caravans and talking with um uh Jews and Christians. Interesting, however, number three, uh Satan, and the Arabic name for him is Iblis. is believed to be an evil spirit whom God cursed because he would not worship, or maybe more literally, just bow down to Adam. He rebelled against that. Um and instead, and and maybe out of spite or whatever, you know uh caused Adam to sin. And so uh back in the early parts of Surah II here Behold, your Lord said to the angels, I will create a vice-regent on earth. He's referring to mankind. And uh will you place therein, and they said, will you place therein one who will make mischief therein and shed blood? While we celebrate your praises and glory and your holy name, and uh Allah said, uh, I know what you know not. And he taught Adam the nature of all things and he placed them before the angels and said, Tell me the nature of these if you are right. And they said, Glory to you, of knowledge we have none Save what you have taught us. In truth, it is you who were perfect in knowledge and wisdom. And he, Allah, said, O Adam, tell them Their natures. And when he had told them, God said, Did I not tell you that I know the secrets of heaven and earth? And I know what you reveal and what you conceal And behold, we said to the angels, bow down to Adam. And they bowed down, but not so Ephis. Satan. He refused and was haughty. He was of those who reject faith. And then later it says in verse 36, then did Satan make them slip from the garden. and get them out of the state of felicity in which they had been. It's kind of a roundabout way of saying causing them to sin, except um their understanding of of sin is And so there's several references to this supposed account and and uh uh creation of Adam and Eve and calling the angels to bow down to him. At the very least that bowing down means to um uh reverence to to um serve, to um give honor to whether it means worship, I I I don't know. I I I indicated maybe it does, but um that would suggest that they should be viewed as God and that would be completely contrary to to uh what we just were looking at concerning one God. Anyway. Um On the top of page 95, each human is said to have two recording angels One angel who records all of his or her good deeds and one who records all of the bad deeds. It's all recording. And these recordings will be brought out at the final judgment. Yeah. Um It specifically is about D And that's sort of consistent with the whole workspace thing. Yeah. Yeah, that's a foreign concept. Yeah. The the the heart issues, the heart of the matter, whether we're wholly even at that level is completely foreign. And so there's reference here in a couple of surahs. Surah 50, it was we who created man, and we know what dark suggestions his soul makes to him, for we are nearer to him than his juggler vein. Behold, two guardian angels appointed to learn his doings learn and noted them, one sitting on the right and one on the left. Not a word does he utter, but there is a sentinel by him ready to note it. Um and then it says later um when the tr When the trumpet is blown, and uh that will be the day whereof warning has been given, and there will come forth every soul, with each one will be an angel to drive, and an angel to bear witness. Um and they'll say, you know, here is his record, I have it, sort of like the the uh prosecuting attorneys, right. Um so it's all recorded. Um and so that's related to this number five here. Muslims believe that angels will be instrumental in carrying out uh Allah's judgment on mankind. And um for the most part, you know, the role of angels that we see in scripture is as messengers, but Um there are times when like when he um destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah, you know, they came to to warn and and to um uh um provide uh escape for Lot and his family. But um If you look at Surah 66 here, O ye who believe, save yourselves and your families from a fire whose fuel is men and stones. over which are appointed angels, stern and very severe, who flinch not from executing the commands they receive from God, but do precisely what they are commanded. Uh so whoever whoever read it revealed this to Muhammad had read the book of Revelation. No doubt. He couldn't read. No. No, Mohammed couldn't. But maybe you haven't revealed it to Muhammad. Oh, I see what you're saying. Okay, yeah. Well according according to the Muslims it's it's Gabriel, but I think it might be a different the source. Yes. Um yeah, and what's interesting On the bottom of page ninety-five, Muslims believe that Allah also created jinns. genes, who are invisible creatures, neither men nor angels, but have a will and are accountable to Allah. In fact, Surah 18 Verse 50, which is at the bottom of the previous page, 94, tells us that Iblis, Satan, is a djinn, not an angel. It says, we said to the angels, bow down to Adam, and they bowed down, except Eblis. He was one of the Jinns, and he broke the command of his Lord, and so on. So um you probably heard the word genie. That's what this comes from. Jins. Jinns. I don't know how they pronounce it in Arabic, but Um that's this whole other class of created being that are are not human, they're not God, they're not even angels, they're distinct. And they're kind of a for the most part a nuisance to humans. But um Yeah, uh belief in jinn, genies uh was r uh uh greatly precedes Muhammad. I mean that was just an Arabic uh in Arabic lore anyway. And so what the Quran did was sort of apparently provide some context and explanation and and that sort of thing. Um there's more there that you can you can read on that, but I wanted to Move on here. The third area of doctrine that is central to Islam is the doctrine of holy books, of the scriptures. Muslims believe and the Quran teaches that the Quran is the final revelation from Allah, but not the only revelation from Allah. And so that the Torah of Moses, the Psalms, and the Gospel in you of Jesus Christ are examples of earlier revelation, they believe, from Allah. They believe that, and the Quran is clear, that the Quran supersedes all of those earlier revelations. If there's any conflict between them, it's because God has abrogated the old and brought in the new. Right? You remember we talked about abrogation And I've repeated some verses here about that again from Surah 10 from Surah 2. None of our revelations do we abrogate or cause to be forgotten, but we substitute something better or similar for it. And Surah 13, God blots out or confirms what he pleases, with him is the mother of the book. So all prophecy, including the Quran. has as its origin what God has in heaven in the mother of the book, the origin of all such prophecy. Yeah. Abrogation. But you like I haven't seen it in a It at one point God says something and then they said, now we can no longer do that. We're on to like an inspiration. And again, how could they go back and say we believe in the for us But it's no longer Isaac. It's Ishman. That doesn't seem like aggregation to me. That seems like a change of Well there there certainly is a a uh uh a change of of history and and that kind of thing there. From our perspective. From their perspective, the answer to your question is that one of the reasons for this final revelation is that much from those earlier revelations got corrupted. And so Allah wanted to set the record straight. And that's meaning that that doesn't that mean that they don't believe it. See that's that's that's um uh a conundrum, a a um Contradiction? Well contradiction, but it's it's it's totally true, but I believe it's totally inaccurate. Yeah, and and they're quite free to quote from it when it suits their purposes out of context. But that's a corrupted work, right? How does this all and so th they have a the they're kind of between a rock and a hard place on that. And we're going to talk about that a lot. There's much in the Quran that would teach Muslims to respect the earlier uh prophecies, the earlier writings, the earlier prophets, and even to go to the people of the book, the Jews and the Christians, to to learn some things. But there's much else in the Quran that says the exact opposite, that um um they're infidels And so on. So um it you know, when you believe that Allah is sovereign and answerable to nobody, you can't question is What he does. And that's where they're at. And that should be where we are. It should be. But we know God to be consistent and true and good and all those things They don't have any such conviction about Allah. So that's that's because the murder of the book and Satan has confused, it twisted their mind. Sure. Right. And he will continue to do it until he's cast into the bottomless pit. Yeah, you can you can kind of see see it pretty plainly from our perspective given what God has revealed. Do they have a regular on their shelves? I don't think they have any of these things on their shelves. No. Yeah. See th this when it really comes down to it, this was passed along, whether it was completely revealed or made up or whatever, it was passed along by someone who had all these things jumbled up in his mind anyway about um Jewish history, Christian history, teachings, um historical events And the Quran ends up jumbling them all up and adding distorting um Yeah. It's sad. Excuse me, that's the public. Are we saying that Um the Torah, songs and the gospel. Those books will be uh revealed by Allah? That's what they say. uh the other thing. Um well let me read from that that uh Chapter 4 there. We have sent you, and here the uh speaking to Muhammad, we have sent you inspiration as we sent it to Noah and to the messengers after him. We sent inspiration to Abraham, Ishmael, Isaac, Jacob, and the tribes, to Jesus, Job, Jonah. Aaron and Solomon, and to David we gave the Psalms. Of some messengers we have already told you the story, of others we have not. And to Moses, God spoke direct. Um and uh I'm not seeing it yet at the moment, but there um uh there's reference to to the the gospel that jesus preached. Now in their thinking They're not referring to Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John at all. What they're thinking is the reason Jesus came was to preach The gospel, which is calling people back to the religion of Abraham Which is Islam in their view, surrender to God. And of course, the the Jews had had by the time of Jesus, of course, uh become substantially corrupt in doctrine and and and so on. Um and there is a need for someone to call them back to the true religion And uh there I've never seen any any reference to any writing of the gospel of Jesus as they picture it. When you point them to the gospel record in the Bible about the life and the teachings of Jesus, um They'll probably be predisposed if if they're aware of the doc of the Quran's emphasis on these prior revelations They'll probably be predisposed to listen to it and and and so on, but it won't fit their preconceived notion about what the gospel of Jesus was. Yeah. I think this word Angel is similar to evangel. It could be. It could be, except Evangel is Greek, and Injil is Arabic. Um if it were Hebrew and Arabic, I could see the connection more quickly. But um yeah, I don't know. Anyway, um So the the the doctrine here is that all those previous revelations are ultimately from the since there's only one God These other revelations were from him. And the Quran doesn't explicitly or strongly say it. But standard Muslim belief is that the reason for any such contradictions and so on is that the older uh revelations and scriptures have been corrupted. And we're going to address that head on in a little while. So the books that they believe are revelation from Allah, like the Torah, the Psalms, and the Injil They say that they honor those prophets, but they don't know what the prophets taught or teach. For the most part. Now there is uh a fair amount of argumentation from Muslims That surprisingly, I don't know if you realize this, but the Old Testament and the New Testament both foretold the coming of Muhammad Yeah. But getting to the point of everything's been corrupted. They don't know the Ten Commandments. You shall not murder. Has that been corrupted? Because the Quran says murder is okay Well, not that murder is okay, but doing it in Allah's name to advance his cause is okay. So they can only say it's been corrupted and if they don't know what it actually teaches. Wouldn't they see a a a contradiction or a Yeah, yeah. Well we're gonna we're gonna talk about that contradiction, that that dilemma that they they have. uh inconsistency and so on. And it may be helpful when you're talking with someone if they raise it. I wouldn't raise it to them, but if they raise it saying, well uh here's what I'm here's what I understand Um there are some things you can do to help them think through the inconsistency of that. Yeah. Okay. On the bottom of page 97, Jesus, of course, explained that the Old Testament law, the Torah. And the prophets, the Hebrew word there is Nevim, and what the Jews called the writings or the Psalms, the Ketuvim uh were fulfilled in his life, death, and resurrection. Um And those three components of what we call the Old Testament, the Torah, the Navim, and Katuvim, TNK is called by many Jews today the Tanakh, what we call the Old Testament. It's because of those three letters, the Torah, T, N, Nevim, and Katuvim. And so when Jesus said on the Sermon on the Mount, Matthew 5, do not think that I came to abolish the law or the prophets. I do not come to abolish, but to fulfill. For truly I say to you, then until heaven and earth shall pass away, not the smallest letter or stroke shall pass from the law until all is accomplished. Whoever then annuls One of the least of these commandments and teaches others to do the same shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven. So he would have strong words for um those who propagate the Quran, which doesn't exactly say, but in their view implies that the um uh those Old Testament scriptures and so on did in fact pass away. But later in Luke 24 on top of page ninety-eight, Jesus said These are my words which I spoke to you while I was with you, and here he is after the resurrection, teaching them, that all things which are written about me in the law of Moses, the Torah The prophets, the Navim, and the Psalms, the Katuvim, must be fulfilled. And uh Jesus is referring there to the entirety of the Old Testament revelation as being fulfilled, not Corrupted. So his message was not that the writings were corrupted, his message was that the people were corrupted. Right? Um okay. Yeah there was a question. Yeah. Um I have a question. What do they believe is the mother of the whole thing? Black holidays wonder The mother of the book is not a person, but rather the ultimate source of all prophecy that God has revealed to mankind. So if it's something that Allah, in their view, has revealed, its source ultimately is the mother of the book that's in heaven. Actually look like the the source. Yeah. Ultimate. Yeah. Yeah. Yes. So on the page of ninety seven, it talks about how I guess the Muslims are not supposed to do any harm to Both both that includes Jews and Christians. But it's part of that conundrum. Okay. So that's just they just don't feel that or for the most part. They don't emphasize that? Yeah. No. No. This it's w w The the natural human reaction to a an inconsistency in a position that you hold is to kind of uh dance around it and ignore the the harder to explain parts. That's essentially what they do. Could could it could it also be that maybe some um groups do adhere to to this, you know, not harming The people of the book while some others take the the other approach. Have you uh do you have any information on that? Um No, I think I think the more common the more common um use of this is to use the the favorable verses in the Quran in terms of their relationship with Jews and Christians to use those to i it's part of propaganda. And not disclose the parts that they're really committed to, which is these people are heathen and they're they're going to hell. Uh so you pick and choose what suits your c current context. Yeah. Okay, so there's the writings, and then the parallel to that on page 98 is the prophets. And so the Quran teaches that Allah sent a long line of prophets to warn each people and generation, but it particularly recognizes by name. the Old Testament prophets as well as John the Baptist and Jesus from the New Testament. And so look for example here at Surah 6 in the middle of page 98. That was the reasoning about us which we gave to Abraham to use against his people. We raise whom we will, we disagree, or degree after degree. For your Lord is full of wisdom and knowledge. We gave him Isaac and Jacob. All three we guided. Before him we guided Noah, and among his progeny David. Solom, Solomon, Job, Joseph, Moses, and Aaron. Thus do we reward those who do good. And Zechariah, this is the father of John the Baptist, and Yaha, which is John the Baptist in Arabic. And Jesus, and Elias, that is Elijah, and all the ranks of the righteous. And Ishmael and Elisha and Jonas, that is Jonah, and Lot. And then later in in starting in verse 89, these were the men to whom we gave the book and authority and prophethood. If these, their descendants, reject them, behold, we shall entrust their charge to a new people who reject them not. Those were the prophets who received God's guidance. Copy the guidance they received. And to Muhammad, he says, say to the people, No reward for this do I ask of you. This is no less than a message for the nations So anyway, so there's there's a reverence here, at least in theory, for the revelations, but also the prophets through whom they were supposedly revealed. And uh on the top of page ninety-nine, Muslims believe that Muhammad was the last and greatest prophet, referred to as the seal of the prophets, having been sent with a law, God's message um to the entire world. And so here in Surah 33, on top of page ninety-nine Muhammad is not the father of any of your men, but he is the messenger of God and the seal of the prophets. And God has full knowledge of all things. Of course, Jesus warned that there would be false prophets. As well as the apostles warning that. Jesus in the Sermon on the Mount said, Beware of the false prophets who come to you in sheep's clothing. but inwardly are ravenous wolves. You will know them by their fruits. Grapes are not gathered from thorn bushes, nor figs from thistles, are they? So every good tree bears good fruit, but the bad tree bears bad fruit. A good tree cannot produce bad fruit, and a bad tree Produce good fruit. Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire, so then you will know them by their fruits. That ought to be rather convicting to um people who are false prophets. Yes. So after Jesus, there's no other prophet in Quran like Jesus was the second last. He was the second to the last. And Muhammad would be the last in their thinking. Yeah. Okay. Another major category of doctrine is a future judgment, judgment day. There will be a final resurrection of the dead and the judgment of all, at which Allah will condemn many to torment in hell and others to pleasure in paradise. Um and yeah So look at Surah 3 here, for example. Every soul shall have a taste of death, and only on the day of judgment shall you be paid your full recompense. Only he who is saved far from the fire and admitted to the garden will have attained the object of life. For the life of this world is but goods and chattels of deception. So um there's very explicit reference to the judgment, the eternal uh destiny of those who are uh not saved, if you will, uh, is eternal fire, um hellfire and and so on And that's similar to you know what the scriptures would teach. And so it seems pretty pretty uh likely that Muhammad would have been associated with stories about this and teachings about this from both uh the Jews and Christians. Um and so there's a fair amount of detail about that and it's clear it it's it's intended to be um Scary? You know, sort of a a um a deterrent. People, you know, if you don't get your act together, this is where you're heading, kind of a thing, right? Um And so number two, on the bottom of page 100, one's destiny is largely dictated by his works, which will be weighed on scales to determine if it's good works. outweigh his bad works. And we talked a bit about that, I think, last week. Look at the top of page 101, Surah 23. Then when the trumpet is blown, there will be no more relationships between them that day, nor will one ask after another. Then those whose balance of good deeds is heavy, they will attain salvation. But those whose balance is light will be those who have lost their souls in hell. um in hell they will abide. Why how good works versus bad works, why that's such a low view of the whole Sure. Yeah. So um I mean you uh uh uh quite apart from Muslims You you talk to most people in the world and they think, well, I'm I'm better than most people. Uh my my th they don't necessarily say it explicitly about a scales But they're thinking, well, I've done more good than bad, therefore and they're also thinking s subjectively, God must grade on the curve, right? So if I'm better than most people, I should be able to get in. God is loving, right? All those sort of misconceptions. And so they think if if my good works outweigh my bad, then the scale is going to tip this way. Right? But if if you're in business and you're selling something, uh you're selling a pound of of grain or something like that, then what you do with these scales is you put a known one pound weight on this side and you put the grain on this side until it just balances. That's how you sell it. And God in the Old Testament is very severe on those who m play around with those those weights, right? False weights and measures. But the principle is you've you've got a standard here that this is being compared to. Right? And so rather than comparing ourselves to ourselves, or even comparing ourselves to someone else, we should be comparing ourselves to the standard, which is God. Right? And when you realize that when any of us compare us our good works or whatever, against God's standard, we all fall short. Right? And so to think that God would allow into his presence people who are judged only on the basis of whether their good deeds and their bad deeds are balanced in a certain way That's a low view of God's holiness. Because if He's really holy, anything that falls short of His true measure Should not be allowed in. Okay. Right? And that is the way it is. And the only reason we can go in is not because of our righteousness, but the righteousness of Christ. Yeah. He steps up he steps on our side of the scale and tips the balance. So that when God looks well it's not only tipping the balance All of our imperfections and things have been taken by him on the cross, and his perfections are imputed to us. Yeah. So Yeah. Yeah. So the this idea of scales, whether a Muslim would know that it's explicit in the Quran Or just because like everybody else they sort of think in these terms, um, they need to be brought back to W what is the right comparison here? The comparison has to be to God's perfect standard of holiness and we all fall short. Yeah. Which ought to drive them to, well then, how then can we be saved? Right. And that opens the conversation. Right? Okay. Yeah, wait, that's a lot of work. But they do believe that they have things actually automatically scale in their things, right? Like you know, filling in the name of a lot of the automatically giving evidence and version. Yeah, we'll we'll talk more about s the specifically required works next week. But yes, that's the concept. I I think when talking from that microphone it was like the tail thing is such a great analogy too. Like I don't know how it would be it, but like This is for the people we see every day. The technology that we see is a scale is great. And then the idea of putting on say we murder somebody If you go deliver a baby, are you now equal to out of those bad guys? It doesn't make sense if you actually apply the idea. Right. Yeah, what what I find interesting is people have always sort of believed this subjectively, but it's explicit in the Quran. Could be, yeah Okay, um uh Look at the top of page 102. There are a number of verses here from the Quran you can look through on your own. But there's a quote here from the hadith, from Al Bukhari, and So that the the tradition here, the the um Uh the quote is that the prophet said, this is now Muhammad, apparently said, I stood at the gate of paradise and saw that the majority of people who entered it were the poor and the wealthy. While the wealthy were were stopped at the gate for accounts, in other words, judgment. But the companions of the fire were ordered to be taken to the fire. Then I stood at the gate of the fire and saw That the majority of those who entered there were women. No, uh uh can I say I we are seeing in several places today a sense of superiority and inferiority regarding the people of the books who have to pay a tax until they feel themselves subdued creates a sense of superiority. And uh this is Just something else in the along the same line as far as I'm concerned. Yeah. Yeah. And what about this narrative Osama? Osama? Osama would have been somebody in Oh, I'm not sure exactly who this particular guy was. But you know the the hadith were uh written down hundreds of years after Muhammad And so it depended on the transmission from generation to generation. Um and so there's there's usually in in the hadith there's a reference to who Who witnessed it? Who heard it? Um Osama bin Laden would be a name is named after this No, I don't think so. It was just a common name. Yeah Yeah. Now one last uh thing here that I wanted to uh mention particularly in the middle of page one hundred two Muhammad taught that paradise awaits those who await Allah and do enough good works. And this paradise is characterized as offering all of the human comforts and pleasures. That were not possible or frequent on Earth, particularly in arid Arabia. Things like lush gardens with rivers underneath Beautiful virgin women for each man's pleasure, and so on. And so you see a lot of these descriptions here in pages 102, 103 And on to page 104. And it as you read that, you know, if if you have this concept of heaven, what's the first thing that comes to your mind? Being in the presence of God. For them, that's that's not it at all. It's paradise that's tailored to it's it's it's all about reward and it's all about us. It's all about human pleasure in the afterlife. That's their concept. And it's it's it's full here. It's all about uh very explicitly about the the the bliss and the and the pleasures and so on kicking up your feet and enjoying yourself and all of that. It's nothing about our uh consummated relationship with our Creator God. No, it's it's reward. No nowhere in nowhere in Islam is there uh the idea that once you pass into eternity if you're a believer you enter into the presence of God. Correct. Their their idea of of going into eternity is either going to paradise or you go into heaven Right, and they use the word paradise, not heaven. That's exactly right. Well, that's exactly right. But we when we talk about the Garden of Eden, we talk about paradise. And that's what they're They are saying we're going back to eat. Basically, that's right. What about are they soulless women who are beautiful, big and much of eyes? Like Wait a county? You're you're overthinking this lesson. Th there's no explanation that they can't do. They're not I don't know how I have number one. All I know and all they know is what's here. Um it's actually very, very sad. It is. It is. It is So there's a last section here on fate. I'll let you read through that clearly Allah is uh sovereign. He has the final word, you can have no assurance of salvation. Um Uh basically that's what Satan tries to take away from everybody. Even if you're a believer, you might have dark days when you wonder if you're a believer. And Satan is just taking away your assurance. He hasn't taken away your salvation, he has your assurance of it. And his goal is to take away my assurance of my salvation because I'm not a witness, I'm not a factor. God. Right. Because if I'm a special for God, that means that he's got less people to control. Right. Yeah. I was just thinking about this. The whole idea of worse takes away the central purpose God has in all creation. which is to display the glory of experience. There is no there is no glory if there is work Right. Right. And the cent uh central purpose of that's what is to be the tech. Right. Yep. Satan's fingerprints all over it. Yeah. So um on the bottom of page one oh seven Particularly, I've got a summary here speaking of the sovereignty of God and how that works into salvation, just to remind us of what the scriptures actually teach. But probably the the verse that uh has always meant the most to me is in 1 John 5. Where it says that the witness is this, that God has given us eternal life, and this is in his son. He who has the Son has the life, and he who does not have the Son does not have the life And then he says, I've written these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God. Why? In order that you may know that you have eternal life. And it's so sad that someone who pursues works to show themselves adequate before a holy God is missing out. Very strenuous works. Terrible burden of songs. Yeah. And that's a good segue. That's what we're gonna talk about next week. Let's pray.