Great, so today we are on uh lesson twelve. Uh probably the one many of you have been waiting for, the one on jihad. Um What's that? I said that would be massive. That would be your favorite, yeah. Yeah. Um So we've been studying the basic uh history and and elements of of Islam uh the last couple of weeks um several weeks looking at, you know, the the beliefs in more detail and the the basic uh requirements, the things to do. And um That brings us to this topic of jihad. So the word in Arabic Uh it can mean lots of things. It can it's used in in a variety of ways, but it its basic meaning is struggle. uh struggle um uh l i in a laborious kind of way, a continual pursuing of of something That's the general meaning of the word. It's its application in in um Islamic teaching and thought and so on is a bit more specific, but um You need to be careful because Islamic apologists, that is, people defending Islam, will often uh skirt around what the Quran actually says, even what the Hadith actually says on this. Um The basic um the basic application of jihad in in in uh general terms is that it can be expressed and and participated in in three basic ways. One is your personal striving. Now why would striving be important in Islam? It's a religion of works. Right? So are you ever gonna know that you're good enough? No. That you've made it in? So striving is just part of the context, right? So even a personal striving of of seeking to do all the right things and and uh not upset a law, at least not too much. Um but it's a striving that has no hope because there can be no assurance with a religion of works, right? And so in the Quran, Surah 49, for example, it says, only those are believers who have believed in God and his messenger. Who's the messenger he's referring to here? Muhammad, right? Um and have never since doubted But have striven, strived, right, striven with their belongings and their persons in the cause of God. Such are the sincere ones. So that's you know a very general uh uh um example and and need for for striving. There's also a more community-based striving where together they're striving to advance Islam. And that can be in a couple of different ways, and we'll talk about both of those today. And then third is this sort of this military kind of striving and doing battle, which dates all the way back to Muhammad himself and his early followers who um um bore the sword very literally in order to um overcome their their uh opponents. And so all of those things would be examples in Islamic thinking of jihad and an application of this need to struggle. Now what's interesting is that going all the way back to Muhammad, the mindset of an Islamic Warrior is that it's a win-win proposition. So you figure it goes into the battle, there are two options. Either they win the battle which is a win. Or they lose their lives in the process But that's a win because that guarantees them immediate paradise with uh in in paradise. So um the Quran actually is is explicit about that win-win proposition in uh surah 4. Let those fight in the cause of God who will sell the life of this world for the hereafter. To him who fights in the cause of God, whether he is slain or gets victory, soon shall we give him a reward of great value. And why should you not fight in the cause of God and of those who, being weak, are ill-treated and oppressed? Men, women, children, whose cry is, our Lord, rescue us from this town, whose people are oppressors, and raise for us one who will protect and raise for us from thee, one who would help. Those who believe fight in the cause of God And those who reject faith fight in the cause of evil. So fight against the friends of Satan. Feeble indeed is the cunning of Satan. Uh by the way, uh as I've mentioned a few times here, Satan's fingerprints is all are all over the Quran. And this is an example of him disguising himself as a an angel of light. Even to say that he's against Satan, you would think that would be undermining his position, but that's the deception. That's the deception. So anyway, there's there's the the basic win-win proposition. It doesn't matter if um if you win or lose the battle, either way, uh particularly if if you die in trying, you you win. And if you win the battle you also uh um advance the cause of of uh Allah. And so particularly that promise that if you die in the striving as a martyr, you go immediately into paradise. That creates um Valiant warriors. Got nothing to lose. Right? And so that was the case even under Muhammad, leading those raids on caravans and against opposition. Those guys were were valiant because they had this mindset. You can't lose. Right Okay, told me can I can ask a question. Um why why do we Why do we say that the modern day Islamic apologists who who claim that uh the interpretation of the jihad as a physical or uh struggle is not right. Is it because we are Harkening back to how Muhammad repeated or why do we do that? I'm gonna ask that question because If you encounter a uh a Muslim who has some familiarity with scripture, they can easily point to 1 Timothy 6. 12 where it says, fight the good fight of faith. take hold on eternal life. And they might draw a comparison between the two. So what if they were to ask the question, why don't you give the benefit of the doubt to the Mytholmologist who claims that the jihad that's referred to is not really one of physical violence or you know uh uh well good question Turns out I anticipated if you flip the page. Okay. Um Very literally all three of those components are indeed components of jihad. There is struggle at all of those levels. But we need to be clear on what's in the Quran, what's in the hadith as to the example and the teachings of Muhammad. Um and not be um what hoodwinked by those who want to ignore those kind of thing. Thanks. So um there's other uh commentary and um um Uh well on the top of page one forty six maybe as we'll cover that before we continue. Now from the from the hadith I heard Allah's apostle saying the example of a mujahadid in Allah's cause, and Allah knows better who really strives in his cause, is like a person who fasts and prays continuously. Allah guarantees that he will admit the mujahadid into his cause, uh in his cause, into paradise if he is killed. Otherwise, he will return to him, to his home safely with rewards and war booty. So this this win-win situation is in the Quran, it's in the Hadith, it it's it's very early in the mindset of of um Muslims. Okay. So um uh section two here is the um the essence of jihad It's it's this what we've been talking about, this um um Struggle on all three of those levels. Let me read from Surah 9. Those who believe and suffer exile and strive with might and main in God's cause with their goods and their persons and have the highest rank, or they have the highest rank in the sight of God, and they are the people who will achieve salvation. Their Lord gives them glad tidings of mercy from himself and of good pleasure and of gardens for them wherein are delights that endure. So they're striving for that goal. That's that's the point. Purpose. Okay. That leads us then to what um is really a a bargain With Allah, this win-win proposition. So from Surah 9, it's under point three, God has purchased of the believers their persons and their goods For theirs in return is the Garden of Paradise. They fight in his cause and slay and are slain. That's not this personal struggle, slaying and slaying. A promise binding on him that is binding on Allah, in truth, through the law, the gospel, and the Quran And who is more faithful to his covenant than God? Then rejoice in the bargain which you have concluded. That is the achievement supreme. So the bargain here is that we've got this win-win proposition, and God's going to have to deliver on the goods. Either we win the battle or we are in paradise. So it's it's um Allah committing himself um to one outcome or the other. That's that's the bargain. Um and I want to get real quick to um Page 148, which is what actually what I was referring to when I was answering Henry's question. But before we get there, Uh look on the top of page 147. This is now from uh one of the sayings in the hadith. That first one there. The Prophet said, whoever believes in Allah and is apostle offers prayer perfectly and fasts the month of Ramadan, you know, all these basic requirements. Will rightfully be granted paradise by Allah, no matter whether he fights in Allah's cause or remains in the land where he is born. And the people said, oh, Allah's apostle, shall we acquaint the people with this good news? And he said, Paradise has 100 grades. Which Allah has reserved for the Mujahideen who fight in His cause. And the distance between each two greats is like the distance between heaven and earth. So when you ask Allah for something, ask for Al-Firdaus, which is the best and highest part of paradise. And so on. And on the bottom of page 147, another section of the hadith, the prophet said By him in whose hands my life is, were it not for some men amongst the believers who dislike to be left behind me and whom I cannot provide with means of conveyance, I would certainly never remain behind any saria, that is army unit, setting out in Allah's cause. By him in whose hands my life is. I would love to be martyred in Allah's cause, and then get resurrected, and then get martyred, and then get resurrected again, and then get martyred, and then get resurrected Again they get martyrs So there is this this elevation of giving up your life for the cause. Right. Okay. Well, um let's go to section two here on page one hundred eight. So the answer to um Henry's question as to why we need to be discerning when Muslim apologists characterize jihad merely as this internal struggle. Which by the way, if if they do that, the first thing is is not necessarily to challenge them with what I'm going to share with you here, but rather say, okay, um Why do you have that struggle? Because you don't know the outcome. You have no hope. Let me offer you hope. Right? Start there. This stuff about jihad may be just a distraction. Okay? Okay. But the point is that violent violent jihad is commanded in the Quran. So look at Surah two here. Remember that's the longest one. This is verses two hundred and sixteen to two hundred and eighteen. Fighting is prescribed for you, and you dislike it. But it is possible that you dislike a thing which is good for you, and that you love a thing which is bad for you. But God knows, and you know not. They ask the concerning fighting in the prohibited month, say, this is what Muhammad is supposed to say to them. Fighting therein is a grave offense, but graver is it in the sight of God to prevent access to the path of God, to deny him, to prevent access to the sacred mosque, and to drive out its members. Tumult and oppression are worse than slaughter. Tumult and oppression are worse than slaughter. So slaughtering people is better than the the tumults and and being oppressed by them and and this kind of thing, right? Nor will they cease fighting you until they turn you back from your faith if they can. And if any of you turn back from their faith and die in unbelief, their works will bear no fruit in this life and in the hereafter, and they will be companions of the fire and will abide therein. Those who believed and those who suffered exile and fought and strove and struggled in the path of God, they have the hope of the mercy of God. They have no hope whatsoever. That's what it says. They have the hope of the mercy of God. God is oft-forgiving, most merciful. So um I'm not going to read for you the commentaries here, but it's it's very obvious that the commentaries are trying to um uh soften some of the the implications of of what's in the actual Quran. But look down to to um the bottom there. Again it's earth two. Fight in the cause of God and know that God hears and knows all things. And so four, fight in God's cause. You are responsible only for yourself and rouse the believers. It may be that God will restrain the fury of the unbelievers, for God is the strongest in might and punishment Surah 5, top of the next page. The punishment of those who wage war against God and his messenger and strive with might and man for mischief through the land is, here's what you should do to them. Execution or crucifixion or the cutting off of hands and feet from the opposite sides or exile from the land, that is their disgrace. in this world and a heavy punishment is theirs in the hereafter. Surah 8. Remember, your Lord inspired the angels with the message, I am with you, give firmness in to the believers. I will instill terror into the hearts of the unbelievers. Smite ye above their necks, and smite all their fingertips off them. This, because they contended against God and his messenger. If any contend against God and his messenger, God is strict in punishment, and so on. And then in um Surah eight, let not the unbelievers think that they can get better of the godly. They will never frustrate them. Against them, make ready your strength to the utmost of your power, including steeds of war to strike terror into the hearts of the enemies? This is not an internal struggle, right? Um the enemies of God and your enemies And others besides, who you may not know, but God knows, whatever you shall spend in the cause of God shall be repaid to you. So there's that bargain. Right. Um and I make the point here in the middle of page one hundred forty nine. Islamic uh scholars of the Quran agree that Allah's instructions here to fight and muster forces, both men and cavalry, cavalry, um, against infidels is not limited to the time and circumstances of Muhammad. It's it's not a uh uh a temporary um contextual thing. It's this is an ongoing struggle. The language and context apply to Muslims throughout all time in every location. Um Surah eight sixty-five. O Messenger, rouse the believers to the fight. If there are twenty amongst you, patient and persevering, they will vanquish two hundred. If a hundred, they will vanquish a thousand of unbelievers, for these are the people without understanding. So in these various texts, the word for fight or the fight is Al Qatal and it means physical war. Um And uh e even the commentaries uh acknowledge that. Sura nine Fight those who believe not in God, nor the last day, nor hold that forbidden Which has been forbidden by God and his messenger, nor acknowledge the religion of truth, even if they are the people of the book. until so f so oppose them until they pay the jizya, that is the the tax that is imposed on the conquered, those who are conquered by Muslims. With willing submission and feel themselves subdued. So until they submit and feel subdued, you continue in that struggle with them The Jews call User, that is Ezra, a son of God, and the Christians call Christ a son of God. That is a saying from their mouth. In this they but imitate what the unbelievers of old used to say. So God's curse be on them, how they are deluded away from the truth. And again, this word fight is very literal. battle military uh striving. Uh Surah Nine O ye who believe, fight the unbelievers who gird you about, and let them find firmness in you, and know that God is with those who fear him. And then skip down to 61, 061. Truly God loves those who fight in his cause in battle array. as if they were a solid cemented structure. So The Quran couldn't be more clear. Now, something I should mention at this point is often um uh Islamic apologists will say, well wait a minute. What well the Quran also says this, this, and this about being peaceful and and and whatever. There's a problem with that, and they're caught in their own trap. You remember when we talked about the principle of abrogation where something that was uh actually in the Quran earlier was substituted uh by something else. It was the the earlier was abrogated. Well, all of those verses they go to that proclaim peace and so on are extremely early. In the and and so the the chapter I gave you on uh the the breakout on pages thirty-two and forward, where each of the the chapters of the Quran are uh describes and also when they were written. And I didn't make this up. I got it from the commentator of the Quran who who translated it. And he's the most respected one. Those passages are all from the early the early teachings of Muhammad, principally while he was still in Mecca Where he was trying to gather a following and before he fled for his life. Once he gets up to Medina, and after he even captures and gets Mecca subdued later, the later ones are all about the violence. And it was especially in Medina that was necessary to build this this um army, if you will, that would um uh subjugate both the Jews in Medina and uh the other Arabs throughout Arabia. And so every single time you see that, now if if both things are true, then the latter has abrogated the earlier And what they're left with is the the violent, not the peaceful. Right? Thinking about the verses of violence that um which is studied. I wonder why freedom of religion in this country should be extended to a religion that preaches and practices violence and financial support for violence. I mean, why is that? Why do they have the protection of freedom of religion in our future? Well, that's a big question. It's like unto freedom of speech A lot of speech is should not be said, but to put someone as an arbiter as to what should be said is usually worse And in the marketplace of ideas, truth will eventually s um succeed. And and um our conviction is that okay, in the free marketplace of religious um comparisons and and practices and so on, the truth will prevail. So people are free to believe this and practice it up until the point where they commit crimes? Sure. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Yeah. Now that that is that does raise an opportunity. We're going to get to that a little bit later. Um but um It's very telling that countries that practice this are um authoritarian and and not open to any options. And and are therefore miserable people, right? Um and so um we have opportunity to show people that um The truth has nothing to be afraid of. And in the long run. In the long run. Yeah. So I um back to uh the previous point. Um we were in a group Uh study. And one of the guys was trying to be apologetic about it. Islam and why things happened. He had a copy of the Quran. One of the things, one of the points he was making was, oh Well, it was peaceful until Christians began to kill us. And then we'd have to we had no choice. I'm just gonna look at my But I didn't have this to to go backwards but that's another acronym that they would say, well yeah, you were all peaceful and loving if you Christians are killing us saved So we had to go straight on Yeah, so um Uh the the the first part of the answer to Henry's question is the Quran itself is explicit. Now it it doesn't pre it doesn't say that jihad is only this violent thing. Um the the the fact that there is both internal struggle and community struggle and and and this violent struggle. All three are part of it, but um it's disingenuous to say that all of the struggle, all it really means is this internal struggle. That is just not faithful to the Quran. Right? And secondly, it's not faithful to Muhammad. Look at the bottom of page one hundred fifty. Violent jihad was exemplified by Muhammad. And so in the hadith, Allah's apostle said, I have been ordered by Allah to fight against the people until They testify that none has the right to be worshipped but Allah and that Muhammad is his apostle. That's the foundational belief, right? And offer the prayers perfectly, another one of the basic practices, and give the obligatory charity, again, the basic pillars of Islam So if they perform that, then they save their lives and property from me, except for Islamic laws, and then their reckoning accounts will be done by Allah. So again, this word fight is the same word that's a literal battle between people Um uh Muhammad here is using it in the first person, which is genuine because that was his practice. uh leading his armies to that kind of battle to subject other people Um and the point is to do that until basically they become Muslims. Um Look at page one fifty-one, another one down at the bottom of that box. Um A man came to Allah's apostle and said, Instruct me as to such a deed as equals jihad in reward. And he replied, I don't find such a deed. This is Muhammad speaking. Then he added, can you, while the Muslim fighter is in the battlefield, enter your mosque and perform To perform prayers without cease and fast and never break your fast? And the man said, But who can do that? And um the narrator then added, the mujahadid In other words, Muslim fighter is rewarded even for the footsteps of his horse while it wanders about for grazing tied in a long rope. So elevating the the stature of the Islamic warrior And that's all that's all in the hadith. It's all the th th this is not marginal hadith. This is the the most trusted compilations of Muhammad's words, actions and and so on. Um so the answer, Henry, to your question is two things. The the um Quran is clear, and Muhammad's uh uh words and example are clear. And it wasn't until the Crusades, it was right from the time of Muhammad, that this was central to their expansion. Yeah. And the Christian by the faith is fighting to keep your faith in Christ, to trusting him. It's not a physical file. Yeah. I'm getting there too. Okay. Sorry. Um but before we get there I wanted to look on the bottom of page 151 what the context is. The context is the quest for world domination. So there's two things going on. One is My own personal struggle to, because I don't have any hope, I have to do everything I can to achieve paradise. But there's also collectively this quest for world domination So look at surah 3 here. The religion before God is Islam, submission to his will, which is what Islam means. Nor did the people of the book, who were the people of the book? Christians. Jews and Christians Nor do they dissent therefrom except through envy of each other after knowledge had come to them. But if any deny the signs of God, God is swift in calling to account. And then later in that surah, if anyone desires a religion other than Islam, never will it be accepted of him. And in him the hereafter will be in he will be in the ranks of those who have lost all spiritual goods. So there is no other religion. And You can't exactly fault them for that because if they think that their religion is true and the only true religion then it's it's something that they would want everybody to participate in. I mean we sort of have that desire, right? Um But what they're thinking of is actual the whole world is Muslim And we're actually promised by Jesus, quite the opposite, that um the whole world will not be Christian, but rather the the the the path is wide and the gate is broad that leads to destruction, and many are those who enter therein, right? But the way is what? Narrow, and the the gate is is also narrow that leads to life, and few are those who find it. So if Muslims get to the point of bragging that there are more Muslims in the world than Christians, um have pity on them. They're heading for destruction. Anyway, on 152, the Quran prompts Muslims to give non-Muslims only three choices in that struggle. Three choices Either, one, submit to Allah by becoming Muslims. And we already saw some of that in the Quran. But look at Surah 9. But when the forbidden months are past, then fight and slay the pagans wherever you find them, and seize them, beleaguer them, and lie in wait for them with every stratagem of war. But if they repent And establish regular prayers and practice regular charity, in other words, submit to the practices of Islam, then open the way for them, for God is all forgiving and most merciful. So you pursue them until they become Muslims. Or you pursue them until they surrender. They don't want to become Muslims, but they agree to be subject to Islam. And so in later in Surah 9, fight those who believe not in God, nor the last day, nor hold that the that forbidden which has been forgiven uh forbidden by God and his messenger, nor acknowledge the religion of the truth, uh even if they are the people of the book, until they pay the jizya. Which is this tax on subjugated peoples that acknowledge that they are now subject to their Muslim overlords. That's the purpose of the jizya. with willing submission and feel themselves subdued. Yes. Well I'm not disimming all relationship at all, but every time like you think that we're reading Islam, Islam, Mob and Sudos Allah and believing God and It seems to be very, very focused on the actual religion in quote of it and I'm curious like in Christianity for instance, right? There's such a diversity of how One follow grab and got looks in hearts and at different faces and we just It it's understood it's almost believers that we're in cultures that we're not all gonna have the exact same light that we worship. God because of that like different cultures slash God like maybe work in some way. But it seems like with Islam it's very, very strict And I was curious, um, do they see like it it seems to me instead of following Allah as like you have to follow these practices and I was curious, is that the same as looking back to one of the religions out there? And so um I don't know if that makes sense, but if you're it won't focus on all of us. Well uh w uh two things there. One is is that uh even the word Islam means to submit To submit to who? Allah. So but it's it's a religion of works, right? And so those works are things prescribed for them. And the point of those things is to, from their perspective, um to achieve paradise. Essentially. Uh it's not so much to I mean th th th there's lots of language about um uh Um I was gonna say glorifying Allah. Um descriptions of Him and and so on from the from the Quran are uh to exalt him and so on, but when it really comes down to it, it's a religion of works. You have to do various things. You have to believe certain things and do certain things. So it's faith plus works And um and and and and it's explicit in the Quran what those things are. And there have been traditions and embellish well, not so much embellishment, but but um uh cultural applications of some of these things, but the essentials are there. And to be a Muslim is to do those things. And to believe these things. Thanks. Because you're s that's what Allah has called us to do, to submit to him. So, you know, the the the the contrast with biblical Christianity where it's it's not a religion of works and it it's it it's um based on, well, the work of Christ, but our faith in him, not our works, is like 180 degrees different. Right? And so that's why it's hard for us to get our minds around it. Except, I may have said this before, that maybe um Roman Catholicism is a good parallel about a a religion of works. That sort of with Christian trappings to it and has as its its origins and roots, biblical Christianity But it's become faith plus works, not faith alone. That is a really excellent observation. Um I've read and listened to lots of testimonies of Muslims who decide to become Christians. And inevitably At some point in their life, God stirs them and sometimes it's its vision and convinces them that there is a person out there that I can relate to as an individual. That there is a personal God out there. The vision doesn't save them, but it creates God creates in their heart an interest to find out. They inevitably will go to a Christian or try to get a secret Bible And start reading. And inevitably that's the way God draws them is by showing He as a person they can know. So that's really an excellent opportunity. I never really thought about that, but every every testimony of a Muslim who's come through Christ has that aspect. And that it's it's where I can find hope. Yes, right. Okay, so there's these three choices that um Muslims are to give unbelievers. There's to submit to in other words become Islam uh Muslims or to surrender to their their um um their will, you know, that that they would be their Muslim overlords. Or third, the third choice is you can die. So in Surah 5 Here, um, I think I may have read this earlier. The punishment of those who wage war against God and his messenger and strive with might and mane for mischief through the land is execution or crucifixion. Or the cutting off of hands and feet from opposite sides and so on. And so those are the options. Uh y you can become a Muslim, and that's basically what happened when they um subjugated uh Mecca. They came from Medina and And there was no battle, they basically all became Muslims by submitting. Um, or a conquered people could surrender without becoming Muslims per se, but um basically be the subjects of the Muslims Or they could choose to die, and of course a lot have died. And some of them without that choice. Well, you may have said this and I missed it, but what is the punishment for someone who is a Muslim to not fight. And do they think that their reward is just less or that they have a they might end up Yeah, I think a good question. What about the Muslims who don't fight? Um I think I skipped over a few um And I can't place my finger on it now, but read the things I've everything in this chapter, and I think you'll find some quotes from the Quran, and even more maybe so in the hadith, where Muhammad said, um and even the Quran I think says that there are circumstances where someone um can't participate, whether it's it's illness or or whatever. And so those are there are a few exceptions to that. There are also those who stay behind to protect uh those who are behind and uh um um the the you know the homes and and and uh families and this kind of thing. But there would be a um So they'd still be participating, but not necessarily every battle. And there are a few other examples of how the where that's permitted, but the the prevailing presumption is no, everybody would, all able bodies would, or at least males. would participate. not just your your persons but your belongings and things you own. So I would imagine they would kind of tell somebody like that that you're giving towards the cause uh Ontarily whenever I'm supporting it uh for material things and so forth that also will get you some sort of benefit. Definitely will. I'm not sure that giving your belongings and resources to help the cause is um sufficient. I think it's part of it. It's not a substitute for actually be getting involved in other ways But um yeah, it's it's your whole being that's supposed to be uh supposed to think they can go to hell or is that Oh yeah. That's what's at stake Like they they can lose the reward essentially. Yep. Yep. For sure. Okay, so 153. Common Muslim misperceptions about Jewish and Christian fighting. I told you we'd get here, right? First of all, what about the Jews? Muslims might claim, well, the Jews slaughtered men, women, and children in livestock, often completely wiping out the original inhabitants. who lived in Palestine. For example, God commanded Joshua to do so after the Exodus from Egypt, and Saul to do so at the beginning of um the Israeli monarchy, the concept of jihad is just as justified, they say. Well In response, we would say, well, it is true that God commanded the Israelites to completely destroy the pagans who lived in the land that God had promised to Abraham But that command was directed toward those specific pagans at that point in time. God never told the Jews to adopt a permanent war posture against all non-Jews. In fact, he promised that Abraham's descendants would be a blessing to the whole world. Secondly God chose at particular times to bring swift judgment on entire civilizations due to due to their abominable sin, where God intervened personally to do that, right? The whole entire flood. uh Sodom and Gomorrah, and so on. When God commanded Israel to utterly destroy the pagans from the promised land, he made it clear that the reason was to prevent these pagans from corrupting the Jews with the false religions. And that was a prevailing warning, which the Jews for the most part ignored and stumbled because of it. But that was God's repeated um concern for them. God never commanded or executed or excused the use of military might to compel unbelievers to convert to the Jewish faith. Never. Uh there is there is always, even in Old Testament times, the idea that um aliens would would come under the the the blessings of Israel and and Jewish proselytes and and convert converts and so on. Um but then fourth, God never promised Israelite warriors that they would be guaranteed eternal reward in heaven if they were killed in battle against non Jews. That's just not there. Right. Completely different. And most of them should understand the sovereignty of God and the the uh inscrutable will of God and so it shouldn't be hard for them to realize that God sometimes takes his own actions Sometimes he commands others to take those actions in a particular time and place. Um and all the time that like it don't take six thousand people. Yeah. Well the broader the I I don't know You know how would Muslims view that? Would they use would they use that again? Like would they say that? I haven't heard of that. It's possible, but um that's kind of like the pot calling the kettle black. Um Um but like as indication that is okay as people as well. So he's a good thing. Capital punishment is something that God instituted. All the way back to Genesis nine, right after the flood. And um it has to be done in the right um circumstances for the right reasons and whatever, but it's it's um um Capital punishment is is is a necessity under God's design. And in the case of the Old Testament, in the case of the Jewish law, God was specific about how that would be how that would be conducted. So um I don't I don't think uh capital punishment is really the bone of contention with with Muslims More interesting, perhaps, is what they might say about Christians. So In the bottom of page 153, Christians have been very brutal against non-Christians, particularly against Muslims in the Crusades. How then can Christians claim moral opposition to jihad? Right? Well Those who participated in the crusades, and anyone who has ever advocated or used physical force to accomplish Christian objectives, did so without any biblical justification whatsoever. After all, Jesus repudiated such means. For example, and here's an example of how you might walk through some scripture with a Muslim friend. to help them see what the scriptures actually say. Okay, so you can read through Matthew 26, where um Jesus was arrested, you know, and it's this you've got Peter, gotta love Peter, you know, comes out with his sword and he swipes off the ear of Malchus and all that. But walk him through these questions here that begin on page 154. So how did Peter respond to the threat of Jesus being arrested? How did Jesus respond to Peter's action? Get him to read the text and answer the questions. What rationales did Jesus give to explain why it was inappropriate for him to respond with force? And Jesus gave lots of reasons here. Those who take up the sword will perish by the sword. God the Father would intervene if it were his will to do so, right? And so on. Question four. Does this look like the behavior of one who would want his followers to use physical force to accomplish his mission? Not at all. Jesus also taught his disciples to not resist those who would persecute them. And so you can read from the Sermon on the Mount, Matthew 5. Do not resist an evil person, but whoever slaps you on the rights sheath, turn the other chief also. If anyone wants to sue you, let them to take your shirt, let them have your coat also. And if they force you to go one mile, go with them two. Love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you. That was the teaching of Christ. Right? Not um compel them to to obey God by force. I mean you can't. Um So you can take them to the the teaching of Christ's apostles and Um there just multitude of of teaching here about um how we should conduct ourselves and and so on. Flip the page to 156. Another claim about Christians, Jesus also said Do not think that I came to be bring peace on earth. I did not come to bring peace but a sword. Doesn't that indicate that Jesus advocated physical force to oppose unbelievers? Well again, take them to Matthew 10 to read through the passage, look at the context, and then walk through these questions that are here. The context is division. uh spiritual division uh even within families because of Christ. And you can even take them to uh a parallel passage in Um on page one fifty eight from John fourteen and John Oh, uh it's Luke twelve. Do you suppose that I came to bring peace on earth? I tell you no, but rather division. And so the sword he's talking about here is dividing, and in the context, it's clear he's dividing people. People who follow Christ, people who don't, sometimes within the same family. And so just take them through the context of the passage, have them interact with the passage, ask Pointed questions. So what do you observe here? What's what's going on? And and so on. And they'll begin to see, oh, you can't just take a verse out of context. Right? Um okay I'm I'm I'm racing here to get through. And I've got one more thing I want to cover on page 159 Uh I mentioned that one of the avenues of the struggle is community struggle. And uh that's often called Hydra. Hydra is is the migration the when when Muhammad fled from Mecca for his life, uh, and and ended up in Medina and had his his followers there, and together they established the first Islamic community In a city that had been primarily Jewish. And they struggled together in that environment and ended up um prevailing over the Jews, both um driving them out and killing them and and essentially it became um uh the first um Muslim enclave. And and so that model from Muhammad is often in the minds of people today who will migrate to a Yeah sort of not just individually but as groups um to other locations and grow there, struggle there, become um, you know, w with the view of um making that area completely Muslim. And making that transition over a bit of time. And you see that happening today all over the place. And it's well advanced in Europe. Um, now I want to uh alert you to one other thing. Uh particularly since um Muslim apologists will often um uh kind of twist things, uh uh divert your attention to things that are uh easier to digest than the things that are really central to Islam. And that's in your appendix. I won't take you there now, but the appendix talks about the doctrine of Takiah, which is the doctrine of deception. And where the Quran and the Hadith both give um Justification to deceiving others to accomplish greater Islamic good Even to the point of denying that you're a Muslim, if in your heart you know you're just lying, you're you're not going to be held accountable for it, if that advances It's not just to save save your skin, but it's to advance Islam. And um uh contracts. That's it's it's okay to be um uh insincere in entering into contracts knowing that you're not you're going to break the the contract if it's for the common Islamic good And you see evidence of that in the Quran, in the hadith, in the example of Muhammad, and that's all documented for you in the appendix. So um you know even in this country, you know, if if uh uh um my understanding is that there have been, you know, um uh Muslim convocations, conferences and whatever, um, which of course are open only to Muslims And so they'll say things in there that uh they wouldn't necessarily say publicly. Um but then they go out and say something else publicly. We used to have uh when we lived in Liberia there was a uh uh uh a man who used to come and uh sell thorn carvings, particularly African cardings too, Mr. Given supporters and things and so many people witness his name is Billy So many people witnessed to him and he always said, Well, you know, why would I change? Because if I become a Christian I have to tell the truth. And that was something that was the practical application of that teaching. Calling the truth would cost some business. Yeah. Oh my gosh. Well calling the truth. But he might try not to watch the movie. Alright, well, there's a lot of material, let's pray