All right. We are on lesson ten today, page one hundred and ten. Is there anybody who needs a copy of the notes, a hard copy? John, do you have an extra thing? The blue ones are low. But we can. If anybody wants their own copy, uh a hard copy of the notes, uh see Diane. She can make arrangements for that Okay, so last week we introduced the notion that Islam is built on faith and works. And uh in that sense it's not unlike pretty much every other religion other than biblical Christianity. But last week we looked at the the fake part of that. What are the things Muslims are to believe? And today we're going to look at the works part of it, things that Muslims are supposed to do. And so uh sometimes these are called the pillars. of Islam. Pillars in the sense that these are the things that people um they're they're requirements, they're they're basics that every Muslim needs to uh do and so uh uh from the things I've I've read uh Muslim commentators and others who are observant of Islam say that the purposes of these things is to draw the Muslim nearer to Allah, but that's that's a a strange concept actually in Islam because there's a sense in which Uh Allah is not r even approachable. Uh He is so far removed and and so on. But um uh Primarily, it's this number, the second one here, to help the Muslim to fulfill his duty to Allah. So it's very much about obedience. And uh the idea that these disciplines are intended to help curb one's uh um e excess desires, the uh worldly desires and this kind of thing. And uh they help to instill a sense of community and that is a big thing in Islam, a sense of community. We're we're uh in this together And it's thought by some to purify their souls. Anyway, uh there's a quote here in the hadith. Um About that, the gist of it here I got in bold. If Allah wants to do good to a person, He makes them comprehend the religion. So to understand it, for what purpose? To do it, to be obedient. Okay. So we're going to walk through these requirements. The first one is the shahada. That word shahada means bearing witness in Arabic. It's basically the bare bones confession of faith. in Islam and in English I can't pronounce the Arabic. Anybody know Arabic? You don't know Arabic. But in English it's I bear witness that there is no God whatsoever but Allah, and that Muhammad is the messenger of Allah. That's the core doctrine. right there. And it's it's not just something to be believed, but it's it's something to be said a lot. And um affirmed and uh reminded of oneself. Technically, at least by Islamic tradition, it's to be recited aloud. It's to be perfectly understood. It's to be believed in the heart, I mean, genuinely believed in other words, professed until death, recited correctly. And professed and declared without hesitation. And so it's often the first words spoken to a newborn baby to get them In the right mindset. The last words on the lips of the dying. It's part of the regular call to prayers, you know, that are announced from the minarets. And it's repeated by the average Muslim, the devout Muslim, no fewer than 20 times a day, mostly during their ritual prayers. So I bear witness, it's two things. I bear witness that there is no God whatsoever but Allah, and Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah. When they say the Messenger of Allah, they mean the supreme, the most recent, the chief of the prophets of Allah. Because as we covered last week, they believe in the previous prophets as well, or that there were some. Okay. Now, I find it interesting that in the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus addresses these various pillars of Islam. And so Jesus in Matthew 7 says, Beware of the false prophets who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly are ravenous wolves. You will know them by their fruits. Grapes are not gathered from thorn bushes, nor figs from thistles, are they? So every good tree that bears good fruit, or so every good tree bears good fruit But the bad tree bears bad fruit. A good tree cannot produce bad fruit, nor can a bad tree produce good fruit. Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. So then you will know them by their fruits. But then he says, Jesus here, not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven. But he who does the will of my Father who is in heaven will enter. Many will say to me on that day, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name? And in your name cast out demons, and in your name perform many miracles And then I will declare to them, I never knew you. Depart from me, you who practice lawlessness Elsewhere, Jesus in um confronting, as he often did, the uh Pharisees and um scribes and so on. Jesus said to them, rightly did Isaiah prophesy of you hypocrites? As it is written, this people honors me with their lips, but their heart is far away from me. But in vain do they worship me, teaching as doctrines the principle the precepts of men. So uh Jesus says it has to go far beyond what we say. It has to do with um the the righteousness in our heart, in the the motives of our heart. And so repeating something often and often and often doesn't make it true and it also doesn't mean that um we're any closer to God. Okay, so that's the shahada. And by the way, that nice little uh calligraphy kind of thing in Arabic, that's the sha shahada in a very um elaborate, um picturesque kind of form. So if you knew Arabic, you would say that's a beautiful rendition of those words. Okay, the second requirement is the s uh salah or I think the plural is salat This is the ritual prayers. And so it's important here to realize what this is not. It is not conversation with God from the heart as we think of prayer. And it's not really individualized by any one Muslim. What is it? Well There are prescribed public acts of worship, quote unquote, where there would be uh some traditional reciting of portions of the Quran, particularly the first surah, the fatiha And perhaps some other short select verses from the Quran that would regularly be a part of these prayers, if you call them that. The Shahada that we just talked about is included in the prescribed prayers. There might be a typical benediction or petition for Muhammad, and again this is often tied with which verses from the Quran are included. There might be some brief praises, again, taken mostly from the Quran, I believe. And also asking Allah for His aid and guidance. So that's all included there. So when is it done? Well originally, I'm on the top of page 112, originally before Muhammad left Mecca to go to Medina, in other words he was flea uh uh fleeing for his wife. Um prior to that it was twice a day. And we see that in Surah seventeen. Where it says, establish regular prayers at the sun's decline until the darkness of night and in the morning prayer and reading. And so there were two major times. But then later, while Muhammad was living in Medina, it became three times a day. And that may have been influenced by the predominant Jewish culture in Medina, I don't know. But later it became five times a day. And so each one is uh you know a prescribed time and each one has a specific name. This is uh uh you know this such and such a prayer and and so on, or time for prayer. So at dawn, midday, late afternoon, sunset, and nightfall. Every day. Where is it done? Well, um the best place is in a mosque, but that's always not always convenient, particularly that often. uh each day. But wherever one is, is okay. That's fine. And doing it with fellow Muslims Um at least at the noon hour on Fridays is is um the intent. That's that's the most predominant time when they get together to do it. And that's even per the Quran. Okay, so how is it done? Well, they need to prepare themselves and um each person has to be uh ceremonially clean and that may or may not involve water uh they have very strict rules in the particularly in the hadith that Muhammad set up for these ablutions, these the And um there's even precedent for the fact i in the hadith with with um muhammad where it doesn't actually necessarily always need to involve water but Yeah. There's this process that you go through in order to be clean. Okay, so uh once you're clean and it's time to to do it, you face the uh Ka'aba in the main the main uh center of Mecca. And you know the the y you can even get an app now that tells you wherever you're at you know how to face Mecca. Right. There's an app for that. Um and we talked a little bit about this when we talked about um abrogation in the Quran that uh the the qibla, that is the the the focal point of where you're praying to The Keedlaw had been Mecca, then while they were in Medina it switched to Jerusalem because Mecca kicked them out. And when they came back later much stronger and overtook Mecca, then Mecca again became the the Qibla, the the place where you focus your prayers. So how do they go about it? Well, if when they're in the mosque, the people stand in straight lines together, um in in ranks, rows, and so on. And each person ensures that the place where he prays is not defiled. And the most practical way for most of them to ensure that is to bring their little prayer rug with them. So that it's set aside for that very purpose alone and they can take it wherever they need to and it it makes wherever they're at. So the Muslim stands erect and repeats the call to prayer. Then he declares his intention to undertake a number of bowings indicating his conscious will to worship. He raises his hands to the level of his shoulders and repeats the takbir. The takbir is the formula that says, Alhu Akbar, that is, Allah is great. And then from that on, any deviation from the prescribed order and content of the prayers nullifies the whole thing. You've got to go back to the beginning, back to square one. Well actually they might not go back to square one. That just forfeits the benefit to them of the whole process if they get anything wrong. So what is the basic ritual? Well, it's called a rakha. Each one is a rakha, and it has nine steps. The Muslim stands with his left hand in his right hand and then recites the Fatiha, which is the first surah, the first chapter, if you will, of the Quran. And I've got it here for you. In the name of God, most gracious, most merciful, praises be to God. the cherisher and sustainer of the worlds, most gracious, most merciful, master of the day and judgment. Thee do we worship, and thine aid we seek. Show us the straight way, the way of those on whom thou hast bestowed thy grace, those whose portion is not Wrath and who not and who go not astray. Now they would typically not be reciting that in English, they would be reciting it in Arabic. Um and that by the way is not the first of the um uh revelations. So you know, quote unquote revelations. I think that was that came later. But it's it's one that's that's a very prominent uh affirmation of their their worship of Allah and it's a very fitting thing to include in their in their uh ritual here. The other one that's often included is from Surah 112. He is God, one and only, God, the eternal, absolute. He begetteth not. Nor is he begotten, and there is none like unto him. So you can see where they're going with that, right? Okay, so you recite that and then um He bends over at the waist with his palms of his hands on his knees and recites another takbir. Um that is and then he adds to that, I extol the perfection of my Lord the Great. And so there's just a prescribed um uh progression of of uh quotes here. Then he stands erect again and again repeats Alhu Akbar Then he prostrates himself on the ground, you know, just demonstrating his submission to Allah, and says, Alhu Akbar again. Then he kneels with his hands stretched out in front of him and he touches the ground with his brow at the base of his nose, kind of right there, and um Then he sits back on the base of his heels and while still in a kneeling position with his hands stretched along his thighs and says, Allahu Akbar again. And prostrates himself on the ground again and says, I'll akbar again. Then he sits at the base of his heels, well in a kneeling position again, with his hands stretched along his thighs. He repeats the Shahada again, and then some intercession for Muhammad, like the one that's here, just praying. Praying for Muhammad, actually. And then lastly, he turns his head first to the right, over his right shoulder, and then over his left one, saying, um the Taswim, the another another um praise here. Now Sounds rather rather rigid, right? Well it is. However, in the Hadith there's some discussion about Uh have there ever been any exceptions to the order in which these things happened? And it turns out there has been, even with Muhammad. And and so the question was um was the uh Canut portion of this was it Uh always done before bowing or after it? And the answer was before. Um And uh then the response was, well, Allah's apostle recited the that portion of it after bowing for a period of one month. And then they explained why that why that happened. he I guess just made the decision to do it. Um but in general it's it's uh rigid, you don't deviate from the order of those things, the the amount of things you you Your times you're doing it, what you're saying, all of that is prescribed. Um Yes. Yeah. So the question is um in the reference earlier to what I was reading about how gracious God is and appealing to his grace and so on, uh, in the context of a very works-based religion, right? How does that all fit together? Well It has to do with the other thing we mentioned last week. It's not only works and faith, faith and works, but also um fate, which basically is God's um choice, irrespective of your faith and works, and there's no assurance that you're going to have his um Um blessing. Blessing essentially. Yeah. And so um The the Quran is just replete with references to the graciousness of Allah And the best I can figure, in the mindset of a works religion where you have to submit to him, obey him, and your future depends on that, both believe and do When it really comes down to it, of course, you can have no assurance in that kind of framework. And you're ultimately relying not just on your faith in your works, but also you're relying on the the choice of God and who can question his choice, right? And so um they realize that um Um there there's much about what they see around them that they don't deserve I think they they they understand that. But they they're thinking again about the scales, right? But even that scales brings no certainty, and they ultimately are depending on the grace of God. But it's not grace as we're thinking of grace. Where as we understand grace, it's God's showering on us what we don't deserve. I don't think they would think of it that way because the whole point of doing these works is to deserve God's grace. Um it's not too unlike, I don't think, in Catholic theology where um It's very works-based, but what you're earning is the grace of God. And it's just a misunderstanding of what God's grace is all about. Yeah, hope that helps. Can I just um ask you what you think about it? In that very first surah that they recite, one of the things they talk about is is um the God would be Well, this should be graced on them. Could they be referring to some type of enablement in God? Especially because they say Um and be showing that that God would point them to build individuals performing these disabilities grace so that they can learn to walk in the same way as those people. So we can't those people walk in the right way. Yeah I'm not sure. I'm not sure if it's about enablement. There may be an element of that Um yeah, I'm not I'm not completely sure. Yeah. Anyway, um Um there's also reference here Oh, I I I'm in the sort of the top of page one hundred fourteen. the full ritual. You know what we walk through, those nine steps, and the repetition in it, and the prescribed words and so on. Doing that once is called one raqa. Well, at the time of prayer, uh each of those various times of prayer, you have to go through that cycle multiple times. So at the dawn time of prayer, you do it twice. I guess you're kind of groggy, right, in the morning and I don't know. At midday and at late afternoon, you do it four times. You go through that entire cycle repeatedly four times. You just repeat it. At sunset, three times, and at nightfall, four times again. That's a total of seventeen times every day It's a heavy burden. Yeah. However, interesting you should put it that way, it's a heavy burden, because this extract here that follows from the hadith uh is reporting a a uh an explanation that Muhammad apparently gave to his followers as to uh why it was five. And he says that he, Muhammad says that he was taken up to uh paradise and he passed all these other prophets including Jesus by the way. And um Look at the bottom of page 114. When it really comes down to it, Allah then tells him, or or the Gabriel I guess told him, that Allah has enjoined fifty prayers on my followers. And um Then he gets some advice from Moses, apparently. He says, why don't you go back and see if you can get that reduced? And so he went back and um I guess cut it in half. And so he comes back and tells Moses the good news and he says, Oh, you better go back and see s you know th I don't think your people are gonna be able to bear it. So go back and um He says, I returned to Allah, and he said, these are five prayers, and they are all equal to 50 in reward, for my word does not change. So it wasn't Abraham he was talking about. You see, I thought that same thing. That the sort of negotiation that Abraham had with the Lord and and you know fifty people in l in Sodom or you know down to five I guess. Um I'm I'm wondering if there's a little bit of uh influence there. Yeah. Yeah Anyway, doing that five times a day and uh this account doesn't doesn't uh describe how many time how many cycles to go through in each of those five prayer times. But when you add them all up to the 17 cycles you go through every day. And um it's it's it's prescribed, it's it's something you need to do to show your submission to Allah. And um I guess you're hopeful that Allah is listening and pleased. Okay. There's some reference here to the Friday prayer particularly and some of the the um the ways they go about it and and some special there may even be a short sermon in involved in that as well. Um but anyway, that's the prayers. And so when when you're when you hear them talk about prayers, don't think of them thinking about prayer the way we think of prayer. Okay? It's It's um um very prescribed. And so again getting back to Jesus in the Sermon on the Mount At the bottom of page 115, Jesus said, Beware of practicing your righteousness before men to be noticed by them, otherwise you have no reward with your Father who is in heaven. But when you pray, you are not to be like the hypocrites, for they love to stand and pray in the synagogues and on the street corners, so that they may be seen by men. Truly I say to you, they have their reward in full But when you pray, go into your inner room, close your door, and pray to your father who is in secret, and your father who sees what is done in secret will reward you And when you are praying, do not use meaningless repetition as the Gentiles do, for they suppose that they will be heard for their many words. So do not be like them, for your Father knows what you need before you ask him. Uh okay. Quick question on EMOM. Um is there any a higher authority that can stage that uh title to him other than the fact that he the the group of people that he's can it is considered to be pious or religious and there's not to be doing that. Um I I don't think I I'm not aware that there's sort of an objective standard as to qualifications for an IMOM. Uh but he clearly has a a g a good reputation among the locals. So he gives a message though, and his message could vary greatly as we see in the world from one Yeah. Okay. That's that's my understanding. Yeah. Okay, so that's the prayers. The third is the zakat or zakat, which again I think is the plural. That's the giving of alms. And so again, what is it not? Well, first of all, it's not voluntary. And it's not charity in the way we would think of charity because it's not voluntary. And it's also not just for the poor. What is it? Well, it's giving to Allah a portion of what He is thought to have provided to them. so that the giver would first avoid the sufferings of the next life. That's a heavy uh alternative, isn't it? And also purify the remaining wealth that he keeps. So it kind of sanctifies. You know, if I give uh this portion Not only is it going to help me in the afterlife, but it's going to make the other things I have consecrated, I guess, is the word. So it is a required duty for each Muslim, and there's a lot of references here in the Quran for that. And uh uh several commentators I've read said that it's it's very consistent with Muhammad's being sensitive to this because of his own um experience growing up as an orphan and the needs of those without parents and and so on. So um It seems like a a a a very um uh important part of Muhammad's Who do they get this? Well let's let's um talk about that here. Um Some of these verses from the Quran address that. So for example, look at Surah V. Um in the bold there. It's um for expiation So that's it's both for their own sanctification and the sanctification of whatever the remainder that they keep. Um and shall feed poor persons, that's certainly a part of it. uh or the equivalent thereof in fasting that he may taste the evil consequences of his deed. And so there's there's a requirement here to do this Um particularly when someone has uh disobeyed. And so one of the the Consequences of that is, well, you've got to give alms to the poor in a certain way, in a certain amount, and whatever, and that that compensates for your disobedience. Right. Um so uh Look at Surah 9. 60 there at the bottom. The alms are only for the poor and the needy, and those who collect them. and those whose hearts are to be reconciled, and to free the captives and the debtors, and for the cause of Allah, and for the wayfarer, a duty imposed by Allah. So there's a there's a lot of room there for how those would be used. Um And so there's it's not um the disposition of the what's Often called the poor tax. How it's used isn't as explicit in the Quran or even the hadith as I understand it. Not as explicit as the prayers and how regimented that is. There's a lot more uh flexibility in how they would use uh uh the the poor tax. So even the amount is not stipulated in the Quran. Apparently it began to be something on the order of two or three percent of earnings. Um but these days it's not precisely that. There's just apparently just complex rules and It's probably as complex as our tax code. I don't know. Um if anything could approach that, this might be it. Um but they're just detailed rules. And um We're going to come back to this later because it interacts with some other things. But I wanted to include here again Jesus' Statements in the Sermon on the Mount. He said in Matthew 6, Beware of practicing your righteousness before men to be noticed by them. Otherwise, you will have no reward from your Father who is in heaven. So when you give to the poor, do not sound the trumpet before you, as the hypocrites do in the synagogue and in the streets, so that they may be honored by men. Truly I say to you, they have their reward in full But when you give to the poor, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing, so that your giving will be in secret, and your father who sees what is done in secret will reward you. Of course, Jesus was talking here Um primarily to the context of his day, which was the hypocrites who uh particularly the Pharisees, who were practicing their righteousness before men so that they could be seen by others to say, I have I've got it together, right? And their heart was just so far from the Lord. That's But it's interesting that Jesus was addressing things that were very common then that actually are very common here in the practice of Islam. Okay. The fourth is the ritual fasting. You've probably heard of the fasting in the month of Ramadan. Again, what is it not? It's not individualized or private and it's not spontaneous. What is it? Well, it it is self-denial to an extent. It is required, and it is community-wide. So it's observed every day during the lunar month of Ramadan, and because it's a lunar month Um it when it is during our calendar year changes a little bit every year. Right? So uh there are what 360 days, actually a little bit less in a lunar year that way. I don't know how it all works, but but um Ramadan gets a little bit earlier every year because of how the lunar calendar fits into our our solar calendar. Um And so it begins and ends with the appearance of a new moon, usually an interval about 28 to 30 days, depending on when during the year it is. So what do they do? Well, during that daylight period of time, during every day of that month, There's no eating, there's no drinking, there's no sexual relations, and more recently they've tacked on no smoking during those daylight hours. And all of these things are, however, permitted during the nighttime hours, which is interesting given that they're operating on a lunar calendar, because Um those nighttime hours are going to be far fewer in the summer than they would be in the winter. They just gotta deal with it. Um So each day the fast begins with It begins just after a meal, before dawn. So you've got to have that eating in before the sun rises. Right? So there's a there's a meal, and then it ends with a meal after sunset So the fasting is not a month of fasting, like you know, 30 days, 30 nights. It's 30 days, but not the nights. And so there is there's eating before and there's eating afterwards But during the daylight, there's no eating. And these other things. Muslims are encouraged to attend evening prayers at mosques during the fast. This often includes meals interspersed, because it's in in in the evening, interspersed between sets of rakat, you know, the prayers, the prescribe prayers we were talking about. And that cycle may happen right into the night during some of those nights in Ramadan. At the end of the month of fasting, they have a great three-day feast, and it's usually the time when the required alms are given. It's it's an annual thing and it's part of the the tradition. So this feast of Ramadan is a time of great rejoicing. Um And a lot of traditions and things. It's sort of an annual event and not unlike annual events that we have with traditions tacked onto them and so on. But ironically, um analysts have determined, due to the eating during the nighttime hours and to the concluding feast, more food is typically sold in Muslim communities during Ramadan than any other month. And people gain weight. And gain weight. And so there is reference here to Surah II that fasting is prescribed for you, fixed numbers of days, and It's all laid out there. The um uh the Hidith uh gives more um detail about all of these the practices and and how to go about them, what not to do, and whatever. Again, following Muhammad's example in each of these cases. There are penalties for not obeying the the fast. I mean it's going on for around thirty days. And if any time during those thirty days you trip up Then um there's a penalty. So if you can fast but don't You must feed a poor person. There's reference in the Quran to that. If you don't fulfill your fasting obligations, you must give Um expiatory alms. In other words, no the the to pay for your disobedience you need to give extra alms. If you violate the bounds on sexual activity during the fast, you must free a slave or fast for two months. Or feed sixty people. This is all directly from the Quran. And so there's a lot of uh uh penalties depending on the nature of the of the disobedience. So it's people have the the the understanding that this is required. Right? You and you gotta do it right. Yeah So again, we're reminded of the words of Jesus from the Sermon on the Mount. Whenever you fast, do not put on a gloomy face as the hypocrites do. For they neglect their appearance so that they will be noticed by men when they are fasting. Truly I say to you, they have their reward in full. But you, when you fast, anoint your head and wash your face, so that your fasting will not be noticed by men, but by your father who is in secret. And your father who sees what is done in secret will reward you. So Muslims were not the first to make a show of fasting, for sure. Okay, the fifth pillar, the fifth requirement is the Hajj, the pilgrimage to Mecca. You've probably heard about that. Uh what it is not. It's not a tradition that started with Islam, as it turns out. That was already in place before Muhammad What Islam does is bring it all under the heading of Islam and structures it and that kind of thing. So what does it involve? Well, it means going to Mecca, where a lot of these chief monuments are. uh including the ka'aba, that's this cube like structure um within the the the you know the the the holy area as they call it. Uh no non-Muslims can go there. Uh that would be that would be um a bad thing. And that itself also predates Islam. That was there when uh Muhammad came to the scene. Muslims believe That Abraham and Ishmael rebuilt that on the site where they believed that Adam built the first one. The first one, of course, was destroyed by the flood, the worldwide flood. And one of the other monuments here, uh you don't see it in the picture, is the the black stone, and that's That's believed to be something that fell from heaven during Adam's lifetime, and it was the site of God's covenant with Abraham and Ishmael. Notice, not Abraham and Isaac. Abraham and Ishmael. And then there's a monument consisting of a sacred stone on which Abraham is believed to have stood while building the Ka'aba. And so on and so forth. A mosque and um Zamzam, I love that word. The Mosque of Zamzam, a small mosque opposite the Black Stone, just outside the Mataf. Zamzam is the wellspring that serves Mecca. And so it's a very important source of water. And Muslims believe that the angel Gabriel provided that water for Hagar and Ishmael after they were abandoned. And so that of course, um, that abandonment, that sending away of Hagar and Ishmael is something that is recorded in Genesis. Okay. So uh There's a reference here in Surah 3 that this pilgrimage is a duty that men owe to God. And so top of page 120, when is it done? At least once in a lifetime by every devout Muslim. And To do it requires a ten-day period in and around Mecca to accomplish all the various steps needed. And that's done at in the month of the Hajj. That's the what the month is for, the month of Hajj. And so there are some exceptions if you're not physically able, but even if you aren't physically able, you ought to be able to send someone else to do it for you. If you're not financially able, maybe someone would volunteer to do it for you. So why do it? Well, first of all, or who does it? Only Muslims could do it Only Muslims can enter the city. A woman may perform the Hajj if she's accompanied by her husband or someone else who serves as her protector And as I said, sometimes it's done on behalf of someone else, and sometimes it's even done on behalf of someone who has already died. That's thought to help them in the afterlife, I suppose. Okay, I'm not going to go through all of the steps here that they they go through, but by now you might be familiar with the concept that there's regimentation. There's very specific instructions about what's done. Part of it, I gather, is is um From the example of Muhammad in the hadith, part of it, I think, is is tradition, and it just becomes pretty regimented. So it involves um going to these various monuments, it involves um uh uh uh walking slash running around this entire enclosure. Um not praying that the walls will fall down, but you know uh going around it anyway. And interesting, toward the end it includes uh the sacrifice of an animal. And a sheep or a goat or something like that. And this is the only place in Islam that I'm aware of where there's a a um requirement to sacrifice an animal. And it doesn't carry anything like the connotation that we see in Scripture that it's a foreshadowing of a substitute because that whole concept is anathema basically to Muslims. Uh, I've got a note here somewhere But I forget where I've got it. It's it's the origin of it is I don't see it. Anyway. It would be interesting to to interact with Muslims about this whole um sacrifice of animals and the fact that that was very much a part of the Old Testament law and and that had uh specific purposes and so on that might be uh insightful. But I think for the most part for most Muslims they wouldn't see any connection there whatsoever and because I don't think there is any connection. It's it's not a it's not because there was Old Testament um sacrificing of animals. Uh there there's no connection there at all. It's just a separate significance in there. thing. And a lot of the meat that comes from this, that's if it's not just eaten by the the people there, is these days it's given to the poor. kind of thing. Yeah, question. So uh what I learned from the task was they said when um Um first sacrifice um I think I got provided the ram or the animal for that sacrifice. For that for their kitchen as well, I bought provided. Yeah, yeah, you reminded me of that. And that's actually important because that was a substitute, right? And it has very clear connotations to uh the the Lamb of God who is our substitute. Um yeah. Yeah. before Islam because in one of the notes because um they moved from Mecca to Jerusalem as where they see and then um after they conquered Mecca with Islam or what was them. In Mecca? Well actually throughout all of the Arabian peninsula uh just tribal gods that they would worship and uh the significance of Mecca and the Ka'aba and the whole surrounding complex is that that's Mecca was kind of a capital of all those tribal groups, and each of their own tribal gods were honored here. And uh this is a place where where all of those gods were kind of um um revered and and and so on. Mecca was kind of the a commercial center and Allah Um even during that time before Abraham uh was the uh The name means the God, and was was understood particularly by the tribe in Mecca, the Quraysh, that this was the primary God. When Abraham or when when uh Muhammad came to the scene, he says, no, he's not just the main God, he's the only God. And so Muhammad then when they came back and um Mecca submitted to Islam at that point. Uh Muhammad destroyed all those other gods and left only the worship of Allah from that point on. Yeah. Okay. So uh There's lots of reference here to all the preparations, all the steps they go through. Um And I'll I'll leave that to your reading. Um But again, it's useful, I think, for us to reflect back on the teaching of Jesus in the Sermon on the Mount that large numbers of people performing a religious ritual doesn't make it a it may be a r a r a rite R-I-T-E, but it's not a right R-I-G-H-T, if you know what I mean. Right? So in Matthew 7, Jesus said, Enter through the narrow gate, for the gate is wide, and the way is broad, that leads to destruction, and there are many who enter it. through it. For the gate is small and the way is narrow that leads to life, and there are few who find it. So participating in the Hajj is a big deal. It's it's an exciting thing. They're part of probably I guess millions every year who who are doing this during this concentrated period of time. Um and so it it gives them the feeling that they're part of something bigger. This is this is good, um uh but it doesn't make it right. Right. Okay. Those are the basically the the five pillars, the five main obligations for Muslims. There are several other moral obligations that the Quran addresses, and I've listed some of them here. Uh there's an obligation for love and obedience to Allah and Muhammad. Hence the Shahada. There's a requirement for selflessness as a form of gratitude to Allah and fear of Allah. There's a an expectation of kindness and consideration for others rather than pride Some moral teaching there. There's a need for chastity and restraint. Various prescriptions there for both men and women. There's a need for justice on page 123. Not only is God just, but he expects us to do right by people and just in our affairs. And a need for charity instead of hoarding. It's a need for solidarity with other Muslims. There's a need for courage. It's a moral requirement. And also a need for mercy. So um it's not just these prescribed uh five pillars, but there's there's a There there's a body of requirements that kind of are the the um I don't know. Putting flesh on the bones, if you will, uh kind of filling out the obligations that people have before a lot. Anyway, I hope that gives you a kind of an overview of uh their obligations. Any other thoughts? Questions? Yeah. People who were not near the mosque at the time of the prayers would uh sometimes have the right that they would always take a um a few stones and makeup They just circle with about two or three foot back in there and do their frame there and do you know the uh significance of that? I I haven't heard of that, this sort of arranging the location where you're kneeling and performing the various rituals of the the prayer. But I'm guessing it's tied to that the same reason why you would have the prayer rug. That you're you're marking this off as uh I don't know that they would use the word holy, but i consecrated anyway, this is this is um Set aside for worshiping Allah. I'm guessing. Any other questions? Yeah. Um have you had a concern about the I don't think so. What is it? So um growing up in India, um a close friend of mine is and They do this yearly thing where they sacrifice the cool um and then they cook it and they feed everyone. I used to report that I used to eat with them. Um I'm just trying to connect off. Yeah, I'm guessing that may be connected to that concluding sacrifice in the Hajj. And that I was it always the same time every year? Hard to remember, huh? Yeah. It it could be around the same time everybody worldwide is is supposed to be doing the same thing. I don't know. And and essentially they used to be like everyone that in Google and everyone used to go there and and eat. Hard, you know, from our perspective uh from the outside to disentangle what is a requirement versus what has become a tradition. And some of those traditions are culturally based as well and they kind of evolve over time. Um it could have originally started as connected to what's done in the Hajj as a regular thing. But it may well be that people who do it now don't make any connection like that at all. I don't know. All right. Well, we should close here for today. Let's close in prayer.