Here we go into the notes for the Gospel for Life week five. So just a review we've been looking at The gospel through this concept of a gospel cyclorama, where we view a 360 painting of the events of Christ's suffering and death and resurrection. And we've just been messing with the Meditating on what we see in these gospel events and considering what it means for our lives. And uh we saw first and foremost that the cross is the fullest Display of God's glory. We learn at the cross who God is, that He is full of grace and compassion and forgiveness. But at the same time, he is also just and righteous. Throughout all of history, God has been seeking to make himself known to his creation. He has revealed himself in words. He has revealed himself in actions. And all of that culminates at the cross where we see the fullness of God's character on display in What is otherwise might might be considered the uh the most horrific act of human history and yet it is God putting his character on display. A second thought as we look at the gospel is that Jesus' suffering and death paves the path for my life. And we saw how as we observe Jesus' suffering and dying, that he wasn't just dying to save us for our sin, to pay the penalty for our sin, but he was actually modeling for us how we are to live, that is, that we are to die to ourselves for the purpose of bringing glory to God in our lives. And as uh difficult as that is, with the next thought we consider Last week is that death is not the end. Power in life comes to those who die for Christ. And so as much as we uh in our flesh hate dying to ourselves, as much as we might wonder what's gonna happen if I die to myself. Uh we learn as we observe Christ, even in the midst of his suffering, and then the result of his suffering, the resurrection, we see that that God is Please, the Father is pleased to sustain us in our dying, to enable us to live for Him and to experience and understand His love in greater ways. And so as As we come to today's point, the fourth gospel thought we can have, we want to just continue that thought a little bit further. that when we die to ourselves, we can be confident that our suffering and death will be vindicated. Alright, that's gospel thought number four. I can be confident that my suffering and death will be vindicated. Another way to say it is as I look at the empty tomb, as we observe that scene in the Gospel Cyclo Rama, as we look at the empty tom tomb, I see that the Father vindicated the death of Christ by raising him from the dead and exalting him high above every name. The result of Christ's death, the the sh the the shame, the scoffing The mocking is that the Father vindicated Christ for his death. One of the fears that we have in dying to ourselves is the question of what will happen if people walk all over me. What w what if no one comes to realize that I was actually in the right? What if My reputation is ruined forever. What if people think I'm a fool If I'm fired unjustly and my boss uh lies to my co-workers uh about why I was fired uh they will never know the truth because I won't have the opportunity to set the record straight if my spouse leaves me They might lie to my kids and turn them against me. About three years ago when I was working at Grace to You, um One of my responsibilities was to manage their social media platforms. And one day someone sent in a private message on Facebook asking a question about a controversial subject and a controversial person. And so, as as I typically would, I I would engage with them and interact with them. And so we were chatting along just a little bit back and forth. But then her questions turned a little uh awkwardly personal. Uh she was asking about my education and my qualifications and so I'm like, okay, this is getting a little weird, so I'm gonna cut this off. Well, later that day, I discovered that while I was interacting with her, she was feeding my answers to that controversial person, and he was reading my responses live on his national radio broadcast. Isn't that crazy? You can imagine, even just thinking about it, the sickening feeling that I had. Uh yeah, I mean here I was thinking I was having this personal private conversation with someone who's you know wanting to understand this situation better and really what's going on is they are being deceptive and putting out my answers which you know not that I was saying anything wrong or different in principle, but you know when you know you're speaking in private or when you know you're speaking in public, you say things differently, right? Um and so I had the opportunity to listen to that broadcast later on, a recording of it, and it was just so sickening how what I was saying was being twisted and distorted because of course this person didn't like what I had to say In all honesty, it wasn't really the fact that uh my of my own reputation that I was concerned about. I mean I'm a I'm a nobody, uh I have no name on the national stage, but it's my job, there at Grace to You to represent John McCarthy. And the Ministry of Grace to You, which is a very national ministry. And so his reputation, uh the mini reputation of the ministry was being distorted, and there was no way for me to fix it. You know, to to get on this program and say, let me set the record straight. There's just no possibility for that. Well we all have various kinds of situations, some small and relatively insignificant and some very, very small significant in our lives where our reputation um is marred, is um ruined Where people misunderstand us, where we're thought about incorrectly, where we are judged illegitimately. These are not illegitimate fears that when we think about dying to our ourselves, when we think about uh absorbing injustice, uh there is that legitimate fear of what if people never come to realize what I've done, that that I'm actually the the righteous one in this situation. Well, of course, God's people have always been falsely accused, misunderstood, and wrongly judged. In fact, in Psalm 7, Psalm 26, and in Psalm 54 David cries out to the Lord for vindication against those who falsely judge or mistreat him You can just just do a word search for the word vindication or vindicate and find many examples in Scripture. Think about Jesus. Again, as he was there at his crucifixion, there were many present who obviously had wrong thoughts about him. That's why they were crucifying him. But their wrong thoughts about Jesus stayed intact their whole life because they never saw conclusive evidence of his resurrection. They heard about it for sure. You couldn't not hear about it if you lived in Jerusalem and in Israel at that time. But they they had wrong thoughts about him. He didn't come down off that cross. He died, and so their misjudgment about Christ remained throughout their lives. And are are there not those today who wrongly think about Christ because of the fact that he died? a criminal's death and they don't believe that he rose from the dead? I mean that's the majority of people in the world Jesus is significantly, and that's an understatement, misjudged, falsely accused, misunderstood. For most people, the fact that Jesus died at all proved that he was nothing special, just another false messiah. If you think about it, the very act that purchased salvation for sinners is the one that causes many sinners to reject their Savior. Very act that purchased salvation for Salvation is the one that causes sinners to reject their Savior. First Corinthians 1 acknowledges this reality and identifies it as uh the fact that the gospel is foolishness to unbelievers, right? Greeks seek wisdom, Jews seek after signs, they see a crucified Messiah and they say, uh no That's ridiculous. That's crazy. But we've looked at Hebrews 12 2 a couple times already, where it says that Jesus despised the shame, right? To be crucified was the most shameful way to die because one would hang naked on that cross. With your crimes or accused crimes posted above your head, and your body would be completely vulnerable for all to see. You would be utterly exposed. When we are taken advantage of, we feel vulnerable and exposed and helpless. When people perceive us wrongly, or when a rumor about us spreads, we feel the need to vindicate ourselves, right? We want to tell people who we really are and defend ourselves. We naturally want to fight back and set the record straight. This natural response is why the Bible emphasizes so much the fact that Jesus was silent before his accusers. He was like a sheep led to the slaughter, not saying anything, or at least not saying anything to defend himself And that's such an incredible thing because people don't do that, right? Or at least not the the the powerful and the wealthy. I mean there is no president or king in the planet who would allow themselves to go through uh an illegal trial, to be falsely accused, and certainly to be put to death without doing everything in their power to defend themselves and try and Correct the situation. But not Jesus. Why? Well, there are as always multiple reasons, but consider this one. He knew that the father would vindicate him eventually. He knew that the father would vindicate him eventually During his ministry, Jesus repeatedly told the disciples that he would be killed, but on the third day rise again. I don't know how many times he did that. But it's recorded at least three, four, five times in the Gospels. He knew that his death was coming, but he also knew that death would not be the end. He knew he was going to rise from the dead. He knew he would have to endure the shame of the cross, but vindication would come. In 1 Timothy 3:16, Paul quotes what seems to have become a confession among the earthly. Early Christians, he writes, by common confession, great is the mystery of godliness. He who was revealed in the flesh was vindicated in the Spirit, seen by angels, proclaimed among the nations, believed on in the world, taken up in glory. This seems to be a statement that the believers would either affirm, like we might do the doxology, or sing. Something like that. But he was revealed in the flesh and was vindicated by the Spirit. How was he vindicated? Well, this is probably a reference to the idea that we read in Romans 1. 4, where it says that Jesus was declared the Son of God with power by the resurrection from the dead, according to the Spirit of Holiness, right? So the the the Jews, the Pharisees, the leader said, Jesus, prove that you are the Son of God by coming down off of that cross. And Jesus knew, no, that's not the way to prove that I am the Son of God. The way I'm going to be proved the Son of God is if the Father raises me from the dead. And that's exactly what happened. He was vindicated in who he is by the resurrection from the dead. So again we look at the resurrection, we look at the empty tomb and we see that the Father vindicated So to those who believe, the resurrection is the vindication of who Jesus is. As Paul says in 1 Corinthians 15, if not for the resurrection, we're all wasted. The resurrection itself demands that all people repent of their false thinking, false ideas about Jesus, and submit to him. As the Son of God. That is the vindication of Jesus. But we know that doesn't always happen now, right? There are so many unbelievers, people who hear the gospel. They they reject it out of hand, and they say, I don't believe that, and therefore in that moment at least, the resurrection is not fully vindicating Christ because people don't accept it. So while the resurrection vindicated Christ, that vindication has not reached its fullness in this period of history, but it will. And if you have your Bible, you can I know this is a familiar passage, but you can look at Philippians chapter two, where we see how the resurrection will eventually lead to the full and complete vindication of Christ. In Philippians chapter two I'm just going to read the end of that passage where it says, starting in verse eight, being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death Even death on a cross. Verse 9. For this reason also God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name Which is above every name. Verse ten. So that in the na at the name of Jesus every knee will bow of those who are in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and that every tongue will confess That Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. So while today As we sit in our homes or at the church, we do not see Christ fully vindicated. The act of his vindication is complete, his resurrection. But because people reject him today, we could say in a sense he has not been fully vindicated. But that day will come when all of those who reject him finally until their death will see that he is Lord. And as it says, every knee will bow and every tongue will confess that Jesus is Lord. So whether now as those who come to Christ or in the future, when people stand before the Lord in judgment, Christ will be fully and completely vindicated. Every ounce Of suffering, every false accusation, every uh inaccurate word about who Jesus is will be set right Those people will recognize once and for all that all of their false thoughts about Jesus were wrong And they will bow the knee to Christ. The Father vindicated the Son and will vindicate him finally and completely and for eternity. So as we look at the empty tomb, we see that the sufferings and death of Christ has been and will be vindicated. But what about us? Yes, we too will be vindicated Whatever wrong thoughts people have about you, whatever false accusations are made against you Whatever rumors are spread about you, even if in this life people continue to think wrongly about you, and especially if you die to yourself. Those will be corrected one day, and you will be vindicated. You can turn to 2 Thessalonians. Chapter one, where Paul uh talks about this as he opens up his second letter to the Thessalonian church. I'm going to read verses 3 to 12 more for the sake of context than anything. I'm just going to highlight a few things from here. But when we suffer and die, when we're on the receiving end of wrongdoing, when we're falsely accused, we can often think, what if people continue to think wrongly? What's going to happen to those who Who don't understand me, those who attack me, are they gonna get away with their wrong thoughts? Are they gonna continue unendingly with wrong understanding of who I am? And why I'm doing what I'm doing. Well, Paul writes this, starting in verse three. We ought always to give thanks to God for you, brethren, as is only fitting, because your faith is greatly enlarged. And the love of each one of you toward one another grows even greater. Therefore, we ourselves speak proudly of you among the churches of God for your perseverance and faith in the midst of all your persecutions and afflictions which you endure. Alright? So that's the historical context. This church is going through significant persecutions and afflictions, and they are enduring these very difficult times. They are being mocked and scorned and we know They were accused of cannibalism by those who looked at the Lord's Supper and thought that Christians believed they were not. They were actually eating the the the actual blood and b uh body of Christ. They were falsely accused on many accounts. And so they were being persecuted and afflicted. And Paul goes on to say in verse 5, this is a plain indication of God's righteous judgment, so that you will be considered worthy of the kingdom of God, for which indeed you are suffering. For after all it is only just for God to repay with affliction those who afflict you, and to give relief to you who are afflicted and to us as well, when the Lord Jesus will be revealed from excuse me, from heaven with us. with his mighty angels in flaming fire, dealing out retribution to those who do not know God and to those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. These will pay the penalty of eternal destruction. Away from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his power when he comes, to be glorified in his saints on that day, and to be marveled at Among all who have believed, for our testimony to you for our testimony to you was believed To this end, we also pray for you always that God will count you worthy of your calling and fulfill every desire for goodness and the work of faith with power, so that the name of the Lord Jesus will be glorified. In you and you in him, according to the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ. So they were being persecuted and afflicted. And notice how he says in verse 7 that the relief that is coming to these believers is not a promised relief in this life. It's not a well just hang on a little bit more. And things will get better. No, the relief will come when the Lord Jesus will be revealed from heaven with his mighty angels. When Jesus comes. Every ounce of suffering that we endure, every false accusation will be corrected. It does not matter what we endure in this life, it does not matter what other people think about us today or for the rest of the day. of our lives, if they have wrong opinions about us, as they if they treat us falsely on on the basis of false understandings of us. When Jesus returns All of that will be corrected. And we will be relieved. And we uh from that suffering and affliction. Uh we will be uh shown to be aggravate. In fact, the last the reason I wanted to read all the way to Verse twelve is because of how he says, so that in the name of our Lord Jesus, uh so that the name of our Lord Jesus will be glorified in you, and listen to this, and you in him. So not only will Jesus Jesus be glorified in your life, but you yourself will be glorified. Now he's not speaking here of What we call the doctrine of glorification when sin is finally and completely removed from us. That's not the sense in which he's using the word glorified. He's using that word in the sense of exalted. uh how God tears down the proud, but he exalts the humble. That when Christ comes back, uh when we enter into the next era of history of God's design, That those who have been humble who have humbled themselves, those who have died to themselves for Christ, those who have given up that that desire for justice, that desire uh to have their rights uh represented That those who have given up the need to defend themselves, they will be exalted. They will be shown to be righteous and true to the degree that they have been. And so it doesn't matter what pain we experience in this life, the Lord Jesus Himself will exalt us and glorify us. uh in eternity. Now related to this and and this next passage is much broader in its in its um category of glorification. But you're familiar with Romans chapter eight, verse eighteen, where Paul writes, For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that is to be revealed To us, there will come a time when we will experience unfathomable glory. When the righteousness that the Lord has worked in us will be put on display. And one example of that is in Revelation chapter 19. At the marriage supper of the Lamb, you know, in ancient times uh when you would go to a wedding, they would have what would be called wedding garments, right? Jesus tells a parable about that. And uh to one degree or another that's been true in our culture in the sense of you people uh tend to dress up a little bit more at a wedding than they would to you know, go to the beach or whatever else. Um but that's even becoming less so. Weddings themselves are becoming more casual, and especially in California. But at the wedding supper of the Lamb, we will wear wedding garments. In Revelation chapter 19 I'll just read starting verse seven. Let us rejoice and be glad and give the glory to him for the marriage supper of the Lamb. The marriage of the Lamb has come, and his bride has made herself ready. Then it says in verse 8, It was given to her to clothe herself with fine linen, bright and clean. For the fine linen Is the righteous acts of the saints. The fine linen is the righteous acts of the saints. So as as we Grow in our sanctification in this life as we die to ourselves, as we become more like Christ, as we we experience the fellowship of the sufferings of Christ. We are knitting together, if you will, a a fine linen, white, pure cloth, which we will wear at the marriage supper of the Lamb. All of the righteous deeds of the saints will come together and be put on display for all to see. Every act of self-sacrifice, every act of dying to yourself will be shown, and all false thoughts will be proven to be wrong. Now I won't take the time to go through it, but you can read through the letters to the churches of Revelation in Revelation 2, chapters 2 and 3. Each letter ends with how God will reward those who overcome all temptations to turn away from Christ for the sake of worldly gain. You know, it he keeps saying, To the one who overcomes, I will give. To the other one who overcomes, I will give uh and so on and so forth. Their sacrifices, their pain and suffering will be vindicated, will be rewarded beyond comprehension. And when I say they, I also mean we, our. We can trust that God will reward and vindicate and prove right everything that we have done for His sake, every act of. So when we are attacked, when we are maligned and falsely accused, even if our reputation is ruined, even if our life is destroyed, We can look at the empty tomb and be confident that we will be vindicated in the end. Now a fifth thought as we look at the cross Is that the Father is worthy of my worship in life or in death So this is our next main point for today. Another thought we can have as we look at this Gospel Cyclo Rama is that the Father is worthy of my worship. in life or in death. When we look around and we see the suffering and the dying of Christ I don't just see a man suffering and dying. I see a man suffer, or excuse me, I see a man worshiping. I see a man worshiping. We know that worship is not limited to singing, and it's not even limited to what we might call our worship service. We are to live our lives in worship to God. We we understand that. But isn't it true that when life is hard When we're on the receiving end of wrongdoing, when some great health or financial or relational trial comes into our lives, we tend to go into survival mode. We kind of leave the worship mode of, well, I want to live my life for the worship of God, and we move into survival mode. I just need to make it through this trial. Suffering has a way of constricting our vision and limiting our ability to think about anything other than the suffering. In those moments, worshiping God is not on our mind. Now think about this physically with a physical illustration. If you're having a conversation with someone, And all of a sudden a searing pain shoots up your leg. You are no longer able to focus on what that other person person is saying. What do you do? You grab your your hip or your leg or wherever the pain's coming from. You're like And that whole moment stops and you go awa you you stop uh relating with that person and you start thinking, Okay, I gotta I gotta fix this, I gotta find a way to end this pain before I can In the same way, when life is going well, we might be actively thinking about how we can honor the Lord, how we can serve the Lord, how we can live our lives and worship to the Lord. But when suffering hits us, we tend to direct all of our attention on the suffering. And rather than seeking to honor the Lord and say, Lord, help me to worship you in this moment, We relate to him only to ask that he bring us relief and in the suffering. Now I know that's a tendency. I'm I'm I'm saying that's a tendency, not a universal truth. I think we see many examples, both in our church. And and outside of our church where people model for us what this looks like As we observe Jesus, he models for us what it's like to live and suffer and die. worshiping. Just after uh just hours after Jesus entered Jerusalem writing on the docke, uh being praised by the people, you know, in one of those exalting moments. where the the emotional uh tension or the emotional level of the crowd was really high and everyone was excited, in that moment In the hours following that moment, Jesus told the disciples, once again, I'm going to die and I'm going to rise again. He was saying, guys, don't look around and think this is when I become king here. I'm still going to die. And in that conversation, Jesus said, and this is from John 12, 27-28, Jesus said, Now my soul has become troubled, and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour But for this purpose I came to this hour. And of course he's talking about his death. For this purpose I came to this hour. Father, glorify your name. Then a voice came out of heaven. I have glorified it and will glorify it again. So as Jesus has entered Jerusalem under the height and excitement of the crowd, he reminds the disciples: I am going to be killed. I'm going to suffer and die. And instead of saying Father, remove me from this hour, take this hour away from me, he says, Father, glorify your name. Jesus had lived his approximately thirty years of life in worship to the Father He submitted to the Father, worshiping him in the temple, in the synagogues, on hillsides, in every area of his life. His life was a life of worship. And as Jesus anticipates what's going to take place in just a few days, he declares that suffering Will not prevent him from glorifying God, from worshiping him Now I know it's not often that you and I see a trial coming ahead of us. where, you know, as we're driving a ro down the road we see something's hap there's a car wreck down there. I think I'm gonna I think I'm gonna be part of that m m pile up car wreck and and we have a an opportunity to respond to it. Normally trials just come at us out of the blue. But in those moments when we do see things coming ahead of us, I wonder: do we anticipate it as we're Looking at it as we're thinking about what's going to take place, do we anticipate it asking that the Father would be glorified through it? Do we think about how we will worship God through this trial that's coming my way? I know it's coming. I even know the date that it's coming. This is going to be a significant trial. Lord, help me to worship you in this trial. That's what Jesus did. Now, fast forward to the night that Jesus was betrayed, in those final moments before Judas and the soldiers arrived, Jesus spent his last moments of freedom. Again, we've looked at this multiple times, Matthew 26, 39. And he went a little beyond the disciples and fell on his face and prayed, saying, My Father, if it is possible, let this cup pass from me, yet not as I will, but as you will You will. Now we don't typically think about Jesus' prayer here as an act of worship, but that's exactly what it was. In his prayer, Jesus acknowledged to the Father that the Father is worthy of his full Obedience. He ascribed to the Father power and dominion to do what is right. as his body began to react to the anticipation of all the pain he would have to endure. His human nature wanted to find some way, any way, to avoid the pain. In his humanity, he hoped beyond hope that the inevitable wouldn't have to happen. Nevertheless, he submitted himself and committed himself to worshiping the Father through his suffering. And death. That's what was first and foremost on his mind. Now, why do I say that Jesus' suffering and death was an act of worship? Well, it's because of uh passages like Ephesians 5. 2. You can look that up in your Bible. Ephesians 5 2, I'll just read it briefly. It says, and walk in love, just as Christ also loved you, and gave himself up for us, an offering and a sacrifice to God as a fragrant aroma. Now we very we're very familiar with the language of Jesus being the Lamb of God, right? Who came to take the sins of the world, how he was the final sacrifice. But we don't again typically think of him in that role as worshiping the Father. We think of that more in a passive sense, that you know, Jesus was the lamb that is, you know, again, hypothetically speaking, that people selected him out, the father selected him out of the crowd of lambs, saying, okay, this is the perfect lamb. When this is the right one, this is the one that's gonna accomplish the task of paying for the for the sins of my people But Jesus wasn't passive. Look at the language there. It says, He gave himself up for us and o an offering and a sacrifice to God as a fragrant aroma. In other words, he wasn't just giving up his life He was actually seeking to be pleasing to the Father. That's the idea behind a fragrant aroma. He wanted his suffering and his death to bring pleasure and joy to the Father. He wanted the Father to be pleased by his sacrifice. Before he took his last breath, Jesus said, Father Into your hands I commit my spirit. Now think about this. Again, Jesus was not passive in his dying He did not turn himself into a punching bag and become docile and, okay, just whatever the Roman soldiers want to do to me, that's what I have to do. No, no, no. Jesus gave himself in worship In the garden, again, as we read, Jesus asked if the cup could pass from him When the cup came to him, he didn't just say, you know, tilt up his head, open up his mouth. Okay, God, just pour it in. Whatever you want to do, just pour it in. No, no, no. The cup came to him, and he took it with his hands. And he took a drink. And then he took another drink and another. And another, and he kept drinking the cup of the wrath of God until there was nothing left To drink. This was not passive. He was very active in worshiping the Father. To be more specific, he gave his cheeks to be punched. He gave his back to be scourged. He gave his head to be crowned with thorns. He gave his hands and his feet to be nailed. And then when man had done all they could do to his body. He gave his soul to God to endure whatever amount of wrath the Father had to pour. As he hung on that cross. And then finally, as his soul was about to leave his body, He committed his soul in a final act of worship, giving to the Father the only thing he had left to give. He was worshiping the Father with everything he had Moment by moment he gave of himself. I give this to you, Father. I give you my hands. I give you my feet. I give you my soul. It was a constant act of worship. Another passage that uses this kind of purposeful, intentional language is Hebrews 9:14. Where it says, how much more will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal spirit offered himself Without blemish to God, cleanse your conscience from dead works to serve the living God. He offered himself without blemish to God. He didn't just passively allow others to do what they wanted to do. He gave himself each moment with every step. And this is how we, you and I, must live and suffer and die. Not passively. Not just saying, oh Lord, I'll just you know, whatever people want to do, that's just what I I'm just gonna sit here as a punching bag. I'm gonna lay down and be a a mat on the floor and let people walk all over me. No. No, we are to actively give of ourselves to the Father as an act of worship This language is so familiar to us from Romans chapter 12. After the 11 chapters of proclaiming the glories of the gospel and God's purposes in salvation, Paul says says, therefore I urge you, brethren, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies a living and holy sacrifice acceptable to God, which is your spiritual service. of worship. I remember years ago one of my uh mentors, pastors He uh gave a message, I don't remember if it was on I think it might have been on this passage, uh or uh at least a similar one And in that church we had in front of the pulpit down below uh a table where uh the the elements of the Lord's Supper would go. And it was there all the time, uh even when we weren't using it. And uh and I remember so vividly he he got out from behind the pulpit and he was talking about how so often when we think about giving of ourselves to God in worship, we think All right, God, uh I'll I'll give you my money and you know, God, I'll I'll I'll give you my time and you know, may you take a picture out and I'll give you my family. And you know we we give to God in a compartmentalized way. We say, I'll I'll give you this and I'll give you that But then he he turned around and he laid down on that table and he said, No, what God wants is for us to give our whole selves To him. And that's exactly what Paul is saying here. Inspired by the Holy Spirit, present your bodies, a holy and living sacrifice acceptable to God. which is your spiritual service of worship. Now we know this doesn't mean, okay, we have to die, we have to fire up some some altars and and burn up some people, because as he goes on to describe what does it mean to worship God with a our bodies. It means to live our lives in a way that's pleasing to God. But look, as you look down later in that chapter, part of what it means to worship God with our bodies is to say in verse Verse 17, never pay back evil for evil to anyone. Or verse 19, never take your own revenge, beloved, but leave room for the wrath of God. Or verse 20, but if your enemy is hungry, feed him, if he is thirsty, give him a drink. Sometimes what it means to worship God with our bodies is to endure suffering. And dying to self, to give of ourselves to the Father, which yes might mean that other people take from us. That might mean that other people take advantage of us. But we're not letting them do that in a passive way. We're instead giving of ourselves. And not to say that every time, you know, that we must just lay down and and and uh let people take advantage of us but there are many times when we must act in worship to the father and say Lord I'm going to give this into your hands I'm not going to fight back. I'm not going to try and seek my own rights. I'm going to worship you in this moment, and it's going to hurt. It's going to be excruciating, and it might even lead to my death. But I'm going to worship you with all that I am. Because of all That God has done for us in Christ, and because of how Jesus worshiped the Father for us, we have the privilege of offering ourselves in worship to God. He is worthy of it. He has done everything for us to deserve all that we have. There is nothing that we have, no material possession, no relationship, no health. Not even our own soul that we should withhold from the Father. We should hold everything in our lives and all who we are with an open hand. Giving the Father complete control and enabling him to do whatever he wants to do with it Now, I confess to you that I don't know why God chooses to do some of the things that He does. Like when he allows a marriage to be destroyed and a spouse to move out. Or when he chooses to allow a child to die. Or when he chooses to give us cancer or some chronic illness. But I do know this if Jesus Could worship the Father in His suffering and death, so must we. We must give ourselves to Him because He is worthy to receive it from us. We see a perfect model in Christ of this, but we also see an imperfect model in the Apostle Paul. He wrote in Philippians chapter one, starting in verse eighteen. Yes, and I will rejoice, for I know that this will turn out for my deliverance through your prayers. Remember he's in prison. And the provision of the Spirit in of Christ Jesus, according to my earnest expectation and hope, that I will not be put to shame in anything, but that with all boldness Christ will even now, as always, Be exalted in my body, whether by life or by death Whether by life or by death. We don't know what the Lord's purposes are, what the Lord's plans are for our nation in this next month, in this next year. Certainly none of us could have anticipated all of what has come upon our nation and our world. But we do know that whatever comes No matter what amount of suffering and pain, injustice, brokenness, not only in our nation, but also in the world. And perhaps even in our own bodies, we can know that God is worthy of our worship, that He is worthy to receive from us everything that we have and we have to do that. And everything that we are in worship to him. Amen.