Okay, so so what's a worldview? Well, some of you may know what a worldview is already, but for those of us who don't, um you know, the world a worldview is a framework of beliefs of stories, of values, and of practices that guide your interpretation of the world. It's sort of the lens through which you see everything and how it's how you make sense of life and the your worldview also shapes your choices and actions. So this is a very important thing. It's kind of it's it's crucial to how you live. And you you may not be aware of this, but the Bible is actually aware I was going to say that the Bible presents a worldview, but that's probably not strong enough. The Bible actually is a worldview. um the the goal of scripture is to to to get the the truths and the knowledge into your mind that you need in order to live faithfully following the Lord in order to be godly and righteous. So that the Bible is a worldview, and it's a worldview built around the person of Jesus Christ. Christ. You may have heard that the entire Bible is about Christ. And that's true. It is. Because Christ is the foundation of the biblical worldview. And the biblical worldview is centered on the gospel. So we've been talking a lot about the gospel in recent months. Months with Pastor Kirby uh emphasizing that in his in his last teaching times, and then uh I talked about Paul preaching the gospel at Athens. And there's a reason we talk so much about the gospel, and uh Uh it's you know it's the power of salvation for all who believe. It is the centerpiece of the biblical worldview. I'd say I'd say it's not the totality of the biblical worldview. Uh you know, like we talked about uh with Paul at Athens, he had to lay all this groundwork for the the pagan Greeks, uh all this context for like who God is and who we are in uh um having been made by him. And some of that context really is what forms the biblical worldview, out of which the gospel grows. You know, like a like a flower. Um really the biblical worldview touches everything, all aspects of life. Here's a quote from C. S. Lewis. I believe in Christianity as I believe that the sun has risen, not only because I see it, but because by it I see everything else. So I think that's a really good metaphor because it illustrates that um your worldview is the lens through which you see everything. And our worldview is supposed to be uh scripture. It's supposed to be built on scripture. Now uh I want to make this point. Everyone has a world Even people who don't know what a worldview is have a worldview. Even people who have never thought about their worldview have a worldview And if someone's never thought about their own worldview, they probably just inherited the worldview of the culture around them. And we're going to talk about the dominant worldviews that exist in our culture today in in coming lessons. We won't have time to get into the details of those today, but um I think it's really important to know uh what those cultural influences are out there, what is contributing or what is trying to contribute And um so yeah, few people are completely aware of all the ideas that influence their worldview. Even those who understand that they have a worldview may not know everything that contributed or contribute continues to contribute to that worldview. So for example, many Christians um sadly affirm a biblical worldview while unconsciously internalizing ideas from other world. worldviews. I know this this has been true of me in the past and I've had to kind of purify and and refine my thinking, uh renew my mind as scripture says and it it's probably true of some of you uh and and this class you know one of my goals here is to help sort of draw that out And and this is true because worldviews are complex and subtle. Okay, so worldviews are almost never um explicitly stated. You can't like go to a web page and see here's the list of points in the uh progressive humanist worldview. And you know, people in in actual practice, almost nobody has like just one pure worldview. People take different influences and they kind of mix them together. together or they have one worldview in a certain context, like at church, and then when you they go to work they sort of shift to this other worldview. That's unfortunately very common too and something we gotta watch out for, but it makes talking about worldviews just that much harder and more important. So Another point here is that your worldview is not merely what you believe is true. It's not merely the set of beliefs that you would affirm It's the relative priority that you put on those things, right? It's what you believe is most important. Because as Christians, we can say that a whole bunch of things things are true, but you know, we can say that that the kingdom of God is important, for example. But uh or we can say we can say that uh that that we believe in the kingdom of God. But Jesus said that we have to seek first to the kingdom of God. Are we really doing that? Even if we believe that uh that God is building his kingdom, building through through the spread of the gospel and through the growth of the church. Do we really prioritize that in our lives? That's a worldview question too. Okay, so that was briefly what a worldview is. So my goals here for this series are this and I'm calling it a course. I want us to recognize the effect and the importance of all of our worldviews. Right. The fact that you have a worldview, I want you to recognize that and recognize how important it is to your actual life. I want us to be able to understand And to explain the biblical worldview and also the other rival worldviews that show up in our culture. We're not going to try to explain every worldview that exists on the planet. But we want to be able to explain the ones that we come into contact with here in America most frequently. Beyond that, I want us to be able to demonstrate that the biblical worldview is at the same time more compelling, more comprehensive, and more consistent than all the writing worldviews. Uh it's the truth, after all. It should be better in all these respects. And and you know it can really build your confidence to be able to explain how uh how that's true. Uh so on the flip side of that, I also want us to be able to expose how these competing worldviews in our culture try to take Christians captive, because that's that is what they're trying to do. And I want us to show to be able to disarm those worldviews views and and their attempts to take us captive. And then finally it wouldn't be super helpful if I just got up here and uh told you things. Uh I want as I mentioned, I want this class, uh this ministry to become uh a place where we can support each other in standing firm in the faith and walking in a manner that is pleasing to the Lord. So I want us to be able to fellowship together, hold each other accountable, share those those struggles where you know where we're really struggling in um you know, with things in the world or uh or with sin and be able to pray for each other and encourage one another. So those are my goals here. uh for this course. So jumping right into the first one, I want to show the importance of worldview. Okay, so the the first thing is that if you look at scripture, if you look at what scripture says about knowledge, about wisdom, about the kinds of beliefs that shape your life and your and your thoughts and actions and and choices. Over and over the Bible connects that kind of knowledge with godliness, knowledge of the truth with godly living. So look at Colossians 1, 9 and 10. This is Paul writing, Paul and Timothy writing to the Colossian church. They say, For this reason also, since the day we heard of it, that is your faith, we have not ceased to pray for you and to ask that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding. So that you will walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, to please him in all respects, bearing fruit in every good work. So uh If you caught this, Paul and Timothy are praying to the Lord. And what is what are they asking God for? With some with the middle person. Colossians. For the Colossians, yes. They're asking that the Colossians that God would fill these Colossian believers with all wisdom and understanding. For what purpose? Yeah, so that they would walk in a manner uh worthy of the Lord, to please him in all So he connects, he says, Lord, give them knowledge so that they will be godly. See that that arrow there between knowledge and godliness? Um in Paul's mind that is uh that's what they need. They need knowledge of the truth in order to be godly. Okay, and then similarly in Philippians 1, uh, and this I pray that Paul again, that your love may abound still more and more in real knowledge and all discernment, so that you may approve the things that are excellent. So it's kind of the same thought here. He's praying again. He's asking God to fill the Philippians with all knowledge and um and all discernment, so that for the purpose of them being sincere and blameless. Right? So um and the type of knowledge that he's asking for them to be filled with is not just like knowledge of facts. Like he's He doesn't want them he's not asking God for them to know their like multiplication tables better. Uh or even he's not even asking for God uh to fill them with like memory verses, right? He's asking for God to fill them essentially with a biblical worldview, right? To fill them with the truths that they can use to correctly interpret life, to correctly understand who God is. and who they are in relation to Christ. That's the kind of he's he's really talking about worldviews here without I mean the Bible never uses the word worldview because it's a modern uh invention that that term. But that's what he's really that's what Paul is talking about here. Having a a right worldview is key, is essential to living in a godly world. way and and to living rightly. Okay, so here's Romans twelve two. Do not be conformed to this world. That is Don't let your worldview take the shape of those in the world, right? But be transformed by the renewing of your mind. So that you may prove what the will of God is, that which is good and acceptable and perfect. And uh here when he says that you may prove what the will of God is. It's a different way of saying that you may do and experience living the right way, living according to the will of God. Right, so notice what is the key to them proving what the will of God is? In this verse here. What's the key that enables them, the Romans, to prove what the will of God is and to do the will of God? Yeah, the renewing of their mind. That's right. That's how we're transformed in That's how we're transformed into um the likeness of Christ. You know, I d I don't know if if you ever thought about this before, about the importance of knowledge and of your mind and of of believing the right thing to the Christian life. And of course the Christian life is not just about believing stuff Right. It's also about um what you say and what you do. Uh you know, God Jesus said uh that We will give an account for every careless word that we speak. But he also said that it is out of the overflow of the what? The heart that the mouth speaks. And in um you know when he says heart, he doesn't just mean like our emotions. Uh in in Greek culture, the heart was a reference to the entire inner person. the mind. You know, it's out of the overflow of our mind that our mouth speaks. And so godliness, while it's not just about what we believe, it certainly starts with what we believe. And um and that relates to our worldview. Okay, so last scripture on this point uh here is 2 Peter 1. 3. His divine power has granted to us everything pertaining to life and godliness through the true knowledge of Him who called us by His own glory and excellence. So he's granted to us everything pertaining to life and godliness. That's a pretty comprehensive set of resources, right? Like how could you, you know, that's like Um, you know, saying how could you say a more comprehensive thing? Uh everything pertaining to life and godliness. And what's the channel through which we get uh all that stuff that we need for life and godliness? That channel is true knowledge, right? Through the true knowledge of him who called us by his own glory and excellence. So on the negative side, uh you know we've we've seen how how um true knowledge enables godliness, but on the negative side, lack of knowledge also ruins God's people. In Hosea 4. 6, it says, My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge. And that's pretty strong language. It's not just Like my people are held back by lack of knowledge or my people are not super mature in their faith because of lack of knowledge. My people are destroyed by lack of knowledge And then later uh in Paul in Romans he speaks of uh of his fellow Jews who oppose Christ, who uh who don't believe in him yet. And he says of them, For I testify about them that they have a zeal for God, but not in accordance with knowledge. So we can even be like devout Christians or think of ourselves that way, right? We can have a real passion for what we think God wants us to do. But if we don't have knowledge, we might end up opposing Christ. like these people Paul's talking about here. So knowledge is important. Uh finish with a quote by John Piper. He says literally all the power available from God to live and be godly comes through knowledge. Amazing! What a premium we should put on doctrine and instruction in the scriptures. Life and godliness are at stake. Um okay. So hopefully this lays a foundation for how important worldviews are uh to not just our thinking but our our entire lives. And but I you know if all I did say was give you a sense that this is an important subject that you should someday get to you know like put on your to-do list of Like, yeah, I should do some reading about worldviews. Or I should I should study the Bible more and try to try to get a a more biblical worldview, you know, in my spare time. Or or maybe I'll just leave it to Sunday mornings when when Bill comes comes and teaches. That that would not be the outcome I'm shooting for here because worldviews are not like a buffet where you can just sort of sit down and relax and and like eat the food that you want and then like go back for another course and you can say like, oh I'll I'll pick up my vegetables later That's not what this is. It's not we can't take a leisurely relaxed approach to worldviews because worldviews are actually a battlefield. This is the metaphor that Scripture uses for um for our thought life, for the things that we believe. Um so scripture teaches that the philosophies of the world are in conflict with the knowledge of God. And so there's no there's no peace, there's no mutual coexistence, they're in conflict with each other. And our response to them is we either take those philosophies captive or we are taken captive by them. So take a look at 2 Corinthians 10, 3 through 5. For though we walk in the flesh, this is Paul speaking again. We do not war according to the flesh, there's that war metaphor, for the weapons of our warfare are not of the flesh, but divinely powerful for the destruction of fortresses. Pause. Destruction of fortresses. What is he talking about there? What are you destroying, Paul? We are destroying speculations, which could also be translated to arguments. In every lofty thing raised up against the knowledge of God, and we are taking every thought captive to the obedience of Christ. So what is Paul saying here? He's saying that there are these things in the world called speculations or arguments. Elsewhere in Scripture he'll call them philosophy and empty deception. We'll see that in a second. There are these things out there that are essentially opposing worldviews that set themselves up against the knowledge of God. And what is our job as Christians? Our job is to destroy them. Not literally with with like swords and guns, but with um with spiritual weapons, with the truth, the the knowledge of God's truth. and with our godly living, and to take every thought captive to the obedience of Christ. So that's what he's saying there. He's saying this is a war you are actively involved right now in a war of world views and you must exercise the truth in order to take captive the things that the world is trying to get into your mind. Okay. See the flip side of this in Colossians 2, verse 8. So we're supposed to take every thought captive to the obedience of Christ. But Paul also says, see to it that no one takes you captive. Through philosophy and empty deception. Again, these are worldview terms, right? According to the tradition of men, according to the elementary principles of the world rather than according to Christ. So here we learn something about uh these competing worldviews that uh that show up in the world. They are based on the tradition of men, first of all. They're based on the elementary principles of the world. So this is very much talking about worldview level ideas You know, things that are so fundamental, so elementary, that they govern how you see the world and how you uh how you make your choices. Rather than according to Christ. So there's a contrast here that Paul sets up between the worldviews of the world, which are based on the traditions of men and the elementary principles of the world versus the biblical worldview, the truth, which is based on who? Christ. Christ. Yes. So it's a contrast there and it's and it's warfare between the two. Um Alright, so in this warfare that we are in, this war of worldviews, the ideas of the world are actually the weapons of the enemy. Um and yes, we're gonna talk about Satan, we're gonna talk about demons, uh, because they are involved in this too. They are um, you know, there's there's this sort of caricature in in in popular Christianity that like when someone is tempted it's because there's this devil sitting on your shoulder and it's like saying, Bill, you know, eat that lap donut And that is you know, that that's funny, but it's like completely false, right? Demons are not There's no real scriptural basis, or there's maybe weak scriptural basis, for saying that demons are directly involved in tempting us. Uh there's much more scriptural basis for saying that demons in are involved in deception. I think, you know, Satan is pretty crafty and smart, and he knows that if he were to try to like tempt every single one of the seven billion people in the world. He he and his minions would be um you know not efficiently uh directing their labors. So what he has realized and I think this is this is biblical, is that uh it's much more effective to set up these big systems of thought, these ideologies that deceive people and lead them astray, uh sort of wholesale and mass. So that you know you don't have to have a devil sitting on everyone's shoulder to tempt them to sin. They already are thinking in unbiblical patterns that are governing their actions and choices. And Um so look at uh first Timothy four verse one. But the Spirit explicitly says that in later times some will fall away from the faith, paying attention to deceitful spirits and teachings of deceitful. demons. So yes, there are teachings that come from demons. And um you know the the the demons are active in crafting these teachings and these deceptions in order to draw believers away from the faith, well, or people who uh c claim to be believers, maybe uh But we're not originally believers to begin with. So that's that's what's going on here. Um behind the scenes. Is there when people talk about spiritual warfare, spiritual warfare plays out most often in the realm of ideas and deception. Okay. Uh by contrast, our weapons, so so the enemy's weapons are these false ideas, these false worldviews. By contrast, our weapons are true knowledge and right living. So look at Ephesians 6, 11 and 12. This is the passage about the armor of God, a pretty famous passage. But it's actually talking about worldviews. Put on the full armor of God so that you will be able to stand firm against the schemes of the devil. There's the schemes of the devil again. For our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the powers, against the world forces of this darkness, against the spiritual forces of wickedness in the heavenly places. Okay, so what what does he mean by the rulers, powers, world forces, etc. ? Well these are uh in context clear references to demonic influence. But they're also, I believe, references to ideas. We've already seen that demons uh uh uh demonic forces work uh most efficiently through deceitful ideas. Uh but I think also uh when he goes on when Paul goes on to talk about the individual pieces Each of those pieces of armor have to do with knowledge or right living. So the weapons that we use to fight these demonic influences influences and their ideas are related to truth and godliness. So just briefly, I don't know if you guys know the the pieces of the armor of God, but you've got the belt of what? Truth. Yeah, so that's related to knowledge. Belt of truth. Um and then you have the uh breastplate of Righteousness. Righteousness. Yeah, so right living, truth, right living. Uh your feet are supposed to be fitted with the preparation of the gospel, gospel of peace. So that's another worldview concept. another truth, the gospel that needs to be operationalized. Um you know, take up the the shield of Faith. Again, about ideas, about belief. The helmet of salvation. This could either be salvation in the sense of sanctification uh like you know living uh progressing in your sanctification, living more and more godly. Or it could be the knowledge of of how you have been saved. Uh either way, knowledge uh Right living. And then the sword of the spirit, which is the Word of God. Yes. So our weapons have to do with with truth at the level of worldview. and with right living, so living out the biblical worldview. So the point here is that if you are not active in this war, if you're not active in standing firm, Right, because that's our command here in Ephesians six is so that we will be able to stand firm against the scheme of the devil. If you're not active in standing firm, you will be swept away. So this is not an optional thing. You are in a war. And and so I think that's one of the things I want to communicate to you in this class is like you. if you choose, if you uh if you ignore worldviews, you're making a choice, essentially, to embrace a worldview other than than scripture. Uh I just wanted to also communicate to you that the stakes are pretty high here. Um so for one thing, to choose another world worldview, to explicitly embrace one of these uh philosophies or empty deceptions of the world is to reject the gospel and to face eternal condemnation for that. Look at Galatians one eight. But even if we this is Paul again, even if we or an angel from heaven should preach to you a gospel contrary to what we have preached to you, he is to be accursed. And accursed here means condemned to hell. So if you you know embracing a different gospel, embracing another worldview uh is is equivalent to uh saying I I accept the judgment of God. But you know, so that's pretty extreme. I hope that that none of you will choose to embrace another worldview. Um I I don't rule it out, but uh uh you know I hope in this class that that um we will give you the tools to uh to embrace the biblical worldview and reject other worldviews. But even for believers who remain like mostly committed to the gospel, um, we will still be judged, at least partly, by how we handle our worldview and how we handle um other worldviews too. So look at this. This is an extended passage from 1 Corinthians, but I I think it's really important to look at this. So in 1 Corinthians 3, Paul is talking to the Corinthian church and he's talking about teachings and doctrines. Because the the the Corinthian church really prided itself on uh you know, having great teaching and doctrine and and um you know uh following certain certain teachers in the church. So he compares the teachings and doctrines that we incorporate into our faith to building materials. Listen to what he says. According to the grace of God which was given to me as a wise master builder, I laid a foundation, which is by that he means the gospel of Jesus. Jesus Christ. And another is building upon it, like with additional teaching. But let each man be careful how he builds upon it. For no man can lay a foundation other than the one which is laid, which is Jesus Christ. Now if any man builds upon the foundation with gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, straw, Each man's work will become evident, for the day will show it, because it is to be revealed with fire, and the fire itself will test the quality of each man's work. If any man's work which he has built upon it reveals remains, he shall receive a reward. If any man's work is burned up, he shall suffer loss, but he himself will be saved, yet so as through fire Other translations render this um he himself will be saved, but only as one escaping through flames, which I think is maybe a little more evocative, a little stronger. So uh what the point here is that You know, we those of us who are believers, we have our faith built upon the foundation of Jesus Christ, the gospel of Jesus Christ, right? But we are actually building our own faith and the faith of others who who we teach and influence. We are building upon the foundation of Jesus Christ in our own lives and in the lives of others. And if we build with truth, with uh with truth from Scripture, truth about God and about Christ and about ourselves. We are building with precious stones and and gold and these durable materials that will make it through the testing fire of God's judgment. But if we build with ideas from the world, uh these hollow philosophies and empty deceptions that we get from other worldviews, if we incorporate those into our faith and and the faith of other people around us, that stuff is going to be burned up by the fire of God's judgment. We will be saved. We ourselves will be saved. But we will suffer loss in that our life's work will be burned up and we will miss out on reward from God. Um so I want to make it very clear that um that there is a judgment for believers You know it's not that it's not that uh when we are saved we escape all forms of judgment. We escape eternal judgment. We s we we are free from the the kind of judgment that would condemn us to hell Well, that is true. But believers, as believers, we will face a judgment. We'll face a judgment on our work and on uh the and on our faith really. And the outcome of that judgment is either going to be we will get a reward from God, or we will have our work burned up and we will barely make it. You know, so there's there's a lot at stake here uh in terms of how we handle our worldview, how we build upon the foundation of the truth of the gospel. um with uh with knowledge and understanding and spiritual insight so that we walk in a manner pleasing to the Lord. Okay, in the last few minutes, I want to get started in um actually I want to pause there and ask if there are any questions right now. Any questions on like the importance of worldview How many people had heard of Worldview before this? Okay. A few people Um yes. Alright, so I'm still forming the question. It's more like a statement of sorts. So yes, some people they're unaware that there is a chance. judgment for believers based on our life's uh quote unquote accomplishments uh in a way. But some people may misconstrue it where Um like how how do you reconcile the whole workspace based system to this? Some Christians may be like, oh I don't need to follow that because by doing so then I'm acknowledging that this workspace system is like some sort of legitimate ideal or something. Right. Yeah, that's a great question. Um yeah, how is this this idea of the judgment that a believer will face on his works distinct from actual like works based salvation or works based righteousness? That's a great question. Um so there's it's useful to think about two two different judgments that will occur. Right. So there's there's one judgment uh where God will sit on his throne and people will come before him. And the the outcome of that judgment will either be um you are this person is is condemned to hell because of their sin. Or this person gets to enter the presence of the Lord in heaven because of their righteousness. And what usually when we're talking about judgment, that's the kind of judgment we're talking about. talking about. That's the kind of judgment where your works can do nothing for you. Nothing at all. Right? The only way that someone can be declared righteous in that judgment. is if they are clothed with the righteousness of Christ, right? If God has taken Christ's life and imputed that that righteousness to that person So that's the kind of judgment that all believers will pass, not by their works, not not because of how they serve or or w or you know how correct their their world view is. Uh all believers will pass that judgment because of their faith in Christ. All unbelievers will fail that judgment because of their faith That's a very different judgment that's like actually a separate event uh from the judgment that 1 Corinthians 3 is talking about. That is a um and Peter in one of one of his letters says judgment begins with the household of faith. Right? So this is a different judgment that actually comes first before that that sort of eternal uh heaven hell judgment. The judgment of believers is um okay, you're saved by faith in Christ. Like you have you have entry into heaven. All of you are guaranteed to be in heaven at the end of this judgment. your faith in Christ. This judgment is about determining what kind of reward you get in heaven and sort of what uh what remains of your life in eternity. And and this judgment the outcomes of this judgment are either all your works of your life uh are burned up and you get no reward. You get to be in heaven, which is great, but you you you miss out on some reward, which is you know a subject of of debate and you could study it a lot. Or the other outcome is if your works are righteous, if if you If you um serve faithfully, teach correctly, exercise your spiritual gifts well, that work will remain. It will survive the judgment and it will be carried into eternity and you will get a reward of some kind. from God. Right. And it's worth making the point that like this isn't this is work that earns a reward, but it's not really work on our own power or on under our own merit that earns a reward. Because this work is empowered by the Holy Spirit. It's the gifts of the Holy Spirit that we use to do this work. It's through the grace of God that we have the ability to do this work. Um what does it say in Ephesians um Uh let's see. Salvation you are saved by grace you have been saved through faith, not of works so that no one may boast. Um but you were saved for good works. which God prepared in advance so that you may walk in them. So God prepared the works that you're going to do. So it's still not really like us, you know, our own our our own greatness or our own merit. It's accomplishing this thing that gets us a reward. It's still God's power. But it's it's a different judgment. Does that kind of make sense? Sorry? question more of do my works am I viewing my works as a manifestation of my salvation versus viewing my works as I'm using a Yeah, because my concern is some people may mix up the two. Uh-huh. There's no clear delineation. Um Yeah you don't understand. Yeah, okay. Doing things to get subject so the first would be like, you know, baptize my child. Yeah. Okay, now they're good. Or you know, get a you know, my dad's dying, get a precinct to give him the last right. Now he's Good. So that's kind of one extreme. But yeah, I think it's a good idea. So where does it, you know, you kind of hit down closer to does it ever get worked? And I think this like where you have other brothers and sisters in your life. You know, and that's a great question to ask. Hey, do you do you do you think am I am I self-deceiving myself? You can ask those things, you know. Does it look like I'm doing these for my own gain or am I just being really selfless? Uh-huh. But I think God would make it clear to you as well. Um whether you're just really doing it. or again I'm saving I just I just I just wanted I just wanted to do it versus um I do it I'm gonna do it because I know this will say Yeah. So need to evaluate your your own self. And I think it really like making that distinction properly really depends on having like a a full and correct view of our sin, like the magnitude of our sin. If we actually understand um just how much we have departed from God's design and purpose for us, then there's no way that we'll fall into the trap of thinking that we can do anything to correct that. We will never be tempted to think, oh, you know, m my sin is bad, but it's like it's like a mountain that I can climb. You know, we'll if we see our sin rightly, we'll think like Like, oh my sin is is Olympus Mons. It's on Mars, right? I can't even get there. I can't even get to the foot of it to start climbing it. Um So yeah, I mean I think like this is a great example of how of how right doctrine, uh uh of how knowing the truth um versus believing having a misconception about sin can lead to huge consequences in how we live out our faith. Lauren? Um I think um yeah I just think I like what you said that um it's not something that we are able to do. Um and I think you mentioned Romans twelve two while we can transform that in the number line. So once you are, then all the good works that you do there are natural results of being saved. It's not you're trying to be in favor of the Lord anymore that He has so completely changed I think that's what that reward maybe is that um It's just narrowly. Yes, exactly. Yeah. Th the arrow of cause and effect is completely different. Good, it works. Right. We're tempted, we're always tempted to think that the arrow goes this way way that good works if we do enough good works those good works can cause us to be saved but the Bible you know scripture teaches that the arrow goes the other way way. So they're correlated together, but the causation is in the opposite direction. God saves us, he transforms our hearts. Like you said, he gives us new desires. And that those new desires, that new heart, that changed nature is what causes our good works. Right? So yeah, I think seeing Like especially when talking about salvation, looking at the direction of cause and effect is is super helpful to keep in mind. Huh. Yeah. So on Revelation twenty verse eleven is a great bright white throne judgment. And this is a judgment that talking about salvation, correct? I believe so. Okay. Where's the reference in the Bible to talk about the um believers Um well so I don't think there's a reference that describes it like a scene, like a narrative, um, but there there are references like in First Corinthians three in the passage that's in the the handout here that um that uh you know where it's uh where it reference Paul uh references that there will be fire that will test the works of believers Right. And it's pretty clear he's talking to believers. Okay. So the implication here is that there's some fire of judgment that's going to come to believers' lives as well. Right. Uh there's also I I can't remember what the reference is, but in In one of Peter's epistles he he does say judgment begins with the household of faith. So it'd be worth maybe looking up that one too. Um all right, I think it's almost nine or ten forty-five. Uh so let me pray to to close us and uh Smith. All right, Lord, thank you for not leaving us in the dark. Uh thank you for not leaving us defenseless um in the midst of this war. Thank you for giving us the armor of God. Which is everything that we need for life and godliness through the knowledge of you who called us and saved us. I pray that you would fill us with all knowledge and all wisdom and all understanding so that we may walk in a manner that is pleasing to you. Uh and I pray that we would continue to exhort one another and encourage one another and stimulate one another on to love and good deeds. And I pray that you would also prepare our hearts to worship you in spirit and in truth now, uh, together with with the body. In Jesus name, Amen.