All right. Um so last time we talked about uh worldviews generally, and we sort of you know, just briefly introduced what a worldview is. Uh I passed out an outline last time. I don't know if any of you uh brought it back. Uh we didn't finish that outline, so I'm I'm gonna go through uh just like one of the last sections on that thing. Um I think if anybody's uh lacking it I have maybe three copies that I could I could pass out. Anyone need one? Oh yeah, you weren't here last time. If you guys weren't here last time, will you tell us your name really quick? Oh, and I'm Jen by the way, I'm the old five. Brady. Brady? Okay. Yeah, so welcome. I mean peruse that thing at your leisure. Um we we made it up through uh the start of like major bullet three, understanding and explaining worldviews. That's where we got to last time. Main thing we talked about last time was the importance of your worldview and what kind of effect it has on both your eternal destiny and also your life. you know, in this world. And I realized I forgot to tell a story that I was planning to tell last week um from my own life that just sort of illustrates that concept that worldviews really deeply influence um what you do. And that story has to do with uh the fact that okay, so last time I I introduced myself, uh I told you that I uh had got a a PhD in chemistry, but then Uh right now I'm working as a data scientist and nothing to do with chemistry. And whenever people hear that, they say, Well, why'd you do that? You know, like wh why did you go to grad school and get a degree in something you're not actually doing. The answer is because of my worldview. Um it is because of components of my worldview that were really active unconsciously in my mind in college when I was choosing uh what to do with my career. Uh so backing up, you know, when I was young, uh middle school, high school, um I I was raised in a Christian home, uh so I I absorbed mostly a biblical worldview. from my parents, but uh I had a lot of friends who um who were not Christians, not believers, and I w I was growing up in a a pretty secular culture in the Pacific North And so I had absorbed a couple of components of my worldview and values that I didn't really realize, but were later to play a really important role in my decision making. And one of those values was this image of the hero scientists, right? Like the that um that the ones we look up to are intellectuals, our scientists who are solving the grand problems of the world. And I I had that in my mind and I was just like, I really want to be that. Uh and then the other component that I had sort of unconsciously absorbed was uh the the attitude that like the best thing you can do in life is help people, is is uh meet people's physical needs. And so I had these two concepts sort of floating around in my head when I went off to college and I was picking a major and I took a class in my first year Um this class was called Issues in Energy and it was actually a really enjoyable class. It was great. Um the professor in one of his lectures he showed a slide and on this slide were the top ten problems facing humanity. Now this was not from a biblical perspective, so like sin was not on the list, but it was things like access to energy or access to clean water, uh, food supply, sanitation, education, those kind of things. And the author made the claim, or the presenter made the claim, uh, that if the world had access to a clean, abundant, cheap source of energy, nine of these ten problems would be solved. And he finished that lecture with this quote, and it always stuck in my mind. He said, become a scientist, save the world. And I was like, yes, I want to do that. That is going to be me. I'm going to be the hero scientist who saves the world. And I said that because of these components that I had absorbed from the worldview that I grew up in. uh and I didn't even know it. And so for the next three years in in undergrad I went and worked in a chemistry lab and although I really loved my advisor, the professor I worked under, um Um I actually didn't really like the work. And I even knew it at the time, but I said like, oh, you know, once I get to grad school and start doing this full-time, I'll actually like it. it uh you know find my project or whatever. And uh so I changed my major to chemistry. I worked for three years in that undergrad lab, applied to grad school, went to graduate school for five and a half years, and several years into that I realized like, ah, I don't actually like this, you know, and so I made the career change. And that's a whole another story. Um and I don't, you know, I'm not saying this necessarily to critique my worldview at the time, although I had absorbed some some wrong thinking. But I'm just making the point that Because of elements of my worldview that I had subconsciously absorbed and didn't even know about it, I made a decision that affected the next almost decade of my life and caused me to do something that I didn't actually like. You know, so that's the power that your worldview has. Your worldview will determine like who you choose to marry or what job you choose to have. And if you uh it's worth you taking the time to examine your worldview right now and make sure that uh Um that it is what you think it is, really, because uh those things that I that I was acting on were unconscious principles that I didn't you know, if you had asked me What's the most important thing you can do with your life? I would have said, oh, you know, seek the kingdom of God, build share the gospel. But really what I my attitude was was, you know, the most important thing I can do with my life is uh you know, solve the world's problems and meet the physical needs of as many peace people as possible. So it's worth examining these things, if nothing else, because it affects this life now. So if you have your outline from last week, go to the last page to major bullet three, understanding and explaining worldviews. Uh so today we are going to get into an actual worldview, uh Lord willing, you know. Unless we enter a time war I think we'll think we'll be okay. Um so we're gonna talk about first what are the components of a worldview. Last time we designed a worldview, uh did anybody have less Um so I I passed out the uh I just want to make the last week topic. Thank you. Um yeah, so last time we we defined worldview, uh which you know it's the framework of ideas and values and things that that uh through which you see all of reality and that guide and determine your your choices and your actions. But we can say more about what a worldview is. We're going to break it down into components Today. And worldviews generally answer at least these eight questions that we're going to talk about. And worldviews answer obviously more questions than this, but these are the highest level, most basic, fundamental questions that a worldview answers. And so the eight questions are what is ultimate reality? Right, so what what's really real? What is the what is the thing that's at the bedrock uh that's behind everything? Uh number two, how can we know reality Uh this one in philosophical circles is called epistemology. It might be the most important one on here because what you trust as your source of knowledge, what you go to to to to receive truth about the world, that determines everything about what you believe. That's very important. Number three, what's the purpose of life? Another way to say this is what is the grand story that uh that's sort of guiding everything? The worldview is also called a meta-narrative. meta meaning after or behind, and narrative meaning story. So like what is the grand story behind all of reality? That that's what a worldview answers. Number four, where did we come from? You know, it matters what you think about your origins. Um and most worldviews do have an origin story for humanity, uh if not for the entire universe. Five, what is humanity's main problem? Because everybody recognizes that we have problems, right? Everybody recognizes that uh there is pain and there is suffering and there is evil. in the world. It's not as it should be. So why do those problems exist? Where do they come from? What's their ultimate diagnosis? That's a crucial function of a worldview to answer that question. Uh six, what is the solution to that problem? Not just what is the diagnosis, but what is the cure. Well yeah, not just what's the diagnosis, what's the cure? Seven, what is gonna happen to us? So both individually, like where where are we headed in our lives, particularly what happens to us after death? And also collectively, what happens to humanity in the future? And finally, how should we live? What should our goals be And what methods should we use to go after those goals? And this question is about morality and ethics, and it's really the layer at which these big concepts of worldview get translated down into individual Individual action and practice. Okay, so that's also a very important one. So we're going to use these eight questions as we evaluate and explain and compare different worldviews. Uh and and you know our goal like it's actually really hard to characterize an entire worldview. So we're gonna get to about eighty or ninety percent accuracy. And you know the I it's a big, big subject. Uh so Uh feel free to stop me and ask questions. In fact, I'm going to stop after after each uh sort of major section and ask ask you guys if you have any questions, maybe ask some reflective questions back to you. Just before uh before we start talking about the biblical worldview itself, which is what we're going to what we're gonna start with. Uh I just want to say, like, um I have a worldview. Okay? Like it is the biblical worldview. And so um in a course like this you might expect sort of a a neutral, dispassionate evaluation of ideas. But that is not what I'm going to do because actually that's impossible. That would be like you know trying to remove your eyes so that you can see objective I believe the biblical worldview. So when I present the biblical worldview, I'm going to present it as true. And when I present other worldviews, I'm going to try to characterize them fairly and honestly, but I am going to also critique them as uh as false. And uh but that doesn't mean that I want you to to sort of sit back and passively listen Uh if you have uh if you want to uh challenge, you know, respectfully challenge what I'm saying, like please raise your hand and and bring bring those challenges, those questions uh before us. You know, if you have uh a question about like well how does the biblical worldview actually explain this or how does it fit together with that uh ask that question you know or if you think I'm uh when we go through other worldviews like I'm not necessarily an expert on on scientific naturalism or uh critical postmodernism. If you have expertise or if you have knowledge uh of that worldview and you and you Maybe you want to uh adjust something, a characterization that I've made, please feel free. Raise your hand and we'll talk about it as a group, okay? So these the the bottom of this page, uh point B, Principles for Engaging with Other Worldviews, I think we're going to leave that for after we finish doing what comes next, which is for the next couple of weeks, we're going to take each of the dominant worldviews in our culture and we're going to sketch them. uh at a very broad level. Right. So we're going to start with the biblical worldview because, you know, we're going to start with the standard. We're going to start with the truth, the ruler. And we're going to sketch it out. That's what we're going to do today. And then we're going to take I think two other dominant worldviews and then two sort of spin-off worldviews and we're going to sketch those in in coming weeks. And then after we're finished with the sketches, then we're going to start comparing them. We're going to do a deep dive on each of these eight questions and we're going to go in and compare, like, you know, when we get to Um question two, how can we know reality? We're going to compare like you know, w compare the Bible as a source of truth and knowledge to, say, science or personal experience as sources of truth and knowledge. And we're going to see, you know, like how we're going to see why the Bible is superior and what sort of deficiencies and problems you run into when you make these other sources. the bedrock of your understanding. So that's that's kind of the outline of of this series going forward. Sketches and then deep dives into each of the questions. Okay, before we launch into the biblical worldview, which is the uh the next handout I gave me today, are there any any questions about how we're gonna proceed, what we're gonna do? Oh, hit one. Yeah, do it. Got a got a question? That was the nature of the I want to just ask questions and you're like, well let me No, no, no. This is this is supposed to be a discussion. And I think it's it it helps. Um because one of the things that um you know I w I went to I went to college at uh uh definitely a a secular liberal arts school and I I took a few classes in uh the humanities department and and in particular uh a class on on philosophy where I think I might have been the only Christian in the class. And um, you know, it I would have really benefited from a place that I could have gone and ask those same questions that the professor was posing to us in class, together with other other believers where we could talk about that. So, you know, that that is one of the functions I want this class to serve. Okay. Alright, so we're going to talk about the biblical worldview. Alright, and again, this is just a sketch of the biblical worldview Uh we're gonna we're gonna try and cover it all in one thirty minute session. And so I've I've given uh a bunch of scripture references here And there's many, many more scripture references that could have been applied to these points. Like these points are threads that you can pull throughout the entire Bible. Genesis to Revelation. So there's way more in the scriptures that that I could have brought into this outline, but you know it would have filled ten or twenty pages if I'd done that. Uh I'm gonna go through and I'm probably not even gonna read most of these scriptures. What I want what I wanted to do in putting them there is um give you the tools, like if you go home and you're thinking about this stuff, to go and look them up. on your own. And I'm sure you can find others. But yeah, we're just going to go kind of breakneck face here. So first question, what is the ultimate reality? Let's look at how the biblical worldview answers this. What is the ultimate reality? Well, the ultimate reality is Yahweh, is God. And we see this reflected in passages like Exodus 3. 14, where God is talking to Moses and he's giving Moses his name. Not just his title. God has a lot of titles in the Bible. Uh you know, he's the King of Kings, Lord of Lords. He has one name, and that name is I am. That's actually what Yahweh means in Hebrew is I am am. So he says, I am who I am. So this name is actually a very important clue to Who Yahweh is. He is self-existent. His existence is not defined in terms of anything else. Right? He doesn't say, I am um um the father or I am you know he doesn't use a metaphor here because there is nothing else that is more foundational than him. So he defines his existence by himself. He is self-existent. He's also eternal. He has always existed. He doesn't have a beginning, and so he doesn't have a cause. He wasn't caused by anything else. That's what it means for Yahweh to be the foundational ultimate reality. is that he's self-existent, he's eternal, he's not caused by anything. In fact, he is the cause of everything. He is the creator of the entire universe. Uh and he's not only the creator, he's also the sustainer of the entire universe. Uh we know from scriptures like Hebrews 1 3, which says he upholds the universe by his word of power, that without his upholding uh the universe would not uh you know would not continue to function. His sovereignty is active uh over the universe right now. So he's creator and he's sustainer of everything. So speaking of creation, what uh the fact that Yahweh is the ultimate reality has implications for um what we say about the reality of everything around us too Right, so what I'm talking about is created reality, like this podium and your desk and you and the air that we're breathing. Created reality is derived from Yahweh and is dependent on him. It does not exist independently. The biblical worldview is not deism, which is a worldview that many of the founding fathers Which is that God created the world and then sort of walked away and let it run on its own. The world doesn't run on its own. We're dependent on God. Um so but we also can say objective reality exists. You know, we have to say that because in the last hundred years it there has been a a movement in academia and intellectual circles called objective reality. Postmodernism, which denies that there is objective reality. But no, we say objective reality exists because Yahweh created it, but it only exists because he upholds it. And that is contrary to uh something called naturalism, which is the idea that uh the universe just sort of is the fundamental reality that runs on its own. We'll talk that's a whole worldview, we'll talk about it next probably So objective reality exists, but only because God upholds it. And another thing that this that reality's dependence on on Yahweh means is that because Yahweh is a person, because the creator of everything is a person, reality bears the marks of personhood. We're going to get into this m in much more depth when we do the deep dive on this question. But if you think about it, the fact that there is truth uh is reflective of the fact that God has a mind and that his mind knows truth. Right? And he so he created a reality reality in which truth can be known The fact that there is goodness in the world means that God, the Creator, has a moral will, has a moral character, and he imprinted that on creation. The fact that there's order in creation means that he has a sovereign will. He makes choices to do this and not that, to arrange things this way and not and not that way. Uh the the fact that there's beauty means that reflects God's aesthetic sense. He has emotions. He's a person, right? He thinks things are beautiful. He delights in things. That's why the world has beauty in it Right? This uh as we'll see reality bears these marks of personhood, and those marks of personhood can only really be explained by a personal creator, by the fact that a person is the ultimate reality Okay, and then finally we can say because uh created reality is derived from and dependent on Yahweh, nature does not reduce to physics. Right. There this is a very common attitude these days that um you know that everything is is physics. Like What you're thinking right now is just brain chemistry. That's that's a common attitude. Uh even if we don't say it out loud, it's common in our in our sort of unconscious patterns of thought. But nature does not reduce to physics It is uh it is subject to the sovereignty of God. His will is the most fundamental thing that's operating in nature. And we'll wrap up this section by noting that in light of these truths, we can say humanity is not the ultimate reality. Okay. This universe, existence, life is not about us. However, we are privileged participants in reality. We have a a a special place given to us by God. We're not just a pale blue dot in the middle of a vast universe. We are that, and yet God is mindful of us. He has Blessed us. He has given us a place in creation a little lower than the angels. Okay. Questions about this very deep topic of what is ultimate reality? When you say the creator is a person, you mean a being, or do you mean a human function? He's not a human. Uh yeah, I just mean he has personality. So so um in in sort of um The i in Western tradition, uh intellectuals typically identify the components of personhood as Intellect, will, and emotions. The intellect is what handles your thoughts. It's where you judge whether things are true or false. Your will is where you make decisions. you you seek out some good and you orient yourself towards it to pursue it. Your emotions are um you know your your feelings, like not just your your feelings of happiness or sadness, but like your aesthetic sense, what you delight in. So intellect, will, and emotions, God has those things. And the fact that God has those things is reflected in the fact that his creation has those things too. Or bears those marks. Yeah, that's what I mean by a person. He's not a he's not a human being. Yeah. Go ahead. I'll edit that later. So uh other question. Yes. Um is it the only I've heard God called like hundreds of different names. Is there a reason for that? Well so those the other names, you know, we've kind of use the word name loosely, given for God in the Bible are actually titles, right? They they describe him or they describe some function that he performs. Um you know, wonderful coun wonderful counselor, right? He is um The counselor in the sense that he's the source of wisdom. Mighty God, he has strength. He he his strength works wonders for him. Prince of peace, he brings peace. uh King of Kings, Lord of Lords. All these things describe what he does, but his name gets at the heart of who he is Right, and that is like who he is can't be explained by reference to anything else because he is before everything else, if that makes sense. a king thought would be an actual typically a physical person or a friend. So you're saying he's not a a person and he just is Why would we be given this different titles? I'm just trying to wrap my head around it. Oh yeah. Um well so in one of the principles that's that's really you see a lot in scripture is that God uh Um because we're limited in what we can understand, God accommodates Himself to our understanding and that He uses metaphors and analogies about himself that are not like fully precise. They're not they're they're not like if you take if you push them too far they break down. But he uses them so that we will have something to latch onto that we can understand. God doesn't actually have an arm like with with biceps and and fingers and stuff. That it's it's a metaphor, right? It's it's um the his arm as a description applies to his great power. So and he uses that so that we will understand that he is powerful. Like he's stronger than than any warrior uh or any any bully that we could ever face. And and that's uh you know that that's sort of why these titles and these descriptions are applied to God in scripture. But yeah, we've got to be careful with them because we if we press them too far, we can get wrong ideas about who God is. So we have to like use one, but also counter it by using all the other ones at the same time. Okay. Yeah. Um just kind of uh the way I I try to explain exactly that will that will uh think of it this way. If you take your iPhone back to the sixteenth century and try to explain what an iPhone is to someone in the 16th century, it's like impossible. So what what things idea that somebody in the 16th century might be able to grab it a little i didn't same thing with god how does god describe himself to a human being who is so imminent you can understand who tries to draw things like an arm. Can kind of understand what an arm does a function Right, exactly, yeah. Yeah, I think I think they probably only had like two G back in the sixteen hundred Yeah, trying to do two G. Yeah. Um yeah, other questions about about the This one. Hong, did you have a question? Were you afraid to do that? Yeah, I'll I'll give I'll give like the sixty-second version. We're actually gonna uh uh emphasize this point a lot when we do our deep dive on this question, but what I mean there is um so there's there's a philosophy or a ph philosophical tenet called reductionism Which says that it's it's actually very hard to describe, but it says that essentially like when we give explanations for something in terms of like Like you know, my intention and my will. Like if I if I say uh I went to church today uh so that I could teach you all. Like the reductionism says that explanation isn't really true. It's just a shorthand uh for for like all the physics that's going on in my brain. Like the reason the reason I came to church is because there was a chemical reaction in my brain that that you know, somehow caused me to seek what I can find here. And then that caused me to like my nerves to send signals to my muscles that I got in the car and I you know, put my foot on the gas and I came here. And like that's the actual explanation according to reductionism for everything. It's that atoms and and electrons are moving around and they're and they're just doing doing stuff in your brain. Reductionism in particular denies that there is uh that like human will and human decision have any real meaning. Uh it it of course denies that there is a God who has a sovereign will that he imposes on the universe. Yeah, it's really it's hard to describe in a in a very short amount of time. So C. S. Lewis has a pretty good analogy. He says if you look at a uh teapot, a pot of water boiling on the stove. You can ask why is that water boiling? Well a reductionist would say that water is boiling because you know the the propane coming out of the burner is combusting with oxygen in the air and it's uh turning and water and it's releasing heat and you know the heat is transferring into the water the pot which is disrupting the intermolecular interactions to turn it into the vapor phase Right. That's what a reductionist would say. That's the only thing that's going on there. We would say, as as believers, and and things as common sense people, um, that pot of water is boiling on there on the stove because somebody wants to make tea. Right? Yes, all those all the chemistry and the physics is going on too, but there's also this other level of explanation that you have to consider. to get a full picture of the situation. Yeah, so at heart is, you know, how many levels of explanation do you need to allow into your vocabulary? Reductionist says you can only allow one and it has to be physics. Uh you know, the the Bible would say you have to allow at least three. There's there's physics, there's human will and decision, and there's God. There's possibly more. I don't I don't know. Uh does that help? Hopefully. Okay. Other questions? No? All right, let's move on to how can we know about reality? All right, so I think we'll get through maybe the first two of these. Maybe three. I don't know. How can we know about reality? This is super important because as I mentioned before, uh what you trust as your source of knowledge will determine what you believe about everything. Right. It's like if you don't trust your eyes, how can you see anything? So in the biblical worldview, unsurprisingly, the Bible is uniquely superior to other sources of knowledge. It is uh the most trustworthy source of knowledge. Why? Because it originates with God. So it originates with God. Why is that important? Because he knows everything and he cannot lie. If somebody who knows everything and cannot lie tells you something, you should believe it. That's what the Bible is. And another extremely important point about the Bible is that It is mind-to-mind communication. It's written in human language. It originated from God's mind. And it comes to us and it was intended to be received by our minds. That is actually not true of any other source of knowledge. No other source of knowledge originates in God's mind and was intended for our minds. God created nature, but he didn't intend it to be received by our minds. Right. He didn't he didn't write nature in words, in human language. Uh you can't walk over and pick up a rock and and read the rock uh you know to figure out how it got there. This is a hugely important thing because it does not apply th this the um this characteristic of scripture does not apply to the main other sources of knowledge that other worldviews rest on. On with namely science and personal experience. Your personal experience is not written for you in language. You have to pick up what you feel and you have to examine it and interpret it. And the same thing with science. Nature does not have things written on it. The scientist has to go out, uh, pick up those observations and interpret them. Often they have to exercise creativity. to generate explanations and they have to exercise uh things outside of evidence that they bring in from their worldview in order to choose among competing explanations That's true of both science and experience. But with the Bible, it's actually direct mind-to-mind communication. So and the other key aspect of the Bible is that it's public, it's not private. So it's not you know the claim of of of of Scripture is that uh no prophecy is um you know, is is a matter of one's own interpretation. Right? But but it's given publicly so that the entire uh people of God can come together and talk about it and understand it. And um you know, debate about it and correct each other on each other's interpretation of it and sharpen each other like iron sharpens iron. We do not we are not uh Charismatics or Pentecostals, we do not believe that God gives individual revelation to individual people today. And the Bible would not support that belief. Okay, so compare this to other sources of knowledge. They're useful, but they are subordinate to Scripture. So these other sources of knowledge, like nature, nature's from God. uh conscience is from God, human reason is from God, our ability to do science, uh our personal experience, those things are all uh at least in part dependent on or or originating with God, but they can be corrupted by sin. Right? Our our reason, our sinful desires can can and warp our reason so that we use it to pursue falsehood. just said. And that introduces uh lots of uncertainty because you know you can't the nature itself does not provide the principles by which you interpret nature. You have to bring those in from from somewhere. else. And surprise, it comes from your worldview. Okay, but despite these things, despite the fact that these other sources of knowledge can be corrupted by sin and that they need to be interpreted. uh when they're used under God's authority in their proper sphere, uh they can be very helpful. So we don't, you know, we don't deny the usefulness of science or personal experience uh or or reason or conscience, but they all have to be subordinate to what we know for sure from the Word of God. So the the last point I want to make here is important to say in in this age, because there are those who deny that there is such a thing as absolute truth. And on the other end, there are those who say there is absolute truth and we can know it all by ourselves. We have all the tools as a species that we need. To find the truth. Biblically, we have to say absolute truth exists, for sure. It comes from the mind of God. It's absolute. But we cannot know the absolute truth apart from God. We are totally dependent on him to actually know it. Okay. Big section. Questions about this section. Yeah. So you say if you don't trust your eyes, you don't see anything, right? Mm-hmm. But how would you trust your eyes that don't see things can be deceitful too. Yeah, how do you trust your eyes? So so what I hear you kinda asking is like, how can we know that we trust scripture even? You know, scripture is supposed to be the foundation. That's not what you're asking. Okay. I know the bottom is true. Okay. But I'm saying how can you trust your eyes if you know they just see some Mm-hmm. You can see some on the height, but it don't look the same. Okay. Well it could look the same, right? So you are you you're actually you're talking about physical eyesight, are you talking about metaphorical metaphorically? Okay. Well, so you have to um yeah, I mean let's just take the the literal part of that. Like how can you trust your senses if you know that they can be wrong? can deceive you. Well uh you have to um go to something that you're more sure of, right? Which is uh for us, it's it's scripture. We know that there is a God. Uh we know that He created the world and He created us. And so we can use that knowledge to say um that you know when he created us and our bodies that originally that was very good and he created us so so we can trust that at least in the original creation our senses told us the truth about what was out there. Right? Like what we saw with our eyes in the original creation was undistorted. Um Um what we heard with our ears was undistorted. Now of course since then sin has come along and it's corrupted those things, but um we can also know from scripture that God like didn't hasn't allowed that corruption to go as far as it as it possibly could. He still causes the rain to fall on the righteous and the unrighteous. He still upholds our ability to go out and know the world with So it's actually it's actually our confidence in Scripture and in the character of God that allows us to trust our senses most of the time. But with that sort of asterisk in the back of our head that like, yeah, we could be seeing a distorted image right now. We could be seeing something wrong. Did does that help? Kinda But then again, going back to the fact that we are natural sinners because we're humans, right? So how can you really trust them in your senses that that Like just going back to the fact that I mean I know you go to Bible and get get that nurse from that meet. Uhhuh. But at the same time how would you know like Well I just lost that point now. No no yeah it's I I I think I see what you're getting at. I think and I and it's a very it's a really important point because like you're right, we can't trust our senses or our feelings absolutely. We can trust them generally, but not absolutely. And where that where that comes into play is in situations like when you get into a trial Biblically a trial is when is when the Lord designs some painful, unpleasant uh experience for you in order to build up your faith. So but like a lot of us don't think biblically about trials and we're Americans so we're used to living very comfortable lives. And so when something painful happens to us We take we're tempted to take that experience of pain and say and interpret that to mean God does not love us. Because obviously if God loved us, He wouldn't give us pain, he would give us comfort. So that's a situation where we cannot trust our our feelings and our experience absolutely. We have to weigh that against, or we have to go go beyond, behind our experience to the Word of God and say, no, even though God is loving, He does for the people he loves, he purposes that they will be painfully sinned against sometimes, or that they will experience uh grief and sadness and pain And we we may not understand, we may not like, we may think, I don't I don't like that. You know, we may not like it, but we have to We have to be willing to question our experience and go underneath it to the foundational biblical truths that we can know from Scripture. Okay. We kind of thought um making Where you just like if if my friends are, you know if somebody's coming and talking to me. Like parsing if they don't if they love me they wouldn't yeah and stuff like that. But it's just like that's not always true. Yeah, it's not always true. Someone had said this to me yesterday says like I the I would give you a review. That's just what happens if you think that because you give them a review you don't really care about them. This is like, no, I do, and I don't want to see you not with your head against them. Yeah. That's a great example. I mean, what does it say? Faithful are the wounds of a friend, right, in in Proverbs. Yeah. That's that's a wonderful example. And we see it with parents and children too, right? Like when when a parent has to discipline their child, the child's like, You must Hate me because that hurt, you know? Um but it's it's the parents who love their children that discipline them. The parents who hate their children neglect them and And you know, just leave them alone and don't don't give them any painful consequences for their wrong decisions. Uh yeah, so so we have to be willing to interpret our experience and our senses and our feelings in light of uh principles that are more sure from Scripture. Other questions All right, I think we got time for one more section. So we're going to do it. We're going to uh talk about where did we and everything come from? Alright, so the biblical answer to this question of where did we come from and where did everything else come from is that God created the whole universe out of nothing. Right. The universe did not always exist. Believe it or not, that was the majority scientific opinion up until about the nineteen sixties. was that the universe had always existed forever. But according to the Bible, that is not true. God created the whole universe out of nothing. He didn't use existing matter to create it. Uh it's not like he went and found like universe ingredients lying around and then sort of molded them into galaxies and stars and whatnot. No, he spoke it into existence And you know, the Bible tells us not just that he did create, but it tells us something about how he created. You know, we don't have time right now to go into every every detail about how he created, but it's clear from when you read Genesis that he created mature structures. Uh he created the earth. like already solidified and and able to to support uh water and and uh land. He created stars that were already burning uh like the sun and other other stars. He created adult animals that were able to swim and fly on the day of their creation. Um Um so you know he created a lot of things that were mature. He didn't he didn't uh limit himself to starting from one point and slowly developing. Uh animals and and uh stars and planets. Uh but it it's also very important to note that he specially created the first man and woman. Right, so humanity is a special creation separate from the animals. We didn't evolve from them. Uh this is obviously in direct contradiction to uh the prevailing theory of origins, which is that we evolved uh from animals, and that all life evolved from a common ancestor. That is that is specifically contradicted by the scriptures. And we need we need to be clear on that. And the doctrine that he specially created man, the first man and woman, is not just found in Genesis, it's found in the New Testament as well If if any of you were here when I taught on Paul's address to the Areopagus at Athens, you know, he was he was explaining the gospel to these pagan Greeks who had never heard it before. He said That God, after introducing who God is and that he's the creator of everything, he said that God made from one man every nation of mankind. So Paul, who you know, like in other contexts, went went out of his way to avoid unnecessarily offending Gentiles and Jews. He included this fact that God created one man and as the ancestor of all humankind in his gospel presentation as like a core truth of the gospel. It's really important. And it has a lot of implications for how we view creation and how we relate to each other. Last point about creation itself is that when he created it, the whole creation was very good. So there was no death, there was no suffering, there um there was no evil in creation when he made it. All that came later with the fall. Uh so this also is uh uh you know, at odds with the uh the sort of common evolutionary understanding of the world, which evolution says like death was there from the beginning. Death is the the sort of primary driving force that uh that selects uh useful variants of uh useful useful hereditary information. genes. So evolution says death is was there from the beginning, but the Bible says no, death was not there from the beginning. Everything was very good in the beginning. And then really importantly, crucially, God did not just make matter. He didn't just make objects, planets and stars and animals. He made concepts. He made categories and institutions. as well. I don't know if we think about this much because of because we we tend to be reductionists, right? We tend to think that everything is matter acting under the laws of So we don't tend to see these these sort of uh categories and institutions as real things, but they are created realities, things like gender. Uh guys, there are two genders, male and female. God created them. Oh. I'm I'm pretty sure. If if you don't have a Bible, just just just have kids and look at your kids. And like they they pretty they pretty clearly separate out into into Anyway, so yeah, God created these these categories of male and female in the beginning when creation was very good. You know, this male-female distinction it did not come about as a result of sin. It's a created reality. He created the family. He brought the first husband and wife together, Adam and Eve. He performed the first marriage ceremony. Uh you can read about that in Genesis two. Uh so so he created the family. That by the way, marriage is the foundation of the family. And when when you get married, you have started a family. You know, people Pastor Pomley likes to emphasize this that people have the misconception that like you get married and then oh sometime later you choose to start a family. But no when you get married you have started a family and that's what God did when he joined Adam and Eve together So he created the family. He created children and he created the parent-child relationship. He placed he's the one who placed children under the authority of their parents. Uh it's not the state. You know, the children um we don't have time to talk about that. Yeah. Children don't belong to the state. Uh God has God has sovereignly delegated uh parents his authority over child over their children. So he also created work, right? Before the fall, God gave Adam work to do, taking care of the Garden of Eden. So some of us don't like to hear that, you know, that work is part of God's good created order, but it is. He also created all the nations. You can read about how he how he did this in Genesis ten and eleven and how he used the confusion of language at the Tower of Babel to disperse all those nations across the earth uh when they were being disobedient to him him and not filling the earth. But he made the nations. He also created authority. Uh and it it may not be technically accurate to say that he created authority, because um authority existed within the Trinity before creation. Right. So God, the Father, uh has always eternally been in authority over his Son Jesus Christ, and his Son has voluntarily and joyfully submitted to his Father's authority um throughout all of eternity. So authority may not even be a created thing. It might just be it is just a an attribute of God that is reflected in creation, but it's a category that God imposed upon creation. So he delegates his authority to human governments, he delegates his authority to parents, like we've seen He delegates his authority to the church, to heads of household. There's a lot of ways that he delegates authority, and that's a good thing. It's part of God's good design for creation. Authority is not evil, right, as some people think today. So the point here that I'm trying to make is that You know, God made all these things. This is his world, and we are not free to redefine his work. You know, and there's a lot of that going on right now. No, like especially with gender and family and children, but also, you know, uh work and and authority. Like a lot of people are trying to redefine or or um try and craft a better version, what they think is a better version of the these institutions and these categories that God baked into the structure of created reality. And the biblical worldview says that's wrong. We should not be doing that. Uh okay. Questions about this section of on origins? Jeff. Um maybe a little bit more about the uh reductionist of your uh point of view where where everything that can be described by physics. Yeah. But it could be with this problem. How does a person with that worldview explain the origins of everything. Because the and what physical laws dominated and what physical laws built because really chaos should be the rule Yeah. That's an excellent question, and I think we'll we'll spend a lot more time on that when we sketch out the worldview of scientific natural Because that's really the worldview where where the reductionist ontology operates. But the short answer is They um naturalists, scientific naturalists, still believe in a self-existent entity. They they don't like to admit that really, but but they do believe in one. So what I mean by that is um they're committed to explaining things in terms of cause and effect. Right. Scientists are are committed to cause and effect. So they're committed to identifying, if they're doing historical science, trying to get Trying to investigate the origins of the universe. They're committed to identifying a chain of cause and effect that reaches back as far as possible. Now You get to the question, how far back does that go? Like, if it ends, if there's an end to that chain of cause and effect, if there's a first cause, then that thing must be self-existent Right, because it wasn't caused by anything else. Or the other option is that that chain of cause and effect extends back infinitely long. In which case there's not a first cause, but there's this framework under which cause and effect can happen that must have existed for all eternity and must not exist have a cause. So either way, there's a self-existent entity in their worldview. And that entity has changed um over the centuries. uh based on sort of like what's in vogue at the time, right? Like I mentioned, it used to be the case that scientists believed that the universe was infinitely old. It had always been around. And um so in that case the self-existent entity was the universe. And so and so they just took as a brute fact that there was this universe out there. They didn't they don't try to explain the origin of the universe. Um then in the nineteen sixties when when the Big Bang came into uh sort of common acceptance in the scientific community, um people stopped believing in an eternal universe and started believing that the universe had a beginning. And then they spent the next several decades trying to identify like what is the beginning? What is the what is the first cause behind uh the universe? Right, and and people have scientists have proposed a bunch of different things. They've proposed this thing called the multiverse, which is essentially a collection of universes that can theoretically generate new universes. But, you know, that's just like moving the problem back one, right? That's what are the physics that the multiverse obeys? And we have no way to probe that, right? Assuming that there is even some such a thing as a multiverse, we have no way to scientifically investigate it or observe it. So um there's there's a lot of theorists you know in physics who or and cosmology who spend their time like um you know, essentially doing speculative uh what if about like what possible physics could this multiverse And so the question is like people make up stuff a lot and they they do it in a in a in a somewhat disciplined and rigorous way, but they have no way to test it. Right. Um you know, others others focus on the quantum vacuum. Okay, this is way too far in the weeds. I think I might save that discussion for for next time. But yeah, the physics go ahead. kind of observation. Yeah. The one thing that's about worldview that's so sad is that for decades you can be told this is the worldview and then the next year that can totally be destroyed. Yeah. And you're supposed to be okay. Uh-huh. Yeah, worldviews change. Uh absolute I mean worldviews in the world change. And that's actually a great sort of meta point that we need to make about this, is that the biblical worldview is the only worldview that is written down and is fixed. Like and that's why I call it the biblical worldview and not the Christian worldview. Because there's a lot of there's a lot of ideologies that claim the label of Christianity. You know, if I say Christian worldview, um a Catholic might think that I'm talking about the Catholic worldview, or a Mormon might think I'm talking about Mormonism. But no, if we talk about the biblical worldview because it's It's written down, it's fixed, it's not going to change. And that is unlike any other worldview, uh, which is always in flux, depending on the the various people who are articulating it in that age. Okay, I want to I want to stop there and uh I want to one thing I want to start doing in this class is um is uh praying for one another. So I want to ask uh I know we don't have much time left, but like I want to ask people, uh do you have any prayer requests that we can be praying for you about Oh, summer. Um this goes with what we're talking about. I have a brother, he's eighteen, so he has to go to college. Um but he hasn't really have like he's about all of you or anything. Um so I just would like to pray for him. Okay. Um maybe and maybe I can make influence above those four of you. But He's in a crucial time of determining what what direction he's going to be going. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. Is is he a a believer or does he claim to be? He claims to be. Okay. Sure now. I think he's going to regulate schools. Um Yeah. Oh teachers or bachelor Um so all that we're moving back. Um and uh I think