All right, well good morning everyone. So um as I mentioned, we've got the uh uh the social after church today. There's the address. Um And so I hope hope to see you all there. I'll be there with my family. If you come you get to to meet my daughter, who's three. She's really cute. Might might be a little cranky. But you know, because she's skipping a nap. Uh anyway, so last time we started going over the biblical worldview. Right. And remember, in this in this next few weeks, we're just doing uh kind of sketches, outlines of the major worldviews in our culture, starting with the biblical worldview and then going on on to the other worldviews that uh are kind of dominant right now. Um so we're we're about halfway through this sketch of the biblical worldview and um and remember we're using eight questions to To sort of categorize and describe and compare worldviews. And we made it through the first three questions last time on the biblical worldview. And the first one was: what is the ultimate reality? Uh who remembers what we said for that? What what does the biblical worldview say is the ultimate reality? Creator needs the one that decides what reality is. That's right, yeah. It's God. God is the ultimate reality. It's not uh he created everything, but also he his his existence is the ground of all other existence, right? Like every other existence derives from him And he yeah, he created reality. Um and yeah, we've said a lot of things about that, but the main point was basically that But like everything, including us, is derived from and dependent on Yahweh. Only He is self-existent. So then we asked the the question or answered the question, how do we know about reality? How can we know what we know? That's the critical question of epistemology. And what was the biblical answer to that question? What's the most fundamental and most trustworthy source of knowledge? The Bible. And why? Sorry? It's the only truth. It's the only truth. Well that I mean there is other truth out there, right? Like well, the only real proven truth. Yeah, it's the only truth that really it's the only one that really addresses what we need to know. I mean there's truth in mathematics, right, like two plus u equals four, right? Or you can take the derivative of the natural log. Those things are true and those are useful in a certain sphere, but like none of that truth is really necessary for life and godliness. But the Bible carries all that truth that that we need. in order to live well, in order to fulfill our purpose. Why else is the Bible the most trustworthy and the most fundamental source of knowledge? Yeah, it comes from God, right? Comes from God who knows everything and can't lie. But isn't that true of other things? Like doesn't nature come from God? And doesn't doesn't our human reason come from God? What makes the Bible different? Sorry? It's living. What do you mean by that? Because we won't we won't bring it back. Bring it back, yes. Open the scriptures for me. Uh-huh. What what does it say? What is it? The word became flesh, right? The word became flesh, yes. And who's talking who's that talking about there? Jesus. Jesus. Jesus is the word. Became flesh. Yes, exactly. So so scripture is living. It's not just a static book. Um you know it is it is fixed. It we have the revelation from God for all time, and we're not going to add to it or take away from it But it's living and active, sharper than a two-edged sword. It it penetrates to people's hearts. Um and that's because it is uh Jesus Christ is the embodiment of this word. He is the word became flesh, uh living among us. So, yeah, it's living. That's a great point, Devon. Um Um you know, and also it's not just that, it's that um the Bible it's not only does the Bible originate from God, not only It's the only source of knowledge that's actually written in human language that comes from God. Right. It's it's written down and meant to be picked up and read by a mind. Uh nature is not meant to be picked up and read like a book. It's meant to be looked at and appreciated like like maybe a painting But that's a different kind of communication, right? Like scripture is. So and and finally, the other point is that like all those other sources of knowledge, nature, uh science, human reason, personal Experience, those can be corrupted by sin. They need to be interpreted. And sometimes in our minds we take that interpretation and we turn it towards our own sinful desires. Uh and we we sort of press those other sources of knowledge into the service of our sin. But with the Bible it's written down, uh it comes from God like um It can be read. It's fixed. It can't be corrupted anymore by our sin, like these other sources of knowledge. So the other sources of knowledge really they're useful, but uh but we have to look at them as subordinate to Scripture uh for all those reasons. Okay, and then the third question we did was where did we and everything come from? And we talked about how God created the whole universe out of nothing. And we also talked about how he didn't just make stuff, didn't just make like rocks and animals and humans. He made ideas. He made concepts and categories and institutions like gender and the family. family and marriage and authority. And those things are also very important in creation. Um okay. So any follow-up questions from last time about about like those three things we talked about? Alright, if not, I'm going to dive right into question four. What's the purpose of life? Okay, so stop and think about this. Why did God create What do you guys think? Why did God bother to even make a universe? Because he wanted to. That's a great answer. Yeah. And um you know, in in inherent in that answer is like he was free not to, right? He didn't he didn't need to. He didn't need to make a universe. Why not? What was was God lonely? No. No? Why not? Because he's God. Yeah. Yeah, we're not when we say Yahweh, we're not just talking about one person, God the Father. We're talking about the three persons of the Trinity. God the Father, God the Son, and the Holy Spirit, who have all existed with him throughout eternity. Right? Um like Davon, the p the passage you just brought up from John, uh in the beginning the word was with God, and the word was God. And so and then Jesus later prays for the church. He says, Father, glorify them with the glory I had with you before uh the foundation of the world, or in the beginning, I forget. the exact phrase. Um but so clearly there was this relationship, there was this fellowship existing in the Trinity before God even chose to create the universe. So he wasn't lonely and he wasn't bored. Uh why so why do you think God created? I mean what can we add to because he wanted to? He felt like it. He felt like it? Like his own or how does it break it down like I know he fell as creating a little like he could have created uh she just called it that uh hey this shit was gonna Yeah. You know I made it so you know. 'Cause if the rocks don't glorify him there for human wall what made you think the shooting animals, you know what I mean? Yeah, he could have he could have just made a show Yeah. Correct me if I'm wrong or this is comfortably in this league, but I think I remember from John MacArthur's sermon somewhere, like that uh he created us some relationship relationship with us but more than that to present his son with a gift because he loved him so much, which was God. And then you can talk about like why Jesus came and saved Yeah, yeah. Yeah, that's that's sort of specifically the church, right? Um which is an important subset of all creation But like the yeah, the God's purpose for the church is to present us as a gift, as a as a bride, so so the imagery goes to his son. Jesus. But yeah, and that's that's sort of a special case of the principle of why did God create everything? The purpose of everything is to glorify God. He created everything for his own glory. The reason he created a universe is so that He would have so that there would be other beings with minds who could appreciate his character and his attributes. Right. He wanted to share the wealth of his of his character, the wealth of who he is, the wealth of his being, with other beings who could appreciate that. Uh that's that's a scriptural answer for why um he created everything. So I mean we can draw an important implication from that truth and that is that uh life is not about us right uh many many people even christians kind of get confused about this like Uh you know, if you listen to a lot of the songs on on even Christian radio, it's like, oh, you know, God loves me because I'm special and I'm worthy and you know, like it's it's there's kind of a focus on the self, on on me, on um humans. But like that's not why God created things. He didn't create um the universe just to have someone to love. He created the universe to display his glory to creation. And that's for our benefit, right? Like we, you know, we benefit from that. We it's it's our joy to be able to To behold God's glory. So that's why I don't know if any of you are familiar with the Westminster Catechism. It asks this question, what is the chief end of man? And the answer, do you guys anybody know? To beloved God and enjoy Him level. Yeah, to glorify God and enjoy Him forever. And um you could make an argument that that it might it should maybe say to glorify God by enjoying Him forever. John Piper makes that argument in a couple of his books. Anyway, so that's how we glorify God is by enjoying him. you know, by entering into a relationship with him and by enjoying him. Let's unpack that a little more. So how is God glorifying himself through everything that he's made? through the universe. Well, if you if you read the Bible sort of at a high level, from Genesis to Revelation You see, you begin to see like what it's talking about is the kingdom of God. God is building his kingdom, and that's how he's glorifying himself. in this whole story of creation. So remember last time we said that a worldview could also be called a meta-narrative? Uh what does a meta-narrative mean? Anybody remember? So meta means means like behind or or after and narrative is a story, right? So the meta-narrative is the story that's behind all other stories. It's the grand story that like organizes and makes sense of everything. So the Bible is a meta-narrative, and that meta-narrative is the story of God building his kingdom. So um, you know, I think it it's helpful to actually go back and read through the Bible uh with this in mind. Uh but this it's no coincidence that when Jesus came to earth and he was preaching, his favorite sermon topic was the kingdom of God, or the kingdom of heaven, as it as he calls it in Matthew. Right, so that's because that is the meta-narrative. That's the story of what God's doing, is building his kingdom. And Jesus came and he he preached that kingdom and he talked about it. So what does that mean? It means several things. Well, a kingdom, what does the kingdom have? It has a king, first of all. That's kind of the centerpiece and the focus of the kingdom. And um this king is unlike any earthly king, right? It's Jesus. He is he is God. himself. He has all the majesty and all the holiness and all the power and strength of God, and he has all the compassion and humility and lowliness of God. But he's also a man. He also became like us and um you know lives the life that we were supposed to live. So our king is both God and man and he's and he's perfect. Uh he is he is the one who wields his authority with gentleness. Right? God's kingdom is not like any other kingdom out there, by the way. Right. Most other kingdoms, um, you know, it's a pyramid and the the people at the bottom serve the people at the top. Everyone serves the king. God's kingdom is the only kingdom where uh the king does not take from his people, the king serves his people and gives to his people. It's essentially an upside-down kingdom. So Jesus is God's king. Kingdom with only a king is not a king. A kingdom has subjects. So the subjects of God's kingdom is, that's what he's doing, is he's He's carving out from all the nations of the world a people who can live in his kingdom and who will joyfully submit to his law. That's a third component of a kingdom. A kingdom has has laws, it has um rules that govern life inside of its walls. And uh much of the Bible is devoted to painting a picture of what life inside God's kingdom should look like. And so God is not only identifying and choosing people to be subjects of his kingdom He is actually taking their hearts, taking our hearts, and writing his law on our hearts. That's what it says in in um Ezekiel, I think. That He's writing His law on our hearts so that we not only know how to live in His kingdom, but that we want to obey Him. We want to do the right thing. Um so it's a kingdom because it has a king, it's got subjects, it has a law. Uh finally a kingdom is about land also, right? There there are actual places and and and borders where these subjects of the kingdom live. And so a big part of this kingdom narrative in the Bible is God Is the land, you know, is God God uh making the land, redeeming the land as a place where his subjects can live, his law, uh under his king. And we'll see, you know, as we talk about the end times that he plans to completely remake and renew uh heaven and earth. And and that, you know, the kingdom of God is going to fill the whole earth and it's going to be a new earth. And so it's our privilege As believers in Christ, you know, if if you are a follower of Christ, if you've trusted him for your salvation, you are a subject of God's kingdom and you get to live in his kingdom by his law and enjoy him as your king. And that's how we glorify God. That's his desire for us. That's how we want to glorify God. Now, what about those outside the kingdom? Those who reject God's kingdom will also glorify him. And they will glorify him by serving as objects of his justice and his wrath outside of And that's a sobering thought, but it talks about this in Romans that um yeah, they that God made vessels of honor and vessels of dishonor Honor and he made the vessels of dishonor to show his wrath and his justice, which are two important characteristics. Remember God's purpose in creating everything was to show his character and to show his attributes uh to other beings. And part of his attributes are justice and wrath. And so showing those actually does bring him glory. So questions on the purpose of life. I'm sure you guys have no questions about the purpose of life. Really? Okay. Um Yeah, so let's move on then. What is the cause of our problems? Alright, because we know everyone knows that there are problems in this life. We we all recognize regardless of our worldview Uh that there is pain, there's suffering, there's evil, uh, that people do bad things. So what is the cause of our problems? Biblically, our problem all these problems, all the evil, all the suffering and all the death that happens in the world, even natural disasters like hurricanes and floods, is all caused by rejection of God's authority. And we use a word biblically to describe what that is. What is that word? Sin. That's what sin means. Sin means rejection of God's authority. So when when the Bible talks about sin, it talks about it in kind of at least two different ways. There's individual specific sins, which is probably the way that you're familiar with hearing about it, like you know, I if I steal something or if I lie to somebody, those are individual sins But perhaps even more, the Bible talks about sin as a principle, as um, you know, like an operative uh thing in the world and inside of us uh that's not traceable to that's not just any one action, it's just it's a principle, it's a tendency in our hearts and in the world. So, this principle of sin is what entered creation when Adam and Eve first disobeyed God And when they did, remember, you know, God set Adam and Eve in the garden and he gave them one command. You guys have one job, right? Uh it's to not eat of the fruit of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. And then the serpent came along and they listened to the serpent and they said, Oh, you know, this sounds better. than what God said. So I'm going to set aside and reject God's command and I'm going to take what I think looks good. for myself. And that was that was the fundamental first act of rejecting God's authority that brought this principle of sin into creation. Alright, so why is that important? Well, it's important in two ways. It's important for an internal reason. Like because when at the fall, when the principle of sin entered creation, it entered our nature, right? We now are all born with a tendency an inclination away from God and towards evil, meaning towards satisfying our own desires at the expense of others Right. That is our that's our natural inclination in our heart. And we inherited that from Adam. It's not that we learned it from society. Um we inherited it because the principle of sin entered our nature when Adam and Eve So that's the internal effect of that principle of sin. The external effect of that principle of sin is that nature also rebels, because if you read the creation account closely. Nature was subject to the authority of humanity. He said to Adam and Eve, he told us to rule over, create it, to to um to take care of it, to cultivate the garden. and and take care of it. And uh nature was supposed to be under authority to to us, and then we were supposed to be under the authority of God. So when Adam and Eve rebelled against God, nature rebelled against us. And it now works in a disordered way. And that shows up as uh you know the the things I mentioned before, things like earthquakes and hurricanes and floods. Yes, those are also traceable back to sin It sounds weird to say that, but it but it's true. Like that's what the Bible teaches, uh, is that nature in Romans 8 Paul talks about how nature was subjected to futility. after the fall, and it now groans. And um we see we see the evidence of that in many ways. So so it's actually true to say that all evil, all suffering, all pain uh traces back to sin to that principle of sin operative inside of us and in the world Okay. Now the logical outworking of sin, folks, the the if you take sin and if you take the effects of sin to their to their ultimate extreme, you get to death. The Bible calls death the wages of sin. It's sort of what what you're owed as a sinner. It's what we are owed as sinners. Death is our biggest problem. And not just physical death where our bodies cease to function, but uh spiritual death as well, separation from God Uh remember we were supposed to be part of God's kingdom. God was making his kingdom, and we were supposed to be living under his king and inside of the walls, living according to the law. But when Adam and Eve sinned, they got thrown out of the garden, which was the instantiation of God's kingdom at that time, and so that's death. Being thrown out of God's kingdom is death. And that's our biggest problem. And it comes from sin. Right? So the corollary here is that Our problem is such that we don't what we need is not just like enlightenment, right? We don't just need some more knowledge or to escape our ignorance. And what we need is not more power, right? We don't need the power to liberate ourselves. What we need is to be saved. Like that's why um that's why preachers are always talking about uh repent and be saved. And you know the gospel is how you are saved. There is no one saved except by Jesus Christ. Why why does ever why does all the why do all the preachers talk about being saved? It's because our problem requires salvation, not just enlightenment or empowerment. Right. So, uh any questions on the problem before we get to the solution? Okay, it's very important to understand the problem. Right. And the oh yeah, theyvon. So sorry, I guess I'm Um so the problem being synth, um as you were explaining. Like I know you were talking about like how it goes from the app And it ties into like, you know, hurricanes, earthquakes and stuff like that, like how do you tie into something that has to do with like Yeah, yeah. How does how does sin work its way down to like yeah, physics and and natural processes? Yeah. Yeah. That's that's a hard ball to wrap my head around. It is. And I'll tell you, it's probably disappointing, I don't know the answer of how Um I just know that uh that s that scripture teaches things like uh like in Romans eight, you know know that after the fall the creation was subjected to futility or frustration, right? Which means that that Beforehand, before the fall, it worked a certain way, like it was supposed to. Remember God called called his creation very good after he made it. So before the fall it worked like it was supposed to, and then after the fall it didn't work like it was supposed to. Right. So so right now the natural processes that we see around us are broken, right? That's that's what that implies is that there's futility, there's groaning, there's there's frustrations in nature itself around us. around us. And I don't know how that happens. You know, I don't know how our spiritual choice to rebel against God translates into a change in the laws of nature. Um I don't think anybody knows how. But Uh yeah, he cursed the ground. Well that's that's a great point too, is like when um remember when God was dealing with Adam and Eve after they sinned. And he showed up and and they did all the blame shifting, right? Like Adam blamed Eve and Eve blamed the serpent. And then he started and he he uh he cursed, he gave curses and uh As punishment, right? Like he cursed the serpent, and then interestingly, he did not curse Eve. He did not curse Adam. He cursed uh Eve's work and Adam's work. Right, and part of that was he cursed the ground that Adam was supposed to work, so that now instead of easily producing food, it would produce thistles and thorns and things like that And so he would have to he would have to toil. He'd have to work really hard for not much benefit And so there was a there was a change in in essentially the laws of nature at that point when God cursed the ground and and when you know in response to Adam and Eve's rebellion. Um yeah. But I mean you can keep asking like well how, how, you know, why what's the connection there? And and you get to a point pretty quick where I don't I don't know. I was uh thinking about um the the earth that God made. Um And the God the Garden of Eden was that river, the trees, the animals, um human was very at deep with God. And then When we when they sinned they got taken outside paradise, right outside m working on the ground and then they build a town no, they then then they sin again and God wipe out the entire earth and except for one family. That's right. And that's when the geography of the earth changed rapidly because before that time there was no rain. It was misty. Come up and come back down. It never rained. But then after the flood And now we got rain, we got thunder, we got lightning, we got you name it, everything else that that goes with the weather and everything else. But we Before we didn't have rain, we hadn't waved. That's right, yeah. That's another good point, is that the flood was another time in which God radically changed the natural order. the the deep of the earth and water just come out from everywhere. Yeah, yeah. And so it's completely changing the the the the landscape. Right. Yeah, and that that gets to sort of one of our modern assumptions is that we we sort of grow up assuming that like nature is just constant It just has always worked this way, always will work this way. You know, we talk not only about billions of years in the past, but also um you know, scientists talk about like, oh in about five billion years the sun will burnout. And you know, so so we're used to thinking of these really long, flat timescales in which nothing changes. But that's not the biblical picture of nature. Nature was a certain way, it was very good at the beginning. And then it uh at the fall and the curse, it changed radically. And then you know, after another thousand years or so, at the flood, it changed radically again. And in the end, when Jesus comes again, it's going to change radically another time. So nature is not a constant. Uh the laws of nature are not fixed laws in the sense that we're used to thinking. of them. They are local patterns that we've only been able to observe for the last hundred years or so in detail. That's a great point. Thank you. Okay, let's let's go on to question uh I guess it's a six. What is the solution to our problem? Okay, if if the cause of our problems is sin and the ultimate expression of those problems is death. What's the solution to our problem? Okay, well, well solving these problems, it means basically four things. If if you really want to solve like after we've articulated the problem, if you w really want to articulate a solution to that problem, it's got to involve number one, reversing the fall that brought in all this sin and and all the problems. Number two, reconciling us to God. Because remember this is about God's kingdom and and the and we want to be we need to be inside God's kingdom, not outside God's kingdom. Number three, defeating death, because death is our greatest enemy. It's the greatest expression of sin, greatest consequence of sin. And fourth, restoring nature, because nature has rebelled against us. just as we rebelled against God. Okay, so if you think about these four things, none of these are things that any of us can accomplish. Like we cannot go back in time and And succeed where Adam failed because now we have a sinful nature. Like we don't even start from a clean plate anymore. We can't reconcile ourselves to God. Because we've already blown it. We can't defeat death no matter how hard people try. Did you know do you guys know there's like a consortium of tech billionaires that are funding research into immortality Right? They're literally like spinning up medical labs to to try to bring about immortality. And it it's kind of funny, because like they're not going to succeed. Even if they did, they would achieve physical immortality, but like what a scary world where sinful people live forever, you know? In Genesis, God said, because if they eat the tree of uh of uh of life, they will live That's right. Yeah. Yeah, God you know, God expelling us from the garden was actually a a mercy to us. Uh-huh. If God put like a cap one hundred and twenty years on people's lives, Yeah, it is interesting to study kind of lifespans. You know, between between Adam and and Noah, lifespans were around the thousand years, and then afterwards it it you know, a thousand years before the exponential function was discovered is is a pretty powerful apologetic. But you know, we'll maybe we'll get into that when when we do our deep dive. But but yeah, there there is also this verse in in Genesis maybe chapter five that um where where God seems to limit humanity to a hundred and twenty years Now it's it's sort of debated whether that is a cap on the lifespan of humans or whether from that point God was giving humanity 120 years to listen to Noah's preaching and to repent. Because the flood came about 120 years after that. So it it's not clear to me, I haven't studied that in depth, uh, whether, you know, which of those interpretations is correct. But what's clear is that um yeah our lifespan is a lot shorter than 900 some years these days. Yeah, and that's that's a good thing. So we can't defeat death. That's the that's the point I'm making here. And then we can't restore nature. Right? Like we you know we're actually making nature worse So these four things are things that only God could accomplish. And he did it by sending his son. Uh as uh just up in heaven removed from humanity He had to send his son to become one of the people who needed to be saved in order to live a perfect life And undo the fall. Right? So Jesus reversed the fall by becoming a man, taking on human nature, and bringing human nature with him through a successful life He succeeded where Adam failed. Think about that. You know, he he faced the direct temptation of Satan to a stronger degree than even Eve and Adam faced it. in the desert, uh, you know, r when he was t uh tempted for forty days, forty nights in the desert, and then also before the cross, when he uh was in the Garden of Gethsemane, he faced Satan down eye to eye. And he won. He he he defeated the temptation and he stayed obedient to God, even unto death. Remember what Adam Adam's failure and Eve's failure was that they rejected God's authority Jesus never rejected God's authority. He stayed under God's authority, even though it cost him everything. So he reversed the fall by succeeding where Adam failed. He reconciled us to God by his death. Uh because God's justice and holiness requires uh that sin be paid for. It requires that this that this rejection of his authority not go unpunished. So Jesus took that pun. punishment on us when he died, and he was the perfect atoning sacrifice for us. And so he reconciled us to God. He made it possible for God to accept us into his presence without without breaking out and killing us. Because of his holiness. So he he succeeded where Adam failed. He reversed the fall. He reconciled us to God. He defeated death for us because after he died, remember he didn't stay dead. Uh and and death death is the wages of sin, right? In God's justice, it would not have been just for a perfect man who lived a perfect life to get death. Like that's not the wages of a perfect life That's the wages of a sinful life. So God uh looked at Jesus' life and he said, Yes, this life was acceptable to me. So I will not let him stay dead. I'm going to raise him from the dead. And that power, the New Testament says, is going to be applied to us to reverse our death if we trust in Christ. That is the power to conquer death, and that is how God, how Jesus conquered death for all of us who believe in him. So he reversed the fall, he reconciled us to God, he defeated death, and the Bible says he will restore nature. And he gave us a preview of this when he walked the earth. Right? Remember when he was out in the boat with his disciples and the storm came up and was threatening to overturn them and drown them. And he said, hush, be still. And it was still. He brought nature back into submission to humanity. Just for that moment. That was a preview. That was a foretaste of what he's going to do. It says in Revelation that he is going to make a new heaven and a new earth. that operate by new rules. And that's that's what he's gonna do. He's gonna restore nature so that it does not bring about suffering and pain and death anymore. Yeah, yeah. Uh that's right. And yeah, it says the the child will stick his hand into the what, the viper's nest and and and will not be hurt. Right? Yeah, so animals, uh, inanimate creation will all work together as it was intended to be. So that's that's what Jesus did and is going to do. That's how he solves our problem in all of its facets. Right. And that's why the Bible says, and there is salvation in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven that has been given among men by which we must be saved. There is nobody else who could accomplish that, right? Like Mohammed didn't do this, uh Buddha didn't do this, like no other no pagan god did this, uh Joseph Smith didn't do this, nobody has done this, and nobody can do this. It's only Jesus that's capable of doing this. So it makes no sense to say that there are many paths to God. The only way we could be reconciled to God, the only way the fall could be reversed, the only way that death could be defeated was by God becoming man and dying and rising again and doing these things. Okay, so that's that's the biblical answer to what's the solution to our problem. Okay, any questions on that section? Alright, let's keep rolling on. Uh seventh question. What oops no, seventh question. Where are we going? So this is an important question for our worldview to answer. Not just about the past where we came from, but also where we're where we're going. So there's three parts biblically to this answer. There's like first there's where is creation going? Where's the world going? Creation is heading towards destruction followed by renewal. Right. So if you read the passages on the end times, uh it talks about uh the the earth getting experiencing more and more violent events like earthquakes and famines. Uh uh and fires and floods and you know it's the picture is just of the earth kind of kind of disintegrating, being ripped apart. Uh in 2 Peter it even talks about the earth being melted down. So creation is heading for destruction, followed by renewal. After that, God will create a new heavens and a new earth. Um so it's not in our power really to to save the earth, right? We are stewards of creation, that is true. Our charge from the beginning was to cultivate and take care of the earth. So we are responsible for for carrying out that command as far as we are able. But we cannot save the earth. We are not responsible for that. God has destined it for destruction. Can I read Second Peter? Yes, please. Two ten. But the day of the Lord will come like a thief in which the head Heaven will pass away with a roar and the elements will be destroyed in intense heat, and the earth and its work will be destroyed That's right. This world is passing away. The earth and its works will be burned up. Uh and that's not I don't think that's just a metaphor. Uh I think it's actual literal uh destruction of the elements of the world. So that's creation. So that's where that's where the physical universe is going. The unbelieving world, what about unbelievers, outside of the kingdom of God? God, those who don't trust in Christ and do not follow follow Christ. The unbelieving world is heading towards greater ungodliness, followed by catastrophic judgment. Right, so this is in contrast to the to the narrative and the ideal of progress. Right. A lot of people like to speak about uh humanity progressing from ignorance to knowledge, uh, from poverty to wealth, uh, from you know, from darkness to life. But that's not really what's happening to humanity. And that's not what's going to happen to humanity. Secular societies will not get better. Sure, they might improve the conditions in their society. They might add wealth, add physical wealth or or control over nature. They might uh they might even alleviate some of the hunger and poverty that exists, but they are not going to become more godly. They're not going to change the human heart and make it more loving, more compassionate, more righteous. And that has important implications for us. Uh it is our responsibility as Christians to do good to all men. Right? That is a command to us. And we should do good to all. We should work uh so far as it depends on us to alleviate these physical needs. people. But we cannot make humanity better. We cannot bring about true progress the way God measures it. And I think you see this unfortunately and and heartwrenchingly right now in Afghanistan. Uh you know, we we went to war in Afghanistan twenty years ago. um originally for the purpose of of uh rooting out al Al Qaeda and you know we did do quite a good job of of hunting down and and killing the senior leadership of Al Qaeda Uh but we also went there for the purpose of building a nation, right? Uh our implicit goal was to take Afghan society and construct it into something that looks like a Western democracy. Uh you know, democracy um the the classical liberal ideals of free r freedom of religion, freedom of speech. Our goal was to empower uh women and minorities there. And Um after twenty years, yeah, some good has been done in Afghanistan, but now the Taliban is taking over again. And Um you know, the darkness is returning and we have not really achieved anything lasting there, I don't think. At least not from God's perspective. We didn't change people's hearts. The only hope for Afghanistan right now is the witness of the church that exists there. The gospel is the only means that God uses to change people's hearts. Right, so we need to pray for Afghan Christians and for the Afghan church that God would protect them, that He would not allow their witness to be snuffed out, and that that the gospel would go forth and it would make progress in the darkness that exists there right now. Okay, so the third the third answer to the question of where are we going, the third sort of of group of people or things to talk about is believers. That hopefully includes us, right? If if you are a follower of Christ, then you are heading towards suffering in this life. But followed by eternal joy. It's important to have both of those things in mind. The New Testament is very clear that in this life we will have trouble. We will have trials and persecution and suffering. But that Christ has overcome the world and that our future is with him in eternity, where he will wipe every tear away. And he will bind up all of our wounds. And we will live with him. And he will be our God. And he will dwell with us. So the corollary here is that although we live in the world, and it's good that we live in the world, the world is not our home, and we shouldn't try to make it our home. Right? We shouldn't try to pursue uh the comfort and the security of of the world, uh, of wealth, right? We shouldn't try to pursue those things or or fix our minds on those things. Because they're not really a defense against the suffering that God promises will come to us. We also shouldn't make the world's causes our causes. Because our heart isn't here, right? Our treasure is not on this earth. Our treasure is in heaven. Our life, our future, our hope is all there. It's with the new heaven and the new earth dwelling with Christ. Uh it's not here. All right, questions on where we are going? So I got a question, right? Yeah. Welcome with Jesus and stuff, right? Why why is there so much suffering? Why is there so much? More pleasant to walk with God. Yeah, shouldn't it be easier to walk with God than not walking with God? Well, Pastor Leek used to say Uh guys, there's no easy life. There's no easy road. There's the hard road, which is God's road, and there's the much harder road, which is the world's road. Right. There is no because even those people who you know, you you read a bunch of the Psalms and the Psalms are talking about this. See they say the Psalmist is saying, God Why did you bless this wicked person? Why why have you done good to the wicked? Like they're free from trial and they're free from trouble. Like, what is the point of serving you? if if that guy who ignores you can get all the good stuff and I faithfully serve you and I get trials and suffering. Um and the answer is that like we're not looking at it. correctly. We're not looking first of all, we don't see what's inside that person's heart, meaning like their wealth, their prosperity, uh the prosperity of the wicked is not satisfying to them. They it's not making them happy. But all more than that, we're not looking with an eternal perspective. We don't see that after a few short decades of their life that all that is going to be snuffed out, um and they're going to be called to judgment for rejecting Christ. Uh and we don't see that after a few short decades of our life of suffering, that we're gonna go to be with Christ for eternity. Like, you know, what is the ratio of 80 years to in infinity? You know, it's there's no comparison between those two things. Right. So um what is it Paul says? I consider that our our light and momentary suffering is nothing to be compared to the weight of glory that we So and as as if that weren't enough, right? In in our suffering, God promises um to to comfort us and to be with us in our suffering. He promises to like one of the titles of the Holy Spirit is the comforter. And so he sends the Holy Spirit to dwell inside of our hearts, which we which we stir up by meditating on Scripture. Right. And then that Holy Spirit, His Holy Spirit acting in our heart, is uh calls to mind his word and comforts us as we go through these trials. So believe me, God knows that we are suffering. He knows exactly what we're suffering. He knows that that suffering is painful. Um he comes and stands with us in our suffering and he promises uh that it will end one day and that it will be replaced by eternal joy. And he also lets us know that nobody has it any easier. Even the wicked who look like they're prospering, they don't have it easier. That I mean I know it's a lot to sort of internalize, but does that that kind of make sense or answer the question? Well not necessarily easier. Uh-huh. But I'm saying like I don't know, all of this is flooding my face right now. It's a lot, yeah. Like we're going over the whole biblical worldview in Actually two Sundays. It is a lot. Uh Karen. I just like think about it this way, like also from personal experience. Like if if your life is all uh roses and s sunshine and flowers Uh-huh. Is that necessarily going to recognize you and glorify God all over the more? Right. Not necessarily. Is that going to make you really reflect on your life and ref is that Probably not. Because your life is so good. Like what is to be so critical about? So the saying that God gives you challenges and trials To refine you is very intentional. Absolutely. Right, you need to undergo those hardships, which include suffering and maybe some extreme trials, but yeah, they're necessary. Yeah. Um to build our relationship. That's that's a great point. I mean trials and suffering don't just happen to us. They are designed for us by the Lord for our good. to increase and strengthen our faith and to build us up in relationship with him and in dependence on him. I mean read the book of Job. Uh it's It's sobering, but Job in his prosperity was not able to glorify God like Job in his suffering. He was open to the accusation from Satan that, hey, you just love God because he blesses you with all his stuff. You don't love God, you love the stuff. Right. But God came out of that book glorified because Job loved him for who he is. All right, last question. I think we can do this. Alright, so this is this is where the rubber meets the road. where the the sort of high and lofty truths of the biblical worldview come down to decisions that affect your day to day. Like this is all great to know the purpose of life and glorifying God and all that stuff, but like I need to decide today You know, what classes to sign up for, or I need to decide next year what job to apply for. How do I do that? What are the principles that guide me here? What should our goals be and how should we achieve them? So Jesus, in the Sermon on the Mount, he actually very helpfully provided an answer to this. question of what is the most important thing for believers. He said, seek first, that means above everything else, the kingdom of God and his righteousness. So what does it mean to seek the kingdom of God? Remember, so this is this is actually really great in that it ties in with the whole meta-narrative Right. The meta-narrative of life in the Bible is that God is building his kingdom. That's what it's all about, is the kingdom of God. So it makes sense that we should seek first the kingdom of God. But what does that mean to seek the kingdom of God? Well, so first I have to say, like if you're outside of the kingdom of God, if you have not trusted Christ, if you have not repented of your sins and submitted to him as your kingdom King, then for you, seeking the kingdom of God means repenting of your sin and believing in Christ and being baptized. That is God's only command to you. As an unbeliever, is to believe the gospel, repent, and be baptized. Like he does not care about He has not commanded you to go and and live a life of good works and service if you're an unbeliever. Um you could move, you know, to a to a uh developing country and serve uh the the homeless and the poor and the destitute on the streets for your entire life and God would say, That's not what I commanded you to do. All that work that you did is filthy rags because you didn't believe in my son. So that's his only command if you are an unbeliever is to enter the kingdom by repenting and being baptized. If you're in the kingdom, then God's command to you is essentially twofold. Uh remember the great commission that he gave to the church in Matthew 28? He said, Go therefore and do what? Make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them and what else? Teaching them to obey all that I have commanded you Right? So that's that's our commission as the church. That is how we seek the kingdom is by calling others in, by making disciples of all nations. Bringing them in to the kingdom, presenting the gospel to the world is another way to say that. The second facet of seeking first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. This is primarily focused on the righteousness part, is that many of the New Testament commands towards us, towards believers, boil down to pursue sanctification. Do this by renewing your mind, you know, by studying these truths and bathing your mind in the truths of Scripture. And then work that out by loving others And when the New Testament tells us as believers to love others, it's primarily talking about others in the church. The commands are to forgive one another, to love one another, to be kind to one another. to build one another up and bear one another's burdens, and that one another means the church, means inside the church. So this implies that in order to be seeking the kingdom of God and his righteousness, you need to be plugged into the life of the church. Uh and I know that I'm kind of preaching to the choir here because you're all here, but like It's possible for you to show up to this class and then just kind of bounce out. And that is not seeking first the kingdom of God. Right? If if you're um If you're not coming to second hour to to worship the Lord and to learn about him from the pulpit um and to hear about the life of the church, then you're not seeking the kingdom of God. You've got to be doing that. If you're not plugged in during the week to a group of people that you can fellowship with and pray for and ha hold accountable and they can hold you accountable. then you're not seeking first the kingdom of God because you're not practicing those one another. You have to do that. And I don't want to just leave you with that command without opportunities to uh to fulfill it. The one way, like for for the men, is there did you know that there's a men's ministry that meets on Saturday mornings? Uh I think seven o'clock The men's ministry, they have breakfast uh Saturday mornings at seven o'clock. That's a great place if you're a man to show up and you will sit with the same table of guys every time. You'll get to know them, you'll get to hear about their struggles and walking in the faith. You'll get to pray together, and they will hold you accountable to your goals and your sanctification. You'll sing together, you'll learn from other men. So that's a great way for Christian men who especially, I think, struggle with forming these deeper. For the women, uh my wife is telling me about uh Morag Sergein has a great Bible study on Tuesday. She does it during the day, in the morning, and also in the evenings. And you know, from she loves going to this file. study. It's a great way to meet other women, especially other women who are at different stages of life from you and have different struggles and concerns. and to pray together and fellowship together and learn from other women how to walk in the Christian life. And then also you can join a small group. Like I would definitely encourage you to think about that. that. Think about joining a small group where you can meet during the week with others who others in the church. And what you'll do is you'll learn and you'll pray together, you'll hold each other accountable. Um you can you can look at our small group. Uh our small group has you know families with young kids in it. Uh so uh you know maybe maybe one or two stages uh uh beyond where where you guys are at right now, but like that's a good thing in the church is to get exposure to people who are in different stages of life and practice those one another commands. Uh with people who are not like you. Uh take one. Uh my question on you are talking about smart groups and stuff. Is there like a group for L that are like grief and icon and stuff. There is a thing called grief share, yeah, that our church runs. And um I think that Pastor Gabe is the contact for that. So I would I would email him. You know, he's very responsive. Uh and I I know he would love to receive an email from you asking about it's called grief share. Oh sorry. Okay. Like if it is a thing. Mm-hmm. Yeah, it's a thing. No. That's right, we are meant to bear each other's burdens, right? You you are not meant to live the Christian life alone. None of us are. Okay. So I think I gotta end it there. You can read the last bullet on your own. Uh and just real quick, I want to I want to take prayer requests. Um And pray for you all. And and let me write something.