Morning guys. Uh so we're obviously you got the message that we're here in this room. This is uh this is gonna be our room for at least the next three months. uh they they want to incorporate our class into the regular um you know room assignment scheme that depends on like how many people are in the class and and And how many desks are needed and things like that. Yeah, I mean I think they probably would appreciate if we had at least a general idea of how many people regularly attend. Um circle. Okay. What's that? You gotta f you have uh you don't have to put your phone number down, but we're gonna start a group uh text thread. that we can get updates like this out to people easier. Because I mean, you know, it's probably better than email, having a tech Okay, so we're gonna be here for the next three months or so, uh and then in December they'll they might reassign us. We'll see. Uh but no desks, no clocks, but at least we get to sit closer, be a little have a little more camaraderie. Um last time we finished going over the biblical worldview and doing the the sort of high-level broad overview of uh you know what the Bible says about about the deeper questions of life and of of reality. And And so now we're going to start the sort of exciting but uh but also sort of uh you know, difficult process of examining other worldviews and doing the overviews of them. And we're going to start today with a worldview that I have decided to call scientific naturalism. I mean, this is not my term, other people call it this, but there are met there are several different names for this cluster of ideas and philosophies that make up this worldview. Um it really uh originated in Europe in the Enlightenment in the 17th and 18th century So the Enlightenment, uh, you know, some of you probably studied it, it's uh it's a an intellectual movement uh a few hundred years ago where uh science was developing, you know, the the scientific revolution was happening. uh humanity was was was getting very excited and exuberant about all the things that the human mind was able to comprehend and discover about nature. And so um the Enlightenment was this great confidence in human reason and it in the human spirit. And uh so this this worldview of scientific naturalism grew out of that spirit of that age. So, you know, back then, famous people of the Enlightenment who were spokesmen for this this scientific naturalist worldview were philosophers like David Hume. uh Pierre Simon Laplace, Voltaire, the the famous uh author who was also an outspoken atheist. Today this strain of thought, this worldview lives on uh and is is going strong. And actually when I was in college, there people were talking about something called atheism two point Or the new atheism. I don't know if that's still a thing nowadays, but uh people like Daniel Dennett and Richard Dawkins. Um how many of you heard of Richard Dawkins, at least No? Okay, so he's uh he's a biologist who wrote several uh pretty popular books uh not only explaining the theory of evolution, but sort of advocating for um Darwinism as the intellectual foundation of a worldview, right? He's he's sort of an atheist prophet. I can do that. Um so he's uh you know he he's one of the more famous names in in this worldview uh today. But really this worldview is uh is most popular and mo has its greatest stronghold in academia and the scientific is establishment. But um it's it the pillars, the philosophical foundations and ideas from this worldview uh have really trickled down to our society. And one of my goals today in talking about this worldview is to draw out how these thoughts influence us, even as Christians, in ways that we don't even realize. Okay. We are all uh hopefully Bible believing Christians in this room, but uh some of us you know in some ways we all think like atheists. And I think recognizing that is is the first step to uh renewing your mind in the truth of God. So on a personal note, before we get into the content of the worldview I have many friends from high school, from college, from my childhood who are atheists and who um pretty closely aligned with this worldview. Not perfectly. I think you know any time you're trying to write down a worldview um you know, such a a collection of ideas that uh that each individual person is gonna have some deviations from from the stereotype. But The purpose here of this of this handout and this talk is not to uh like pigeonhole people or label them. It's mostly it's it's to label ideas Right, to to investigate and trace the thread of ideas. Because our struggle is not against flesh and blood, uh, but against those those lofty speculations that set themselves up against the So when I was coming up with this outline, I was thinking about my good friends, um, you know, for some reason I I get along very well with with atheists. and we tend to be really good friends. Uh so so that was always on my mind uh when I was when I was drafting this thing. Uh and I pray for them a lot, uh that they would that they would be drawn to repentance and through to a true knowledge of God. Okay, so let's jump in. So remember we're using eight questions to examine worldviews and to allow us to compare across them. And the first one is what is the ultimate reality? Every worldview has to answer this question. And how many of you have heard of Carl Sagan? Yeah, a couple people have heard of Carl Sagan. He I I don't think he's still alive, but like maybe back in the seventies or something, he was um both an astronomer and a popularizer of science, um kind of like Richard Dawkins And he produced a uh T V series um called Cosmos. And uh he was he was an atheist and a v uh strong proponent of scientific naturalism. And the opening line of his TV series series cosmos is this right here. The cosmos is all that is or ever was or ever will be. Boom. You know, like big statement there. And Uh spoiler, he did not get that from his astronomy. He didn't get that from science. He got it from his worldview. That was a presupposition, an assumption that he was placing at the beginning of his exposition of uh scientific discoveries in the field of astronomy. Right? But that pretty much sums up scientific naturalism. Is that the ultimate reality is nature. Nature is all that exists. There is no God. Nature was not created by God. The cosmos just is. It is self-existent. Under this worldview. And I should pause and mention that as we're going through the worldview of scientific naturalism, I'm going to present the claim. of the worldview. But I'm not just going to leave them out there because that would be, you know, frankly, kind of depressing and demoralizing. But I'm so I'm going to at each section give sort of the risks that that each of these claims posed to us as believers and also a short, very brief biblical response. Now this response is not going to be in-depth. We're going to wait until we do the deep dives on each of these questions in in future weeks to really go in depth. But I just want you to get a flavor uh I don't want to leave you hanging with like the statement of falsehood without giving you a little bit of the truth as well. So this is the statement of scientific naturalism that the cosmos is all that is, ever was, or ever will be. Along with that is, and probably less explicitly stated and much more below the surface, is this idea of reductionism. We talked about reductionism a couple weeks ago when we did the biblical worldview, because we said the Bible is not reductionist, but who remembers what reductionism is, what it means Yeah. Basically the idea that um all things are basically just called atoms Interact with each other. Yeah, exactly. Everything that happens is reducible to physics. That's where the reductionism works. comes from. Exactly. Good good summary. And physics, therefore, is the only explanation for everything. Uh so where where this comes into play is that um you know according to this worldview of scientific naturalism, all phenomena, like everything we see, including human thought and behavior is explainable or reducible to physical causes. That's it. And they say explanations at other levels uh like like human intent or the will of God are are one of two things. They're either placeholders for our ignorance, right? Like, you know Just we don't understand that yet, so we're going to call it human intent or God's will. Or they are um shorthand for the real physical explanation. So to go back to the illustration of reductionism we used a couple weeks ago, uh, you know, say there's a teapot boiling on the stove, and uh you know, we said why you could say why is that pot of water boiling on the stove? And there was the physical explanation of uh, you know, the gas is burning and it's heating up the water and the water's boiling. There's also the explanation in terms of human intent, um Mrs. Lewis wants a pot of tea. The reductionist would say that second explanation is not a real explanation. It's just a shorthand for the physical and chemical processes in Mrs. Lewis's brain that are going on to make her feel like she wants some tea. Right? That's all just physics. But we don't say the physics because either we don't fully understand the physics yet or it it would just take too long to say. Um yeah, so that's that's reductionism in a nutshell. And I want to spend a little bit of time on this because it's something that not many of us explicitly recognize, but it affects our thinking, I'm convinced. in in our culture, it affects our thinking more than more than we know. So I want to uh Uh one thing that you hear from atheists, from scientific naturalists, is uh they accuse us of believing in a god of the gaps. Who who has heard of God of the gaps like that? that idea, that label a little bit. Okay. So the God of the Gaps, that that's a you know, you m you might hear this like uh from from a professor or from a friend. Um that's the idea that When we as Christians say God did something, like he worked a miracle, or he created the world, or um he raised Christ from the dead. We are, they think we are just placing God uh somewhere to cover a gap in our current understanding of the world. world. They they see the the his the history of science and religion as a history of science going out and filling in those gaps where God used to live And shrinking the sphere of God's action and influence and expanding the sphere of science's explanatory power. That's how they see the history of science and religion. And um so they would point to things like storms, with the weather. Uh they would say, hundreds of years ago people thought that God controlled the weather and God was responsible for causing the weather. But now we have the the science of meteorology and we understand the physical processes in the atmosphere that give rise to things like storms. And so God's influence has shrunk and science is influence God still controls the weather, right? Yeah, I mean he's we we definitely recognize that there are physical processes at work, some of which we understand, not all of them, but some of them. But even if we fully understood the process, it would still be God choosing to cause this storm this particular day in this particular location. Right. Yeah. I would go one step further. We've just humans have just finally finally come to the realization of what of of God has always known but God is always known but storms are while we just finally recognize. Yeah, we're sort of catching up. We found the toolbox, yeah. Th these are all great I I I can see you guys are on top of this. This is really good. Yeah, there's a lot of pride here. There's a lot of a lot of what I would call epistemic pride, like pride in in in not only our knowledge, but in our ability to figure everything out on our own without depending on God. So the risk here of reductionism though, is that we as believers even will focus on our circumstances and the the sort of physical aspects of our life rather than our hearts which need uh to be sanctified or God's sovereignty. And I want to give a couple examples of that. So Uh for example, you know, like if I um wake up and I'm cranky and like I come downstairs and I snap at my kids Like, you know, that's anger, right? That's that's a that's a sin and a and a sinful response to that. But if I look at myself and I say, oh man, why did I get angry? Why did I sin and and yell at my kids Um, oh, I didn't sleep well last night. So my sleep is what is causing me to be angry. Right? That how how many of you have ever thought something like that? You know? Yeah, so we that's reductionist thinking That's looking for a physiological or physical cause and then um letting myself off the hook for my own sin. Because I found a physical cause, right? You see how I need to hold both of those causes in my head because you know sleep is important, right? It does affect us. And And it's important for me to get good sleep and and to uh you know give give myself the the ability to uh uh to respond well. But there's also sin in my heart that is independent of how well I slept last night. that's coming out against my kids. So we need to be non reductionist about this kind of thing. We need to recognize the role that that physics and our bodies play in in our actions, but we also need to take full responsibility for our sin uh so that we can confess it and repent of it and be sanctified. Let's see. Here's another one. Genetic determinism. How many of you guys have heard of like a gene a gene for, I don't know, alcoholism? Or uh, you know, they're they they're scientists are finding genes, you know, supposedly for a lot of things these days. Genes for alcoholism, there's genes Genes for obesity. They've even talked about genes for homosexuality, right? Like there's there might be a genetic basis for that. And Um you know, so but that that's a little bit weird to me because y uh I can certainly believe that someone's genes might predispose them to having same-sex attraction. But nobody's genes are determining who someone has sex with. Right. That is not, that choice is not determined. But it's this uh I think it's it's another instance of a reductionism in our society Right, it's seeing uh looking for a physical, in this case genetic cause for our behavior, which is actually uh a function of our intent and our and the sin in our heart um and and our Um that's interesting because I had a professor telling me that all behavior is really based on genes and uh really Because he was trying to back that up because he had different ways of explaining that and I was really thinking he was like, Well, maybe it's related somehow, but Right. Yeah. Very common attitude in in the sciences, right? That that our behavior is determined by genes. And when you press on that, for for someone to explain what that means, usually What they what they mean is that patterns of behavior over long periods of time in large groups of people are are predictable somewhat by looking at genes. But w what we're talking about as Christians often is like an individual choice that I made where I, you know, say sinned against my family or uh um or chose to exercise compassion or something like that. And there is no plausible mechanism. Like if you pushed someone who believes in genetic determinism to explain that individual choice with recourse to genes, they have no possible way. Uh yeah. So um I've heard I've heard something like uh oh alcoholism runs in my family is that like uh that would um that um relate to what you're saying right now is like when they say alcoholism runs in my family or smoking runs in my fa ones in Is that kind of like the same thing what you're saying? Yeah, it's similar. It's similar. I mean there uh people who say that might not be identifying a specific gene or set of genes there contributes to it. But yeah, saying it runs in my family is essentially the same thing. Like I it's a it's a determinism uh kind of attitude. And and we should recognize as Christians that yes, each of us has a a predisposition to certain things. Right? Like uh some people some people do are much more tempted to to drink excessively than others. Uh or some people might be tempted towards same sex attraction. Um and those things like those specif uh those specific temptations themselves are not wrong. Those are not examples of um of sinful behavior. It's whether we choose to act on them or not. And so, you know, God understands and he knows the particular temptations that we are faced with as individuals. individuals be due to whatever happened in our life, either because of our uh our heredity or the way we were brought up, uh, you know, if we uh d didn't have uh a stable family grow growing up or something. He knows what we're facing and his strength is made perfect in our weakness. Would it be like uh something bad happened happens and you you feel desire to get drunk. Uh-huh. The choice to actually get drunk or not. It's not a sin to feel that desire to get drunk 'cause you feel bad. It's the actual going and getting the now on being drunk out of the sin. Yeah, yeah. And it's so the battle rages inside your heart of am I going to respond to this by gratifying my my uh my sinful desire or am I going to respond to this by crying out to the Lord and um relying on his strength to be made perfect in that weakness of temptation, you know? Uh-huh. So we know every single gene given body. So if someone says this is because of of g of gene, I would ask, please identify those genes. You can. They are available. And then can you reference the paper that shows the the experiment that proves that and That's a great point. That is a great point because so many claims are made in the name of science. Uh it must be true, right? But few actually, you know, probably uh a minority of those claims are actually backed up by experimental observation and published literature. Right. So yeah, feel free to to push on those claims. And And to demand to be shown the actual experimental evidence that is behind that claim. Yeah. And I would just add one more thing on um like uh the the idea about being pre depos predisposed or something. So I think you know it runs I and and not to alcohol is it runs in people's head. Well Let me get off of that one say liking spicy food. All you can eat fire. I cannot. Bananas are spicy. So what would have happened if I would have lived in In Vietnam, but she would have lived been grown up in the United States. Would we therefore not be able to eat because I'm predisposed and not loved in spicy food? No. So our environmental impact or impact more so than some she says, Jeff, you I hope you don't grow up in Vietnam because you're the banana level spice. Right. Environmental impact. Yeah, environmental impact. And let's not forget the good news that if we are followers of Christ, then we are a new creation in Christ. Right, we are a new creation. We actually have a new self, we have been born again, we have a qualitatively different kind of life that uh the power of God that raised Christ from the dead is able to free us from even these uh environmental and um hereditary predispositions Okay, so there's there's a lot here. I'm I'm I'm really glad that that uh that you guys are kind of aware of these things. And are kind of engaging with them. Because I think, you know, reductionism, at least for me, this was a blind spot in me. I didn't realize that I thought reductionistically uh until I started studying it. uh and and calling it out explicitly. And I just want to tell one more story because I think it it il illustrates another facet of this this secret or or unconscious reductionist thinking. And it's a story from uh from when Jennifer and I were in graduate school in Boston. Uh we had been married for a few years and uh we were like, okay, it's time to uh think about having children. And so we started trying to have a baby, uh, to get pregnant. And we tried for a while and we just could not get pregnant. And so we went in um to a reproductive endo endocrinologist and uh we each got tested and we were each separately diagnosed with uh a cause of infertility. So each of us had a cause of infertility. And the doctor put our chances at below one percent of getting pregnant on our own And um so we took that news and it was very hard and um the the doctor right in that same session was ready to start us on on different treatment pathways and giving us all the options for for fertility treatments and such. Uh and but we, you know, we said we gotta think about this, we gotta process this. And And um so we went we went home and our thinking, at least in my mind, was like, Okay, well, the doctor said that. Our physical bodies can't make this baby, so that's you know, we've got to address the physic physical cause, the physiology of it. Uh so I was thinking about fertility treatments and, you know, God give us wisdom to know which which one we should do. But one of Jennifer's friends from church, you know, after hearing about this, said, Well, have you guys prayed for a baby? And I was like, no, God doesn't work like that. You know, like that's that's not how God works. Um but but then after I thought about it, I was like, no, we haven't prayed for a baby. You know, we like do I really believe that God is sovereign over the physical processes in our bodies? Uh so so we took a month, we decided to take a month. uh to just pray and and fast a little bit um to to pray for a child uh before we even started investigating different fertility treatments. And after that month we got pregnant uh with no treatment. And it was just a and I it's not that I believe that that um God suspended the laws of nature. I think I think we got pregnant by the normal means. But it's it's clear to me from the timing and from the fact that that God wanted us to humble ourselves and ask him that he was absolutely sovereign over uh us getting pregnant. Right. So I believe that there was a both a physiological cause of our pregnancy and a divine cause, God choosing to give us to answer our prayer and grant us a child. Uh so now we have three children and none of them were born with fertility treatments. They were all you know conceived normally. So um yeah, I mean it's I was I was thinking reductionistically. Uh but God sort of gently showed me that um that He's in charge, that He is sovereign. Right. So I think there's there's a real risk there, even for us as believers. To think reductionistically. But the biblical response to that is the Bible totally rejects reductionism, and it does it in just a very straightforward, matter-of-fact way by giving Multiple different causal explanations at different levels for the exact same event. Alright, so just two examples right here The first one is two levels, the two levels being human intent and God's will. So Peter, when he was speaking to So Peter takes one event, the crucifixion of Jesus, and he in the same sentence gives a divine cause, God predetermined by his plan. um and sovereign will and foreknowledge to crucify Jesus. And he gives a human cause. He says, you, the people of Jerusalem, nailed him to a cross. By the hands of godless men. That's almost even a third cause, right? The Romans did it. Um were the ones who nailed the nails in, but uh the people of Jerusalem were crying crucified him. So here Peter gives at least two levels of causal explanation for the exact same event. They happen simultaneously. Um, you know, reductionism says, oh, well it has to be one or the other, and it has to be the lowest level one. But the Bible says no, there's multiple causes for the same event. You know, deal with it, that kind of thing. So second example is um the uh when God parted the Red Sea Look what it says in Exodus 14, 21. The Lord swept the sea back by a strong east wind all night and turned the sea into dry. land. Okay, so uh here Moses uh writing Exodus is taking one event, the parting of the Red Sea and giving two different causal explanations that work together for it. He's saying the Lord did it, which explains why it happened right when Israel needed it to happen so they could escape Egypt. But also the Lord used the strong east wind to blow all night and push it, push the Red Sea back. So that's even two different explanations, one at the level of physics and the other at the level of God. Reductionism would say, that's impossible, you can't have those two together. But the Bible says no, they're both together. The physics doesn't explain uh why it happened uh you know right at the time that it did Okay, so the Bible any questions on on this? Yeah, ready. Um might not be directly related, but it's we already are predetermined our whole life Uh-huh. God already knows what we're gonna decide, what we're gonna do. If we even have any choice, we're gonna make the same action either way. the same choice. So that that is a great question, and I think this is another place where reductionist thinking gets us into a lot of trouble. We've been trained Like our entire education, our entire lives, to think reductionistically, to think if God's predetermined it, or if our physics uh you know and our physiology predetermined it then what does it matter what we choose? But that's reductionist thinking. That's not biblical thinking. Biblical thinking says, yes, God know knew from before the foundation of the world what you would do. He even planned it. And yet, you still have choice and you still are responsible for it, and God will still hold you responsible for the choices you make. So we I it's hard for me to explain how both of those things coexist, but it's absolutely the consistent teaching of scripture. that they both are true. And we have to get experienced and skilled at holding both of those things in our minds at one once. We have to we have to say, um, you know, yes, God uh God is sovereign. Um Um he chose me from before the foundation of the world. Uh and he prepared in advance good works for me to walk in them. But I also need to need to gird myself with strength, you know, and put on the full armor of God and stand firm against the schemes of the devil and be filled with the knowledge of God and walk in a manner pleasing to him You know, there are command there are truths about God's sovereignty and there are commands that He's given to us. And we need to be fully sort of committed to both of those both of those views. Uh yeah. I've kind of wrestled with like a really good analogy. I I this is not the best, but it's pretty good. I like it. Consider yourself going on a on a giant yellow from you know New York to England. You're going. You're on this giant yacht and that's God's that's God's hand. He's gonna take you on this boat and you're gonna end up on England. In the meantime or in between, you can run around, you can scrape if you need, but you're going to England. You get to make the choice. You want to sit there Or do you want to do foolish things? Ultimately you're gonna end up with it's a it's a weak one, but it's no it works. So there is responsibility of both are acting at the same time. Yeah. It sort of gets back to like why did God bother to create a universe at all? You know, like and it's and part of that is because his glory is shown when his will is accomplished synergistically working together with the will of a creature. You know, they it says in scripture that they uh do his will, they obey his word. Right. And now now after Satan took his one third of the angels uh the the rest of them are fixed in their obedience. They can't sin. They cannot disobey God. But it still glorifies God that they do his will Uh you know when Jesus prayed uh in in the Lord's Prayer, Father, our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. What did he mean? He meant, how is God's will done in heaven? It's done by the angels who are not free to disobey, but they but they gladly and willingly choose to obey the command of God. On earth, right now, God's will is done both in that way, like by us, we joyfully and gladly obey his will and go along with his will. But his will is also done grudgingly by unbelievers. Remember Joseph's brothers when they sold him into slavery? Right? Joseph said, What you intended for evil, God intended for good. So Joseph's brothers were trying to go this way. And God God like took their their intent and their action and bent it back the other way. So um when when Jesus tells us to pray Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. He's telling us to pray that our will would sort of cheerfully and joyfully run parallel to God's will. Right, because he's glorified by his actions working out through the will of his creatures. Yeah. I mean it's worth this is a really complicated and and deep question and it's worth spending a lot of thought on it, I think. not just right now in our discussion, but but as you go home, as you read scripture, look for this principle coming up and and uh see if you can pick it out and meditate on it. Ask ask questions about it. Um all right, so I can tell we're not going to get through scientific naturalism today, but this this is one of the two most important parts of the world. view that we just did, reductionism. The other most important part is something called scientism, which answers that question, how can we know about reality? Right, that this is the all-important category of epistemology. How do we know what we know? And scientism which is definitely the epistemology of scientific naturalism, is that science is the only true source of knowledge. Yeah. That's a bold thing. It is a bold claim. Some some endorse a little bit weaker claim, which is that science is the best source of knowledge. But in in practice there doesn't seem to be too much difference between the claims because science in in their understanding is supposed to expand to encourage So, you know, if it explains everything and it's the best source of knowledge, then it's really the only one. Right, right. Um so but in this view when when naturalists uh talk about science, they they kind of equivocate on the term And we all do, you know, it's not like it's not necessarily um you know a malicious equivocation. We all use uh words in in different ways. But there are two somewhat contradictory meanings of this term science The first meaning is is it's a method of investigation. Uh check out this quote from Mario Bunch. He's another philosopher and physicist proponent of the scientific naturalist world. view. He's talking about scientism, and he says the best way of exploring reality is to adopt the scientific method, which may be boiled down to the rule, check your guesses. Right, so this is uh this is his definition of science. He's he's uh saying the scientific method just means you have some guesses, some ideas about the world, but you gotta check them And depending on how how broadly you construe this, um, it could refer to pretty much anything. I mean, like when we study the Bible. Like when we go and read the Bible, we're we're checking our guesses against Scripture. Uh aren't we? You know, we have an idea of who God is and we have an idea of who we are. We read the Bible, it confronts our idea about who God is, and we say, Oh, okay, I have to change my idea about who God is. So Um, you know, he the the way he says it here, it's like so broad that it could encompass any that science could encompass anything. But I think what he means really is check your guesses against nature. Right, because for naturalists, nature is the only thing that exists. So, yeah, there's science as in the method of checking everything against uh experimental observation And then the other meaning of the term science that they use is the consensus of the scientific community. And follow the science. How many of you heard that phrase? particularly in the last year or two, right? I mean follow the science doesn't mean w when when people say follow the science, they're not saying uh you know set up an experiment and do the experiment yourself, they're saying consult uh the expert opinion and put it into practice. Trust the experts, right? Trust the consensus of the scientific community. And I'm not saying that's always wrong to do. I mean I uh there are certain things on which we do want to trust the scientific community. But I'm just using this to illustrate that the word science doesn't always just mean put your ideas to the test. It also means trust the experts in their presentation of the worldview. Uh okay, the other point about scientism, or the corollary I guess you might say, is that everything that's not science is superstition. Right. Every every other field of knowledge is either is either coming under the umbrella of science and adopting the methods and the language of science or it's being superseded and discarded uh in the the sort of dustbin of history. So other we can see this in how other academic disciplines strive like they're just desperate to be seen as a science. You've got these these disciplines like computer science, uh data science, which is my my discipline. Library science. You know, these are th they're like, look at me, I'm a scientist in my name. You've got to trust me. There's a lot of data science that is not actually an application of the scientific method. And I'm sure that's true for computer science and library science too. Um so the uh oh whoops, I got the wrong wrong handout. Hold on one second, guys. So that use of signs be an ideological flag basically they might tack on to to show that they are with the the majority? Yeah, pretty much. Yeah. That's the uh yeah that's I think the uh the goal is like yeah I'm I stand I stand with science. I'm part of the the the good club you know of of disciplines that can actually tell you real knowledge, uh real truth about reality. Here, let me go grab does anybody have the handouts, the stacking handouts? I'm gonna just grab uh well Yeah, I printed out another version of this uh last night and Oh, you know what? Yeah, maybe. I don't know. Uh I'm sorry. Well it's it's close enough. It's close enough. So Um yeah, I don't know what happened. So scientific naturalism, it does require several assumptions. Um And I'm going to skip over the ones that are assumptions for science generally, because we actually agree on those things. You know, biblical Christians agree with those those things that uh science I'm going to go on to point B. Assumptions of scientism and naturalism specifically. Okay, these are these are the ones that are problematic and illegitimate and and questionable at best. Um so scientism, in order to explain everything it has to assume that natural laws are uniform across space and time. You know, they they might allow an exception for if we see evidence to the contrary, but they assume this, right? They assume that uh in the distant past uh billions of years ago, or at the far corners of the universe, the the same natural laws, physical laws, apply as we measure here today uh in in on the earth. So that um that's an assumption and it's not really a legitimate assumption. In statistics we'd call that a gross extrapolation. which is generally seen as an irresponsible practice. So the second assumption that scientific naturalism and scientism has to make is that every aspect of reality can be explained in terms of natural laws. Not just trends, not just general patterns, but everything has to be explained through natural laws. There can be no miracles, there can be no um you know interruptions to the regularity of nature. And that's another illegitimate assumption. I mean they they don't really get that from science, they don't get that from anywhere except a desire to want to explain everything. Okay, third, the assumption that simple explanations are better or that is more true than complex ones. Uh this is sometimes uh conflated with something called Occam's razor. It's not really the same, it's kind of counter to the spirit of what Occam originally was intending. Uh that's not important. It's just that simple simplicity is uh there's no real justification for why that should be um associated with truth. They they don't really offer a basis on which to to say that uh that simple things are more likely to be true than other ones. They just assume it and and this is probably the most important tool that scientists use to judge to decide between competing scientific theory theories, right? Because in science you gather a a bunch of data, you you conduct some experiments and you have the observations and then begins the process of theory building. You have to come up with something that explains the evidence. And there is always, always, always multiple theories that can explain the data you have, no matter how much data you have. Uh no matter how precise your measurements, there are always multiple theories that could explain it. The scientific community uses this criterion more than any other, that simple explanations are better than complex ones to choose which theory to believe. Now there are good reasons in statistics for using simple theories for predicting future measurements. Generalization is is there is a a concept in statistics that says if your if your model is simple, you'll do a better job at predicting uh new measurements on things you haven't seen seen before. But that's talking about observable behavior, predictions of measurements, right? Scientific theories don't just say stuff about observable measurements, they say stuff about unobservable entities. They say stuff about the way things are. You know, like what an electron is. It's a probability cloud, or it's a wave. Or it's a particle, right? Uh or they say things about the distant past which we cannot measure at all. Like four billion years ago the earth cooled. Um so those things can't be tested by experiment. They can't be observed directly. And so when you're so Oaxman's razor, the the use of simple models doesn't guarantee anything about your accuracy on Unobservable uh unobservable predictions. Anyway, we're gonna that's that's a the really um sort of important and complex idea that we're going to cover a lot more when we do our deep dive on an on epistemology. But the risk here, the risk of scientism, even though we would all hopefully say we're not uh adherents of scientism, I think it has sometimes seeped into our thinking. Um and the risk is that you know as we are in this cultural bath of scient of scientism, that we will give more attention and credence to scientific claims than to God's word. Right? That's the risk for us is, you know, if science is seen to say something that's in in contradiction to the Bible, we'll be tempted to believe it or to try to, you know, sort of reinterpret the Bible so that it's so that it's not really saying, you know, w what what it is saying. So, biblical response is to make a distinction, a clear dividing line between science and scientism. Science on the one hand, that's good. That's a God-given tool. It's a God-given tool that helps us understand and control the observable behavior of nature. Again, it's all about observable behavior, right? Um that's what that's what science is good at. It's pr good at predicting things like the weather. Uh and that's what the technology that science produces is good at controlling, like the observable stuff that are Oh five minutes, thank you. Yeah. Um so but whatever a scientific theory might say about unobservable entities, uh like we talked about the distant past or the human soul, you know, psychology is supposedly the study of of the human soul, although most psychologists don't believe in a soul. Whatever a scientific theory might say about those unobservable entities cannot be tested And thus should not be trusted. We have to, when we're looking at scientific theories, we have to get really good at separating the predictions of observable stuff from the statements about unobservable stuff And saying those predictions can be right and accurate, but those unobservable statements can be completely wrong. And it happens a lot, and I'll and we'll give examples when we get to this in our deep dive. Okay, so there's science on the one hand, God-given tool, limited in what it can say. Scientism, by contrast, is just a false ideology. It's an overextension of science that rests on those faulty assumptions. above. I was supposed to have deleted that section above and copied it down here. Anyway, not not a big deal. So it rests on those three faulty assumptions uh and so really this overextension of science into something that attempts to explain everything is what we is what should not be trusted. Um okay so in conclusion I just want to leave you with the real clear statement. Science, guys, when you look at science and how it's portrayed in popular culture, remind yourself science can only tell us how nature be It cannot tell us what nature is, what it once was, or what it should be. Science can't tell us the essence of nature, it cannot tell us about the distant past, it cannot give us our values. Um this is I think just a you know deeply, deeply important point for especially us as believers to internalize And with that, I would like to open it up to questions. I think that's as far as we're going to get in the handout. So one might be other than reality could be an ample different thing. So I have this conversation with some They're talking about, you know, particularly sometimes say different dimensions and everything. I don't know if where we already can Uh-huh. Well, that's kind of on the other side of things. You know, there's we just talked about about scientism, which is very much like, oh, you know, reality is only nature on Yeah. On the complete other side of that, there's a lot of people who just like give free reign to their speculation and their feelings, right? And they say, I don't know I don't know if this I don't know if this person was was doing this or if this is even what you're talking about, but like were they saying like that they that based on their experience they feel like there's there's this other dimension out there? Or were they talking about break down like I didn't I didn't know how to go with that conversation. Yeah. I've never been smacked in my face with my Oh yeah, we're all different mentioned. Yeah. Well I think, you know, it we just we have to recognize that as like the opposite error. of of scientism is like you know trusting absolutely your own personal experience which first of all no one else has access to right like you know, you can't know what I'm feeling and I can't know what what your your experience of this supposed other dimension, right? Um but also it has to be interpreted. And like who among us is Is really competent to interpret our own experience on something like that. I think we just we have to recognize that like nature is not all there is. No, contra scientific naturalism. But we also have to say, like, we do not have the ability to just feel out what reality is either. We can't know reality apart from the creator revealing it to us. Okay. Does that make sense? Yeah, that makes sense. Okay. So let's just break it down like that. Yeah, yeah, I would just break it down like that. I mean, you know, be gentle of course. Like don't be like Definitely like man, your experience is totally bogus. Like what's that? Uh-huh. Yeah, gentleness. Gentleness is gentleness and respect is what should characterize us. Um yeah, I've read uh one of his books. I forget exact I forget which one it was, but yeah, I think um and I I think I've seen a movie that was made based on his uh personal testimony. Uh and I think he has the right um he you know, he draws the right conclusion I uh so I don't know I'm not like fully versed in everything he says, so I don't want to give like a complete endorsement of of uh of everything, but Um but yeah, I mean he he brings together a lot of good evidence. Well, so I don't want to recommend his name if he wasn't good, but um he had And uh I think in one of his books he does talk about the different dis like the aspect of different dimensions and um what people think and he actually At it somewhat mathematically, if I remember trying to show does that even work to hold that idea and The answer was no, but um but he actually explained through how he got to that conclusion, so that could be Yeah, that could be good. Yeah, I think like being real clear about definitions of terms. terms is also important. Um you know like if you're talking in a conversation about um and and the word dimensions comes up Uh that term can have very different meanings depending depending on who's saying it. Somebody who's who's very sort of new agey and trust their experience a lot might think of a dimension as like a different world, right? Or a different you know like a world populated by, I don't know, spiritual beings or whatever what's that? I Oh, okay. Yeah. You said a different world, I'm sorry. Oh a different world, yeah. Um yeah, a different world populated by other beings. But another a different person, like a mathematician or a scientist, might say the word dimension and they're thinking of something mathematical, right? Like like another axis on a graph. So Yeah, and and it's true that in in um cosmology there is a lot of speculation that there might be other mathematical dimensions. to our universe. But again, those are all completely speculative. None of those are observable or measurable. But just be aware that, you know, when you talk to somebody, they could mean different things, depending on I heard it said too, like that the idea of heaven is more a a war, so it This was a science that was talking about the getting the mentality that you want to be rewarded, which is a motivation for behavior. And um Um it was a clip of someone speaking that Archangel showed us and it sounded offensive, but it was like he was making fun of Christians who believe that heaven is chasing all ultimate reward that helps them get through life because um otherwise they wouldn't be able to handle it. Uh-huh. Yeah, you hear that a lot too. You know, religion is a crutch or y you have to have this this cosmic reward structure that that they think is really silly um yeah to get through life. And um I think the first the first thing to recognize is that Uh religion is not just a crush. And when I say religion I mean biblical Christianity. It's not just a crush. It's I was gonna say a life support system, but it's not even that. We're dead. You know, we're dead in our sins. We're dead in our transgressions before Christ makes us alive again. So it's not like the response to that one is almost to even double down and go even more extreme on it and say like, you know, it's not just that the reward of heaven gets us through life. It's that the power of God is necessary for us to even live in a way that's pleasing to Him. Right. It's necessary for us to even want to please him. Um yeah, I think uh we're gonna cover that a little bit more next time. And when we get through the rest of the worldview and we get to the ethics and morality section, which is the last question. But um yeah. Jeff? Um so usually that that perspective is is Christians are weakening. Uh-huh. That's where that's where it's aimed. And I would say, well, let's look back at the first Christians. When they decided to believe they were stoned, ostracized, killed, thrown into prison, thrown out of their community. I believe in evolution. Mm-hmm. I think it's the exact opposite. Instead of a crutch, it's you're on your own. So I think it takes stronger person to appreciate than uh than somebody's not. Yeah. Well you know, because um most most atheists and scientific naturalists, they're they're looking for a reward, but they're looking for it from this life. from the world. Right? They you know, it's it's sort of it's sort of a luxury to be an atheist, to say, oh, you know, I don't need I don't need God, I don't need anything. Oh It's it's maybe an overgeneralization, but it's like only rich people can be atheists. Only only in Western prosperous democracies does atheism Because that's where people feel like they can be self-sufficient. They don't need God. They don't need His help. They don't need a reward from Him. Whatever. And so, yeah, what you're saying, Jeff, is i it's true. It's like humanly speaking, um we're on our own uh you know what we we can't count on rewards in this life. And when and when we can't, yeah, it is it is the reward of God that sustains us. Um but that's that's not for the faint hearted. It's not for um it takes strength. It takes it takes strength, the strength of God made perfect in our weakness. Um all right, I think let's go let's go uh I would like to take some prayer requests