All right, well we'll figure that out. Um so um I just want to start off by saying so um You know, last time we we started introducing the worldview one of the competing worldviews that uh kind of sets itself itself up against the knowledge of God. And that worldview we titled Scientific Naturalism Uh and as a reminder, this this worldview um you know kind of dominates in academic science. Uh it's the worldview um that most atheists would subscribe to. And I I say that um You know, uh just as a reminder, I I had a lot of atheist friends growing up. Like atheists were in general kind of my best friends in in high school and in college. Uh for some reason I I get along really well uh with them and So I I feel like I have some some personal experience with worldview with this worldview and with people who who subscribe to it. That's not really true of the next couple of worldviews that we're going to go over uh in subsequent weeks. Um so this one in a way is is a little bit easier for me to teach on. Uh but it's harder in a way too because um you know every time I teach on it I think about my friends who um you know, who believe these these doctrines and uh you know who who reject the word of God and it's sad to me But last time we talked about the first two questions that this worldview answers. Remember, we're going through eight, a series of eight questions that all worldviews answer. And showing we showed the biblical answer for those eight questions, and now we're doing the the uh scientific naturalist answer for those eight questions with a little bit of a biblical response to those answers. And so the first two, in in the first one, what is the ultimate reality? We talked about this concept of a reductionism Who can who can remind us of what reductionism means? Physics. Physics. Everything is physics. Yep. There is only one explanation for every event, and it boils down to physics. That is what reductionism claims. And it's a really prevalent attitude in our society, and I argued that you know a lot of us have have even internalized it to some degree, even when we think about God and his sovereignty. You know, we're either we're often either fatalistic, like, oh God's in control, therefore I don't need to do anything, or we're deterministic, like, oh, it's all up to me. Um you know, I I'm responsible for converting my friend or for uh my own sanctification. God has uh has placed that on me and I gotta do it. But no, it's we saw last time that the Bible affirms two levels or even multiple levels of causal explanation for the same event. Right? We are responsible for our sanctification, but God gives the power and is working in us to produce that sanctification. And then for that second question, how do we know about ultimate reality, or how do we know anything about reality, we talked about the doctrine of scientism, which is another pillar of this scientific naturalist worldview. Who can remind us what scientism means only Yes. Science is the only true source of knowledge. That's the claim of scientism. Scientism is distinct from science, right? Science is a a a good uh tool that humanity can use to understand the way nature behaves. Scientism is a totalizing philosophy that says that adopts some very illegitimate assumptions, assumptions like natural laws are uniform across space and time. um or that every event, uh even singular historical events, uh has a must have a naturalistic explanation And so by adopting those kind of flawed assumptions, it uh sort of overextends itself into these realms that science can't legitimately speak of. Uh things like the distant past or the nature of humanity. And we concluded with science can only tell us how nature behaves, not what it is, what it was, or what it should be. Science can't supply our values or our understanding of who we are. And this, I just wanted to tell a story that that sort of illustrates an aspect of this So I mentioned you know I have I had a lot of uh friends who were atheists growing up. In college, one of my good friends um was uh an atheist and we would get into these kind of philosophical discussions all the time Uh one summer you know school was out but I I was on a vacation near his hometown, so I like borrowed a car and went down and hang out with him. And we were sitting out on a grassy hill at nighttime looking up at the stars and just You know, just talking. And like it was an amazing sight. All the stars were out and you could see the Milky Way and everything like that. And it was like, oh, you know, what a great setting for Evangelism. What a great setting for a conversation about the gospel. But he started it. He said, Bill, you know, when you look at those stars, what what do you think? What comes to mind? And I was like, oh, perfect opening. And I was thinking like of Psalm eight, you know, Psalm eight, uh, when David looks up at the stars and he says, When I consider the work of your hands, uh the moon and the stars which you have made, what is man that you are mindful of him, the Son of Man that you take notice of him? And so I said something like, um, well, I see God's handiwork and And um, you know, I see his majesty displayed in the stars, and uh, you know, I I'm humbled by that. And he he turned to me and he said something like I can't remember the exact words, but he said And I was I was just shocked. I was like, what does that mean? Why would he say that? You know, I was speechless. I didn't know how to how to respond. And it wasn't until I started thinking through really in detail this scientific naturalist worldview that I realized where he was coming from. He's coming from this attitude that we are we are on our own in the universe, and nature is all there is, everything is physics. And science is the only valid form of knowledge. So our solemn duty and responsibility is to figure out what all this stuff is around us and how it got there. And the only thing, the only function that he could see in my worldview for God was to be a placeholder for my ignorance Right. So when he asked that question, he wasn't asking, you know, what do you feel when you look at the stars? He was he was asking, where do you think they come from? And when I s when I said something about God, he was like, Oh, you're just you know No, that's just a cop out because you don't understand you don't understand astronomy and you don't want to do the work. And I was like, I what I wish I would have said, I didn't know this at the time to say this, but what I wish I would have said was, Dan, I care far more when I look at those stars about what they mean and why they are there than what they're made of and how they got there. Right. And what you know the the uh the answer to why are those stars there and what do they mean cannot come from science. Science is not equipped to answer those questions for us. For that you have to go to the Creator. You have to receive revelation from the one who made them. Um so it's not a cop out to say that um that these stars are God's handiwork and they illustrate God's handiwork. work. You know, we can we can still do science to figure out what they're made of. I would take issue with the idea that we can use science to figure out how they got there because each of those stars You know, when it uh like if you if you look at one star, uh Beetlejuice, right? When that star came into being, that was a singular event that will never happen again. You know, we can't we can't replay that experiment. Uh we can't go back in time and observe it. So we actually will never know how that star came to be unless somebody tells us And God has told us that He made those stars. He spoke them into existence. Um so just you know a story illustrating kind of the clash of worldviews that that I really wasn't aware of at the time. You know. I knew I knew the gospel. I knew I knew he needed to hear the gospel, but I didn't know I didn't know about reductionism. I didn't know about scientism I didn't know where he was coming from Uh anyway, so uh I just want you guys as you are uh not only as you're in class here listening and going over this material with me. But as you go through life, I want you to be on the lookout for where you notice the influences of this worldview, of the worldviews that we're talking about. Right. So has anybody actually noticed this the past couple of weeks uh any any of the influence of scientific naturalism, either in like what you read um online or what your friends have said or Uh and if nobody has anything right now, we can I'll let you think about it. Uh we'll come back to it at the end. Yes. Oh sound really uh lung both but like uh having heard of it, but on the way here, me and my brother were talking we were listening to a um a sermon about uh how like how it evolu And how um national selection doesn't really work either. Yeah, yeah, and we'll talk a little bit about that today and much more about that when we do our our deep dive on origins. But yeah, I mean I think uh the most prominent voice of this worldview is um is evolution and uh basically historical science. But yeah, think about that. And you know, if anyone thinks about anything uh Let it bring it up at the end. Okay, so let's move on to part D, question three. Where did we and everything come from? So speaking of origins, right? I'm sorry you don't have D on your uh on your sheet. It's um it's just a couple of a couple of bullets before we get to the one I I printed off for you So UFD. Oh, you're from last time. Great. So where did we and everything come from? Well, this worldview says that we all came from unguided natural processes. That's the main point. Right, is that everything is the result of natural processes that were not guided by a creator or a designer or a sustainer. So in in the discipline of cosmology, they have uh the scientific community has sort of uh coalesced around the Big Bang as the extra explanation for the origin of the universe. In geology, the scientific consensus maintains that the earth formed over billions of years, about four four billion years or so. and and is that's intertwined with the history of life. And and in the history of life, the discipline of evolutionary biology claims that life, including humans, developed incrementally over millions of years. And since evolution is kind of the most prominent and vocal of these three um sort of origins stories I want to break that down a little bit more into two pillars. Evolutionary theory has two pillars that it's founded on. Pillar number one is universal common descent. This is the idea that life is like a tree, right? It started with one single-cell ancestor that is the ancestor of all living things. and then slowly started to branch off into different species, and then finally today uh we we end up with all the leaves, all the all the different creatures that we see. around. And that's uh that is the picture that evolutionary theory presents of the development of life. And it all rests on this tree-like structure rooted in a common ancestor. And then second pillar is that the way that tree branched and developed is by natural selection acting on inherited genetic variations. Uh you know, now when Darwin proposed this theory, he didn't know anything about genetics, but the modern Neo-Darwinian picture of evolutionary theory uh holds that genetic variation is uh what natural selection acts on To produce all this diversity of species. Okay, so those are the two pillars of evolutionary theory. Universal common descent and natural selection acting on genetic variation. And so that's just a very, very brief overview of what this worldview says about origins. You know, again, in several weeks when we come back to the question of origins, we're going to talk a lot more in detail about this. But we need to just very quickly give the biblical response to this. Well first we need to talk about the risk. of uh that this that this worldview and and what it says about origins poses to us as as believers, as Christians So the risk is that because this narrative is so prevalent in our society and because it's treated as settled facts, that the risk is that we will in order to gain social acceptance trade away the authority of God and the authority of his word on the subject of origins in order to sort of get along, go along and get along with the world. I've got a quote here that maybe half of it made it onto your uh your your handout. But it's from a professor at Yale. uh who's who's I don't think he's a Christian. He's certainly not uh you know a biblical creationist. But he says uh he has observed that accepting Darwinism certifies that you are devoutly Orthodox in your Scientific views, which in turn is an essential first step towards being taken seriously in any part of modern intellectual life. Darwinism is no longer just a scientific theory, but the basis of a worldview And that's really how it's treated. It's treated as you know, your acceptance of evolutionary theory is treated as a token that you are a sane person you know, worthy of being being trusted in intellectual life. Uh so there's a lot of pressure in the world on uh around this issue. And the biblical response, I would argue, uh to this to this statement of the scientific naturalist worldview on origins is that science is not really a competent tool for investigating the distant past. That's not what science is equipped to do. Remember, science shows us how nature behaves, not what it is or what it once was or what it should be. And that's because the assumptions behind origin science like this are illegitimate Right. For example, we uh you know in in all these origin sciences uh they they assume that processes and conditions that we measure today in a laboratory or in the field uh are the same as they were uh several hundred million years ago or even billions of years ago. And uh so we have no way of testing that assumption. It's It's a gross extrapolation of about six or seven orders of magnitude away from any data that we're actually able to measure, which You know, as a as a data scientist now, as a statistician, uh no none of my colleagues would support an extrapolation like that. Every one of them would consider that completely irresponsible. And yet it it flies unquestioned in uh uh in these origin sciences. Um and so uh but not only are the assumptions of these of these historical sciences illegitimate, their resulting explanations don't even really fit the evidence. So these theories represent sort of the best guess of the scientific naturalist worldview as to how things happen. But even those best guesses are not very good. just to take evolution. So we talked about those two pillars. So that first pillar of universal common descent. The evolutionary theory makes the claim that life and and the way species are related to each other should have a tree structure. Right. And it should only have one tree structure because that one tree structure supposedly represents the history of how life develops over over the millions of years. But if you take the physical characteristics of organisms, like their body plan or um or like hand shape for those organisms that have hands And you look at and do comparative anatomy and try to reconstruct the tree, you get different trees if you look at different pieces of anatomy, different, different phenotypic features. And then if you do if you do the same thing with genetics, if you take the genomes, we're now able to sequence entire genomes of multiple organisms within a species. If you do that genetic study and try to reconstruct the tree by comparing the genomes of different organisms, you get still different trees, you know. different trees within uh different genetic reconstructions and then the different trees from genetic versus uh versus outward characteristic reconstructions of the trees So there's no consistent tree of life that you can derive from the characteristics of species today. So that that assumption, or I mean that explanation, that pillar of evolutionary theory doesn't fit the evidence. And then the second pillar is that natural selection acting on inherited genetic mutation has the power to produce all this diversity of species, that's that second pillar, that doesn't fit with the evidence either. Uh there's there's a scientist uh named Douglas Axe who has done a lot of experiments in the lab uh synthesizing uh different proteins and trying to get at what what is required for evolution to be able to produce the minimal change necessary for new functions. So you guys know proteins are are kind of the machinery of the cell, right? They they kind of do everything. They're they're uh even some proteins are structural and hold hold the cell up, but a lot of Enzymes a lot of proteins catalyze chemical reactions. They do all the jobs in the cell. And proteins are these exquisite molecules that have this intricate 3D structure that's based on folds Right, so the uh the important thing about proteins is that in order to gain a new function, a protein has to be in a new fold. So so uh Douglas Axe looked at uh what does it take to generate a new protein fold and how you know how long would that take if Uh if you assume like every organism on Earth is able to uh mute you know, is undergoing mutations and it's uh uh in its DNA, how long would it be before a useful protein fold arises? And he found that it was many orders of magnitude longer than the supposed age of the universe before you get even one new functional protein fold. Right, so this this mechanism of natural selection acting on genetic mutation completely lacks the power to explain all of the uh the diversity of function that we see. in modern animal life, you know? So even these best guesses of uh of the scientific community about our origins do not they're not really good guesses. They don't fit the evidence. But it's kind of the only thing that it's the only lamppost that the that the scientific naturalist worldview can stand under. So You know, if you ask science to supply you an answer to a question that it's not designed to answer, it'll still give you something, but it's not going to be tested, it's not going to be accurate. But it's the only thing we've got. So, uh any questions there? I know that was a whole lot of ground to cover in one and we're just doing it in in brief overview. Like I said, we're going to get get into it much more deeply later. But questions, happy to answer. Uh any questions you have right now. Okay. Well let's move on. So so what does uh this worldview say about our purpose? This is now we're finally we're getting to the part that's on your hand. Well, this worldview, scientific naturalism, it says that we are an accident, fundamentally. And that our only hope is in ourselves. So consider this quote from Carl Sagan. We saw him last time. He's the astronomer who and also sort of preeminent spokesman of this worldview. So he wrote a book called Pale Blue Dots, and he wrote this after um he had sort of convinced NASA to take a particular photo with uh the Voyager 1 space. spacecraft. Voyager one was the first spacecraft to leave our solar system. And he as it was kind of passing I forget where it was. It must not have left yet. But as it was getting way out in the solar system, Carl Sagan said to NASA, you know, turn the thing around, take a picture of Earth, of tiny pale blue dot Earth in the distance. And you should Google it sometime 'cause it's kinda it's a beautiful photo. Um but you see this huge picture and and like rings of of sunlight uh and then there's like one pixel that's a little bluer than all the others and and that's the Earth. Right. And he was convinced that if he could get NASA to take this picture and publish it and show it to everyone, he was convinced that this would make a great apologetic for the scientific naturalist worldview. That this would You know, turn people into atheists. And here's here's sort of the money quote that he that he puts behind this photo. Our posturings, our imagined self-importance The delusion that we have some privileged position in the universe are challenged by this point of pale light, which he's talking about Earth in the photo. In our obscurity, in all this vastness, there is no hint that help will come from elsewhere to save us from ourselves. So this is uh you know, this is what that that worldview proclaims. We we are here by accident. uh we are not important, uh no help is coming from beyond uh to to save us from ourselves. And so according to this world view, our purpose is to continually embrace reason and science to a greater degree so that we have a chance to achieve real progress. And it see this worldview sees religion and in particular biblical Christianity as as the enemy, uh as a huge threat to that, because religion is built not on science but on superstition, so so they Say, uh and that threatens to drag us back into the darkness, into the dark ages. Um, you know, really this is uh This is a a strident attack on on biblical religion, uh, this this statement of this worldview. And At the risk, I think, is that uh you know if we if we don't read this, if we don't view these kind of things with discernment Uh we tend to get pulled into that kind of thinking, like, oh yeah, the space is really vast and we're very insignificant Um, you know, we tend to minimize God's sovereignty or and or his love, right? If if space is so vast, how can how can God manage it all. Um or you know, how could God even care about us? Um but Really, this is a question of how does one interpret the evidence? You know, how does one interpret a photo like that with Earth as a pale? Blue dot. Carl Sagan interprets it in a particular way, but his interpretation is wrong. There was another man who beat him to the punch. By, you know, thousand, two thousand years, actually maybe three thousand years, uh, King David, when he wrote Psalm 8, he was looking at the same thing. He said, When I consider your heavens, the work of your fingers, the moon and the stars which you have set in place, what is man that you think of him, and a son of man that you are concerned about? him. So, you know, we're us modern people with with uh spacecraft and telescopes, we're not the first people to notice, to realize that the Earth is small in relation to the universe. That's not a new insight. I mean Carl Sagan treats it like it is, like it's going to be this earth-shattering thing that that uh you know wakes people up out of religion, but it's not really new. King David knew it. He's saying He's saying, When I consider all this vastness of what you made, what am I? Who are we that you would take notice of us? But look at what he goes on to say. translations have. And you crown him with glory and majesty. Now how does David know that? Yes. Revelation. Yeah, he knows it from Revelation. He has the law of of Moses. He has the Torah. He is able to read the account of how God made us and why God made us and what God made us for. So he knows that God has has given man actually a very privileged position. in creation. Not because we deserve it, right? Not because we're intrinsically worthy uh or have um you know, some qualities that that God is attracted to and needs to serve. But because he is a freely given God, he's a generous God, he um You know, just like he loves us when we're still sinners and works to make us good, uh He also uh chooses us when we are insignificant. and chooses to give us a privileged position that we don't deserve in the cosmos. So I think this is a great example of two different people looking at the same evidence And coming up with totally opposite conclusions on the basis of their worldview. David had a biblical worldview and came to this conclusion. Carl Sagan has an atheistic worldview and comes to a very different conclusion. What both in song means? Uh it's verses three to five. The whole psalm was great. Five stars would recommend. Um All right, yeah, let's let's go on to what this worldview says about humanity's problems Alright, so first, what's the cause of our problems? Well the scientific naturalist worldview says that ignorance is the cause of our problems, ignorance of science. Uh things like irrationality, backwardness, superstition These things cause us, so it goes so the saying go the the the worldview says to act in short-sighted ways, uh, and it also causes us to lack the resources to meet our needs because you know we haven't focused enough on technological development. So, you know, it's while it is true that ignorance is a bad thing, Um really, our our real problem is not ignorance of science or ignorance of nature, it's ignorance and hostility towards God. Right, that's that's the biblical response to this diagnosis. It's the diagnosis of ignorance and irrationality and backwardness doesn't really get to the heart of our problem. It doesn't really explain why uh pain and suffering exists in the world, why evil exists. Um it doesn't explain intentional evil. You know, if people do things uh do evil things even when they have full knowledge of what they're doing, uh and and they're not ignorant of a any of the facts. So, you know, but but still, this worldview does focus on ignorance of science as the cause of our problems. And then just moving on quickly to what is the solution to our problems, under this worldview, it is Scientific education and research and technological development really is the solution. So the thinking is that as as more people start thinking rationally, science or society will improve. And as we do more science and and gain the ability to develop more technology, we'll have better tools, we'll be able to bring our circumstances more under control and meet human needs better. And that is what's going to solve our problem. Uh so again, you know, this worldview is seeing the problem as external, not really internal. I mean maybe there's a little bit of internal component to it in in the ignorance, but it doesn't penetrate to our will, our heart. It's saying that as long as you meet people's needs and give them education the their innate goodness will cause society to be good. That that will solve our problems. That's that's what this worldview is saying. And you know, I we when we state it out loud like that, we as Christians who know the Bible, we know that that we have sin and we know we can say and affirm with our mouths that our biggest problem is sin and that the human heart is intrinsically not good. But I think that uh even though we can affirm those things with our mouth, we risk internalizing this view of humanity's problem in our thinking and in our in our sort of unexamined subconscious daily activities. We bec I say this because it's very tempting for us to place our hope in science and technology um or to uncritically associate science with progress. Right? Who among us, when we get sick um, you know, or we uh we have some really bad health issue. Like our our first I don't know about you, but often my first uh instinct is to say, well, is there some medicine that I can take? Is there some surgical procedure that I should undergo? You know, really our first instinct should be to pray and then do the medical interventions seeking wisdom from the Lord. But I think reflexively we often uh you know when our health is threatened or when our comfort is threatened, we look to, oh, what technology can I use You know, what uh what feature of modern society can I use to increase my comfort or improve my health? So I think I think there's a risk here that we will even if we don't outwardly agree with this worldview that we'll internalize it. And that will lead us away from doing God's will. So what's the biblical response here? Well, for one thing Um you know, if you look at what scripture says about knowledge, knowledge without love does not improve anybody, right? Knowledge makes one conceited, but love edifies people So giving people raw knowledge of of scientific explanations for nature or of you know techniques for better hygiene or whatever, like those are good things, but knowledge Uh divorce from love is is just going to make people conceited. It's not going to edify anyone or change anyone's heart. To that point, you know, science, whether whether education educating people or producing better technology, that can't improve the human heart. Right. It merely amplifies our ability to do good or evil. And so yeah, science has uh science and technological development have brought us a lot of good things, right? like vaccines uh are the product of uh scientific research and that's a good thing that saved many lives. Um But they've also brought us the ability to kill millions of people with a single nuclear explosion. Right? It's it's science has brought us tools that amplify our ability to do either good or evil. It has not changed the propensity of the human heart. The only thing what is the only thing that can change the human heart? God, yes, and how does he do that? Through his word. Through his word, yeah. Yeah, through his word. That's how that's how he changes people's hearts. It's through the word preached. uh through people coming to believe and obey his word and then he and then God working with his power, his resurrection power to change somebody's heart. And and make them into a new creation in Christ. Uh Hong, did you have a question? Yeah, so I I was thinking our generation had taken the Bible out school So we teach the children knowledge without wisdom. Uh-huh. So now we can teach them how to make a bomb. They make a bomb, but it's not for good they will harm people. Right. Knowledge without wisdom. Yeah. Knowledge without wisdom is really dangerous. Yeah. Yeah, you learn a lot of knowledge, you know how to do this, you know how to you know take the car apart and put together, you know, how steal a car, you know. It's you put knowledge into things that gratify your heart. Yeah. Yeah, I mean I just think about you know raising children, uh especially my boys. You know, if if God I I'm so glad that God did not see fit to give a male toddler the strength of a full grown man. Because like imagine all the harm that that kid could do. It's uh you know, but as it is, like when they throw a tantrum, uh, we can easily restrain them and it's just cute. But um yeah, it's it it's kind of similar to that. Like giving Giving knowledge to a human who has no wisdom is is like giving the strength of a weightlifter to a toddler. Um yeah. So, question seven, where are we going? So this worldview it has it has a lot to say about our future. So individually, according to scientific naturalism Death is the end of everyone's existence. You live, you die, you disappear. That's the way it is. You get one life, that's it. But as a society, there's more to be said from this worldview about uh where we could go We basic, you know, in this worldview you find disagreement about what trajectory we're headed on, but there's generally four outcomes that are discussed. Outcome number one, we could allow our ignorance to destroy us. This is kind of the most talked about one. This was what Carl Sagan, incidentally, was concerned about. about when he wrote Pale Blue Dot. He was uh looking at uh uh at the prospect of global nuclear war and was saying um you know we run the risk of annihilating ourselves as a species uh by um you know getting involved in in global nuclear war. Uh or you know climate change, some some people speak of climate change in this category of um of like existential threats to to the human species. And climate change is is a big problem, don't get me wrong. But but we as as Christians don't build our eschatology around it. We'll talk more about that later. So possible outcome number two, we will be destroyed by something else besides ourselves. Right, maybe we'll create a malevolent AI by accident that will kill us all. Or there will be you know an asteroid that comes along and hits the earth and extinguishes These are these are things that that they really worry about in this worldview. You know, outcome number three, not many people would support this, but it's I've heard it discussed before. Benevolent beings will save us by giving us greater science and technology. Like maybe we'll create a benevolent AI that will do what we can't do and make the kind of scientific progress that will actually save us. Uh or aliens, you know, technologically advanced aliens will one day show up and find us. And because they have such advanced technology, they must be good. So they'll give it to us and help us solve all our problems Or finally, the fourth outcome, which is what most of the proponents of this worldview hope for, is that we will save ourselves. For example, by developing advanced spaceflight so that we can colonize other planets and get out of the risk of that planet killing asteroids. Or uh develop the technology to meet all of our needs and build a utopia. It's kind of the Star Trek future. It's a very palpable vision for people in this worldview. But whatever of these outcomes, this worldview does maintain that the universe will keep going long after the human species is gone. And it won't care that we're gone. Um so there is a focus in this worldview on looking at the long time horizon, right? The next several thousand years or tens of thousands of years of the human species or the next uh you know several million years of the development of the solar system. Uh there is Th this is distinctly opposed to the biblical view of the future, which is that Christ is coming soon, right? That we are in the last hour. That's what that's how the New Testament authors speak of our position right now in the church age Um so there's a huge difference here and if we pay too much attention to the worldview of scientific naturalism and the futures that they they discuss, we might get lulled into serving the world's priorities and the world's timescales rather than God's priorities and what he wants us to be doing right now So just very briefly, I'd say the biblical response to this is that these predicted outcomes for the human species overestimate our power over our own destiny. Right. We don't have the power to um save ourselves or even to destroy ourselves. Right? That that's not going to happen. We know that from from scripture. God is going to come back. He is going to judge the world and renew the heavens and the earth. So we underestimate God's power over us and nature, and we underestimate what God's going to do. So be aware of this because I think this comes up more than uh more than real more than we realize. Uh any questions about this section? Is um the death of Anna McDistan also um also uh point to the fact that we're not accountable or responsible for anything that we do there is no consequences for our behavior or our um the the damage that we do or Mm-hmm. Anything that we do. They take the responsibility off us. And we live one life, we live it, and we die. So my my friends who are atheists would would bristle at that suggestion. Um but I think that It is true that it does remove some of the accountability for or a lot of the accountability for our actions, especially for the actions of the powerful. I mean, you know, the average the average citizen um of America, even even if he's an atheist, is the government's gonna hold him accountable for his actions. He's not gonna go kill somebody because he's he would go to jail. Um but if you talk about somebody like Stalin or Mao You know, these these were atheists who were total uh totalitarian leaders of large countries. And they did not have the accountability of any earthly institution on them and that led to actions that killed tens of millions of people. Right? Stalin sent somewhere around 60 million of Russians to deaf camps and Mao in his Cultural Revolution killed uh somewhere around two or three million Chinese people. Uh and and you know they they justified this. Uh they You can read their writings. Um, nobody was there to hold them to account. They didn't believe that they would be accountable to God after they were So yeah, I think there is an argument to be made that removing that accountability to God does have disastrous consequences, especially for the powerful. But that brings us to the last one, the question about morality and ethics. Under this worldview, what should our goals be and how should we accomplish them? Well, this worldview is fundamentally humanist. And by that I mean humanism means advancing human knowledge and meeting human needs using human resources. Right? Remember, we're all on our own. There's no help coming from outside. So we've got to use our resources and our knowledge. And the best thing that we can do with those resources is to meet human physical needs. needs. This was the part of the worldview that I had absorbed unconsciously in high school and in college that prompted me to go to grad school to be a scientist and save the world. if you remember the story that I told a few weeks ago. So let me just say something about uh about morality, right? Th the the tricky part about morality, about uh defining a moral system is not about deciding whether something is good or evil. We can all largely agree on what is good. We can all agree that meeting human physical needs is good Christians agree on that, atheists agree on that. But the tricky part about morality is deciding what's important. What are the priorities? Right. Your priorities is what makes the difference between a biblical Christian and a secular humanist. A secular humanist prioritizes the meeting of human physical needs above everything else A biblical Christian says, yeah, it's good to meet physical needs, but there is a more important goal there. What's the most important goal for us as biblical Christians? Yes. Glorifying God. And how do we do that? Pursu pursuing holiday Uh yeah, pursuing holiness is one way that we glorify God. I'm thinking of a particular verse in Matthew uh when when Jesus uh was giving the Sermon on the Mount, he said, Seek first what? The kingdom of God and his righteousness. There's the pursuing holiness part, right? So that's our that's our number one goal is to seek first the kingdom of God. Which in this age means the church. Like that is synonymous with the kingdom of God today. So spreading the gospel, um drawing people in, inviting people into God's kingdom, pursuing his righteousness That means sanctification, building the church up, building each other up into the image of Christ. That's our number one goal. And meeting human needs is secondary to that. Anyway, but so that just that relative prioritization of the thing that we both agree is good is what makes uh such a huge difference between the worldviews. I want you guys to understand that. Because that's a way that I think a lot of Christians are led astray from God's priorities and doing God's will, is by saying, yeah, it is really good. It you know it is a good thing to meet human needs. um uh you know or to to work for a just society. And then they make that the biggest thing, the most important thing. So when we take a good thing and we make it the most important thing, what have we done? We've made an idol. Okay. Uh just to wrap this up on this section here Um they have so uh most secular or most sorry, most scientific naturalists are humanists in their morality, but they have trouble uh, in my opinion, grounding their morality in something that that really justifies it. So where do these moral imperatives come from? Why do we serve human needs? Well Uh and and and what shape does that take? Uh some say that morality is enlightened self-interest, right? They say, well, we all want what we want. Um and it's just that if we the more we know about the structure of reality, the more we pursue those self-interests in moral ways. So So the moral project for for these people is showing that what we typically think of as moral duties, like not lying and not stealing and not killing are actually uh consistent with the long-term um you know survival of the species or or flourishing of of humanity. uh sort of enlightened self-interest is the phrase for that. So others say morality is is just a useful social convention Sort of like driving on the right-hand side of the road. So they acknowledge that that's arbitrary. They say, you know, it's arbitrary for us to drive on the right, other countries drive on the left, but it's important for us to all follow the same convention. and otherwise you know we got cars crashing into each other. So you know we're not going to go into all the implications of that, just laying these out there for you guys to consider where these people are coming from. The third sort of line of reasoning in scientific naturalism for grounding morality is that science can supply our values. And this is the really prevalent and the really dangerous one. The reasoning is that we can use science to investigate nature and find out what is good and what we should be doing. This was the attitude that underlay a group of biologists in the 1930s in Germany. primarily, who got together and formulated the doctrine of social Darwinism. Who's heard of social Darwinism? Yeah, social Darwinism is the idea that because nature promotes the survival of the fittest organisms that we should we should, should, there's that word, take that principle of survival of the fittest and apply it to entire human uh communities and races and nations And we should identify the weak races and get rid of them, and identify the strong fit races and ensure their their survival. And that was the basis of the Nazi policy of concentration camps. Uh you know, they took they took the Jews, they took um the disabled, uh, they took um gay people and they put them in concentration camps in order to purify uh the species, purify the race, and promote survival of the fittest. That was all rooted in social Darwinism. in an attempt to use science to define our morality. And the problem there, of course, is that science doesn't show us how what ought to be. You can't get ought from is. Ironically, it was David Hume, one of the pioneers of the scientific naturalist worldview, that argued that and his philosophy. But you can't look at nature and say, ah, this is the way everything should be. Science is not going to tell you whether the pattern you see in nature is something uh good to protect and enshrine or whether it's something uh that should be corrected and uh and equalize. Now of course today you know modern scientists are are repulsed by social Darwinism Uh and they would say, no, y uh uh j humans' genetic diversity is not a liability, it's our greatest treasure. But they're not saying that because of their science. You know, they didn't learn that by doing more experiments. They're they're taking their value system And they're importing it into their science. So we have to be really careful about thinking that science can supply our values. Alright, because then we end up replacing God's standards with the world's standards, and we end up trying to please man instead of trying to please God. Um so I'll just finish with this with this verse. See to it that no one takes you captive through philosophy and empty deception, according to the tradition of men, according to the elementary principle. So that is our that is our charge. That is our charge from the New Testament when we're dealing with other worldviews that set themselves up against the knowledge of God. And I hope that after this brief sketch, that you've sort of learned the landscape of this worldview and can be on guard and on the alert uh for when it expresses itself and tries to influence you so that you can avoid being taken captive by it. Speaking of which, does anybody um have any examples of uh Of this worldview trying to influence you in your life over the last week or two. Yeah. Yeah, so um in school I'm taking parallel one twenty two and like the basis of it is basically like evolution and how our world came from me. And like most of the beginning parts of the class was talking about how like the Bible is not really credible for really those on the same stuff like If God created it, why was there so many like imperfections and species and stuff? But it goes to like what you were saying, like how do we like what classified that Yeah. Wow, yeah. That is that's amazing that they just come right out and say like the Bible is not credible. And yeah, and of course, you know, you look at um what what they're what they're saying, you know, why are they how could God create it if there are all these imperfections? Well, as Christians we believe that sin has corrupted God's creation, right? So there is there's an explanation for that. Um um under the biblical paradigm. Right. I think uh a lot of times a lot of the criticisms like that that I hear uh from scientists, scientific naturalists, um Um about the biblical doctrine of creation are based on those kind of straw man arguments, right? They just don't understand even the basics of the biblical doctrines of creation and sin. and the fall. Um yeah, well thank you for bringing that up. I mean I'll I'll be praying for you that yeah. You can listen with discernment uh in this class. How how are you doing with that, by the way? Yeah, I'm doing good there. I'm just really listening to what you're saying. Yeah. I have a good read, so that's what I was just saying. Yeah. Is that Howard? Yes I'm tough environment to be in, uh in a class like that. I I was never in a uh an evolutionary biology class like that, but I was in a uh philosophy class where the professor was was basically just like throwing out argument after argument against uh theism, against the Bible, against Christianity. Um and it would just get really hard. It just wore me down. So I feel I feel for ya. How many of you in here taking a philosophy class or a a boardview class or any class that that human goes? Yeah. Yeah. What uh yeah, what class do you take? Okay. Uh-huh. Yeah, what sorts of uh ways do they try to ground ethical theories in that class? Well, it's They're different. We're just kind of covering different ones and display um really horrible videos and then discuss it the sort of, you know um go ahead, you know Everyone share your opinion, safe space, but if it's not Yeah. Safe space for some of them. Yeah. Right. Oh man. Yeah, that's that's hard Well yeah, I mean I want this class at least to be a place where we can actually discuss um discuss those kind of things from a biblical perspective. So I'll try to, you know, I'll try to leave more time. I know we're almost out of time, but I'll try to leave more time like at uh in these uh in these classes for us to discuss those things. And I think that could be really valuable. Um Anybody have prayer requests?