Alright. So as I mentioned, today we're gonna go over the worldview of critical theory. And this is not a typo um I didn't mean critical race theory. Uh critical race theory is a subset of critical theory, but critical theory is sort of a a a technical academic term. for the framework of thought and the ideology that lies behind a lot of uh a lot of academic movements and a lot of social movements that are that are present today. This uh this worldview is even harder to define than scientific naturalism. Remember last time we went over scientific naturalism. And um you know scientific naturalism has been around for almost three hundred years now. And so even though it's not written down anywhere like like the biblical worldview is written down in the Bible, it still has some pretty settled positions that are uh kinda easy to articulate. Uh critical theory hasn't been around that long. It started pretty much in the nineteen thirties in a a particular academic school in Germany and then another one in France. And so the intellectual roots of this worldview only go back about 90 years and then a lot of the more recent works uh in academia and in in sort of social activism has happened just in the last ten years. Really I think like I was talking with Aaron just now. When I was in college, uh critical theory wasn't really taught as a as an mainstream uh sort of general education requirement. I had friends who took classes uh in topics in critical theory But I never was uh required to take any. Aaron was saying now at at uh at Chapel Hill you were required to take two of 'em, right? And Yeah. Uh so I think it's really uh grown in its influence critical theory has in our culture in the last about ten years, uh is is when it's really sort of stormed onto the scene. And it's a contemporary blend of uh postmodern academic theory with social activism, right? So it's um the intellectual roots trace back to postmodernism, uh, which is different from the roots of scientific That comes that comes really from the Enlightenment, from this rationalist tradition of confidence in human reason, in objectivity, in science. It's you know, uh critical theory is um in some ways a rejection of that, as we'll see. Um it has skepticism of all objectivity and all uh claims to universal knowledge. But it's very it's very postmodern and existential in its roots. And because it's such a huge uh worldview that's that's still developing right now and it's really hard to sort of pin down everything that critical theory teaches. I uh gave you a couple of resources here if you want to dig further. Uh Neil Shenvey uh is is a a a Christian author and blogger, also a chemist, um who's written a lot of good stuff on critical theory and he engages a lot with primary sources from from the academic He's a Christian? He is a Christian, yeah. He's pretty solid. Uh also Darrell Harrison and Virgil Walker. Um Yeah, they they have a great podcast. the the media dean at GraceTU, which is uh John MacArthur's ministry. So yeah, they have a really good podcast. Um you know some of them are are really long, but if you have a long commute it's good So yeah, dig in further with them. I'm not, you know, I'm not an expert in critical theory, so there's a lot that I'm probably gonna gloss over. Um Um but let's dive in. So we've been analyzing worldviews according to these eight questions, this framework of eight questions. Um and the first of those questions was what is ultimate reality? Every worldview kind of answers the this question. And what critical theory says, so it's just an aside here, I've I've put what critical theory is saying in italic. And it's all on this first sheet, front and back. And so we're just going to go through what critical theory says. Because it's so complex and and and contradictory, we're not going to try to respond point by point in line We're just gonna go through what it says in general and then we'll spend, you know, the next page back in front given the biblical response to it. Um so everything in italics is what critical theory says. Everything not in italics is what is the biblical response. So what is ultimate reality? According to critical theory, identity is the ultimate reality. Right. Remember, scientific naturalism was very focused on the cosmos, you know, explaining the origin of nature. But critical theory doesn't really care about the cosmos. It sees human identity as fundamental, as priority Primary. Right, so and by identity they are mostly talking about group identity. Uh there's a there's a belief in critical theory that individual identity is inseparable from group identity and that group identity is actually more important than individual identity. In other words it your who you are is shaped mostly by what groups you are a part of. And and they define they name what groups sort of matter in terms of the construction. of your identity. Because under critical theory, identity is the is a thing that's socially constructed. Society defines the categories and the terms that make up people's identity. Alright, so the so the worldview goes. Uh things like race, gender, sexual orientation, religion, those are the categories that they speak in Um and these identity groups are not just um you know not just like neutral facts of life. Uh the second sort of important doctrine of critical theory about ultimate reality is that the social binary characterizes the idea that identity groups come in pairs. They're always there's always a dominant group and there's always a minoritized group. And it's it's minoritized, not minority. Because uh it's the minoritized group is not necessarily referring to a numerical minority. Um it's it's referring in under critical theory to a group that has been sort of oppressed into a minoritized position Right, so the critical theory sees the world through this lens of dominant versus minoritized groups. And then the third aspect of ultimate reality that hey, good morning Come on in. Um a third aspect of ultimate reality that critical theory sees is this concept of hegemonic power Right, this is the idea that check out this quote. Society is structured in ways that make us all complicit in systems of inequality. There is no neutral ground So uh critical theory sees uh the entirety of our culture as an instrument of power, an instrument of power to keep the dominant group in power and the minoritized group under power. And that's a quote from uh From Robin D'Angelo, who's probably the most prominent spokesperson for critical theory today. She and uh a co-right co-author wrote uh this book, Is Everyone Really Equal? Which I'm told is kind of a common undergraduate textbook on critical theory these days. She also wrote a book called White Fragility, uh if you guys have heard of that one. That's probably the more recognizable But anyway, I I'll be quoting from from D'Angelo a lot to define the worldview of critical theory. Okay, so so here's a little table that that sort of outlines the way or summarizes the way critical theory sees society. There's an identity marker like race or gender or sexuality. There's a minoritized group. There's a dominant group. In critical theory, there's the academic arm of the response. to this to this identity dynamic? And then there's the social movement that's the response to this identity dynamic. So just taking the top one here, for the identity of race, um Um the minoritized group would be people of color or everybody who's not white. The dominant group would be white people. The the theory arm uh of the response to that would be critical race theory, and then um Um the an example of a movement that is doing social activism uh in this area would be Black Lives Matter. And there are other movements, but But uh that's probably the most prominent one. Or to take the second column here, uh on the identity marker of gender and sexuality. Um Um the minoritized group would be uh LGBT people and the dominant group would be what they call cis heterosexuals. Cis if for those of you who don't know the terminology that they use, uh cis is what they say refers to people whose whose biological sex matches their gender identity. So you know I would be a cis male. under in their terminology. It is borrowed yeah, they stole it from chemistry. They did. Yeah, because um cis and trans are are term that describe the uh the stereochemistry of uh of a particular class of bonds in in chemistry. And that they did yeah, it's explicitly taken from uh from chemistry. Kind of kind of frustrating. But uh so the theory there, the theory arm of the response to this this identity category is queer theory. Um and then the the social movement is the LGBT pride movement. Uh all right, so this this is kind of how all this stuff is together. Like maybe you guys have experienced or or come across some of these things But didn't but I didn't realize that they were all sort of tied together in this in this kind of matrix. Uh does that kind of mesh with what they were teaching? They all are supposed to match with each other, but if you really study what they all believe, they all clash against each other. For example Mm-hmm. If you're a feminist, Black Lives Matter, LGBT Pride, then naturally you're gonna be an enemy of people within your factions. If you're a bisexual versus transsexual versus pansexual, there's even divides between them. Matrix, but even that matrix doesn't have space to hold all their different ideas because they are ultimately all different. within this worldview. Yeah. Um because different yeah different branches of the academic theory define identities in different ways, right? Like feminist theory, some some most feminists I think see gender like sex as an essential part of of who you are, right? And and I equate it with biological sex. Uh whereas queer theory says um no your is different and more important than your biological sex. So there's there's a clash there. They um you know they're kind of uneasy allies for the time being. Uh questions about that. Has anybody noticed this kind of way of looking at things uh showing up in your social context? I heard the word queer theory, but I never understood where it comes from. So now I do. Okay, yeah. Yeah, queer theory is is the the attempt under this critical theoretic framework to uh answer questions about what is sexual orientation, what is gender, what is gender identity, that kind of thing. Oh, everyone, yeah. So for those who just started college, you'll probably hear the term multiple Multiculturalism, not once, but a billion times from your friends, from your faculty, from your general ed courses. So multiculturalism, uh the term that you're given Today is not the term that was known to, for example, Dr. Phil like fifteen years ago. It's changed that much. So multiculturalism is this society Terminology, it literally just means many cultures or the intermingling of different cultures. But today multiculturalism means inclusivity which means intolerance of any belief, religion, idea, sexuality, orientation is considered to be an abominable crime. It's like you're a bigot and you're intolerant tolerance. So I think one thing that's really important to know is that in understanding critical theory is that a lot of the definitions have been been re reworked completely. So what you're learning today is like a complete 180 from what people were talking about like 10, 20 years ago. not the same at all. So just keep that in mind because yeah, it just gets super confusing and that's a hugely important point. And it makes it really hard to talk about critical theory um between Between you know a a young person and an older person, right? Like even somebody my age or older, it's really hard to use the vocab or understand the usage of the vocabulary Um 'cause like take a term the one I think one of the biggest examples is the term white supremacy, right? How many of you have heard that term? Right. White supremacy So to someone my age or older, white supremacy means the KKK. You know, it means like this this horrendous ideology of hatred um where people are are uh you know perpetrating these these horrible crimes uh And and you know it's so it's it's like a very jarring term to hear. But like nowadays under under um critical race theory white supremacy is used in sort of a a technical jargon context to just mean the impersonal power structures that perpetuate uh supposedly white dominance in society. So they uh then this I think is an is a somewhat intentional equivocation in terminology. I think that that it's a useful uh device for critical theorists to use where they can say, oh, I'm not talking about anything expensive or or or controversial. I'm just talking about white supremacy as like an impersonal power dynamic. Why are you taking it so offensively? You know, like why why are you so offended when I'm saying that? Um Um you know, but then it still carries that that hugely negative connotation uh and and so I think it just makes it very hard to have conversations uh like that Like about that kind of thing. So maybe like when we talk, uh you have to define the term. Yeah, we have to do that. You say one thing and I think another thing, so that's why we're being careful to define everything in this uh in this handout here. But also it's not it doesn't just stop at defining our terms. we actually should try to use biblical terminology wherever we can. Right? So so when we talk about race, like that's actually not the right word for us to be using, right? Because how many races are there? One. And how do we know that? From the Bible. Where does the Bible teach that there's one race? Yeah, it he it teaches it everywhere. It teaches it in Genesis. Um, you know, from what in Genesis one twenty-seven says and God created man in his own image. In the image of God he created him, male and female, he created them. Right? So and then and then it talks about throughout Genesis how every human being is dis And then Paul picks up that line of reasoning in the New Testament and says, as in Adam all die, all die, so in Christ all are made alive, all will be made alive. So the consistent teaching of Scripture is that we all come from Adam. We're all one race. And so speaking of different races is not actually correct. We should speak of ethnicities, right? Ethne is the Greek word for nations or people groups, and so ethnicity is a perfectly valid biblical concept. And uh ethnic pride and ethnic hatred really do exist and are terrible sins today. And we can speak of them in those terms. Terms. Uh and that that helps us think biblically and think clearly about these things and avoid the confusion of terminology that's brought on by kind of the redefinition that's going on within critical theory. Other questions about about this piece? This is huge, right? The identity piece of critical theory. Yeah. Very critical. What's the uh So latently I can see more like emails and even on LinkedIn. Uh pronouns, yeah. I'm not sure we will Yeah, who knows what that what that's about. Yeah, so um nowadays, especially at like higher institutions or whatever, uh I if you don't study uh critical theory, you're not considered to be a smart student, which makes no sense at all. Intelligence and knowing this have nothing in common. So pronouns basically it also has entered a professional uh atmosphere. Uh some of us are like required to include on emails. Basically you use your pronouns so that other people are made aware of your orientation, your sexual orientation, your gender orientation. So for example because I'm a cis male. So now I'm talking like a social person. Yeah. So I've been trained to like do this, so I know how. So as a cis male, right, binary, meaning that I just believe there is two sex, men and male and female, I would say my pronouns are he, him, his because I'm male. But at the same time there are other people who in that moment because they're gender fluid, meaning their gender identity You can change one minute to the next. Their pronouns can change. And this is where it gets confusing because in one minute their pronouns may be him, he, him, his, meaning that as an audience you should assess That individual as a male presenting individual, the next minute that same person can say, Oh, now my gender has changed again, so now I wish to present as a female presenting individual individual. So my pronouns are she, her, her. And then there enters they them theirs, which is neither male or female. And then there's like three more categories. It's like mix, mixes, and mix And then there's like a fourth category which doesn't belong to that. So it it just keeps adding and adding it. But pronouns are basically a surface like level way to define in that moment to other people who you are. And the the the push, the sort of moral imperative for for like non-transgendered people uh to use pronouns is to show solidarity, right? Like that's that's kind of how they're how critical theory is trying to bind our consciousness conscience in this way is like we're supposed to put our pronouns down even if it's even if there's no real need for us to announce those things, uh, in order to show allyship is what it's called with uh with LGBT people. But it's really based on this this whole concept that's underlying the the different sets of pronouns is based on on an ideology, about and a a state a metaphysical statement about what gender is and what the nature of humanity is, right? We know from scripture that humanity is male and female, right? That is intrinsic to our nature. And uh nowhere in scripture is there any indication that uh that our subjectively felt sense of gender identity uh um should be different from our biological sex or should much less should it be more important than our biological sex, right? So what that's what we believe as as biblical Christians but in the world um it's common to sort of unconsciously accept the idea that there is this thing called gender identity that is subjectively discerned That's only available to the individual that actually takes precedence over biological sex. And therefore, we as a culture should, there's that word should, recognize that biological person's gender identity over and against their biological sex. Right. That's what's underlying the the pronoun thing. And it's really uh, you know, it's spoken of as a as like a personal decision and a Um it's not spoken of people don't actually come out and say the the uh sort of queer theory doctrine about um what about the nature of ultimate reality They don't acknowledge that they're making like a metaphysical claim that's universal about human nature. Uh they say, No, this is this is who I am, you just have to honor honor me. Um you know, it has nothing to do with you, but it really does. You know, it's really they're making a religious statement about the nature of reality. And um you know, so we need to be we need to be careful and and think carefully about how to handle those kind of situations. Amy. Um we have a question here and a question first. Oh sorry, yeah. Uh yeah. How what's X I R? How does it connect? I think it's X. Z That's a prime. One of the newly invented primes. No. It's a singular non-gendered pronoun. Because like they is just non-male and not female. Okay. Use these alternate pronouns and then they can't even agree on which one is correct. So some of them are like, oh you shouldn't use the under because that means you're not respecting my usage of mix, mixes, and And you use their name? You can use the thing. But some people prefer that user pronouns. So then it gets confusing. Yeah. So Mrs. Bix yeah, so my advisor was like mix robbers, for example Oh, lip on. MX stuff I guess yes. Oh, I think I think it's very confusing. Very confusing. I just want to get my fingers. Hello. Awkward pause. How are you? Yeah. Amy, yeah. Um but you were just talking about the two res Um I think we like we kinda laid out how it branches out again Um oh I I think the yeah, so critical theory the the worldview has has both sort of an academic arm, uh that's all all the theoretical basis for these things. And then And and then they have the the sort of activist arm, uh, because because the worldview is uh is very much aimed at at changing society, right? Uh and so each of these each of these i questions of identity has has an academic arm and an activist arm. Um and I just wanted to point out also that that they view religion as an idea identity marker, not as not as like a belief or a choice. Right. So they so in in the critical theoretic view of religion, Christians are the dominant group who are uh oppressing other religions. Oh wow based on our our control of the culture. Um yeah Alright, so how can we know about reality? Well, critical theory is uh committed to a particular epistemology, a particular statement about how we can get an It's called standpoint epistemology. So under standpoint epistemology, all knowledge is subjective. They reject objectivity, right? There is even science is not objective. Um and uh all knowledge depends on your cultural standpoint. They the the phrase they use is culturally constructed. Knowledge is is constructed out of the concepts and the language that a culture uh sort of bathes you in. And therefore, because all knowledge is culturally constructed under this worldview, um Minoritized groups have more and broader access to truth, to knowledge, than members of dominant groups. Right. And that's because members of minoritized groups groups live in two cultures. They have to they have to live in the dominant culture and they also live in their own uh subculture. So they have two different cultural perspectives And and this concept of there's a concept called intersectionality, which is which is basically the idea that uh we all have lots of different identity markers. And so, you know, somebody can be uh a a member of a minoritized group in according to one identity marker and a member of a dominant group according to another identity marker. Um but anyway, depending on how many intersectional categories of um of identity you you have, you might have access to a lot more truth and knowledge than um someone like me who's a a cis hetero white male Christian. Um so this is this is generally referred to as lived experience, right? The lived experience of somebody in a minority group has given uh a great deal of priority in this worldview. And you can see that in um in just uh the the prevalence of uh what are called coming out stories in in in our culture right now. And this started in um the LGBT movement, right? The coming out story was like how you announce to the world that that you're gay or that you're uh gender nowadays it's it's not even restricted really to the LGBT movement. Like if you look at um if you look at entertainment movies and TV maybe the the coming out narrative is central to a lot of uh a lot of these things, right? Like uh there's a main character who has some secret that that society around them wants to support press. But it turns out that that bringing the secret out into the open and and living with it openly is the key to them unlocking their potential and and saving the world or something, right? The I'm thinking of uh the movie Frozen, who's seen Frozen? Right. Yeah. So so Elsa has this secret that she's supposed to conceal, not feel, right? And then it It's this terrible thing that everyone ever even the well intentioned people around here, like your parents, want her to suppress. But it turns out that like you know, once she acknowledges it and lives it in the open and and embraces it with love, then it turns into this great power that can heal everything, right? So that's the coming out narrative. And it's it if you like once you hear about it, it's kinda hard to not see it uh in in like all Disney movies basically nowadays. That's a good question. I mean the thing is, I would not be surprised if if there were to be uh like a a modern interpretation interpretation of Rudolph uh made with that subtext, right? Because this happened with how many of you guys have seen the uh the old cartoon Mulan versus the new sort of live action Mulan Right. You've seen the first one. Not the second. How many have seen both? Okay. I don't know if you notice this, but like in the first in the uh the old one that came out when I was a kid You know, yeah, uh Mulan is is uh not to spoil the plot or anything, but Mulan's a girl who who who in order to um save her father from having to fight in the arm her crippled father from having to fight in the army, dresses up as a boy and goes to goes to war. Um and uh you know it's it's kind of a uh it's a fun story, it kind of evokes Shakespeare. There's a lot of, you know like girls dressing up as boys in Shakespeare. Um but it's not really trying to make a point about like her hidden identity or like it's not saying that like her her secret gender is the power that she needs to unlock by bringing The new Mulan is very much like that. You know, it's a reinterpretation of the Mulan story in terms of a coming out narrative. I mean, you would Would you guys agree with me, those of you who have seen it? Yeah. So it's lived experience, right? The coming out story. That's the kind of knowledge that critical theory really prizes above above scientific knowledge, certainly above the Bible. Speaking of which, deconstruction is a big part of critical theory, right? So things like the Bible which is uh a feature of a dominant group called called Christians. Um claim any claim of a dominant group are uh is inherently suspect under critical theory, right? Because according to critical theory, uh anything that that the dominant group, any knowledge that the dominant group is presenting as objectives, is more than likely a tool for maintaining the status quo for maintaining uh the the control that they have over society. Um so you can kinda um see this in also in entertainment in movies and T V. You know, it's it's very how common is it for like on a sitcom, for the the father character to be like a dopey kind of know nothing incompetent guy. It's really common to just to make fun of men uh on these uh in in in entertainment. Uh because they're part of the dominant group and they don't have the kind of knowledge, they don't have the lived experience of uh a minoritized group Um okay, anything any like questions or observations about this this question of epistemology? How can we know? So this um in uh the the the um and hen in in the have done this for a very long time. They've been they've been um um create and competent character as a as a legal uh to uh sitcom and they've been they've been done it over over I'll say fifty uh I'll say over thirty forty years. It is pretty ingrained into the the the the culture. Yeah, that's the result of that. And so the typical worldview is, you know, um, you know, husband and wife and you know, hus husband is like five blood the church while we love the family and the plea of a home. And a lot of people don't believe in that because of this kind of di diet that running around in their in their in their mind. Yeah. So it's very very anti drippable you think about it. Mm-hmm Yeah, it's true. And yeah, it's when it's when the um narratives like this have been around in the culture for thirty or forty forty years then that they start to um bear fruit in things like the family. Um yeah, so we we have to watch out for this. It doesn't it doesn't surface right away. It's interesting that you mentioned me and just like the underlying points that are in there. yesterday with some people and it seems like people can't make movies now without trying to get some point in their point of the movie is yeah. Yeah, well critical theorists would say, well, all movies have an agenda, right? Is is that everything even something that something that looks like it doesn't have an agenda has the agenda of supporting the hegemonic power of the status quo of the dominant current dominant groups. That's that's how they would reply to that. So I'm I'm not disagreeing with you. I'm just saying I'm just saying that's that's what they would say. And I think you know we as Christians need to be similarly vigilant, like for completely different reasons. Like we we do need to realize that that everything out there is either of Christ or it's of Satan. Uh and so we gotta we've gotta recognize that. Um might be very much buried below the surface, but we have to be willing to dig for it. Uh so what's our purpose or meta-narrative according to critical theory? Well, you know, ostensibly critical theory is about rejection of objectivity. Right, it's about rejecting these large-scale meta-narratives, the uh the grand story behind everything. Uh it's critical theory claims that anything that presents itself as as a comprehensive story of reality is just a tool of cultural oppression. And so they would say that the Bible, to the sense that it does that, is a tool of cultural oppression. Um however ironically critical theory itself presents its own meta narrative of history. Um and it's pretty obvious that it does. Uh The the meta-narrative of critical theory is that dominant groups cruelly oppress minoritized groups and minoritized groups nobly struggle for their own liberation. This is always what's going on. Yeah. And so I think that that segues into what is humanity's main problem? Well, under critical theory, our main problem is systemic injustice uh which which is what they call oppression. And at this point it's I need to pause and recognize real injustice really does exist Like I um in you know in this in this lesson and and in this course I do not want to minimize the effects of real sin. There is real ethnic prejudice, there's real um sex-based prejudice, uh men do oppress women, uh and and real injustice exists. And like we as Christians should be uh the ones who are best equipped to recognize sin and its effects. Right? I'm not trying to say that that the status quo is a good thing that we have in in in our culture. Um in fact the Bible the Bible critiques every culture, right? It's not it's not here to prop up like you know, English speaking white American culture. It has as much uh rebuke to give my culture as it does to give Chinese culture or Russian culture or or Scandinavian culture or whatever. So the point I'm not I don't want you to hear me saying that everything's okay and that everything's good. But I think We do need to recognize how critical theory uh makes some serious misdiagnoses of uh the problem that humanity. So here's what they say about humanity's main problem. Our main problem, according to critical theory, is uh systemic injustice, also called oppression. And here's how D'Angelo defines oppression. behalf of critical theory. Oppression describes a set of policies, practices, traditions, norms, definitions, and explanations or discourses which function to systematically exploit one social group to the benefit of another social group. So notice that all these things are impersonal things. These are not choices of an individual to sin against another individual. These are these are structural features of society that go beyond any one person Uh probably no one person decided to put these policies or norms in place, and maybe they were even put in place hundreds of years ago. Um but that's that's what critical theory identifies as oppression and injustice. And that's the main problem according to them. uh in our society. Um you know, so using using this kind of lens, um critical theory would would say that it's this kind of uh structural injustice and a pressure That is that is solely responsible for the fact that some groups in America have less wealth than other groups. Uh and I'm not denying that that that it's partially responsible. Um but but the cran the claim of critical theory is that it's solely responsible. Like that's that's all that there is to uh to the equation Critical theory would also identify things like marriage as a as a male-female institution laid down by God. or uh gender norms uh of male and female customs that affirm that God-given distinction between men and women, uh critical theory would recognize those things as oppressive to LGBT people right as examples of this systemic injustice and oppression. Even though you know somebody who advocates uh male-female marriage and and respecting male-female distinctions isn't choosing to do any any particular um it isn isn't like sinning against a an LCP They may never even come into contact or share their views with an LGBT person or make any decision to impact their lives. Even if that's the case, it's still oppression according to critical theory. And that leads to this this implication, which is that under critical theory, you are judged by your group membership, not by your individual actions. This is one crucial difference between critical theory and the biblical worldview is that you're not judged as an individual, you're judged by your group membership. Uh so consider this quote from D'Angelo again. No individual member of the dominant group has to do anything specific to oppress a member of the minoritized group. So we're all, if you know, to the extent that we're members of the dominant group, we're all complicit in oppressing other people, according to critical theory. Is this kind of like forward forward perfect definition? I think yeah. Especially like conflict And this is this is where the worldview gets its force, right? And and most worldviews do this, is they try to bind your conscience to something that's different from the biblical theory. All the force of a worldview comes through through its moral and ethical dimension, um which is an outworking of of its of its more ideological and and uh philosophical pillars. Okay, questions about this before we cover the last one? Okay, Jeff. That's something like the reason we get a little concerned because this is my great grandparents back in the days of That's a journey. Heard exactly the same thing. This is mm-hmm. It doesn't matter what you do, you are part of the band. Yeah. And guess where you're going. Yeah It's it's I think in the world school. This the worldview is evil. Yes. This worldview is evil. Make no mistake about it. it. Um th I don't see a lot of recognition by proponents of critical theory that that's what they're saying, right? That that they are condemning an entire group of people based on their attributes. Uh it's or you know, they d I think they just don't see it as a problem because while that group of people has benefited for so long from the status quo that they can take it now, right? Or that you know it's time for them to to experience a little bit of what it's like to be on the other side. Um Yeah. From the biblical worldview, one important thing to remind yourselves is that sin from the emergence of sin Adam and E till present day has never changed. Yeah. Always been the same. So when people scientific naturalists, critical or race theory or critical theorists, any proponents of these non-miblical worldviews, they always push this belief that, oh, my ideas are a new idea. Like you're addressing a new problem, however has never changed, so therefore you're still addressing the same problems. And so no matter how many variations, how many spin-offs, how many reinterpretations you make As Christ fearing God believing Christians, we should recognize that it's all in the same pool of sin. Yeah. has changed is technology and our understanding of nature. That's pretty much it. That's an excellent point. Yeah, totally. There's nothing new under the sun. Right? Like group based hatred has been around forever. Um it's not new to critical theory. And and this kind of, you know, personal experience like Like defining reality, that's been around forever too. There was this this heresy called Gnosticism that that uh the New Testament authors had to deal with in the early church. That was basically that. You know, Gnosticism claimed that you need this secret knowledge. Like the in and those who receive a secret spiritual knowledge are are the privileged few who um you know attain salvation. Yeah, so there's nothing new under the sun. It's all sin, and it's all just different manifestations of the same sin that lurks in the human heart. Um yeah, so in one sense that's comforting, right. Um but in another sense it it's a call to be really vigilant. Um yeah So um the last book you talked about uh how um How they thought how w um cosmos singles are being uh created. Did they have something like that or is that uh or is Good catch. You notice that I skipped a couple of the questions. Yes. I skipped where did we and everything come from? That's a question that that scientific naturalism is very concerned with. You know, it it wants to explain Critical theory does not is not concerned with that question. Um they don't have an origin story for Um for the cosmos or for humanity even it's just not on their radar, um which I think is a huge weakness of the worldview. Uh and and that makes it one of the one of the many things that makes it not compelling. But um yeah, they just don't really care. They also don't have an answer for uh like where are we going? They have they have a an answer for where should we go? Like what should we do? That they have a vision for for how society should be Um but they don't you know, they don't really claim to to pr to know the future trajectory of humanity. Um so I've I've kind of omitted those two questions And I've rolled the I've rolled two questions into one. The what is the solution question and then what is our primary moral duty? Um because they in critical theory those are the same thing. It's a very uh it's a very moralistic worldview. It's focused on on social activism So what's the solution and what is our primary moral duty? According to critical theory, it is liberation. That's our primary moral duty and and the solution to systemic injustice. And liberation happens through activism or allyship, depending on whether you're part of a minoritized group or a dominant group. group, right. If you're part of a minoritized group, uh your activism is the way that you struggle against the oppression and and work for your own liberation. If you're part of the dominant group, allyship is how you um divest yourself of your privilege and the the the sort of unfair advantages conferred on you by the systemic injustice that you implicitly support. Um and you know, so here's the quote from from D'Angelo. Um each of us does have a choice about whether we are going to work to interrupt and dismantle these systems of injustice. That's the you know, that's the goal of critical theory, or support their existence by ignoring them. There is no neutral ground to choose not to act against injustice is to choose to allow So that's a pretty totalizing universal moral claim. Like we're this is this is a a very clear attempt to to bind our country To the moral imperatives of critical theory against the moral imperatives of scripture. So an example of this would be like using uh government policy to redistribute wealth, uh or to to make reparations. Um and you know that that is an example of working to interrupt and dismantle a systemic injustice. Or um uh for the on the LGBT side, creating safe spaces. You hear a lot about this today, like working in your office or in your school to create uh a safe space, which means um a safe space for for LGBT GPT and and other minoritized people to uh express their lived experience, right? Not a safe space for people in the dominant group uh or anyone else to talk about ideas. This is this is not like free speech or the free exchange of ideas. Um this is safe space for for the minorities group. Usually by uh restricting or or excluding or shutting down people in the dominant group. Um and also using preferred pronouns. This is an example, like we talked about, of of allyship. of like trying to dismantle the systemic injustice of male-female gender norms, supposedly, under critical theory. Um and in critical theory, increasingly the ends justify the means. Right. And this I recognize this does not characterize all of uh the proponents of critical theory, but a lot of them resort to things like public shaming. You see this on social media a lot, like complete strangers will call out other people for you know and denounce them for their privilege and say you know, you you kinda curse them out and and say a whole bunch of offensive things. Verbal abuse, uh this thing called deplatforming, uh colloquially cancel culture. Or maybe that's like a more uh you know right right side term for it. Deplatforming means like taking people who express the the dominant view and uh removing their megaphone, right? Like kicking them off the social media platform or um sort of denying them access to to spread their views because their views are a tool of oppression Um so these these under critical theory are all acceptable means of opposing injustice. Yeah. I think it's gonna get even more extreme. Well already if your work and we have a good number of hooks at Microsoft software system. You can't be a manager without the tags after your meetings. Yeah, in order to be hired into a supervisory position you have to put your pronouns in your email signature block and and sort of implicitly affirm that religious statement about about gender, what it means. Okay. Wow, I was really hoping that we would get to some of the biblical response because this is kind of a depressing and and scary thing to to leave us over. But so I think I think I do want to just go over that first part of the biblical reason. response, right? So so we need to respond to this worldview because it's not just out there in the world, it's infilt it's infiltrating the church too, right? Like there are there are uh evangelical groups and churches that are Maybe not adopting all of critical theory, but using trying treating pieces of it and claims of critical theory as useful tools in um dealing with the real sin, the real sins of of ethnic hatred and ethnic pride that we see in society. And that's a really dangerous road because the you know, what union has Christ with Belial, which was a demon, you know A false god. It was like what the O B Luth, yeah. Right, yeah. We cannot be yoked together with unbelievers that that champion these these kinds of um ideologies. Critical theory is a teaching of demons. as uh you know as Paul refers to these kinds of things. So it raises five questions that we really need to answer. Biblically. And the first question is how should we view our identity? Right? So in our identity in terms of our identity, critical theory makes this claim that that our group I our group membership is the most important part of our identity and that and that humanity is fractured and fragmented into all these groups that are locked in these these existential struggles with each other. Is that a biblical picture of what humanity is? No. No, for three reasons. Okay. Number one, all humans bear the same image of God. We already talked about this a little bit, you know. In the beginning God created man in his own image, and in the image of God he created them. Male and female he created them. created them. And that image of God, it runs deeper than any group division. We have to remember that We have to remember that even when we're talking to a proponent of critical theory or a proponent of scientific naturalism, like they are a human being made in God's image. And we are we share the same origin, we share the same nature, human nature as them, with with one very important exception for believers that'll come up But remember that we need to remember also that um our common identity as the as bearing the image of God runs deeper than the group division. Like Paul said when he was preaching to the Athenians, God made from one man every nation of mankind to live on all the face of the earth. That was a key part of Paul's gospel. You know, he was confronting the Greeks of Athens who thought that they were better than all the barbarians around them. He was saying, No, God made from one man you and every other nation of men, so you're all the same. Right. That's how we have to look at humanity. Um, not as fractured fundamentally by these different group divisions and identities. And we also have to remember that all humans are equally condemned as This is one thing that this is probably the the biggest way that that uh critical theory hinders people from understanding and believing believing the gospel is that to the to people in a minorities mo minoritized group, critical theory says you are victims and you do not have sin to repeat Imagine believing that. You know, if you believe that you have no reason to listen to the gospel. No reason to repent and ask forgiveness of your sins. And so like critical theory is paving the road to health for people the people that it's claiming to help. Um Yeah, and and for the people in the dominant group, right, critical theory says, yeah, you have a lot to repent of, but it's not your sin. It's not the individual ways in which you have violated God's standard, it's it's your group, right? It's it's who you are that you have to be Yeah, you you are also under slavery to your group identity. Okay, and you can't you can't change that. So it puts it puts people in the dominant group on this treadmill of of like perpetual um futile repentance. Yeah. So that that turns them away from the gospel too. Because if you're worried about repenting of your group identity, you're not going to have time to listen to a call to repent of your sin. And believe the gospel and ask forgiveness of Christ. Um was there a question no somewhere? Oh yeah. Um mark in order. Um I remember um It you're saying like uh they're with separating groups. It almost sounds like um what's your name? Our name is legion, but we are many. So Yeah. Yeah. And um we the man is possessed by many humans. Yeah. Yeah. That's right. Yeah. Yeah, that I had never put that together before. Um I mean that's a good It's a picture of yeah of just the the internal conflict that this worldview can produce in somebody But look at what Scripture says in Galatians three twenty-two. But the scripture has confined everyone under sin, so that the promise by faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe. Everyone is under sin. Right? Regardless of your group membership, everyone needs the gospel. Everyone needs to repent and be saved. Um and at all That's only through Christ, not through activism or liberation. Um and we okay yeah. But why don't they like hearing that everyone has the same mindset? Because that seems like such a great statement to follow. This is one of the great paradoxes of critical theory because yeah if you ask someone uh who who believes in critical theory what is race, they will tell you race is a fiction. There is no biological basis for race. That's what we agree with as critical theory. Christians. You know, we're so we agree on that. There is no biological basis for race. It's a fiction. But they'll say, you know, the important thing about race is that um Is is that it's a perception that determines how people in our society treat each other. And we would also agree with that. We would say it's a sinful thing. that w you know we as sinful humans perceive each other to be of different races, even though that's not true, and we treat each other in sinful ways based on that So so far we agree. It's what do you do with that uh how do you how do you respond to that truth that we agree on, right? We would say biblically We need to um get back to biblical truth and acknowledge that we're all made in the image of God and we need the power of God to uh to work in us and change our sinful hearts so that we can live together as God intended, uh as as all bearing the image of of God God. A critical theorist would say, uh, no, we need to, you know, because there's this injustice based on the perception of race, we need to double down on recognizing race as a fundamental fundamental category of identity so that we can use all these policy tools and activism to um tilt the playing field in the other direction. Right. And it doesn't really make sense. Like doubling down on group divisions and stoking this kind of group conflict is not really a sensible way to solve the problem of in of inequality. Like there's no it it there's no hope for that ever to work, right? I think I think that's a huge weakness of the worldview of critical theory. Um and and to me it doesn't make sense. It's a contradiction in in or it's a it's a false uh it's a fallacy, a logical fallacy in how they respond to correctly recognizing that there is no biological basis for race What was the second thing that you said they we agree up to a point on? The first is race. Uh that race is not real. Uh the second is that that We we do um it's true that that or the most important thing about race is that uh people have sinfully perceived others to be of different race and treated them accordingly. Accordingly. Right. That is true. And it's simple. Wow, we're um almost out of time here. Um we will we will spend uh you know as many weeks as it takes to go through through this just because it's so important and we're we're just now getting to the meat of scripture and we're not gonna rush, yeah. We're gonna take as much time as we need to go through this the this biblical research response to what is what is really a uh demonically inspired worldview. And um with the couple minutes we have left here I'm gonna stop for