All right. So let's uh get out the handout. And uh so last week we started going over the worldview uh that I'm calling critical theory. And you know just as a reminder, there's no there's no canonical name for this worldview necessarily. I mean critical theory is is a pretty common one. But it's um you know it's kind of an amalgam of a lot of different ideas. Uh a lot of um um ideas that that come from a similar source and have a have a lot of uh things in common, but uh they also contradict each other a lot too. So it's hard to kind of name this this worldview. Um But it's uh in academia uh it's referred to as critical theory and in the in sort of social activism often social justice. This is a term that you'll hear to describe ideas coming from this worldview. So last time we talked about that, and um If you weren't here last time, uh you know look through the the handout and you'll get sort of a brief overview of what critical theory says. And we try to characterize it in um in the words of critical theorists themselves. Most notably Robin D'Angelo, who is is you know probably the most prominent spokesperson for critical theory today. We gave a lot of quotes from from her book, uh her undergraduate textbook, is everyone really equal? So, you know, I I always I think it's very important um, you know, when when you're debating or engaging with uh with opposing worldviews and opposing positions to um to really state the opposing position in a in a fair way that that uh your opponent would actually agree with your characterization of it. um and then go on to offer the critique. And so that that's what I tried to do here. If anyone uh comes across like statements of critical theory that that um don't seem to fit with this framework, uh you know, please bring them up and and we can discuss them and and you know sort of see see where they're coming from. So today we're going to get to the biblical response to critical theory, which starts at the bottom of the second page. But first I just wanted to ask if there are any questions from last week on critical theory, the worldview itself. Okay, I think let's jump right in. So in in the biblical response, you'll notice this is I'm doing this differently from when I did scientific natural where it was like an inline biblical response to each of the questions. This time, you know, it's so broad, it's so um even sometimes self-contradictory this worldview that I've decided to collect everything under five questions. That critical theory really poses to us as Christians that we need to address biblically. And so that first question that we need to address biblically is: how should we view our identity? Uh because remember critical theory, um that in critical theory that's the ultimate reality is your group identity. Right. Not just not just your identity, but your group identity, what groups you are a member of. Critical theory places a huge emphasis on uh your race, on your um gender identity, sexual orientation. Um remember it sees society as structured in terms of these um these hostile group relationships between there's a dominant group and a minoritized group uh that are constantly in conflict and That our job is to overthrow the the hegemonic power of the dominant group as it is expressed in society. Right, so is is critical theory right in in terms of viewing our identity this way, as a as a binary distinction between dominant and minoritized groups Well, biblically, you know, in terms of how we should look at identity, we need to do three things. We have to affirm the ways in which all human beings are equal in essence in which we all share the same nature. That's the first thing we have to do. The second thing we have to do is recognize that that doesn't eliminate all differences between us. We have to embrace those differences which are God given in ways that honor God. And that that second part is crucial. The way we embrace differences matters. And then third, we need to recognize those differences that are artificial, that the world has fabricated And we need to understand that those are unbiblical and reject them. So we're going to talk about each of those right now. So how do we affirm or in what ways should we affirm the equality of essence and dignity in terms of all all people? Uh well there are really three things. um biblically speaking, that that bind us all together in solidarity as human beings, right? The first is that we all bear the image of God. Remember in Genesis 1. 27, when God is talking about how He made the world, this is before the fall. This is uh this is in him describing the very good creation that he has made. He said, Let us make man in our own image Uh and so in the image of God and yeah, God created man in his own image. In the image of God, he created them. Male and female he created them. That's Genesis 127. And so we see then as Genesis moves forward how all human beings are descended from Adam and Eve. from that original hair that God made in his own image. And so we all bear the image of God because of our common descent from Adam. Uh and this thread, this thought continues in the New Testament. It's not just an Old Testament myth, right? It's uh there's no such thing as that. But in the New Testament it's important to Paul as well. Remember when Paul addressed the pagan Athenians? And it was preaching the gospel to them. Uh a critical point of his gospel was to confront the Greeks in their ethnic pride by saying that God made from one man every nation of mankind to live on all the face of the earth. Um and then elsewhere in his letters he talks about um Christ as a second Adam. You know, he he sees uh that we all have solidarity in our lineage from Adam, and particularly in in inheriting the sinful nature that uh Adam's sin gave us. Uh but anyway, so in the Old Testament and the New Testament, this idea that we are all descended from Adam, we're all image bearers of God, is very important. And it's it's I want you to understand that it's deeply undermining to the worldview of critical theory. It's deeply undermining to what critical theory says is the fundamental fact of our identity, which is group membership. If we're all made in the image of God, that can't be true. Okay, questions about that one. Being made in the image of God, sharing the same image. Did you say critical theory lots of separate groups whereas God's names will work? Yeah, critical theory says that um at root we're different. Right? At root the two the dominant group and the minoritized group are fundamentally different and they're fundamentally opposite They're sort of irreconcilable, right? Um you know, but the the biblical worldview says that at root we have the same nature. We have the same fundamental nature I think that's the big point is that critical theory is making a claim that um it it follows the existentialist philosophical tradition, which existentialism is summed up in in in the phrase, existence perceives essence. Right? There's it's this idea that um you know, our what who we are, our nature, doesn't come first. It's not it's not like written by God or by anyone. We just have this blank canvas of our existence that we write on or that society writes on with this these kind of socially constructed group memberships. That's what critical theory is saying. It's like the most important thing about us is what society writes on us. God says in the Bible the most important thing about us, the most fundamental fact of our nature is that we bear the image of God. That's the difference here. Okay, second thing. Well the second way that that all humans have solidarity in terms of in terms of who we are. Is uh that we're equally condemned as sinners. So, you know, this is the image of God was a positive thing. This is a negative thing, but it is it's a true thing and it's a thing that applies to everyone equally, regardless of our group membership. So look at Galatians 3. 22, which is quoted here in the sheet. It says, But the scripture has confined everyone under sin, so that the promise by faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe. So what Paul's talking about here, when he says the scripture, what does he mean there? The word of God. The Word of God. What's that for Paul in in his day? Yes. Um or is it going in a day? Uh-huh. Um maybe the first five part Yeah, yes, the Old Testament and particularly yeah those those first five books, the Law of Moses, right. So he's saying he's saying the law of Moses, the law has confined everyone understand Um and you know you find discussions of this in in Paul's theology that he doesn't mean that the law is bad. But he was saying that he's saying that the law was never meant to save anybody, right? I don't know if you guys knew that, but God did not give the law to Israel so that they could try real hard and be holy and righteous and earn favor with God. Uh that's not the purpose of the law. The purpose of the law is to highlight and demonstrate how everyone falls short of God's standard. So that's what he means here when he's saying scripture has confined everyone understand. The law, God's standard revealed in Scripture, has shown how all of us fall short of His glory and how we all are sinful and are in need of saving. Right, and that's a fact that applies to all of us, whether we're part of a dominant group or whether we're part of a minoritized group under under critical theory. Right. And notice how how undermining this is to critical theory's main moral and ethical claims. The moral and ethical claims of critical theory are that if you are part of a minoritized group you you do not have sin in that you know as as as part of your identity. You don't have anything to repent of uh because you're the victim and And what your job is, is basically to struggle for liberation, not to repent and be saved. And then for people in the dominant group, critical theory says Um your individual sin, whatever that those things may be, is not the problem. The problem is your complicity in the systemic uh injustice that your group has perpetuated on the rest of society. Right? You need to repent of uh essentially of your group identity Right, which is not the same as repenting of sin and being saved. Um so critical theory treats people uh very differently and it ignores the reality of sin. And it gives very different moral imperatives to these different groups. By contrast, the Bible says we're all sinners. We all have the same fundamental problem. The same fundamental problem is that we've all rebelled against God and we don't measure up to his standard and we need to be saved, otherwise we will face the wrath of God. Uh okay, questions about that one. I don't have a question, but yesterday it was really interesting because um there was like this creation talk and it had the with a lot of genetics. And it was so fascinating learning about how we're really all related and ninety five percent and And um just this uh like yeah the like a lot of the science behind it was really fascinating And just how much we share in comments. I mean I wish I could remember like the actual details they were giving, but that it was really fascinating. Yeah. And it you know it's kind of it's really remarkable to how science has kind of caught up with the Bible in this area, right? Because this is not what not what you know scientists used to believe. Right. Scientists used to believe that there were five separate races of of humans. And that's what they taught back in the I don't know, I think sixties and seventies like when uh when our parents were were in school, they learned about the five different races of human beings. But nowadays, uh you know that's that's of course not what the Bible teaches. Uh and nowadays Uh science has s has sort of caught up with the understanding of scripture that we're all one race. And and in these genetic studies you know, thankfully scientists are interpreting them correctly to see that that um our similarity uh is is much greater than what differentiates us in terms of our biology. Um But you know that we're I'm thankful that they're making the right interpretation of that right now, but I wouldn't expect them to continue interpreting those facts rightly. um as the decades roll on. But we can look at it as Christians and rejoice. You know, like yes, thank you Lord for making us substantially similar in terms of our basic genetics. Um yeah So there's this third this third way uh that in particularly for believers that we all have solidarity in terms of our our essence and our our basic nature. And that is if you're a believer in Christ, then the Bible calls you a new creation in Christ. Right? So all of us in in this room, if we are followers of Christ, are new creations in Christ And um God speaks uh very in depth of our unity throughout the New Testament, the unity that that He has bought for us by the blood of Christ and that we should be diligent to preserve. So turn with me if you've got your Bibles to Ephesians two and we're going to look at Ephesians two eleven through twenty-two. And while you're turning there, I want to give some context here. So in the um in the society of the early church, uh the the culture that Paul was writing to Uh there was a deep divide and enormous hostility between Jews and Gentiles. you know, was was far more hostile and violent than than any of the ethnic hostility that we have today in America. Uh on on the on the Gentile side, you had the Romans who were probably the most brutal uh empire in world history in terms of the tactics they used uh to conquer nations and subdue them. Right. And they they were really brutal towards towards the Jews. you know, Pilate, uh there were reports of him, you know, mixing the blood of Jewish people into the sacrifices. uh on on the altar at the temple and uh you know just like horrendous things, uh atrocities perpetuated by the Romans against not only the Jews, but also other peoples that they conquered So there's there's that hostility. But then from the Jewish side there was also a lot of hostility where You know, the Jews hated Gentiles. They thought that they were unclean, um, second class citizens, um, you know, the the Jews would not eat with Gentiles, would not visit their houses, they would walk dozens of miles out of their way to go around Gentile territory, uh so they didn't have to pass through And you know that was this hostility from both sides, Jew and Gentile, was uh something that was tempting for believers to carry forward into the church. Like even Peter um sort of fell back into this tendency. You know, remember Peter was the one that God first told, hey, the Gentiles are no longer unclean, you need to go to them and and uh share the gospel with them and invite them into the kingdom. That's a dream that the dream that animal coming up and down heaven Yep, yeah, there's this sheet full of animals and God was like, kill and eat, and Peter said, No, I've never eaten anything unclean. And God said, Do not call unclean that which I have made clean. And you know, Peter understood in in the context of that passage that he was God was talking about Gentiles, uh, not not just animals. Uh but anyway, so Peter was the one who got first told, you know, break down this wall between Jews and Gentiles. And Peter, later in his ministry, fell back into the custom of only eating with Jewish people. Right, he was influenced by this group called the Judaizers. And Paul had to go and you know lay the smack down on Peter to kind of confront him about that practice. Anyway, that's the context of the society that Paul is writing to here in Ephesians. And can I have somebody read Ephesians 2, 11 through 22? Okay, thanks Amy. Therefore remember that at one time you Gentiles in the flesh called the uncircumcision by which all the servants Circumcision, which is made in the flesh by hand. Remember that you were at that time separated from Christ, alienated from the commonwealth of Israel, and strangers to the covenants of promise, having no hope and without God in the world. But now in Christ Jesus, you who once were far off have been brought near him by the blood of Christ. For he himself is our peace, who has made us both one and has broken down in his flesh the dividing law of hostility by abolishing the law of commandments. expressed in ordinances that he might create in himself one community too, so making peace, and might reconcile us both to God and one body through the cross, thereby showing hostility And he came and preached peace to you who are far off, and peace to those who are near. For through him we both have access in one spirit to the Father. So then you are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens of the Saints and members of the household of God. Built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus himself being the cornerstone, in whom the whole structure being joined together grows into a holy temple in the Lord. In him you also are being built together in a dwelling place for God by the Spirit Thank you. Yeah, so I I want I want us to notice three sections in this passage here. In the in the first section, verses eleven and twelve, Paul is reminding them seemingly in a kind of insensitive way, about the deep division that existed between Jew and Gentile and just how bad the Gentiles had it before um you know before salvation was open to them. He says he says, remember that you had no hope and you were without God in the world. Like ouch, you know, that's that's deep uh deep despair. That's a that's a bad predicament there But then the next section, verses thirteen through fourteen, or maybe fifteen, is about how Christ changed everything by his death. And his resurrection. Right? And for he himself is our peace who made both groups into one and broke down the barrier of the dividing wall. So he's saying, yeah, you had this this deep division between you guys. Uh and it it looked insurmountable and Gentiles, you were completely hopeless and without God in the world. But look what Jesus did. He did he did what no human being could do in dying for you, reconciling you first to God and then to each other by tearing down that wall of hostility. He's saying, look at the work that Christ did. And there's there's kind of a you know an analogy here between what Christ did, um how Christ tore the curtain. of the temple, remember that happened when when Christ died on the cross. He tore the the veil, the curtain of the temple, which was the barrier between a holy God and sinful man So if he can do that, if he can tear down that dividing wall and reconcile man to God, um how much more so can he reconcile two groups of humans who are hostile to each other And then so that's the second section. And then the the third section is is uh verses fifteen to twenty-two talking about the effects of what Christ did, the resulting unity that He has purchased for us. And notice how He uses three metaphors. Three separate metaphors to describe the unity of the church. He says in verse 15 in that in himself Christ might make the two, that is Jew and Gentile, into one new man. Thus establishing peace. So there's the metaphor of of a person, of a body, right? One new man. Um you know that that's a that's a strong statement on unity. It's not just like two different people dwelling together. It's one there Christ is making Jew and Gentile into one new man, or has made them into one new man. He says one body in verse 16 And then the second uh metaphor that Paul uses here is the metaphor of the household, the family. Look at verse 19. So then you are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens with the saints and are of God's household. That was important because It was only the members of the household, the family, that that could receive the inheritance. And Paul in all of his letters talks about our glorious inheritance you know, that we have in heaven laid up for us in Christ. And so it's important that Gentiles are part of that same family because they get the inheritance, just like Jews do. And that so that's another effect of this unity that Christ has purchased. And then if you look at the the rest of the last three verses here, Paul uses yet another metaphor to describe the unity of the church. And that's the metaphor of a building, right? A temple of God. Lord. So, you know, he Paul wants you to picture with this with this fitted together the idea of like laying bricks or laying stones that interlock. you know, uh, in in layers, one on top of another. And that's the kind of um sort of detailed granular unity that Christ has purchased for the church and that he wants to see the church live out. Yeah, so I think in this passage he's he's emphasizing that there is now no longer any distinction In terms of the value and the dignity that God accords to Jews and Gentiles in the church So how does this how does this relate to us today? Well, I mean if you think about it, the distinction between Jew and Gentile is something that God made, right? Like God gave the law to the Jews. He chose Israel out of all the nations. So the fact that they were set apart was was God's doing, right? It wasn't man's doing Um so if God, through the death of Christ, has the power to reconcile two groups that He has made separate. Then how much more so does he have the power, through the death of Christ, to reconcile groups that uh are only separate because of human hatred and pride and division? Right, so if he has the power to reconcile Jew and Gentile, he has the power to reconcile all the different ethnicities in the church today. Even in spite of even in spite of our our sinful history and our generations of uh sinful relations. Towards one another. Okay. Questions on that one. Oh, one last point about this. Paul in all of his letters, or most of his letters, to the churches, he has this structure where in the in the first half of the letter he goes through these big concepts, these theological truths. that that are sort of abstract but but very important. And then in the second half of the letter he goes into application and he gives commands and and principles for how uh the church can live out those big truths that he cover in the first part. So what we just read, that's part of the big truths section of Ephesians, you know, the fact that that um Christ has purchased this unity between Jew and Gentile In chapter four of Ephesians, Paul turns to how do we apply that truth? Right? So if you're still in Ephesians, just look forward a couple more chapters to chapter four And I want to read verses one through uh uh three with us. Okay. So Paul says, I therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, entreat you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling with which you have been called. This is the application. With all humility and gentleness, with patience, showing forbearance to one another in love, being diligent to preserve the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace. So this is what we're supposed to do. Notice he doesn't say be diligent to bring about unity in the body. He says, be diligent to preserve the unity of the bot of the Spirit in the bond of peace. He's looking back to what Christ has already done. He has made us one. In Christ. We our job is to preserve that unity. And how do we do it? Look at verse 2 With humility and gentleness. Yes, with patience, showing forbearance to one another in love. That's how we preserve the unity. not like like critical theory would have us do uh with you know violent activism or um you know, group conflicts trying to overthrow uh and and tear down uh each other Scripture in scripture the way we preserve the unity of the bond of the bond, um the unity of the spirit and the bond of peace is with humility And gentleness with love for one another. And if we get to it today, we're going to see an example of how the early church did just that in this area of ethnic conflict between Jews and Gentiles. I'm not sure that we'll get there today, but it might be next week. Um but I think it's r it's gonna be really helpful to go through that example and I think that's that example is very instructive to the church today and how we can you know, how about this section on how we should be affirming all the ways in which we as human beings and especially believers are equal in our nature and our essence. So the only hope that we have for the the people that have different ideology with uh with the word that's right yeah I mean I don't know if you all see how you see this playing out in in your schools or your various institutions But at my work, I work for the the federal government and my agency um has a lot of programs designed to promote diversity. The agency spends a lot of money, a lot of time, a lot of effort um trying to bring about diversity through like trainings and through all these things that that are definitely not based on scripture. Uh in fact they're increasingly based on on ideas that come from critical theory. But the result is not really that spectacular in terms of like how black people and white people work together or all the you know all the different different ethnicities at work. Much greater um integration and working together between people of diff different ethnicities than I do at my workplace. And that's not because like Hope Bible Church has diversity programs. for us. And Hope Bible Church has been faithful to teach the scriptures and and um the the principles that we should be applying to preserve that unity. Uh and that's not to say that the church is perfect. And we we certainly, you know, I'm sure there are areas that we need to to work harder in to promote and preserve that unity Um but I'm saying, you know, to my eyes it looks like Hope Bible Church is doing a way better job than the world. Uh Yeah. What do you guys think? Um some people question like why is it that you know today in society we see that violence and revenge are the two common ways that people use to bring about so-called so-called equality and so to understand like you mentioned before there's two fundamental differences between what we believe and what they believe and what they believe because there is a fundamental difference in power between the hegemony and the oppressed minority. Um there is the core principle of victimization Mm-hmm. So those who have power can never be victims because they themselves have never been oppressed because they are the oppressors, therefore the minorities cannot um be known as oppressors because all they've known is victimization. And so ironically to them, um the only way to flip the table or reverse the cards as you would say would be to disrupt the hegemony in the most effective way is through violence and retribution. Um which is funny because even in that faction there is people who say no we should use gentleness and self-control because we need to demonstrate that as the minority We are worthy of being, you know, at the top because we are respectable people. But then there are those who say they will never respect us anyways because they are an oppressor. So might as well just use revenge and violence But if you study it carefully, it's like polar opposites. Yeah Yeah. between dominant and minoritized groups as as something that cuts to the core of your nature and who you are, then it's it's hard not to have a moral relativism about like The tactics that you use. Yeah. The goal is to create have justice. How can you do that by fractionating keep it smaller and smaller little tribes. I think yeah. It's like it's like justice for that one group. Right If you study world history, if you study the history of our entire race, it's always somebody saying, promising to other people, I'm going to deliver justice. But what always happens at the end? Justice only is given to those who Yeah, exactly. Like we never keep our promises because we're in parents. But human justice can never be a common So ultimately you will always get division. And so whenever people tell you college professors, peers, group leaders when they say, oh, if you work together with us, well it's she a utopia. Uh-huh. You can't even like like live peaceably with your roommate Because a petty thing. So how are you gonna build a world utopia? So you just have to think very critically about that. It just sounds super sweet and people just create into it or This is fantastic, but it's not hard to do. That's an interesting distinction. Not to like go into a whole lot of examples here, but it doesn't really make a lot of sense the way we See it because I had someone tell me that I was helping an older woman. It was a white lady, so I was in her house working helping her, but they said because I I wasn't out like feeding the underprivileged black people in the city I was doing wrong by helping that lady. It really doesn't like make any sense that Man, who was telling you that? Okay. Or like what? Was it on like social media or something? Um it was actually some Oh, okay. Wow. Just discussing a lot with people. Yeah. Oh. Yeah. Almost reminding me like when we had like Indian tribes. Each tribe had their little land and little little group And then if you if you, you know, kill one person in my butt. And I'll take my people over there and I kill kill your people and then it this this kill is constantly going. I feel like separate us is feel like I feel like we create ourselves that kind of tribe and then that kind of kind of gay. Yeah. Yeah, the kind of like gay. Like, oh I protect you because you look like me. But then anyone that doesn't look like we then then so that's what we mean. So we we go backward instead of forward. Yep. Yeah I mean that's the natural tendency of humans, right? to to you know get in our tribes and and use whatever means necessary to protect and promote our tribe against others. Um and yeah critical theory I don't think is any different from that sentence. It's still backwards and what when we're not following what God has made clear, it's just rolling backfired and look the other direction. Yeah. Um well so that uh brings us to our second thing that we need to do in thinking biblically about identity. Remember we're talking about identity and sort of deconstructing what critical theory says about identity. And reconstructing identity in terms of what Scripture says. The second thing we have to do is th there are differences that God has created between us. Right. It's advocating equality of essence. and dignity, but it's uh there are God-given differences that we should embrace in God-honoring ways. Alright, so one of those differences is male and female Um we just looked at Genesis 127, which says uh you know in in the image of God he created man and male and female he created them That was before the fall, right? This distinction between men and women uh was part of God's very good creation. And it's not it's not something that needs to be reversed uh by by redemption or anything. And um you can see that uh you know like one of the one of the differences um that uh that God created be f and that existed before the fall and this relationship between male and female was um That remember God made Adam first and he gave him the primary responsibility for obeying God and for carrying out his commands. of uh of taking care of the garden and of filling the earth and subduing it. And then but Adam could not fulfill that command alone. Uh he needed a helper suitable for him. Uh that's what it says in Genesis 2. And actually the word suitable is probably better translated as um uh Adam in the ways that they needed that he needed to be complemented in order to obey the commands of God and fulfill his purpose. Um and yeah, so that that was before the fall, right, that he made male and female to be complementary. Uh it's not a result of the curse And um that logic of of male-female distinction is carried carried forward even into the New Testament. Um check out First Corinthians um sixteen thirteen. I I think I have this one memorized, but I I just want to turn there to m make sure I don't get it wrong. Um 1 Corinthians 16, 13. Paul's talking to the Corinthian church, and he's kind of summing up his letter. He says, Be on the alert, stand firm in the faith, act like men, be strong. Now some of your translations probably don't uh probably have s things like be courageous instead of act like men. But like in the Greek it actually means act like men. You know, so so Um God wants men in the church to act like men, to be strong, to be protectors, uh those who those who defend the truth. And who are able to to fight against uh these these false uh ideas and the things that threaten to take believers captive. Right. And then on the other s on the flip side of that, Scripture addresses women as women. Look at 1 Peter 3, 3 and 4. 1 Peter First Peter three, three and four says, and let not oh he's talking to to women here uh particularly and let not your adornment be merely external, building the hair brit sorry, braiding the hair and wearing gold jewelry or putting on dresses, but let it be the hidden person of the heart, with in with the imperishable quality of a gentle. So he's speaking to women, and he's recognizing that there's this innate desire of women that's good in order to adorn themselves. Um you know, with uh with braiding hair, wearing jewelry, that kind of thing. And he's saying, that's not bad, that's good. That's a good distinction a good way of expressing the male female Distinction. But it shouldn't be the only way you express that. He's saying don't let your adornment be merely external, let it be the hidden person of the heart. with the imperishable quality of a gentle and quiet spirit, which is precious in the sight of God. And, you know, because he's speaking to women here, he's saying, like, women, be women, be have this imperishable quality of that gentle and quiet spirit that is supposed to uniquely define you as as a precious woman in the sight of God. Um I pray this verse over my daughter um I I used to pray it over her every night when I uh put her to bed lately. I've kind of fallen out of that routine, but like this is my desire for her, is that she would know and grow up to know what it means to be a biblical woman, uh, a woman after God God's own heart Um because there's this good distinction between man and woman that uh that is still to be honored in the church. Even though, uh yes, we are absolutely equal in value and in worth and in dignity before the Lord, we're equal in our salvation. We have we're all in Christ, we're all new creations, whether we are men or women. We are all destined to receive the same inheritance, whether we're men or women, but we also have differences that God gave us in order to accomplish the mission of the church. So the question is, how do we embrace this God given difference in a God honoring way? Right. And for that, um you know, look no further than passages like Ephesians five where where Paul talks about the relationship between husbands and wives. You know, does he say, Husbands, you're men, you're strong, therefore insist on your own way. And you know, be the authority, like take charge. Does he say that? Love your wife like Christ loves the church and gave himself up for her. Use your strength in order to serve. Right. That is that is Paul's instruction to men, to husbands in particular. And I believe, you know, you could make a scriptural case, but that's his instruction to men generally, not just husbands. Men in the church, use your strength to serve and protect women. And then to women is uh you know his instruction is to um to to submit to uh their husbands and to be subject as the church is subject to Christ. That's a hard command. Um But it is it's a a command not to sort of overthrow or usurp the good distinction that God has created but to flourish within that structure of authority that he's laid down. Right? So love and respect are kind of the two sides of that coin for for how we embrace this God-given difference in a God-honoring way. Notice how different that is from critical theory, right, which says Uh critical theory says, yeah, we need to embrace our differences as the basis of our struggle for liberation. Right. In the church, it says we say, no, we need to embrace our God-given differences. with humility and gentleness, with love and respect so that we can function as a body with unity. Um another God given difference that we can embrace in a God honoring way is the difference of ethnicity and language. Right? So there there is no such thing as as races you know, multiple races because we're all descended from Adam. But there is such a thing as ethnicity and national origin and language, right? Remember um what the origin of those things is According to scripture? Babel. Babel, yeah. So it's a God given thing. Now, you know, if you read if you read the story of Babel, God uh was was punishing the the humans for um you know, their arrogance and their pride that they could build a tower up to heaven and get to God, right? So but he he wasn't just punishing them by confusing their speech and making them spread over the face of the earth. He was actually helping them accomplish the command that he had given humanity at the beginning. Because remember, he told humanity to fill the earth and subdue it. So and they weren't doing that, they were disobeying. So in order to help them obey, um he gave them this this chastisement of speaking different languages which caused them to separate off into various nationalities and ethnic groups. So it's a God given distinction, you know, even if it came about as a result of sin And but it's not the dis that's not a distinction that's going to be abolished in the new creation in heaven. Uh look at at Revelation seven, nine and ten. This passage that talks about John sees a great multitude coming out of the the Great Tribulation from every uh people and tribe and every nation and tongue. And they're all standing around the throne of Christ and praising him. And the implication is that they're praising him in their different languages, right? So God is not uh trying to make us all like speak Hebrew and like that's the only li phrase language he'll accept or or English, you know Much less. Um and yeah, so we don't we don't need to respond we shouldn't respond to um to our our different languages and ethnicities by trying to convert everyone to one culture. Like that's that would be an unbiblical wrong way of dealing with uh you know, with distinctions in the church. Uh rather we should we should uh subordinate every culture to the commands of scripture and and redeem it for the Lord's service. Uh and then a third thing a third way that we need to embrace God given differences in God honored ways is uh In in the area of spiritual giftedness. And we don't have time to really read the passage on this, but you guys know about spiritual gifts, right? And he says, um, you know, the body has to have many different parts. Like what if the entire body was an eye? Would it function as a body? No. What if the entire body was a foot? Would it function as a body? No. So we need eyes, we need ears, we need hands and feet We need people with different spiritual gifts in order to serve the church. And he knows, Paul knows and God knows, but the temptation is that whenever there's a difference like that Between people, uh some are gonna use that as um a way to exalt themselves and to denigrate others. And that's what the Corinthian church was doing when Paul wrote to them about spiritual gifts. They were saying, I have the gift of prophecy. I have the gift of tongues. Those are those are spectacular, wonderful gifts. Therefore you should all honor me because I can speak in tongues and speak prophecies. And Paul was saying, no, that's not the way to look at spiritual gifts. Um we take the parts look at how we treat our bodies. We treat the parts of our body that are less honorable, less presentable, like our feet, with special honor. We wash our feet, you know, and we care for them specially. That's how we should work in the body of Christ. You know, those with the less spectacular gifts should be honored by those with the more with the more spectacular gifts. Um and so it's this principle and then he goes into the into First Corinthians thirteen, which is the the chapter on love that everybody reads at weddings, right? So what's the way that we embrace this these God-given differences of spiritual gifts? We embrace them in love by putting others' interests before our own Uh that's how we embrace those differences in a God-onerry way. I didn't I couldn't discard over the attack It's so it's maybe not relevant right now, but when you're talking about the different languages, is that something that is talking about at the very end, like all of Um well so yeah, so that that is particularly talking about um um in in heaven, you know, the the saints coming out of the Great Tribulation. So that's not that's not quite at the very end of time. Um but the in if you look at the description of the New Jerusalem in Revelation I think twenty one or twenty-two, it does say that that like the tree of life grows on e on either side of the river and its leaves are for the healing of the nations. Uh so it does mention nations in in the end. Uh in in the the New Jerusalem, the final consummated state of glory. Um uh the you know it's we don't want to lean too much on on one word in in one verse. But like honestly we don't have a lot of description of that final state. Um but it seems like uh you know from because these these saints coming out of the Great Tribulation, they're already glorified. They're wearing white robes, you know, they've been made complete. They've been made perfect, and yet their language and national distinctions have not been erased. of God and then I stripped everyone of everything and I made them a homogenous loop. Yeah. So it's not that easy. So it goes both ways. Yeah. So so you you you see right now that you you see but you see right now that the people in China who didn't know English and prayed to God in Chinese and the person in Jap Japan do the same thing the person in Albanian do the same thing but when they die they only know that language that that their language. So when they pray God in heaven that's what they pray God with, that's the same language that they Yeah. And so so God is He knows thousands and thousands of ten languages. It doesn't matter what language you pray they have We still understand it. And that's what amazing about us. That's what heaven would look like. Absolutely, yeah. So you better learn Chinese. Uh-huh. No, there's this there's this caricature. Right, there's this caricature of like of the of Christian missionaries as like these colonialists who are going to other countries in order to export like American English speaking culture to the indigenous people and turn them all into like little white kids. Right. That nothing could be further from the biblical truth. Like that's just the slander of the world. It's not that's not uh what the missionary movement is about. That's not what scripture teaches. Uh it's not at all what we were intended to do Um yeah, and then just real briefly The the last thing we need to do is is to understand that the world makes up identity groups and identity categories that that have no place in scripture and they should have no place really in our view of the world either And so we gotta recognize these false identities that are fabricated by the world and reject them. And we've already talked a little bit about race, how you know race is is uh a construct, it really is a social construct It's it's a it's a concept that people have made up because they have sinful prejudice in their hearts and they want to treat people differently based on how they look Um and but it's not biblical. There's no biblical basis for speaking of different races. Instead, we should speak of different ethnicities. That is a biblical word. The word ethne, the word ethnic comes from the Greek ethne, which is the word that the Bible uses to refer to nations and people groups Right. So there are there are ethnicities and we um you know I think it it's helpful that uh um Pastor Gabe speaks of of ethnic pride and ethnic hatred instead of racism because those are those are biblical terms and those are real sins that that we are uh you know really tempted by and that some of us have really committed and we need to face up to those things and we need to face up to them and see them the way God sees them, not the way the world sees them. Right. So I think that's a big theme with critical theory is like uh is is redeeming the language you know, tr training our minds to use biblical terms and vocabulary instead of the vocabulary that the world uses. Because, you know, one thing that critical theory does is that it it takes words that have common meanings in in the vernacular and it loads them up with um with technical academic meanings that that are contradictory to the popular meaning And then it sort of relies on on that equivocation in terms of definition as a rhetorical ploy in in the activism that it does in society Um so you know one good way to guard against that is to use biblical terminology. Right. Uh time a bit. Okay. Phew, yeah, we're gonna save gender identity and sexual orientation for next time, I think. Cause we only have seven minutes left. And I wanna take I want to take prayer requests. So let me pause this guy