Okay, so this is going to be our third week uh going going through critical theory. Um and you know you might wonder like why are we spending so much time on on this worldview. We only spent two weeks on the biblical worldview, and two weeks on scientific naturalism. This is our third week in critical theory. And it it's I think it's because um well first there's a lot. Uh there's a lot here, a lot under the surface. But also like the church doesn't really have a great temptation to absorb the ideas of scientific naturalism. Like that's not a huge temptation uh you know for believers to to you know become atheists. Yeah, sure we we think reductionistically sometimes and we think in terms of scientism sometimes. So those are good to watch out for and be on the alert for. But with with critical theory, there's actually a lot of Christians who are um looking at this and maybe not seeing the whole worldview. But trying to to say, okay, there's some useful stuff here that we should incorporate into um the way we read the Bible, uh the way we live out our faith. And I think it's uh it's subtle enough and and dangerous enough that we need to spend some time talking about it. Because um, you know, it can the church absorbing these these kinds of ideas uh from critical theory is it it may seem attractive at first, but it's not gonna lead to true justice. It's not gonna lead to a God honoring outcome And I want us to see how God has given us everything we need in the scriptures to do the kinds of things that He called us to. with respect to treating each other rightly. Okay, so uh so last time we started into the the biblical response to critical theory. We started with this this first of five questions that critical theory really poses to us that we need to answer biblically And that first question was, um, how should we view our identity, you know, the nature of humanity? And we said, um There are basically three things that we need to do scripturally. We have to uh affirm the ways in which all humans are the same in essence and dignity. Um yeah, and those those ways include that we all bear the same image of God. He talks about this. We all come from Adam. Uh there are not separate races. Um You know, we all we all equally bear the image of God, male and female, whatever nationality we're from. Uh the second way is that all humans are equally condemned as sinners. It uh the the Bible says that Scripture has shut all up under sin. Uh that means you know we're all equally condemned uh by God's standard, God's revealed law for how we should be living. Um, none of us measures up to that. So we we're all understand We all need to be saved from the wrath of God. That's true whether we're part of a an oppressor group or a victim group. We all need salvation. And then the third way is that for believers, we're all new creations in Christ. And that reality, that that core of our being, as a new creature in Christ. transcends all those differences of you know like Jew and Gentile or other other ethnic differences or even even male and female. We we are all new creations in Christ and we all have the same value and status in God's kingdom. And then we also looked at another way that we need to view our identity, and that is that we need to embrace God-given differences. in God honoring ways. It's on the the table back there. Anyone need one of those? Yes, I see some people look out. Yeah, this is all in the handout, by the way. So we need to embrace God-given differences in God-honoring ways. So you know, even though we all have, as believers, the same status and the same core essence as new creations in Christ, there are still God-given distinctions between us. You know, he's still he has not abolished the distinction between men and women or between uh people of of different ethnicities and who speak different languages. Like those are good God-given distinctions that we should embrace. But we should embrace them in God-honoring ways Not as not as divisions that are the basis of factions within the church, but we should embrace them in love by um preferring one another in honor And you know, for example, men and women, men should honor women and protect and provide for them, especially husbands providing for and protecting their wives. um not treat this this male-female distinction as an occasion to abuse authority or um selfishly uh benefit from from power Okay, and then the third thing that we just started to cover last time was that we need to reject the false identities that are fabricated by the world. And so last time we talked about race, which we had already sort of mentioned, right? We we saw we reminded ourselves that the Bible tells us how God made from one man, Adam, uh every nation of man to dwell on the earth So there's nothing that goes to the core of our being that separates us as as different ethnicities. Um so we shouldn't we shouldn't really speak of races, we should speak of ethnicities, which is uh another word for nationalities. Right. So that that is a biblical distinction and one that we can embrace because it doesn't cut to the core of who we are. Okay, but two other categories that that critical theory really sees as fundamental to a person's identity, but that are not biblical categories and and are are actually fabricated by the world. These are gender identity as distinct from biological sex and sexual orientation. So we don't have time to go like real in-depth into this. And I do plan to, you know, later later in the course have a day where we discuss just the theology of gender and the theology of of sex and sexual orientation. But real quick, the point is here that uh gender identity as as as distinct from biological sex is not a normative category of of human personality. Who knows what what I mean by that? What does normative mean? You guys know what normative means? Okay, so normative means it uh is something that should be that way, right? So Male and female, that's a normative category of variation for humans, right? That's that is like humans should come in male and female. It's not like it's not like one is better than the other. No, they're they're nor it's a normative category. Uh can anybody think of a non-normative category of human variation? Right not maybe not one of these that I have here. So it is Yeah. Um yeah, it's not I mean it's a I guess it depends on if there's like a an under underlying you know physiological pathology there. Um I guess you could have like you could theoretically imagine someone who's who's genetically normal being AC tall, but that that would be pretty extreme. How about how about like like being born blind, right? Uh that's you know, that that's not a normative category of of human variation. God did not intend for people to come in in sighted and blind. You know, when Jesus encountered the blind man who's been blind from birth And he said, you know, Lord heal me, have mercy on me. Jesus didn't say, Oh no, it's it's fine that you're blind. You know, God made you that way. No, he he actually healed the man because he recognized you know, that in in God's design we are supposed to have a functioning sight. Um now, of course, that Like th there's a a whole bunch of implications for this. Like we don't we obviously don't discriminate against somebody who uh is born blind um or or treat them as inferior in their being, but we recognize that that blindness is not a normative category of human variation. It's it's a pathology. Um so it's the same with these two two things, gender identity and sexual orientation. Um the world wants to claim that these are normative categories of human variation, right? That that like take gender identity. You know, the claim here is that there is There is a biological sex, which is a feature of your body, and there is your gender identity, which is something that you subjectively discern, and that human beings should come in all kinds of combinations of those two things, right? You there there should be biologically male people with with female gender identity. identity and biologically female people with male gender identity and all the the other genders that that they sort of put on the spectrum of gender That's the claim, is that that's normative. But uh that is that contradicts scripture, right? That's not that's not how God created us. First of all, we read in Genesis 127 that God created us male and female. So that establishes his design right there. Yeah. And and then throughout scripture, when God when it talks about God like knitting us together in our mother's womb Or when it talks about a child, it always talks about like a male child or a female child. The assumption is not that that that that child is going to grow up to discern whatever gender they are The assumption is that God makes a whole person, body and soul. There's no separation between those two things Uh and that and that he makes he doesn't make a male body with a female soul or a female body with a male soul. He just makes he makes a man or a woman And so that that's the view that scripture has of gender. that you that there's this separation between body and soul. Right? That that's a pagan concept. That's an import from particularly Greek culture. The Greeks saw the body as as this evil thing that was a prison for the soul. And they saw the goal of life was to liberate the soul from the body. And you know that kind of echoes the the the the teaching about gender identity from critical theory, which is that there's this soul that that could be female trapped in a male body or or vice versa And the goal is to liberate the soul from that and then to bring the body under conformity to the soul. So that that's a that's a pagan, particularly Greek concept of humanity. In the Bible, we're always treated as bodily creatures. There is no And um you can See this just by looking at what our end state is. You know, what's our what's our final destiny? Is our final destiny to be disembodied souls up in heaven worshiping God No. No. What what are we going to be? In the creation. Perfect creations. In glory. And what what will we have? Eternal life in a resurrected body, right? The resurrection is key to uh the biblical theology of who we are as people, right? Because we are destined for a resurrection body to live in eternity, that means that the body is a key part of who we are as people. Right. Um yeah, I'm I'm getting off on a tangent. But but the point is that God makes made the body to be an integral part of who we are. He didn't make there he didn't make it so that there would be a separation between body and soul Um so so you know, throughout scripture there's this idea that that uh God creates men and women, not um male bodies and female bodies with male souls or female souls to to sort of mix and match. those things. So there is no scripturally speaking though there's no normative category of gender identity. Now we all have a gender identity. Right? That just means how you um how you feel or how you experience your own gender. Right? So we all have a gender identity. It's just not normative. It's subordinate to our uh our created reality Right. I am a man, therefore my gender identity should follow that reality and be male. And and so there's this causal arrow, right? There's there's the causal arrow between the nature God gave us causing our gender identity. And critical theory wants to reverse that arrow. It wants to say gender identity is supreme and it should cause our our biology to change, to be conformed to that. Okay. Yeah. D to those who hold to um choosing your own night and any other way they consider that I wonder if that's a a re a ra a a wise way to go in terms of the badges. Well I wouldn't want to say you're you're not normative giving the Yeah, it may not be wise to leave with that. No, and I I think to be fair, it's not I They would not argue that they're that they're choosing their identity on on a whim. They would they would argue either that there's that there's some fundamental um aspect of their personality that that they're born with that that is God made you this way. And you know, so in that case, I think I think there are there are sort of logical problems that you could point out with that kind of view, um, which maybe we'll we'll get into later. But um But yeah, it's not uh yeah, our our approach needs to be filled with gentleness and respect. Yeah, I think I mean who from my own experience is yeah, they do believe it's normal to frame that The rest of society isn't normal, so therefore I determine what the norm is. So yeah. And some of them mentioned how like they were two or three with the toddlers of the infants that they just knew they were trapped or some people expressed this feeling of like something's wrong. They can't say Only to find out a decade or two later that, oh, I was just simply bored into the wrong vessel. The wrong kind of therefore. Because I'm the master of my own identity I I have the right to choose what I want. So there you go. I always wondered like at two, how do you I mean, I'm just think I think speaking about getting food thing. Let alone thinking you know male female. I have zero memories from one or three Yeah. But but yeah, I mean but it it's like it's sort of understandable why they would think that under this worldview. Because under this worldview where where existence precedes essence, right, like our our existence is a blank slate um to be to be filled later on by our personality. It it's perfectly logical that you could be born into the wrong vessel. It's just completely illogical under a biblical worldview Uh that that could happen. So it really gets back to these these foundational statements of the worldview about about who we are. Yes. Yeah, I've just seen um I've had one or two friends that they had that master alone With which said existence before I think. Yeah. Yeah, or it's just like they just struggle so much to fill in to their identity and it's just overwhelming to just confusion. It's really, really sad. Yeah. I yeah, I know. I have friends like that too. Growing up in in high school I had uh several friends who were were existentialists, which that's kind of the the overarching philosophy where existence precedes essence. But they you know, I was talking with them and and this one guy was trying to uh convinced me that it was a good thing, you know, that it was a freeing thing, because we get we have freedom to define our own meaning. And I was like, that that just sounds exhausting. And Like, if you're the if you're the one defining your own meaning, how does it mean anything? And I don't know. We we had to agree to disagree after that conversation. But yeah, it's just there is I have a lot of compassion for for people who are struggling under that burden So I'm wondering what is the root cause of that kind of thinking? Is it because there's no fear of God or not knowing God's word or not believing what God says? Deception. Yeah, I think it's I think it's a deception um that that has its roots in in the Enlightenment, which we talked about with scientific naturalism. You know, the the the triumph of human reason um in understanding the world in a mechanistic way. Prior to the scientific revolution, it was very common to see reality is kind of a layered thing, right? There's this this hierarchy of being. Uh there's you know there's the stuff, the matter at the at the lowest level. But then on top of that, there's really things like like rocks and trees, those are fundamentally different categories. Um and you know, and human beings are are on top of that and angels. And then it was common to think of the world of ideas or forms, right, as being um having a separate existence, uh a different kind of existence. And so it was common to recognize things as as uh created categories, like like for instance male and female. to to afford them an existence in themselves that was that was somehow fundamental, somehow as fundamental as the existence of of like atoms and molecules. You know, with with the the scientific revolution and the enlightenment and the gradual uh encroachment of reductionism, I think, on our on our collective psyche that has kind of disappeared, right? Now we kind of think mechanistically about everything. There's there's just stuff and it's all flat. And anything that we name a particular pile of stuff is just a name that we come up with with for it. Um I I really I really think that it's that it's the the slow gathering of reductionism that that has made it possible for people to see reality in that way. Well, and then the other one is uh is sexual orientation Which um, you know, when we when the world talks about sexual orientation, um they define it as uh you know, the an an enduring attraction to uh a particular gender, right? To other people of a particular gender, either your own or or the other gender. And um when we as as Christians talk about sexual orientation, we have to be careful to distinguish between um between attraction to the same sex, which is a temptation, and the practice of homosexuality, which biblically is a sin. And we have to distinguish between those two things because you know, the being attracted to somebody of the same sex, that's that's a temptation uh and it's a it's a disordered thing, it's not a normative category of human personality, but it's also not a sin. You know, there are Christians who struggle with same sex attraction, but they see it as a temptation to sin and they're seeing it rightly, you know, and that's just part of their sanctification Um but the the practice of homosexuality that that's a some that's an action, that's a sin. Uh that that is wrong. You know, and the world doesn't make that distinction because they say like, oh, well, you know, if you're sexually attracted to this kind of person, then you know of course you should have sex with them. You know, of course you should fulfill that desire Um but you know we ha we have to draw that distinction. Not everything that we are that we are uh I mean I think you see that in like uh things like um let's say drunkenness, you know, I think there there's um I I I read some research a while ago that that there may be uh hereditary basis for alcoholism. Right. So but I don't think anybody would say that uh that being an alcoholic getting getting drunk is the is the right thing to do based on that hereditary predisposition. Anyway, so we could talk about how um So I'll just I'll just briefly point out that that when the Bible talks about sex, you know, this is another example of something that our society sees as, oh, just just a thing, right? Like sex is just a thing that people do for fun. But the Bible sees it as much more meaningful than that, right? God created sex to be the sign and the fulfillment of the covenant of marriage That's why it says in Genesis two that um a man shall leave his father and mother and and be united to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. that that language one flesh is is referring to sex, to the sexual union. And um Jesus affirmed this uh when he taught on marriage And he he quoted that passage of scripture and he said, Um, you know, if anyone divorces his wife and marries another woman, he has committed adultery. So the Bible consistently teaches that sex is only for marriage. You know, it says Uh it condemns fornication, which is sex before marriage. It condemns adultery, which is a married person having sex with someone outside of marriage. It condemns homosexuality. Because marriage can only be between one man and one woman. It condemns divorce and remarriage, because marriage is supposed to be a covenant for life So there is no sense in which God created sexual orientation to be a normative category of human variation. So we gotta we gotta be really careful in how we talk about that. And I think as Christians we we should not even say technically that somebody is gay or Or somebody is a lesbian. You know, we should say that person struggles with same-sex attraction, or that person practices homosexuality. Yeah. Yeah it's kind of kind of a radical thing to say these days. But I don't know. Because you don't want that to someday I Right, because it's not it's not part of their God given identity. And I think it's something that that Satan has really By convincing people that homosexuality is part of my identity or being transgender is part of my identity, that sets up a huge roadblock to embracing the gospel. Right? It's a way it's a way to trap people and take them captive in this in this kind of ideology that says false things about the very core of who we are Weighty topic, but uh any any questions about before we move on for my guess. And I just want to make w one more point. I I mentioned that there are there are believers who struggle with same-sex attraction. So yeah, we have to be really careful to to make a distinction between temptation and sin. And the worst thing you can do as a believer is bury your temptations, right? Like if you are tempted, if you are tempted with same-sex attraction, the worst thing you can do is hide that out of shame We in the church should be uh open with one another. We should be uh willing to confess and share these struggles with other people, and and we should be willing to listen to other people who have these struggles Right, and not not condemn them just for facing a temptation, right? But rather exhort them to respond in a godly way to that temptation. Yeah, the last thing I want is is for the church to become a place where everyone pretends to be righteous. Right. Jesus said, I did not come to call the righteous, but to call sinners to repentance. We are all sinners. Like don't be ashamed of the specific temptations that you face. Um rather walk in the light. That is a good good way to uh approach it is It's a temptation rather than um thinking about it. Yeah. I think a nod from further Yeah, I had a friend in grad school who um He was he was from China and he was um at he was he he had come to America and he you know so he was like away from his home culture and his family for for the first time. And he was exploring both Christianity and um you know he he perceived that that he was gay. And so he was formed that like culture and part of his identity too. And I remember just um having a lot of long conversations with him and were I was just listening to him and listening to him and trying to help him think biblically about same sex attraction. um trying to help him see that it wasn't part a normative part of his identity, but that it was a temptation and that God didn't make him that way and that um You know, I I think he ultimately I think rejected um the gospel and chose to embrace homosexuality as part of his identity. Uh that was Um that was a very sad thing, but I but it was good to see I mean I mean I I think it was it was good that we had those conversations. He appreciates it, certainly. All right, let's go on to question two. So, question two, what is the nature of knowledge in the Bible? So remember critical theory. It uh it not only makes claims about our identity, about um who we are as human beings, it makes claims about how we know what we know. And one of its claims about knowledge is that all knowledge is culturally constructed. Meaning that that every truth claim that that a human being can utter is is phrased in human language that consists of concepts that human society has invented and imbued with meaning. And so they use this as as a way to say there is no objective truth. All truth is culturally constructed and therefore relative. And so what do you guys think about that Yeah. It is a big lie. How do you know? Yeah, I mean is is the Bible the product of human culture? No, it's it's the Word of God, right? If even if all other knowledge were were culturally constructed, we have one document, one source of knowledge that is not actually the product of any And you find this expressed most clearly in Second Peter one twenty one, where he says no prophecy was ever made by an act of human will, but men moved by the Holy Spirit spoke from God. This is uh you know this is by no means the only place in scripture where where the authors of scripture talk about other scripture as as being the word of God, but it's probably the clearest place where it it Affirms that everything in Scripture comes from God. And it's very important that we see this view of the Bible. It's not just the the lofty thoughts of men who were trying to reach for an understanding of God. That's not what the Bible is. It's also not a mixture of God's thoughts and then man's thoughts about God It's um it's God working and moving in men's hearts to write down God's words. And remember when we were talking about reductionism and how we're not reductionists, how we believe that there can be multiple causal explanations at different levels for the same event. The inspiration of scripture is another example of that, right? Because there there is a human level of explanation for scripture. There are human authors. You know, they did actually use um I was going to say pen and paper, but whatever writing implements they used back then, they they actually did form the words in their minds. But At another level, at a higher level of causation, there is God deciding exactly what words that those human authors would write and put down on parchment or clay tablets. And besides, that claim that all knowledge is culturally constructed, that's a little bit self-refuting, isn't it? And d anybody know what I what I mean by that? Yeah, yeah. Nowadays the thing is you make your own truth. But that implies in itself that there is no truth out there. Because if anybody can make up truth and what is truth. So there's half relativism and half uh Yeah. Yeah, well and and that statement, right, that statement that there is no absolute truth or that all knowledge is culturally constructed, that statement is an absolute statement, right? It's a universal claim. It either is true for everyone or it's false for everyone. Um so is that claim culturally constructed? Yeah No you can't go both ways on that. So yeah, any any philosophy that denies the existence of of any absolute truth whatsoever is self-refuting um just on its own on its face, without without even considering any any of the ways that it uh plays out in real life, which are sounds like a rule of judge. Yeah, what you know things are right according everyone I mean. That's right for you self. Right, yeah. That is the that's the highest or the strongest indictment of scripture The strongest indictment in scripture of a culture is that everyone was doing what was right in his own eyes. That is in in the biblical view, that's when the culture has fallen apart Um in in the under the worldview of critical theory, that's when a culture is flourishing. Yeah Um okay. Is so the other claim of critical theory with respect to knowledge is that one of the reasons that they or the main reason they reject the idea that there is absolute truth is because they see these grand meta-narratives, these these uh the the story of all of human history, they see those things as tools of ideological control Right. They they see they see those things as um ways for a for the dominant group to project their ideology onto the oppressed groups uh through uh through the culture And that's the way that some critical theorists see the Bible. Critical theory actually has a complicated relationship, see the Bible Um you know there there are some in critical theory who uh would would consider themselves part of the church and they want to use the tools of critical theory in order to interpret and understand the Bible and sort of blend the two and combine them into uh social activism. Right. There are others in critical theory who just say, no, reject the Bible, like it's a tool of ideal ideological control and oppression. So, I mean let's deal with that that that second one. Uh is the is the Bible a tool of ideological control and oppression? To to us as believers, it's our freedom. But you have to think about it as polar opposites. So if you're not a believer you're spiritually dead. Yeah. Is that technically your fault We could argue more or less about that, but the fact is you are spiritually and therefore cannot respond to God. So the perception that there is a God that radically threatens your worldview because if you assume everything in the Bible is true, then what it's saying is that your life is basically forfeit the way it is. And so to those people, to the other end of the spectrum, that's completely unacceptable. Yeah. Because the Bible is telling them your reality is a lie. Yeah. And they're like, but my reality, I like the way it is, and I don't want to think there's a God who's I don't want to be judged, right? And so I think part of that comes from the systemic nature of sin. Yeah. Unable to respond to God's truth. So ultimately you get rejected. Yeah. And then that's control. Right, yeah. Who who is this God or who are you people to tell me what I should do in my life? I can't do God, so Right, yeah. I mean yeah, it makes total sense that that uh people who are who are blinded by the deceptiveness of sin would see the Bible this way as as an oppressive thing, right? Because it's challenging their entire view of reality and who they are. Um but it you know it's worth noting up front that like the the idea, the thesis that the Bible Is is intended to be a tool of ideological control, particularly in our modern day American society is is kind of ludicrous, right? Like it was written between two thousand and thirty five hundred years ago by like forty different authors, most of whom were Jewish and all of whom lives in the ancient Near East. Like they had you know, Western culture didn't exist yet. They weren't trying to write to prop up our ideology. Now of course, like it's possible for people to come and and take the Bible and twist it to um to support ideological control, right? Like the the uh Southern slaveholders did this in the eighteen hundreds when they when they took um when they ripped ideas and text out of the Bible and out of their context and twisted them to support the idea that they were superior and their slaves were inferior. So that can happen. The Bible can be twisted to support that. But the Bible as it was written, as it was inspired by God originally, is not uh is not a tool of oppression. Like it was it was never designed to to prop up our modern culture. Um but you oh sorry I was gonna say how can uh critical how how how can how can they say s something about the Bible as a tool if I know that to control or at the same time tell me I started taking classes on New definitions of pronouns and I will be shunned if I don't call any issue. Yeah. Well this is a huge blind spot of critical theory, of the worldview. They don't recognize that they are the ones exerting ideological control in the culture right now, right? So It's it's not um so Aaron you said something earlier uh you referred to systemic sin. I think that's that's a great uh segue or a great term to describe like And the Bible does speak of grand systems, like big large-scale frameworks of, for lack of a better word, oppression. It's probably better to call them deception. then oppression though, right? Because remember in the first in um the first lesson in the in this uh in this course we talked about Like, our struggle is not against flesh and b uh blood, but against the rulers and the powers and the authorities and the spiritual forces of wickedness in the heavenly realms And we saw from cross-referencing other scriptures that it's talking there about uh deceptive ideas, like hollow and deceptive philosophies, teachings of demons, uh Another another passage refers to it as. And so the big systems that exert ideological control and and take people captive are teachings, they're ideas, right? And um that is an example of what critical theory calls hegemonic power, right? A small a small group of people or uh in this case you know demonic beings exerting control over the masses through uh through something like an ideology But they fail to recognize that like a lot of the examples of hegemonic power in our society are critical theories controlling people. Right? So if you look at we um you know in the educational system. Most until recently, a majority of Americans did not accept evolution. And yet it was taught uniformly in public schools. Uh that's you know that's hegemonic power. That is an example of the minority controlling the views of the many through through an institution called education. Or, you know, education critical theory is is prominent in um in education schools today. So people teachers getting a master's in education are more than likely learning critical pedagogy and bringing that to the classrooms of uh their students. And so You know, that's another means of of critical theory exerting hegemonic influence in society. Uh we already talked about the entertainment industry, you know, um how uh we saw how the coming out narrative is um really pervading a lot of movies and TV these days and you know despite the fact that um the LGBT population is is a pretty small fraction of the overall population. Um they have control over the stories that make it into movies and TV. Uh so that's hegemonic power too. So I think you know it's it's easy to to list ways in which critical theory manifests itself as an ideology that is intended to take people captive. and to control others. Um yeah, but l I mean just look at what Jesus says about his own teaching It he does not mean it to be burdensome and oppressive. He says, take my yoke, that stands for a rabbi's teaching Take my teaching, uh my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and humble in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. So that's what the Bible is. It it's the ideas that at first seem oppressive to us 'cause we're under sin, but it's actually what's going to bring us true freedom. It's what's going to uh give us rest for our souls. Questions on this part. Alright, so what is the relationship between personal experience and truth? So remember critical theory, so it rejects the grand meta-narratives, it rejects objective truth. And it says, instead we should be looking at the personal experience, the lived experience of especially those who are members of oppressed groups. Right, and that that's what we should be looking to for our source of fundamental truth. Um, for example, uh like what we were just talking about, the You know, if if somebody says, as as a gay man, I know from my lived experience that sexual orientation is a fundamental part of my identity Like uh under critical theory, critical theory says we should never question that claim because that is the the highest form of authority that that someone can uh uh can have is their own personal lived experience. Um what do you guys think about that? If you boil it down again you reach the conclusion that Apart from God, I'm the decider of my own truth, which is my own life experience. God has no right to tell me what I deem to be right or wrong. wrong because he doesn't know my life or he doesn't own my life. What challenges everything about God's sovereignty and a supreme authority in all things. So yeah, it's a matter of privacy but prior from God. I can do whatever I want. And I can say whatever I want. Um Yeah. Yeah, yeah, I think you're right. It's it's a form of rebellion against God. It's kind of a the same thing as as what happened in Genesis three in the gardens, right? Um the serpent said You know, did God really say that? Uh he he wasn't telling you the truth. You can go and gain wisdom for yourself by eating the fruit of the tree Right. You can you can be wise like God so that you don't need him to tell you what to do. It's yeah, it's the same kind of rebellion. Um But I mean why how what do we do with that? Like what do we do with someone's claim of a lived experience that contradicts the Bible? Like how Yeah. change. Brandon change. Well I'm so lucky I meet you today. I'm so lucky I I I bought into this. I'm so lucky I have this. Um but there's nothing you would love Everything that happened to us should find defined Plan by God. There's nothing accidentally happening. You walk you you drive down the street and you got black iron. That was not a a a coincidence or is it of something just happened. Right. It's designed by the Heavenly Father so that his group and his name So so if someone said my experience, well, your experience is designed by a creator. Yeah. I think answering the question more as believers were called to imitate Christ and Christ embodies. And so if you study New Testament When Christ encountered people who obviously had a non-visible worldview, he never was like, screw your worldview. Go to hell. I mean he did say that but in another context. He never explicitly was one of those people who was like holding a torch and saying, You're a dance dinner, like you're gonna die tonight type thing, right? He was very, very, very patient Which as human beings we would probably not be very patient in dealing with these things. Uh second Timothy three sixteen thing, all scripture is God's breath and it's usually for teaching corre um teaching, rebuking, correcting and training in righteousness. Yeah. So we have to embody those tenets and use them when we confront somebody with that rule. because obviously saying to them like oh your role is the reason why you're going to go to hell is never going to change parts, right? Right. The word of God is living in acting and it's a word that changes people not Yeah, yeah. That's that's a an excellent point. Yeah, we we have to be full of compassion. You know, Jesus describes himself as I he says, I am gentle and lowly of heart. There's there's a class going on right now about a book called Gentle and Lowly. Uh great book. But that that is who Jesus is, you know, and you see this in uh Um like when he met with the woman at the well, the Samaritan woman, um and which I mean uh I'm trying to think whether we have time to go go read that. But Maybe maybe I'm going to say, you know, pick up a Bible, read John 4 when you get a chance, and just observe how Jesus confronts this woman who's coming from essentially a different worldview. Right, the Samaritans for for some historical context. The Samaritans were um a group of people who uh so you know when when Israel was a kingdom after King Solomon it divided into the ten northern tribes and the two southern tribes of Judah and Benjamin And the ten northern tribes stuck around for a little while and they were mostly they mostly fell into pagan idolatry. And so God punished them by sending the Assyrian Empire to conquer them, to remove them from the Holy Land and to bring in and they brought in um people uh from other parts of the world to live there. Right. So the Samaritans became kind of this mix of ethnic Israelites with people from elsewhere and Uh they learned some of the worship of Yahweh from from people who stayed behind in Israel, but they also brought in some of their pagan practices. So they had this syncretistic worldview that was a combination of true biblical worship of Yahweh with uh pagan worship of other gods. And so that's the worldview that this Samaritan woman has come from. And Jesus just like so gently draws out from her a confession of her own sins And and then confronts her lovingly on points of her theology that are in error, right? She thinks that that you have to worship God on this particular mountain. And he's like No, you know, if right now salvation is is from the Jews, so so they're right and you're wrong. But there's coming a time when the father uh is seeking such people to worship him as will worship in spirit and in truth, not in any particular place. So he leads her gently to um um a new understanding that that confronts and contradicts her personal experience. But he does it, you know, with with softness and compassion Yeah. So it sounds like um the world view is your experiences Yeah. So if that's true Then I should have been a lawyer. I was convinced I was gonna be a lawyer, and that's not true today. Okay. I was convinced I was gonna marry this girl when I was a kid. And that's not true. Uh-huh. But everything in the Bible, from the time I read it, is always true. So making your experiences and your feelings true is And you can see that in your own mind. My experiences and feelings don't always pan out. And so somebody who has overview today have have taken it one step further and they would count you by saying, oh, you're absolutely right. And so therefore my main agenda and my is to find and discover my truth, which might take you all the way to your deathbed in HP. But does that make sense either? No. Because I would say, why what an exhausting experience. Here, it's right here. I'll have it. There's your truth. Give it a try. Yeah, so I have a question for you guys. What does experience speak in words? Could you rephrase that? Sure. Is is experience true or false? Does it make does it make sense to ask that question? Like if I if I suffer if I get cancer and I suffer the the painful chemotherapy Like is that pain true or false? True. The pain's true. The pain is real. Yeah, it's not the right category. Reality versus not reality. Yeah. The fantasy of reality. So yeah, we need to recognize that people's experience, there is reality behind people's experience But it's not it's not propositional, right? It's not experience is not about anything, right? Like a sentence on this page or in the Bible, that's about something else If I say the sentence, that wall is white, my sentence is about the wall. And therefore, that's the characteristic of that sentence that can be either true or false. It's about it My experience can't really be about anything. Right? It just is. So experience isn't really true or false. It needs to be interpreted. In order to be put into a propositional statement that can be true or false. So let's bring it back to something that's like common to the Christian walk. If I You say I get cancer and I go through this painful chemotherapy treatment. If I say based on my experience of cancer and the suffering that I endured, God does not love me. That's me interpreting my experience. Right? Putting the experience that's not propositional into a propositional statement about God and his love. What's wrong with that? It's kind of gas work. Yes, experience can be interpreted in many different ways. So you can't just start with experience and get to truth. You have to have an interpretive guide. That's what scripture helps us with. So much of scripture is written in order to guide us in how we interpret our experience. Look at the psalms. Look at how the psalmists pour out their pain and their heartache and their suffering before God. And then through the course of the psalm, God shapes helps shape their understanding and their interpretation of that experience. And they come back and say, Okay, God, I see that you are faithful. I see that you are loving, even though this thing was painful for me to go through. That's what we need to do with experience. Right? We need to interpret it in light of scripture. We don't need to elevate it to a place of authority in our worldview. Because what we're really doing is we're taking one particular arbitrary interpretation of our experience and elevating that to the authority. And we're gonna get it wrong. Listen to this verse. This is an really important verse that you that you should all memorize. Jeremiah 17, 9 The heart is more deceitful than all else and is desperately sick. Who can understand it? The Bible warns us severely against trusting our own interpretation of our experience of our heart. Proverbs 35 and 6 also said that trust in the Lord all your heart and lean not on your arm Right. Yes, exactly. That's another great one. Proverbs three. Mm-hmm. Exactly. That's a great one. What do we have now? Oh, ten forty. Yes. Alright, so we're gonna stop there.