Okay everyone. So today we are still in uh the worldview of critical theory. Lord willing, we're going to finish today. I said I've said that before, so um Who really knows? But today we're going to talk about justice. Justice is a very important topic Not only because uh our society talks a lot about it, but because God talks a lot about it. Right. In the Bible he speaks a lot about justice and injustice. So it is a really important thing. And it's important to examine in uh the context of this opposing worldview of critical theory, because critical theory really claims to be all about justice. So just as a quick recap, uh the claim of critical theory with respect to justice and injustice is that Uh particularly systemic injustice is the main problem facing humanity. Uh and who who remembers what systemic injustice means according to according to critical theory? As long as there is a dominant group and a minoritized group, there's a power imbalance and therefore the minoritized group will always have supporting justice. Uh-huh. Because of the natural power dynamic or oppression system things like that's the claim of critical theory. question you can answer rather than Oh yeah the the question is what what does critical theory claim about injustice? How does it define uh especially systemic injustice. I have some answer I thought uh another week I That is that's correct. So um that that's their theory of knowledge, right? Everything is a social construct. So that would include um justice and and injustice um as well as the things we talked about last time. But um yeah, but like Aaron was saying Justice and injustice are defined as characteristics of group dynamics, right, under critical theory. There's there's a dominant group and a minoritized group, and um the uh injustice is a an impersonal feature of society by which the the dominant group maintains power over the minoritized group. So So the keys in that definition are that it's um that it's systemic, it's impersonal, right? A lot of uh when you when you read what critical theorists say about injustice, they are speaking of it not as a moral thing, it's an amoral thing. It's it's it's it's a structure in society And and yes, we have a moral responsibility to work against this, but it doesn't come back to any one person's individual sin. Right, so so when a critical theorist say talks about racism, they don't mean like that one person has a um an ethnic prejudice or pride or hatred for another person. They mean uh they mean it's a it's a dynamic in society that maybe no one individual chooses to participate in, but Um because it is uh because we're members of uh our ethnic group, we are all participants in this banana. It's that's a it's an impersonal thing. It's not it's not tied back to human sin uh under critical theory. And remember, what does critical theory say about how we are to um to fight and combat injustice? Um yeah, so so uh there's there's certainly you know activism, uh raise raising our voice. Um The phrase that's that's used by um by Robin D'Angelo, who's one of the primary spokespeople for critical theory, is that um if you look back on page two We have to work to interrupt and dismantle these systems of injustice. Because if we don't choose to actively do that, we are supporting their existence by ignoring them Uh that's on page two under uh letter F. Um so that quote there, you know she says there is no neutral ground. To choose not to act against injustice is to choose to allow it So that that's what critical theory says we should be engaged in, is the sort of looking for these impersonal social dynamics that contribute to injustice and interrupting and dismantling them. Alright, so so the question before us is is that a uh definition of injustice, injustice that that uh aligns with what the Bible says? Um or or is it not, or is it something else? Right, so that's what we're going to look at. So what I did, you'll notice if you if you remember the last handout that I gave, that I've I've restructured this section a little bit, sections four and five on justice. from from the last time I gave you a handout. And the reason I did that is because I was going through with the extra time that I had to prepare after since Jeff taught last week. I was going through in more detail and trying to assemble like all the scriptural texts that I could find on justice And this is really what you want to do when when you're faced with a definitional question, like, what is justice? Well, we need to go to the scriptures. to see what that is. And so the way to do that is to uh you know do a do a search and assemble like all the texts that you can find in Scripture that speak on justice. And make sure you at least read through all of them. You maybe don't have to do a detailed study on every one, but read through all of them and kind of read with the question in your mind, do any of these texts challenge what I think is the right answer. You know, do do any of these texts speak to an aspect of justice that I didn't know about or didn't understand And so after doing that sort of detailed read through of the biblical texts on justice. I decided to restructure this outline a little bit. And you know, it's not that the information is so different, it's just that I wanted to put the emphasis more on what I saw Scripture putting the emphasis on in terms of justice. So this is the result of that study. So justice is primarily three things in the Bible. First, it's an attribute of God. And it's really important that we start with that. That justice is an attribute of God. It's the attribute of God by which he avenges wrongs and makes things right. So look at look with me at Deuteronomy thirty-two, verse forty-one. So this is the Lord speaking in Deuteronomy 32, 41. He says If I sharpen my flashing sword and my hand takes hold on justice, I will render vengeance on my adversaries, and I will repay those who hate me. So there's this idea of punishing the evildoer. That is involved in justice. And what's interesting about this passage is that we usually think of justice and injustice in terms of um of humans, right? Of humans who have been the victim of injustice. But uh here it's God working justice on whose behalf Well in in the in this passage it's on his own behalf. Right? He's saying uh Deuteronomy thirty two forty one He says, um, I will render vengeance on my adversaries, and I will repay those who hate me. Right, so uh there are plenty of other scriptural passages that talk about God working justice on behalf of humans. So that's that's not an unbiblical concept. It's just that Um, we seldom focus on the fact that God works justice for himself, right? For his own namesake also. So we need we need to expand our picture of justice beyond sort of a human-centric view and see that it's really a God-centered thing. Look also at, look next at Psalm 146, verses 5 through 9. for another picture of of justice as an attribute of God. Alright, so Psalm 146, verses 5 through 9. Does anybody want to read that? It's a five to nine. Five to nine, yeah. Okay, thank you. How can you see who has the Laraver for his health for his health whose hope is in the Lord is God? Who made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that is in mind, who keeps truth forever, who executes justice for the oppressed, who gives food to the hungry, the Lord gives The Lord opens the eyes of the blind, the Lord raises those who are bowed down, the Lord loves the righteous, the Lord watches over the strangers. Thank you. Yeah. So this passage gives a lot of examples of the Lord working justice. And in contrast to the first passage, which was about punishing wrong and avenging, what is this passage about? Helping the people who are oppressed. Right, yeah. Helping the people who are oppressed, putting things to right. Um and you know in in some cases it's uh not even people who are oppressed by other people, like it says the Lord opens the eyes of the blind, right? It's Um of he's he's writing wrongs. You know, he's he's taking things that should not be this way and making them better, making them the way they should be And incidentally, this is what Jesus did, right, when he came. He worked miracles showing the justice of God in this way, where he where he puts things to right that have been made wrong. And then also you see in verse 9, the Lord protects the strangers. That could also be translated as alien or foreigner. He supports the fatherless and the widow. And these three categories of people, strangers, orphans, and widows, recur over and over in the scriptures as the special objects of God's justice. Right, I've got uh in this case positive justice, protective and restorative uh justice. And So we'll just put a pin in that and we'll we'll see that as we look at other scriptures. But the point here is that justice starts and ends with God. It's an attribute of his character. And because that's important for a couple of reasons. For one thing, justice is not a social construct, right? It's not something that we made up and that we get to define. It's something that's rooted in the character of the creator God. And if justice means putting things right then it requires a a definition of right and wrong. And that definition of right and wrong comes from the character of God, not from you know sort of w whatever we think that right and wrong should be Alright, so justice is intimately connected to the character of God. That's a crucial point to keep in mind. Yeah. Um when you talk about doing a study on the justice of God, everything he does I guess is just. So how are you how would you narrow that? Because if you look at judgment, which is a branch of his justice this that's so prevalent throughout the old testament. I mean you basically would be studying like the old testament. So how do you Um that's a good point. So I what I did I kind of restricted it to just the word justice and its cognates. Um but You you're right that the the justice of the Lord extends beyond merely that one word. Uh for example there are a lot of near synonyms for God's justice, like righteousness is is a near synonym for justice. It goes hand in hand. So you could you could say, well I should I should look up all the passages on righteousness. And uh the thing is like um There is always more scripture to mine. Nobody will ever exhaust the depths of the truth that you can get out of scripture. the my my claim is not that we have to get there, you know, to exhaust sh exhaust all the the truth in a particular concept, but we do have to assemble texts from all over scripture so that we can be reasonably certain that we're not applying a bias to scripture, right? So like if I only took um hey, good morning, or Robert, come on in. Good morning. Yeah. Um so if we only took One might passages on justice like from the New Testament, we might be blinding ourselves to to a particular aspect of justice. Alright, so by by searching through the whole Bible, uh we get um you know pictures from from the law of Moses about justice and from the prophets who were typically speaking against the injustice of Israel and then also from the New Testament where Jesus spoke on it. Um yeah, so the goal is just to make sure that we're that we're getting a complete uh And an unbiased picture, even if it's not like the comprehensive view of of every aspect. It would be easier to get lost in 30. Uh-huh. Yeah, oh yeah, absolutely. Yeah, there's there's always going to be more to learn at this. So um So welcome Clarissa and Robert. We're we're going through worldviews in this class. And so um for the last like four or five lessons we've been going through a worldview called critical theory, uh which is is sort of a superset of a lot of things um including like queer theory and critical race theory and and things like that. So um On your handout, the first two pages basically lay out both the claims of that worldview, and then the next two pages are a biblical response to those claims. And we're on the very last page uh and we're on questions four and five about about justice. So we're talking about what what does justice mean in the Bible? And we talked about how first it's an attribute of God. And then second though, it's not uh justice doesn't end there in the Bible. It's not just an attribute of God. It is a requirement from God for all human relationships. It's a requirement by God that go that's supposed to govern how we relate to everyone And the requirement for justice is summed up in the command, love your neighbor. So that command, by the way, was not uh introduced in the New Testament. That comes from the Old Testament. Um I'm I'm not sure maybe maybe you all knew that already, but um that that is surprising to a lot of Christians. A lot of Christians think that that Jesus was the first one to speak that. But no, it's i it's in the law of Moses. So turn to Leviticus nineteen And we're going to read verses fifteen through eighteen. And this is, you know, an extended passage on justice. That includes that love your neighbor quote. Who who wants to read Leviticus 19, 15 through 18? You shall be mean justice in court, you shall not be partial to the core or the And the righteousness are you given your neighbor? You shall not throw our neighbors among your people, and you shall not stand up against the light of your neighbor. You shall not hate your brother in your heart, but you shall be companion of her neighbor, as soon as her sin because of him. You shall not take vengeance or bear a grudge against the sons of your own people. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. Thank you. So this you see at the end of that passage, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. That's kind of a summary statement. of what came before not only in this passage but in basically the entire book. So the requirement to love your neighbor Uh notice in this passage, it doesn't just extend to like how you treat your neighbor. It extends to how you feel about, you know, how you view your neighbor in your heart. Right, it says, you shall not hate your fellow countrymen in your heart. Uh you may reprove him, but you shall not incur sin because of him And you shall not take vengeance nor bear any grudge against the sons of your people. So justice is not merely an external thing, right? It's not it's it's not merely a property of our actions uh it's a property of our of our hearts and um it's always in relationship to our neighbor Um so turn now to Deuteronomy twenty-four seventeen Deuteronomy twenty-four seventeen is uh another passage in the Old Testament that talks about justice. I'll just read it. Um Deuteronomy 24, 17 says, You shall not pervert the justice do an alien or an orphan, nor take a widow's garment in pledge. So there's those those three categories again, the alien, the widow, and the orphan. Um so why why did God why is God concerned about the alien, the widow, and the orphan? Most vulnerable population or demographic. Right, because they're the most vulnerable. Why are they the most vulnerable? Also like fiscal reasons, like Yeah. Right, exactly. They don't have a protector and they don't have a provider. Which in God's in the way God designed the world that's supposed to come from the family, right? From the the husband and the father uh is given the the responsibility by God for protecting and providing for his family So these are people, the the the orphans and the widows particularly are people who have lost the the husband and the father, God's normal means of provision. Alright, so not so he's concerned for them that that because they don't have the normal means of provision, now the the community needs to step in and be extra concerned about their needs Right. And we should we should be extra concerned about the needs of orphans and widows in our community. And then and then for the the alien, the foreigner Um, I I think that also comes back to family, right? Because there's a command in scripture that we are supposed to provide for our extended family. Um It says in the in the New Testament that he who does not provide for his family, meaning extended family, is is worse than an unbeliever. Um But the foreigner living in in Israel would be someone who has has moved away from their extended families. Presumably their families back in whatever country they came from. So they don't have that support system that's sort of uh intended to function normally by God. Um so they they need uh God is telling people to be especially on the lookout for uh providing for them and protecting protecting their rights. Also because uh people can easily take advantage of them. Um There's a reason we're looking at a lot of scriptures on on justice, because it's really important to define this word right. Uh and it it's it's very easily to get it subtly wrong and jump to wrong conclusions about how we should pursue justice. So so bear with me here as we look at a couple more scriptures. Turn to Exodus 23 Four through six. Exodus twenty-three. Four through six. Who wants to read that passage for me? Exodus twenty three, four through six. Okay, go ahead. 456? Yes. So we can let you win. If you see the donkey of one who seeks you, lying hopeless under its wood, you shall refrain from many who may see him. You shall surely release it. You shall not afford the justice to make your needy needy brother and the first time. Um we said earlier that uh that the command the the uh idea of justice is really summed up in the command to love your neighbor as yourself. Who is your neighbor? Everyone, right? Everyone you see. So so it didn't just start this concept didn't just start with Jesus teaching on the parable of the Good Samaritan, right? And remember that parable he was saying, Your neighbor is anyone you meet on the road, even someone who you might consider your enemy. Because Jews and Samaritans were were enemies at the time. But notice this passage here in the Old Testament says, If you meet your enemy's ox or his donkey wandering away, you shall surely return it to him Right, so we don't uh we don't use um like excuses like group membership as uh as an excuse to treat other people differently, like to to say, oh that's my enemy. Oh he's a member of a of a dominant group. Or or like he does he's not like me, so I don't have to have the same obligations to him You know, no, it's the the scriptural obligation to love your neighbor extends to even those who you consider your enemies. Uh you still owe God God still um in in God's eyes you still owe that person an obligation to do right by them. Okay, let's look at just one more. Jeremiah seven, verses five through seven. So Jeremiah seven, verses five through seven. Who wants to read that? Oh um well but I might spread around the house every time. Oh Robert? Yes. For if you truly amend your ways and the ease, if you truly practice justice between a man and his neighbor, if you do not oppress the alien, the orphan, or the widow And do not shed innocent blood in this place, nor walk after other gods to your own willing, then I will let you dwell in this place. And in the land that I gave to your fathers forever and I thank you. Yeah, so so this is Jeremiah speaking to Israel after they've had centuries and centuries of uh turning away from the Lord and um not just turning away from the Lord but but perpetrating injustice towards each other And in this in this text you again see that triad of the alien, the orphan and the widow. So God's there's another example of God's concern. that um that we should look out for those three groups of people. But also the thing I wanted to highlight in this text is in verse five, if you truly practice justice between a man and his neighbor. Notice how relational that is. That there's no way to interpret that as an impersonal kind of societal level quality. Yes, there can be patterns of justice and injustice. Yes, Israel at this time was characterized by patterns of injustice. But that all came back down to a man and his neighbor not treating each other rightly. So there's no way to read this as as if justice is not a relational quality. And that's going to become very important when we compare it to the definition of of critical theory on justice. Um okay, so yeah, I think I think we'll we'll leave that point behind. Uh the main point being that uh justice is a requirement of all human relationships And then third, the third way that the Bible speaks of justice, this is letter C now, is that it is a special kind of responsibility that God delegates to human authorities for the punishment of those who do wrong and the praise of those who do right. That's a quote from 1 Peter 2. 14. And You know, if you're interested in uh you can probably teach a whole class on on the the scriptural purpose and role of government This would be a centerpiece text in that class. It very clearly spells out that one of the purposes of human authority and government is to punish evildoers and praise those who do right. Um and so this is this is a calling from God, right? He he has um given governments the command to administer justice in this way. But notice what it says, notice how it is to be administered. It's uh supposed to be the punishment of evildoers. That's individual people who do evil things. Right? And it's supposed to be for the praise of those who do right. Again, that's that's individual people who do the right thing. This is not governments um punishing or rewarding entire groups of people um because that is impossible to do justly. It's impossible to treat an entire group um with a blanket policy in a way that is that is just according to each of their deeds, which is what God requires of human governance. Okay, questions on biblical justice. Anyone see um any like additional aspects of justice that um that I might not have covered in this very brief outline But uh yeah. So from point C, some people may question um so there's a common saying bad things happen to good people, but it should be rewarded as like for example, those of us who follow Christ, injustice and oppression do follow in our lives as following Christ life. Why is that? So something like where is lots justice in that? Ah, yeah. Well, I think that's um that is a great point about justice and that um Well I I think that that brings about kind of two points, right? There's because there's a lot of things, you know, if if human governments are commanded to punish those who do evil and those and praise those who do right There's no way that human governments can do that for every action, right? Human government is not going to catch and punish every sin, even every serious sin that really hurts somebody. you know, I under a human viewpoint, we might look at that and say, well then they're just getting away with it. Like where's where's the justice in that? Um But we have to remember that justice not only begins with God, it ends with God too, right? Only God's justice is going to be comprehensive and complete So guys, how is God going to bring about complete and comprehensive justice Yeah, in the end times. So what is he gonna do? Well not this um right um he separates um the sheep and the both the sheep and the right person as well But basically anyone who is treated Israel well is as you've done to decent with sentence to me and send them to Israel. Yeah and and um you know, even even beyond that specific judgment, he's going to judge every every person who has not taken on the the righteousness of Christ and put it on like a robe. Everyone who hasn't done that is actually going to stand before the Lord and give an account, not just for every major sin that they've done, but Jesus said they're going to give an account for every careless word they've spoken. So there will be nothing, no sin that escapes the justice of God. And that should be that that's intended in Scripture to be a comforting thought to us. There there's going to be a lot of hurt that doesn't go doesn't get recompense in this life, but God sees it all. He stores it all up. He will um not only punish those who do wrong for every wrong that they do, um, but for but on the positive side, he will wipe away every tear Right? If you read the last couple of uh chapters of Revelation, uh or if you read the last several chapters of Isaiah. It talks about how God is going to restore all things. And He's going to take those who have been hurt and those who have been oppressed of among his people. And he's going to set them in in a good place. You can wipe every tear from their eye, provide for their every need, put them in a green pasture. And that is for those who have taken on the righteousness of Christ, right? Who have humbled themselves to become part of the kingdom of God. uh that's that's who he is going to restore and give give that sort of positive justice to that we've talked about And um so uh that's a great point, Aaron. Like that that will not happen in this age, in this life. Like yes, there will be unanswered injustice in at the end of of of this life. But in eternity and in God's program of salvation, he will uh bring justice for every action, for every sin. And he will restore everyone who has been oppressed as one of his people. So um just sort of briefly I want to make the point that that This view of justice from the Bible really conflicts a lot with Critical Theory's definition of justice and injustice, right? Remember, critical theory says that justice It's based on group identity, right? It's a feature of group interaction. It's not a it's not a moral category. It's just uh it just is Um and it it's not a conscious choice of anyone to to uh it's not it's certainly not a sin or or you know it doesn't it have to involve someone sinning against someone else. But the Bible says No, justice is foundationally a relational concept. It has to do with the relationship between one person and his neighbor. And so it has to be moral. Um and and you know as a corollary, you can't have injustice without sin. That sin might not be uh intentional or conscious, you can have unintentional sin. But there has to be sin, right? If we want to identify injustice in society, we have to be able to point back to it's a pattern of one person sinning against another And that's how we have to speak of injustice and how and because that's how when we can use the biblical tools of of Scripture and of the gospel to address people's sin. Alright, that's the that's the only thing that's gonna change the human heart. Okay, number two, not every unequal outcome is the result of injustice. So so I think one of the appeals of critical theory is that it's um you know it's very simple in under critical theory when you see when you look at different groups and you see some unequal outcome between those groups, like different amount of wealth or different amount of power between those groups Critical theory says you can automatically conclude there is unjust injustice there. So it's easy to you know it it's it's it seems compelling. It seems um you know like you can say something about uh about what's going on there. But the reality uh biblically is is a little bit more complex than that. Um You know, one of one of the examples that uh Neil Shenvi gives in his blog, which I link to on the on the first page of this uh handout is that there's you can look at other differences between groups that nobody would argue is attributable to injustice. So one example he gives is Uh like at Ivy League schools like Harvard and Yale, um, Asian Americans are uh overrepresented in those student bodies a as a proportion of of the general population. And he uh you know, he points out that like nobody would ascribe that to some sort of systemic injustice, right? Uh because it would have to be like you know, systemic injustice against um all the other ethnic groups, including white people, but nobody's arguing that. Um Rather it makes more sense to say that to point to aspects of culture, right, that uh parents in in Asian American families place a high emphasis on uh educational achievement and um you know and and academic uh success and things like that and but that's reflected in the different representation of people No, as in the Avi leagues. And so, you know, there there are and then scripture talks about how um You know, there are a lot of scriptures, yes, about about injustice and patterns of injustice that affect groups of people like aliens, widows, and orphans. But there are also lots of scriptural passages that talk about how um You know, hard work generally leads to prosperity. Not every time, not for everyone who works hard, but in general there's a pattern that hard work leads to prosperity. So Um you can't it's not a simple matter of saying that an unequal outcome implies injustice. Uh injustice might be implicated in in uh many unequal outcomes And it might be a contributing factor to a lot of unequal outcomes, but um the real the reality is it's more complex. There's there's other factors to consider. There's personal choice, there's there's culture. Um and we have to You know, we have to be willing to deal sort of honestly and and in depth with those kind of things. Okay, sorry, that was a lot. Uh questions Uh there well this is going around for a little bit. 34, I know you were talking about how they poured out the like the boat from the two other men. And um This is very interesting because I don't know if that's if you're pulling that from Revelation because Anna just found that in the detail and I wondered if it was referring to The end times or well it's in it's in Matthew um thing twenty five. Yeah. So it's yeah, Matthew So it's part of it's part of something called the Olivet Discourse, which um there is significant debate in um you know among biblical Christians about what time period the Olivet Discourse refers to. Uh and I d I don't think we necessarily have time to get into all that, but it um you know I I think there is good argument that it does refer to the future. Um Yeah, I I was just wondering what passage you were drawing it out of the sideboard. I don't think I because it also occurs in so pretty poor when you mentioned separating the output That was really interesting. Kind of like sometimes you find things in the testament. Yeah. Where is that in useful? I uh I'm right, I'm doing a study in a internet. 34. Oh, um uh lamentation did you feel right before Daniel and after Jeremiah and Lamentation. Yeah. injustice. Oh. So Frust River basically was planned review, claiming that I was responsible for the respect And my immediate reaction was anger. Yes. The reason being is because I thought I was so not not righteous but innocent in that matter that I was like, oh dude, there's this incompetent guy just come up against me and say like no you did something wrong. Right. Then I was convicted that as Jesus prayed for us on the cross you know, forgive them for they do not know what they do, those who were slain of Jesus. the face. Immense injustice more than we probably would ever face in our own lifetimes. But the proper response would be to forgive that person is incredibly hard. Yeah. Especially when you're on the receiving end of the so called victim of those things. But I think that's ultimately what we should be gearing towards in in those moments is Recognizing that that person the only response they could give is just a response of sin. nature. Yeah. And who are you or who am I to blame that person or to accuse that person, like how dare you or you know, you wronged me and so therefore you should be, you know, damned forever. But the proper response should be Forgiveness because again it all comes down to the relational aspects between neighbor and self. Right. Yeah. Yeah. A yeah, and the power to forgive comes from like if you look at First Peter where it says uh talks about Christ who you know while being reviled did not revile in return and while suffering did not curse but he you know uttered a a blessing and um entrusted himself to him who judges justly. So it says the way that Christ could forgive those who nailed him to the cross was that he looked at the father and he saw the father's justice on a cosmic scale and knew that the father was going to judge justly. And so that's how he was able to uh keep from cursing and hating the people who nailed him to the cross and even say, Father, forgive them. So they they know not what they do. And you're right, you know, the Bible teaches that all of us, before we become believers, before we're saved, we're slaves to sin. So you're right, we can't like unbelievers cannot give a response um that you know they're always going to be directed by their their sinful flesh in in their response. And you know we should be different because we have the Spirit of Christ in us. Uh exactly. Thank you for that example. And I think we're actually out of time, believe it or not. So we're gonna have to spend another another week on question five, but um Yeah, that's that's going to be all about how we respond to injustice, both when we see it perpetrated against others and when it's against ourselves. Um also when it happens in the church uh very important thing to reason through. Um that's the hardest thing. Yeah. Um a brother sister. Yeah. And those who draw close to you, you draw close to them. Mm-hmm. And is is is a vulnerable time. And yet they turn um human sin, you know. I think the Lord chose that route because it it it's harder. Much harder. Yeah. Much harder to to forgive someone who um who's part of the body of Christ. Yeah, who's a brother or sister in Christ. Right, yeah. So if you want if you want to do some homework, read two things. Read Matthew eighteen and Acts six. Okay. Matthew eighteen is the command about how we're to deal with people who sin in the church. And Acts six is a great example of the church addressing a pattern of sin in a really effective and compassionate and biblical way. So we're gonna talk about those next week. Yes, sir.