Okay. Um yeah, so last time you know we went over justice uh and basically the definition of justice. We went through the the biblical definition of justice and then Contrasted that with critical theories by the end of justice. Who can remember one fundamental characteristic of biblical justice, the way the Bible speaks of it? Impartial. It's impartial, yeah. Meaning meaning it it focuses narrowly on the actions of individuals, not on their sort of Status status, like rich or poor, are there characteristics, like what um what na nation they're a part of. Uh how about another one? That's that's a great fundamental characteristic of of governmental justice particularly. What about ordinary justice in society? Bible justice is fair. Justice is fair, yeah. But even so you take it. Yeah. Well there is sort of this distinction in scripture or you know, there's two senses in which justice is It's it's discussed as something that the governments in courts, but that is also justice as like our obligation to our neighbor. Right. So the key factor of that in the of that kind of justice in the Bible is that it is relational. Right? It's it's about a relationship between one man and his neighbor. Uh in fact it literally says that in in Jeremiah. Um and so how does that contrast with critical theory's brand of justice? Was I here last week? I don't think you're here last week. You were in MA5. I remember that. Sorry. I want to say group identity. Group identity, yeah. They they based on group identity instead of uh because divide divide up into groups. And and try to get justice by violent or by protesting rather than uh individually love your neighbor Yeah, yeah, exactly. In critical theory, justice is about groups, not primarily individuals. It's either Justice is either taking power and wealth from one one group and giving it to another in order to produce this sort of group-based equity, or it's treating an individual as a representative of their group and and sort of punishing or rewarding them based on the group that they are from. Oh yeah, let's do that Um yeah, so it's root safe, right? Completely different from biblical justice. Also completely incompatible with with scripture. Yes. So like the origins of justice, biblical justice, God, attribute, oh yeah. Justice comes from Him. We are the generators of all encompasses Exactly, yeah. We have to deliver it because to make it Yeah, yeah. It's a in critical theory it's up to us. Justice like everything else is a social construct and we bring it about. Whereas biblically it starts as an attribute of God. And that's important because justice also ends with God, right? He's the only one who is go who is guaranteed to bring about perfect, comprehensive justice. So that has huge implications for for how we uh view justice, how we define it, how we pursue it. So, but that kind of that leaves us with with a a lingering question. Uh, and well many lingering questions, right. So critical theory speaks a lot about systemic issues, systemic problems Uh these these kinds of things that that operate at a scale above and broader than individual personal relationships. The question is, is is critical theory wrong to speak of such things Or maybe another way to say it is does the Bible speak of um factors that operate at a level above and beyond interpersonal relationships Um is there any category in scripture for for sort of systemic problems or systemic evils? That that operates broader than or and above at a level above humans in. So like groupings. Um I'm not primarily asking about um group based concept. I mean by systemic I mean I mean uh systems, yeah, something that is that is uh made up of many complex interacting parts that's bigger than just one person or or relationships between the people. Government? Um government, uh yes, is is a um is a system, right? A biblically recognized system. In fact it's a a system that God has set up for for the good of society. Smaller scale like Jewish religious system by the same meter in the respective number. Right, that was a system in uh that was operative in Jesus' day, um the the ruling council of the Sanhedrin and then the The groups of uh Pharisees and Sadducees and Athenians and Zealots and all that. I guess you could say Sands. Um yeah, you could say the family unit is is a structure, it's a system, you you could argue, but set up by God, uh is it instituted Uh I I guess one word for these things would be institutions, right? The family's an institution, governments and institutions. Um those those two are set up by the Lord. Uh humans also set up institutions and and scripture recognizes those things. What about the does anybody remember on the first um Sunday back in August when we talked about when we started this this sort of worldview course, what we talked about back then. We talked about a category of things that scripture speaks of as operating at a higher level than just human interaction. So remember Ephesians six. What I'm saying. I'm sorry? The uh search body? Um no, I'm I'm thinking more of so remember in Ephesians six how Paul talks about spiritual warfare and he says our struggle is not against what? Flesh and flesh and blood, but against The rulers, the principalities, yeah, the the authorities, the uh the spiritual forces of wickedness. in the in the heavenly places. So something, you know, this that verse is talking about something that that's operating at a spiritual level, at a at a demonic level And elsewhere Paul refers to that same kind of thing as teachings of demons. Right. So these are uh and then in in Second Corinthians ten he says um He's also talking about spiritual warfare when he says we do not although we walk according to the flesh, we do not war according to the flesh, for the weapons of our warfare are divinely powerful for the destruction of strongholds or or fortresses. some translations say. We are destroying speculations and every lofty thing that raises itself up against the knowledge of God. So these these system, you know, I would argue that that that's scripture talking about systemic evil, right, on the level of of demonic activities And these systemic evils take the form of ideas, ideologies, uh philosophy, and empty deception as as Colossians 2. And so there is there is systemic evil in the Bible. The Bible talks uh actually a lot about it. Um and uh it's not the same thing as systemic injustice. I think it's just that's just the wrong label for it, right? Because justice has to do with human relationships. But it is systemic evil. And If uh it can if a culture really buys into one of these deceptions, then uh you it can happen that an entire society becomes characterized by a pattern of sin. Because really the object of these of these deceptions is to uh keep people away from the gospel and encourage people to sin in particular ways. So a great example of this would be like idolatry in uh in the pagan societies of um of the ancient world and and even today. Uh w what is a pagan religion except a a teaching of a demon? Right. It's a it's a deception that uh you know, for example, the Egyptians uh had had all their gods And th behind those gods were demons that were that had deceived an entire society into not worshiping the true god, but worshiping them instead. Uh so there was this systemic evil of deception that caused uh society to engage in this pattern of sin. But at the bottom of all that there were still individual people choosing to sin. Right? So so uh you know choosing to worship a false god. So that's how we should be thinking about these these sort of systemic uh issues. It's not wrong to talk about systemic issues Uh it's just that biblically the systemic evils in the world are are deceptions and um you can't have that uh like it all it all comes back to uh on a human level individuals choosing to sin uh because of that deception. Right. So I think you know that that's that's a framework, that's a biblical framework that we can apply to analyze the the kinds of things that that critical theory is talking about, but from through a biblical lens instead of through the terminology and concepts of critical theory, which are going to lead us to unbiblical conclusions. So questions about that, or anybody has Uh example of that. So that so um based on that, uh uh the word of God is critical because the word about yielding was physical matter um man only thinking earthly. Yeah. But the word of God dealing with the level of a higher so the word of God is alive and active Mm-hmm. Right. Yeah. So very critical in every way Yeah, absolutely. That's why the Word of God will be able to break through someone who's blind and cannot see the system and on the other side. Word of God the only thing that can break through the the the barrier between those fearful darkness and light. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Exactly. Yeah. Um and you know I would say that that um a another example of this kind of systemic evil working itself out in individual sin, patterns of individual sin, is uh slavery and and actually all the the sort of ethnic hatred and and pride that continues to this day. uh you know s slavery was a a was built on a deception that people believed that uh the in that an entire society believed about the nature of humanity and the nature of differences between people of of of different ethnicities. Oh good morning. So it was it was built on a deception and because people had internalized that deception it promoted it led them to sin in in grievous ways against other people. Um you know against against place. And um you know, so that that is how we can talk about and and reason through. And we don't have a a whole whole lot of time. Like it would there's there's obviously a lot to that issue, but we don't have time to to go into it in big in detail. But you know, it that it's different from how from how critical theory talks about it because um you know critical theory talks only about the systemic injustice and not not about uh it doesn't attempt to deal with individuals in um or the human heart. Right. And and so all all solutions in critical theory are from the top down. Right. They're they're sort of aimed at the system. They're aimed at at um at the policy level or at at structuring group dynamics uh such that everything will equalize from the top down and then um And then according to their view, that will fix everything on a relational level. But I think, you know, that that's pretty historically naive. This method has been tried, um, you know, of of taking power and resources and transferring them from one group to another, and it's never resulted in any kind of uh peace or harmony Uh rather, you know, God in in scripture says, you know, for the church your priority is to proclaim the truth, proclaim the gospel, and that is what changes human hearts. And so change happens from the bottom up. And if you look at the last 2,000 years of history in Western civilization, that's been actually a very effective model for um achieving good in society. Not because uh you know and for example w what I'm thinking of is um you know things like the abolition of slavery arose from out of Christian theology and and nowhere else. You know, the the entire world has has had slaver every culture in the world has had slavery, every culture that's been able to afford it And uh only only one culture has developed a a sort of uh widespread moral opposition to slavery, and that is uh the the Christian West. Uh and that's because of it's directly attributable to Christian theology. Um also things like hospitals, healthcare, uh universities. um public education, these kinds of things came about uh from the church basically and and as a an application of the gospel in society. And and as as societies internalize the worldview of the Bible and the principles of the gospel, uh these these institutions began to change. Right? That's that's sort of um a a broad theme that you see in in Western history in the last two thousand years. So so the gospel is a source of great social change, not because it targets social change Explicitly, but because it solves the real problem of sin in the human heart. But questions. I think nowadays, especially with critical theory, we've reached a point where the explanations for as to why are certain roots like aggressors or whatever. So the best example is like um blaming white people for the causation of every societal issue we have Like you mentioned slavery, you say, oh well who perpetrated the white people? Well why do they perpetrate it? Oh, well it's because they're Christian. So now you see this boiling down of the causation of all things to be Christianity. Right, exactly. And it's it's very revisionist history. Right. It's the the argument that uh in the argument these days is almost that Christians and Christianity invented slavery, but that's the opposite of the truth. Right. I mean I would point you to uh there's a there's a historian actually a sociologist at Baylor named Rodney Stark who's written a book called For the Glory of God. Um and that has a chapter on it where he does sort of a a a survey of slavery throughout human history and makes the point that although it's fashionable to deny it these days, um uh what I was just saying earlier that that the Christian West is the only place where significant opposition to slavery has arisen and it and it did so because of uh biblical theology Okay. In fact, I I have a quote that I highlighted from it. This the first two paragraphs of that chapter, if I can just read that for you. So this is Rodney Stark speaking in for the glory of God. Just as science arose only once, that's another chapter, so too did effective moral opposition to slavery. Christian theology was essential to both. This is not to deny that the early Christians condoned slavery. It is to recognize that all of the that of all the world's religions, including the three great monotheisms, only in Christianity did the idea develop that slavery was sinful and must be abolished. Although it has been fashionable to deny it, anti-slavery doctrines began to appear in Christian theology soon after the decline of Rome and were accompanied by the eventual disappearance of slavery in all but the fringes of Christian Europe. When Europeans subsequently instituted slavery in the New World, they did so over strenuous papal opposition, a fact that was conveniently lost from history until recently. Finally, the abolition of new world slavery was initiated and achieved by Christian activists. And then the rest of the chapter is just marshalling evidence to support that thesis. Um that that book the whole book is actually um a very very interesting read. I don't agree with everything that Stark uh says in there. He does not give enough credit to scripture. He gives too much credit, I think, to to church authority. But it's still an interesting read. And I would recommend that for you all. Okay, so that leaves us with a question, what does God require of us? You know, because God requires us to do justice. Uh you know that verse, and I actually forget where it's from, but what does God require of you but to do justice, love mercy, and walk humbly with your God So so what is that requirement to do justice in some waters? Oh yeah? Yeah, I knew Stephen Curry Chapman made something about So what is that requirement? And is that a requirement to um uh you know to interrupt and dismantle these these systems of privilege Or is it a requirement to uh support a certain policy agenda or to vote a certain way? No, that's not it at all. You know, that's that's not what the Lord requires of us. Uh what the Lord requires of us is um is relational for that for the aspect of justice that we talked about, and um a commitment to proclaiming the truth. for for opposing those systemic evils that that are backed by demonic teaching and deception. So this is where we get finally to the uh the outline here We're going to talk about what is our response to injustice and what are we called to do? What is God's requirement of us? So God's first requirement for us with respect to justice is to cry out to him for justice. You know, so when when we see injustice, we're we're not supposed to um you know turn to our own strength and our own wisdom. and you know try to figure out how to solve it on our own. That's not what God wants, because that's not ever going to end well. He wants us first to cry out to Him. And and let's look at an example of a believer uh crying out to the Lord for justice. Okay, turn to Psalm seven, verses six through nine. And by the way, this is just one example of uh of many in scripture where um you have the people of God crying out to him for justice. So this is Psalm 7 Who wants to read verses six through nine of the Okay, thanks, Joe. Arise, O Lord, in your anger, lift up yourself against the rage of my adversaries, and arouse yourself for for me. You have appointed judgment. Let the assembly of the peoples encompass you and over them return on high. The Lord judges the peoples Vindicate me, O Lord, according to my righteousness and my integrity that is in me. O let the evil of the wicked come to an end, but establish the righteous. Yes. Thank you. Yeah, so this is this is I believe a Psalm of David. Um so David's clearly you know being attacked unjustly by an enemy Uh so he's crying out to the Lord, Lord, avenge me. You know, take notice of these people who are attacking me uh unfairly, without any cause, and defend me, rise up and defend me And he's also not just speaking on his own behalf. He's saying in verse nine, Oh, let the evil of the wicked come to an end, but establish the righteous. So his cry is a cry for justice not only on his own behalf, but on behalf of all the righteous. Um so, you know, we can we can cry out and we should cry out to the Lord for justice on our own behalf, but also on behalf of all the righteous. And and here the righteous is not referring to those who are, you know, sinless or or perfect, right? Because there is no one like that except for Christ. Uh David's not saying that he is without sin. He's saying that in the matter in which my adversary is attacking me, I am without sin. Like I I haven't done anything to provoke his his attack. Um you know this is in keeping with the biblical focus on justice as as a a sort of narrow question of of what the individual has done, not um you know, not the broader context of of their life circumstances. Uh but anyway, this is what we're supposed to do. Look at I mean I love verse nine here. Oh let the evil of the wicked come to an end But establish the righteous. You know, we should cry out like that. That there's so much evil in the world, and I just I wish that it would come to an end. And I wish that God would establish the righteous in security that so that they would not have to be afraid of uh the attacks of Satan and the world and This should be our heart. This is why we long. This is why believers long for the appearing of Christ, because this is what he's going to accomplish when he comes back. So that is God's first requirement for us is to cry out to Him for justice before we do anything else, before we take matters into our own hands. But then he has two two more broad sets of requirements for us, um, depending on whether depending on where the injustice is occurring. If the injustice is occurring in the world, Uh whether to us or to someone else, there's there's one set of requirements. Uh and if the injustice is occurring in the church, there's another set of requirements that God has for us. And it's very important to distinguish between those two those two session requirements because you know a l a lot of Christians will will sort of read the New Testament and and the commands that it gives and try to apply them in the world And really there's there's no real hope of achieving justice and and peace and harmony in the world between Christians and unbelievers. Uh that that doesn't mean we don't do good. Uh we're commanded to do good to all, but especially to the household of faith. Right? We the church is the only place where we have any hope of living as God intended for humans to live. Okay, so let's first look at the world. You know, let's look at God's requirements for us with respect to justice and injustice in the world. So uh the first requirement, this is this is five B uh bullet one. The first requirement is to correct the world's understanding of right and wrong. Right? This this gets to the the systemic evils that the Bible talks about as being deceptions and teachings of demons. How do we counter those? How do we counter falsehood? With truth, yes, with truth from Scripture. So look at 1 Timothy 3. 15 In 1 Timothy 3. 15, Paul is writing to Timothy, who's a pastor of a church, and he's saying um But in case I am delayed, you know, he wants to come to Timothy. But in case I am delayed, I write so that you may know how one ought to conduct oneself in the household of God, which is the church of the living God, the pillar and support of the truth. Right, so Paul the New Testament calls the church the pillar and support of the truth. And the idea here is not that like if the church were removed, suddenly truth would cease to exist. Like it's not It's not the ontological pillar in support of the truth. It's that um you know Jesus talks about uh do not hide your lamp under a bushel, right? But set it up Um he doesn't say set it up on a pillar, but like that's the picture here. The truth is like a lamp and the church is the pillar and support that it sits on so that it can shine out to the entire world. Right, and that's that's our function is to hold up the light of the gospel and shine it forth into all the world. And um, you know, so we we need to be calling out these deceptions. Uh deceptions like the deception that was behind slavery, that um that different that there are different races of people supposedly and that that one race is superior to another. We need to call out those deceptions with scripture Um and and we especially need to be active in proclaiming the gospel because we're not we're not calling out these deceptions in order to moralize the world, right? We're not Um we're not hoping to make them righteous people by by pointing out their deceptions. Rather, we're trying to clear away obstacles to the gospel and show them their sinfulness so that they can repent and be saved and become part of the kingdom of God. So the the focus of our of our proclaiming the truth needs to be uh the truth of the kingdom of God, the truth of salvation in Christ alone. Questions on on this this um requirement of God for the church. What would be a practical way of doing this? Um a practical way of doing that, um that's a good question. Anybody have ideas? Practical practical way of the same thing. Proclaiming the truth. More initially there is in our lifetimes God given opportunities in which the circumstances, the contests Allow for us to really penetrate some of these points by regarding the correction in this instance. Um the person is And hopefully the word regenerates as a heart Um that matter for us. Yeah. Right, 'cause I definitely read in college like, oh the only way the person is like to go up to them, talk to them at the end of the day, like disrupt their daily lives is other than you know, cut into their schedules and make it very intentional. Very abrupt and obvious, but kinda how it works either. Oh wow, so I think yeah. Because you don't find like that Yeah, yeah. Well that's true. A lot of a lot of this is is relational, right? Like a lot of proclaiming the truth is proclaiming the truth to to your friends, right, and people who who you know and who know you um and and who have seen you live out the truth. There's but there's also a way in which we are called to proclaim the truth publicly. Um you know, like like we saw uh when Paul went before the Areopagus when we looked at Acts seventeen. You know, that was um Paul going before the the leading philosophers of the day and essentially saying Um no, you got you Greeks are not superior to every other nation. God made uh every nation from one man Also, you don't know anything about the spiritual realm. All your gods are false. Uh there is one Creator God. You know, he was just going through and proclaiming the truth to them. He didn't do it in a in an offensive or intentionally like harsh way, but but he did it in a straightforward way. Um so that that's another sort of practical example. I d it's it's a practical example from the ancient world, what might that look like today. I'm sorry? You see what that means like today. Yeah, what might it look like today to do that? You know, so so um we talked about the the sort of relational proclaiming the truth. What might the public proclamation of truth to the world look like. What form would that take? Media? Could be radio? Uh yeah, any kind of media, right? Like um social media You know, there's um we we should be using whatever platforms we have to proclaim the truth of of Christ uh and to whoever will listen. Right. entry points to point out the wrong thinking of the world and then lead that to the truth of the gospel. Sometimes it's just just walking in what is right is what is wrong. All your friends are doing one thing Yeah. Right. Yeah, living living your life can be a proclamation of the truth. And then anyone. Yeah. And that kind of leads to the second second requirement is that we need to be ready to suffer unjustly for Christ. Right, because we will have opposition from the world, especially to the extent that we're confronting, you know, the world's false views. They're gonna hate us for that. Uh Jesus promised that that the world would hate us because it hated him And he says, In this world you will have trouble, but take heart, for I have overcome the world. Um so there are going to be times when when we do suffer unjustly at the hands of the world and turn to First Peter to see how we should respond to that. The entire book of First Peter is really great um for knowing how to respond to suffering. But there are a couple of especially pertinent passages. The first, turn to 1 Peter 2, verses 21 through 23. Peter says, For you have been called for this purpose, since Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example for you to follow in his steps. who committed no sin, nor was any deceit found in his mouth. And while being reviled he did not revile in return. While suffering he uttered no threats, but kept entrusting himself to him who judges righteously Um you know, so if you suffer unjust treatment, uh you know if you're suffering for for proclaiming the gospel or for for doing good Um remember what Christ how Christ responded to that. He didn't you know, people reviled him on the cross. People were shouting insults at him, but he didn't revile in return Um he uttered no threats. He trusted himself to God who judges righteously. He knew that there was uh that he had a father in heaven who would uh carry out justice for him, and he didn't need to take vengeance. Um yeah I added I added something. So if you turn the page to 1 Peter 3, this this kind this instruction kind of continues Um he's still talking about suffering of deathly, right, in First Peter three. So look at First Peter three fifteen, uh fourteen and fifteen. But even if you should suffer for the sake of righteousness, you are blessed, and do not fear their intimidation, and do not be troubled, but sanctify Christ as Lord in your hearts, always being ready to make a defence. to everyone who asks you to give an account for the hope that is in you, yet with gentleness and reverence. So this is a familiar verse, right? You know, like always be ready to give a defense That's kind of the the proof text for studying apologetics, right? And you know, it is good to study apologetics, but it's not really talking about that in the verse. It's talking about When you suffer for doing the right thing, and when you don't respond like the world would, but with retaliation And when they ask you, why are you responding this way to your suffering, that is the moment where you need to be ready to share the gospel, to share the reason for your hope that you have in Christ So um that's that's God's second requirement for us is to be ready to suffer unjustly for Christ and then to witness for him in that. Yeah, a good good segue, especially at work is gossip. Gossip was a muck. You don't participate in it. Yeah. It's a it's a Also complaining, yeah. Also complaining, definitely. And when you talk about a segment though, how did you approach it Um okay, so there's there's two people I work with, and one person really does it to you, and the other person complains. Uh-huh. Yeah. Didn't you feel? And I go, I know. Well why you why are you so wild at your body? Why do you focus uh someone else is doing that why does it buy either So just it it's an opener for a guy. Oh uh yeah. Yeah, I mean we should have a reputation like that, you know. Right. Yeah, they're not they're not trying to flatter you, but I like yeah. Yeah. But if we can respond like and this is hard, this is really hard to do, uh it's it's true. But but you know, like when when people are complaining to us and want us to sort of join in If we can say anything like, you know, I feel your frustration, uh, but I'm commanded to do everything without complaining. Uh that is a command of scripture, do everything without complaining or arguing, so that you may become blameless and pure, children of God shining like lights in a crooked and perverse generation. Alright, there it is. Shining like lights because you're not complaining. Uh y but it you can even say that. Like I'm I'm commanded not to complain. Like to do everything without complaining Um so uh sorry I won't won't be joining in with this. What's the first to talk about that's a new test of words? What are the what one of the roles of strike that uh uh Why are yeah, why are there quarrels among you? Because because you want and do not have Because you don't have to believe it on act, act for the wrong motive. Yeah. And to spend it on your own um pleasure. Yep. I'm also trying to wonder when someone will apologize to us as individuals like, Hey, uh sorry I'm presenting I don't know what that bothered, you know. Uh huh. I don't know how a good response is saying not the weird need to worry about like. I think I think um I did um respond to that one. Like I think because my the way I look at that person, the person like, Oh, I'm I'm sorry, did did I offend you as a delete? You're offended me, or you're finding that the the God of heaven who actually created you. And he and he like, oh And that conversation never gonna be CD. Yeah. These might be conversation stoppers, yeah. But that's okay. But next time a person walk around me and they talk very carefully because they keep looking at me so they they won't complain. So you are the light of the world. You are the light of the world. Yeah. Yeah, people just walk by and and you know Yeah. And and when they curse it, oh I'm sorry, sorry. It's not that you bring the sign up and you're not curse but but there's something delimit denimer about you Mm-hmm. It's also interesting to always ask, so why do you use God's name? Why not Blue Garo, why not the Ali? Why do you Why can you always use guys? Uh-huh. This is kind of difficult to think about that. Yeah. But why you feel like that's the same thing. Yeah, why is it um So what's the difference between Philippines to do all things without complaining? Uh-huh. And then you read the Psalms and it sounds like a lot of complaining I mean some I think there's actually a psalm where it says that he is complaining to God. Uh-huh. But it's a different attitude. We're gonna look at a complaint actually in a second, yeah. Um go ahead. It's the question of lamentation. Okay. Right, so in the dividend songs, David's expression of complaint or like is an expression of his heart's sorrows in that sort of thing. Yes. But the key thing to notice is in each of those um prayers, he always ends sort of somewhere in it. It's sometimes intermingled. He always acknowledges what God has already done to him. So he's already come before God with a humble heart and seeking to express his the turbulence in his own heart. to God as God intended for him to do in prayer, to express everything to great God. So yeah. That's another good stuff. Right, I mean a lot of those complaints in in the Psalms and Lamentations, the complaint is being brought to the Lord. Right. Whereas the complaining, for example, that the Israelites did in the desert was they were just grumbling, they weren't bringing their complaint to the Lord. They were complaining about the Lord. And and you know, they were saying, Moses, we're gonna kill you. you've let us out here to die. So like they weren't they weren't submitted to God and to his authority like um like the psalmist were Yeah, I think I think authority has a lot to do with it too. Like, you know, we um okay, I'm sorry. This is a tangent. I know we have we only have like fifteen minutes left. Um So I do I really do want to finish this. Um so the the third requirement for us in the world is in in addition to correcting the world's understanding of right and wrong, being ready to suffer unjustly for Christ We also have to be careful that we don't ally with worldly causes in pursuit of justice. So look at 2 Corinthians 6, 15 through 18. Second Corinthians six, fifteen three eighteen. And for the sake of time, I'm just gonna read actually it's fourteen uh through eighteen. I'm gonna read um These verses, do not be bound together with unbelievers. For what partnerships have righteousness and lawlessness, or what fellowship has light with darkness? Or what harmony has Christ with Belial? Or what has a believer in common with an unbeliever? Or what agreement has the temple of God with idols? For we are the temple of the living God. Just as God said, I will dwell in them and walk among them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Therefore come out from their midst, and be separate, says the Lord, and do not touch what is unclean, and I will welcome you Alright. So, you know, this passage also is another familiar verse that's often used for quite different application, right? People say don't be yoked to unbelievers. That means don't marry an unbeliever. Right. Well that's that's a good principle. You know, you you shouldn't you should seek a believing spouse to marry But that's not really what the passage is talking about. In the context, it's really talking about the church not being yoked together with groups or organizations of unbelievers. Because um unbelievers they're not devoted to the concerns and priorities of the Lord. They're not seeking the kingdom of God like the church is. They're seeking um, you know, whatever whatever the sinful flesh wants to seek. You know, they're seeking their own interests. And so the metaphor here is being yoked together, and this is actually referencing uh command in the Old Testament law that um you shouldn't yoke together like an ox with a donkey, right? Because either one's gonna be stronger than another and they're gonna turn the plow in circles and it's not gonna get done. Or one's like taller than the other and and it's gonna bend the yoke so that one gets strangled. You know, so it's either gonna hurt the animals or it's gonna hurt the work that needs to be done or both. And it's just not a good idea. Right So like we the church need to be very careful about this, not to hitch ourselves to like a particular political party or political platform or social agenda or groups that are pursuing this or that. You know, and this isn't just the left, this is also the right. This is, you know, irrespective of of what side of the aisle you're on. Uh we're the church. We're separate. We don't yoke together with with these worldly organizations. Uh even if we even if we're um you know tempted to agree with with some of the things that they stand for. You know, even if we do legitimately agree with some of the things they stand for, should say I wish we had time to talk more about that. But we will in in the next set of uh worldviews that we're going to go over. But I really want to get to this this other set of requirements that God has for us w to do justice in the church. Alright, so the in the in the church, and we talked about the world, like the the world in the world we have one set of requirements, to be a witness, to call them to repentance. In the church we have a different set of requirements because, as we mentioned earlier, the church is the only place where it is actually possible to help have true justice. acted out and to live in the way that God intended for humans to live together. So the first requirement that God has for us with respect to justice in the church is to deal with justice and injustice at that individual relational level by confronting sin and love uh for the purpose of restoring both the victim and the perpetrators. So turn to Matthew eighteen. This is This is you know the the seminal text on uh confronting sin and church discipline. So Matthew 18, 15 through 17 says, And if your brother sins, go and reprove him in private. If he listens to you, you have won your brother. But if he does not listen to you, take one or two more with you. So that by the mouth of two or three witnesses every fact may be confirmed. And if he refuses to listen to them, tell it to the church. And if he refuses to listen even to the church, let him be to you as a Gentile and a tax collector. So um what is the uh what is the command in verse fifteen If your brother sins, what? Go and tell him his fault. Yeah, go and tell him his fault. Go and reprove him in private. So who is that command issued to? Members of the church. A sin. And in in a parallel passage, I think in Luke, it says, if your brother sins against you, go and confront him. Okay, so this command is issued to the person offended. That that's very contrary to um you know, the the prevailing view in our culture that that the victim has no responsibility whatsoever, right? It's not that all the responsibility is on the victim here uh the rest of the church has a great responsibility, right? The offender has a responsibility to recognize his own sin and repent of it. The church has a responsibility to come alongside the victim and be witnesses and apply church discipline. So it's not that the victim bears all the responsibilities. But but the person who's offended in in scripture does have a responsibility out of love for their brother who sinned against them to confront them with that Um so the responsibility is shared by all parties in the biblical model. Um And notice this is a relational thing, right? The brother has sinned against you or against someone. It's not just sort of an an abstract uh thing based on on their group identity. You don't go confront somebody just because they're a member of a particular group, right? Also, what's the goal here of this confrontation? Yeah, reconciliation. So restoration of that relationship between the offender and the offended and the the church as a whole. and and the restoration of the offender, right? That's also so different from what we see in our society is like the goal of a confrontation like this is usually to to silence or tear down or or otherwise eliminate the offender from you know, the public swear, right? You know, deplatform them or or cancel them or whatever. That's that's totally different from this where the goal is to restore the offender in love and to reconcile. So that that's a way in which our um our pursuit of justice in the church should look totally different from the way the world pursues justice. Okay. And another another call that God has, another requirement that God has for us in the church is to care for needy believers. You know, we we read about last time how God is especially concerned with with widows, orphans, and um and the foreigners, the strangers, aliens among you Uh well that command continues in the New Testament. We are to be concerned especially for those vulnerable vulnerable groups in the church And for the sake of time, I want to look at, I want to go to point three and look at an example of the early church doing that. Right, okay, so there's let's turn to Acts 6, 1 through 6. This is the third requirement that God has for us in the church, is to pursue unity by eliminating partiality and favoritism. So partiality and favoritism are sins where by which uh someone you know gives special treatment to a group of people um over another when they should be loving all of their brothers and sisters in Christ. Um equally. So that that sin is called out in the book of James, but here's an example of the early church dealing with it. Alright, so this is by context, uh Acts six, we're in Acts chapter six, verses one through six. This is the church in Jerusalem. At this point the church had not spread beyond Jerusalem. This is still within probably about a year after the death and resurrection of Christ. And so you've got um Two groups of people in this church here. You have the native Hebrews who are Jews from Jerusalem and the surrounding towns of Judea. And then you have Jews who had come into Jerusalem for the feast of Pentecost from all over the Greek speaking world. And they had come and they had heard the apostles speaking in tongues at Pentecost and preaching. um Christ crucified and risen from the dead, and they had believed, and they had stayed in Jerusalem and not gone back to their homes in order to say and learn from the apostles about the the way of Christ. Uh so they were very poor. They did not have a lot of resources, especially these Hellenistic Jews, so they were called, the the Jews from around the Greek-speaking world. So with that context, uh listen as I read Acts 6, 1 through 6. Now at this time, while the disciples were increasing in number, a complaint arose uh on the part of the Hellenistic Jews against the native Hebrews, because their widows were being overlooked in the daily serving of food. And the twelve summoned the congregation of the disciples and said, It is not desirable for us to neglect the Word of God in order to serve tables. But select from among you, brethren, seven men of good reputation. full of the Spirit and of Wisdom, whom we may put in charge of this task. But we will devote ourselves to prayer and to the ministry of the Word And the statement found approval with the whole congregation, and they chose Stephen, a man full of faith and of the Holy Spirit, and Philip, Procorus, Nicanor, Timon, Parmanus, and Nicholas, a proselyte from Antioch. And these they brought before the apostles, and after praying they laid their hands on them. So the more you look at this passage, the more I look at this passage, the more the impressed I am with the way that the early church in Jerusalem handled this potentially very explosive issue of the complaint um of the Hellenistic Jews. against the native Hebrews, right? So just real quick, here are six aspects that I think are really important to understand. understanding what's going on here. Number one, there's a pattern of sin. Remember we talked about that in the beginning, that patterns of sin can often characterize groups of people. In in this case the pattern of sin was that uh the the Hebrews, the native Hebrews, who were in charge of distributing food to the widows, who were a vulnerable group in the church were showing partiality to their own, you know, native Hebrew widows and against the Hellenistic widows who were in a s in special need because they had come from all over the empire and left their their houses and stuff behind. Um so the the pattern is in that that gave rise to the complaints Number two, the pro the proactive response of the apostles. Notice the apostles didn't it doesn't say anything about the complaint being brought to the apostles It it only says that the the twelve summons a congregation of the disciples, right? So they didn't wait for this to become a formal complaint or an official church issue. They took action and they said, All right everybody come together, we're gonna address this issue. So they were proactive about it, uh as we should be about these kind of things. Number three, the priority of the church. Right? Notice the apostles didn't say, oh, okay, this is so important, we're going to drop everything else and just focus on the church and making sure that we take care of all the widows. Uh no, they said it would not be good for us to to neglect the Word of God in order to serve tables. Like our priority, guys, is to proclaim the truth and proclaim the gospel to Jerusalem and Judea and all and the ends of the earth. So we need to focus on that. But this is a problem, so we're going to um propose a solution. We're going to have you choose seven men to head up this ministry to the widows. So the fourth aspect here, we had the pattern of sin, the proactive response of the apostles, the the commitment, the priority of the church. First and foremost, and now we have the prerequisites for these seven men who are going to serve uh in this ministry. And those the prerequisites there, what are they Verse three. Good reputation. Good reputation. Wisdom. Yes, full of the spirit and of wisdom. So they have to be living out the truth of Scripture and have a good reputation for doing so. And they have to be full of the spirit and of wisdom Because what does it take to administer justice? Wisdom. It takes an understanding of right and wrong. from from scripture, right? So that was the prerequisite for for these men. Notice the prerequisite was not that they all be Greek speaking. Right, that they all be representatives of the oppressed class. That that was not the requirement here. The requirement was that they have biblical wisdom and uh lived out in their lives. But notice after the next thing, fifth thing, um in addition to the prerequisites for authority, in the actual choosing of these seven men, you see great preference for one another, for the weaker brother. Right, look at all the if you look at all the names of the seven men that were chosen, all of those names are Greek names, not Hebrew names. Right, so we can probably infer that all or at least most of these men were Hellenistic Jews. Right, and notice who chose them The whole congregation chose them. The whole congregation, probably the majority of whom were Hebrew, right? They said, oh, they were grieved by the hurt that their Hellenistic brothers were experiencing. And they chose to give up their right to proportional representation and instead chose to um put seven Greek men in this office, Hellenistic Jews in this office. Notice they were still they still had the qualifications, right? They were still full of the spirit and of wisdom. But this was a step of of love and and unity on the part of the uh the Hebrew Jews. saying we're going to prefer our brothers in honor. And then finally, sixth, we have the result, which was peace in the church. Uh and we can it doesn't explicitly say that uh the that the situation was resolved and that everybody was happy after this, but it's interesting that in the rest of the New Testament Even though we read about conflicts between groups of people, and like Jews and Gentiles, we never ever read about conflicts between Hellenistic Jews and Hebrew Jews again. Right. So it's it's like it's like the issue was totally resolved by this by this proactive action of the apostles, by the wise choice. of these seven men and by the preference that the congregation showed for their weaker brothers. It was totally nipped in the bud, this thing that could have easily and quickly divided the the first church Right, so this is this is I think an excellent pattern for us to follow in the church in resolving these kinds of issues. You could easily see an issue like this arising in a church today. Like you know, a church b between between like black people and white people in a church. Um and you know, uh a church think about a church that had maybe looked at critical theory and said, oh, this is a useful tool for us to examine injustice and and issues of uh of race and ethnicity. If if a church had absorbed that kind of those concepts and the teachings of critical theory, this situation would play out completely differently. Right. Um you would have you would have this intense focus on group identity. You know, the Hellenistic Jews might have said, like Yeah, we're the oppressed ones. We gotta stick together, guys. We gotta have our Hellenistic Bible studies, you know, our separate separate worship service in Greek. You know, we've got to get ourselves some representation among the apostles, right? We've got to have Greek speaking apostles. And and then you know the the Hebrews might have said, Oh, you're you know, you're right, we should all the all the Hebrew apostles should resign You know, and and we should we should uh divest ourselves of our privilege and decenter. And then you might have a faction in the church that reacts against critical theory that says like, No, y there's no problem here. Like you you Hellenists are just blowing everything out of proportion. J suck it up and get along, you know. That's not helpful either, right? That that's what that's what critical theory would have done to this search. Yeah. So Um yeah, so I mean inconclude like it's ten forty five right now, we've got to go. But uh that we finally got through critical theory. And and the reason I wanted to spend so much time on it is because You know, it's just it's it's so tempting for the church to wanna to wanna absorb it and and use it as as like a useful tool, but it's it's a false gospel. It's a different gospel. It's poison. It's it's not something that we should be using Scripture is sufficient. Scripture has all the tools we need to uh to deal with these kind of things. So think about these problems in a biblical way and to do unity and justice in the church. In God's way. Alright. Let me close this in prayer