I guess it's yes. Alright. So yeah, this morning we are we're on a new world view. Uh okay, section seven. This one has a name that you know probably most of you have never heard of. Moralistic therapeutic theism. How many of you have heard of that? Joel's heard of it. Aaron's heard of it. Okay. Um So, you know, nobody would actually call themselves a moralistic therapeutic theist. Uh that's sort of a a made-up descriptive term. Uh it was coined by a sociologist at Notre Dame named Christian Smith. Uh so back in two thousand two and three he went around and he and his co-authors uh went around and email um not email interview uh 3,000 teenagers across America and about their spiritual lives and and religious beliefs. And what they compiled was they they found that a majority of them, a clear majority of these these American teenagers had this worldview that didn't really have a name. They called themselves Christians, but they didn't really believe any of the core truths of the Christian faith. Um so yes. Um Oh it's a very important statement as we uh let me Okay. Um so I'm setting up a second recording here and Uh okay. Got it. Got it running. So uh moralistic therapeutic theism, sociologist Christian Smith um found that that the majority of the the American teenagers he interviewed in two thousand two and three had this religion, this this worldview that wasn't really um in line with any of the the documented uh or or known world religions, they were calling themselves Christians, but they didn't really believe any of the actual core doctrines of the Christian faith Um and so he he came up with a name for it, a descriptive name called moralistic therapeutic deism. But the fact that It is probably the majority worldview among people who call themselves Christians kind of suggests another name for it, and that is cultural Christianism. So, you know, this is this is a very prevalent worldview. This is this is also very close to home. There are many people in the church who actually believe this and not biblical Christianity. Um and that may even include us at some times, right? This is this is the worldview that like if we're falling asleep in our Christian walk, this is what we start to believe sort of unconsciously Because it's just it's just the psychological bat of American culture. Um by the way, I'd just point out that in 2002 and 2003, teenagers would have been like me and Jen. So this is like my generation's worldview. I don't know I don't know if this is sure, yeah. Yes. Um Why teenagers? Why don't why why do you want to do a study on teenagers specifically? Um I think he just wanted a a narrow enough scope that he didn't have to that he could write a book about it and not an encyclopedia. Yeah, so I think I I don't necess I don't think that the worldview is limited to teenagers for or people of my generation. I I think it was um just that that he focused his research there, uh, but it is representative of a much broader uh belief system in the culture Alright, so most of what I'm going to say here in terms of outlining the worldview itself comes from Christian Smith's book. But I you can probably recognize these these kinds of attitudes and beliefs from people you've met or even things that you may have once believed or or maybe do believe. And we're going to hopefully confront some of those things. Okay, so remember we got eight questions that we're using to scaffold these worldviews. And the first one is what is ultimate reality? Well, in moralistic therapeutic deism, uh ultimate reality is a deistic God. So they'll talk about God, but when they say God, they don't really mean the same thing as Yahweh, as the biblical God. Right, they mean, um, you know, here's a quote from from Christian Smith, a God exists who created and orders the world and watches over human life on earth. So that part's true, uh, but this they also believe about this God that God does not need to be particularly involved in one's life except when he is needed to resolve a problem That's the key feature of um of their God in this worldview, right? Is that he's removed, he's distant. He's not really the focus of reality. He's just sort of off on the fringes waiting to kind of help out when there's a big problem. Um yeah, how m how man how many of you have thought about God in this way before? Yeah, I'll raise my hand. Thank you This is how we just sort of instinctively tend to treat God when things are going well in our life. He's he's just off there, you know, not really important you know, waiting for us to call in him when something goes wrong. But that's not the biblical God, of course. As we'll see later. So You know, what is ultimate reality? Technically it might be this this creator god who's a deistic god, but in fact really the focus of reality is much more on the self and on my own happiness Uh so into this question of what is ultimate reality, you might you might just say it's me. Um it's it's a very individualistic uh religion or worldview And uh, you know, I think it's no accident that it that it came about in America. Um because we're a pretty individualistic culture So how can we know about reality? Well, uh moralistic therapeutic theism really embraces the doctrine of religious pluralism. I mean they may not they might not say that, uh, but there's there's this attitude demoric uh among moralistic therapeutic theists that uh most religions teach what is true about God and uh and about how he wants us to live. And they believe that the Bible is one of those those sources of truth. It contains truth, but it's not unique. They don't look at the Bible as the authoritative word of God that we need to um really pay attention to and submit our lives to, they just look at it as one among many sacred writings that that teach the right way to go. Right, so so pluralism is sort of a the de facto stance, the de facto epistemology of this worldview. Um question so far. Um is this sounding familiar to people? Yeah. Okay, so what's our purpose? You know, what what's our purpose in life? Or what's the grand story of of life, a meta-narrative So the purpose uh is happiness. Right? And here you can really hear echoes of, you know, the Constitution, life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness Right, that's what we are um th that's that's what life is all about under moralistic care of Pudytheism. So quoting Christian Smith again, the central goal of life is to be happy and to feel good about oneself. Right? God wants me to be happy. That's that is the belief here that's at the core of moralistic therapeutic theism Um and you know it's it's a belief it's not just uh it's not just purely, you know, self-serving uh you know, ha be happy at the expense of other people. The the belief here is that you can be happy uh or the best way to be happy is to be a good, nice, kind person, like like the Bible teaches or like other religions Teach. So that is that's the kind of happiness they have in view here. It's not like it's not a a blatantly selfish or exploitative happiness. It's it's like happiness with morality. So it's moralistic. That's where the the moralistic thing, uh peace comes in from the name of the worldview. Okay, how did we get here? Well, uh God made us, but not really for any specific purpose other than to be happy. It's not like the this this worldview does not hold that there's a specific plan or purpose to human history or to life other than to pursue happiness Questions on those two those two parts. Oh. Yeah. I miss I may have missed the therapeutic piece. Oh we'll get we'll get there. Yeah, yeah. So okay, so what is humanity's main problem? Well if the purpose of life is happiness then humanity's main problem is anything that interferes with the pursuit of happiness. So there's really two things. There's unfulfillment, there's which is just whenever you fail to achieve happiness. uh that is that is a major problem uh in this worldview. Also suffering, uh which in this worldview is when bad things happen to good people because mostly in under this worldview, people are are good uh regardless of of what religious tradition they come from. And so when bad things happen, it's mostly bad things happening to good people, uh, under this view So unfulfillment and suffering are the two main problems. And what is the solution? Well, here's where moralistic therapy of theism gets its name, really. So moralism uh refers to you you gotta try your best to be happy by being a good person. All right, good morning. Um yeah, so that's this is what God wants for us under the worldview of moralistic therapeutic deism, is he wants us to try to be happy by being a good person. Um and so you know the the moralism is is the emphasis on what it means to be a good person, which is basically you know to be nice to everyone, to be kind. But the therapeutic deism part comes in when you find when you face one of these problems, either you fail to achieve happiness in some way, or a bad thing happens to you as a good person Then you ask God for help with those big problems so that you can go back to pursuing happiness. So it's therapeutic because you have a problem and you go to God like a therapist or or like a genie to ask you to uh to ask for help solving that problem And then it's deism because then after the problem is solved, God goes back on the shelf. How many of us have treated God this way? Oh yeah. All of us. Um yeah, see what I mean? This is this is kind of just the natural state of of the human in our culture, uh and and you know, if we if we fail to keep um the word of God before our eyes, this is what we fall back into We start to ignore God. We start to put him on the shelf until there's a problem and then we call for his help and then we ignore him again. Uh yeah. Questions so far before we get to the last two Oh. Yeah. Are there um did you uh take any quotes from from this guy's book in the internet or since he's like uh questions he Yes. Um so I I took some quotes from the book and um they're yeah, I ha I highlighted those, like especially for it from section B. Um there's one in section B. There's he so Christian Smith articulates the worldview in in five points. Uh and so I quoted each of those five points, but they didn't quite align with the the schema we're using in the questions. I I really like them. Um but I didn't yeah, so I don't know offhand what uh what questions he was asking in his interviews. Uh these are basically just his his conclusions. So would it be pretty easy for Non-believers community think this is actually what question they may have. Oh absolutely. Yeah. Yeah, I think if you if you read um you know, like reporting on on Christians uh from from say uh mainstream media outlets. That this is probably y you know, they'll they'll assume that most Christians have this worldview, either that or or they're maybe Christian nationalists or something. But um you know this this is probably like the world's view of of what a Christian is. Yes. Are there like actual churches that kind of follow this um worldview? There are yeah, there are churches that um I mean they may not teach these doctrines explicitly, but there are definitely churches where a majority of members uh have this view of God and right the and the the church is just sort of a a social club to come together And um you know not and and talk in in generalities about about theistic God and how you cry out to him when you have a big problem. Um but they don't really teach the core truth of scripture Yeah, there there are a lot of churches like that, yeah. Do they read the Bible? Not I'm not saying it's like it's like a sarcastic way of just like saying they're wrong because they ain't actually read the Bible. So people have been doing studies on biblical literacy in among Americans for decades now and and the findings are actually quite surprising. uh like the percentage of Christian of American Christians will probably read one chapter possibly a year. Yeah, right. So so these People who study biblical literacy um have questionnaires that that ask basic questions about the Bible. And um you know, that they they they've given them to to people who call themselves Christians, uh also people who don't, over time. And you know the the biblical literacy among Christians is very low. It's almost the same as the rest of the world. So yeah, the question do they read the Bible is the answer is probably not. You know, probably not much more than than the average. Maybe a little pamphlet. Uh-huh. Yeah, so and and and that's really the key, like to if we want to avoid um slipping into this false worldview, which is a false gospel, uh what we have to do, and this is the very end of of the handout, is keep the fear of the Lord before our eyes by meditating on his word. That is the antidote to moralistic therapy of Jesus. Just to give a preview of what's coming up. Okay. Um last question. Um so I see suffering when bad things happen to Google. What about when bad things happen to go bad people. Or or like where are we going? Good people go to heaven when they die, but I don't see anything about what happened to bad people. Bad right, it's a good question that they recognize. Yeah, so under radar. So I'm not I'm not actually an expert on moralistic therapeutic theism. You know, I'm I haven't studied it like Christian Smith has, but uh do they follow the similar lay of dunkism for Well, yeah, I think they they would probably you know, just judging from from uh what I've seen in the culture among my friends who who Some of whom probably subscribe to this worldview uh without explicitly claiming to. I you know, they would probably recognize that there are some truly bad people out there, like Hitler, uh, you know, but they would name the really bad ones. And and uh but I don't think there would they have any clear or consistent belief about the afterlife, about hell, about um judgment. You know, th they probab there probably is a vague sense that that God would judge those people negatively. Right. Uh But it's not an emphasized piece of this worldview. So um have they ever asked them what they think the uh future like we know that um the end is gonna be And then he reads it on the earth and then leads out after what does A think like if someone just like if you were just like to walk up there and the what's the end of the universe Um they would they probably would not give any consistent response on that. There probably is no clearly defined estatology in the worldview of moralistic herbe of theism. They they would all Yeah, we should try that sometime actually. What is the end of all time? Yeah, right You could read a book. For that for interest in that question or for like the origins question, they might go to a different worldview, right? Like scientific naturalism. That would probably be the go-to worldview for them to answer those questions. How do we get here? Well scientists say evolution, right? So they they might lean on on the other worldview for that. Or for eschatology, uh scientists say, you know, in in about five billion years the sun's gonna burn out. So Uh if we haven't annihilated ourselves before then. So Mad Max is a definite possibility. Oh I haven't seen that one. Um yeah, so so but they the it is clear in this worldview that Uh they believe good people go to heaven when they die. And and they believe that that good people includes almost everyone, right? Like a anyone who who sincerely tries to be nice and kind to others and follow the teachings of their religion. Yeah, so I mean it's it's directly uh contradictory to Jesus' statement that the way of life is narrow, right? And and broad is the road that leads to destruction. They they would say, no no no, broad is the road that leads to heaven and it's you know, if there is any road that leads to hell it's it's narrow, you know, it's only for the Headwords in the Stalins. Yes. Okay. Sorry. But um I've heard like the argument about um like people one Christians and Catholics together to with um these type this group of Christians like agree like would they like agree with Catholics as well? They would probably say oh yeah um they think that's different denominations the differences between Catholics and Protestants are not important. They both teach basically the same thing. Yeah, no, I they're they're wrong, right? They they're wrong about about the the doctrinal distinct between say Catholicism and Protestantism. But they they would see it as they're just two different traditions teaching basically the same thing about how to live and how to approach God. Do they say the same about Mormonism? Probably. Okay. Yeah. And and they would probably also say the same thing about Islam or uh even and Judaism. Uh Buddhism and Hinduism, Judaism for sure. Yeah. So they do all All all the religions. Yeah. I mean I think um th there's you know, you probab because this is such a a broad worldview and and believed by so much of the population You're not going to find most of them having studied other religions too deeply. So um You know, I I I wouldn't look for uh a comparative religion scholar to to emerge from among this worldview, but um yeah Okay, so what is our primary moral duty? Well, under this worldview, uh here's a quote from Christian Smith. This is one of the tenets that one of the five uh descriptive tenets that he abstracted from the interview responses. God wants people to be good, nice, and fair to each other, as taught in the Bible and by most world religions. Okay, so that's that's what God wants from us. Uh and and notice this is all focused on our relationships with other people, not with God. God does not require anything from us with respect to Him, like our worship or our love or our devotion. It's all all the requirements are for our relationships to other people. Which is of course completely different from what Jesus said are the greatest two commandments, which are what? Yeah, that's the first one. Second one is love your neighbor as yourself. Right. So they they take out the first and most important commandment and sort of Uh throw it on the floor. Well they don't even swap. They just discard the first one. We're just gonna get rid of that. Yeah. And they took the So there's only nine commandments. Uh well actually the the first four commandments relate to loving God and then the last six are uh relate to our our interactions with each other. So six commands. Yeah. Sixty percent. Mm-hmm. That's I guess a D I don't know. What is what is 60% these days? Yeah, well that's yeah, so God's God's gonna pass us. Questions about um about the worldview be before we launch into the biblical response. Not questions per se, but It's like hard to imagine this worldview because we're not constantly surrounded by it. But I just think about my college years. Yeah. Like this was everywhere. Oh yeah. Because especially North Carolina, which is not deep south, but it's still sound enough. Um everybody is almost culturally Christian here. Yes. Like my grandpa went to church, so therefore I'm gonna go to church because it's just tradition. Right. Like we do weekly Bible studies not because Like we're trying to get more knowledgeable, we're just simply doing it because again, shooting up with culture. Right. It's the group I hang out with everyone. Yeah, and like even if you ask them all these questions, they don't have answers because they just don't know anything. And so especially in college, they love this type of belief because they think everybody's ever everything's gonna be prosperous in the end. Well happiness is the key to success and Success is to keep alive, so Yeah. Yeah, I mean this this um worldview sort of an extreme extension of it shows up in uh what's called the prosperity gospel, right? The health and wealth gospel. Which uh yeah, Joel Osteen, yeah. He he preaches that one. I think we're gonna put that in uh in our discussion of heresies, which is the next worldview. It's not heresies don't rise to the level of being their own worldview, but we're gonna devote one lesson to those. Um yes. I'm sorry. Um but their review on homosexuality? Um it it depends. I mean it's probably ranges from So if you're like a progressive cultural there's conservative culturals and there's progressive culturals. Yes it's annoying to talk about, but whatever. But if you're a progressive cultural then you're like, well inclusivity is the key to have Uh-huh. Great. So I think kind of what it Like you mentioned this worldview is can pull from other worldviews, but it seems like bits and pieces of this are in others. Like like we talked about um just the rights that people want to have in the last worldview and kind of that comes down to they want to maybe put their happiness above other So I mean in a sense it kind of seems like they they have this type of thinking but they're just applying it in a specific way. Yeah. Oh that's a that is a great point. Like we've been studying these worldviews. This is our fourth one now as very formal sets of doctrines. But that's not how they're lived, right? We have to study it that way because we only have an hour every Sunday. But People don't formalize their worldview like that, and they don't hold just one worldview in pure isolation, right? People are masters at syncretizing their worldview with other worldviews. So somebody could easily be a moralistic therapeutic deist five days of the week and then uh a critical theorist uh you know on on the day they they go out and and march or protest. And then a scientific naturalist when they're thinking about origins or eschatology Mixing those those worldviews is is very common and most people do that. Yeah. And we do that. We do that too. Like that that's that's another good point. worldview is not just out there in the world. It's it's in here. It's in our minds too. Right? We um I mean We said that. Like you you guys recognize we treat God this way. Um how it is it's really easy for me to look at my friends in the world and say, how how can they be Bad people. You know, how can they be sinning? Um, deserving of judgment. How is that possible, God? You know, like and that's because I don't understand God's holiness. I don't understand the standard by which I would be judged if I were not a believer. And so, you know, we it this is it's it's very hard not to um syncretize the biblical worldview with one of these other worldviews. We have to actually work very hard not to do that. So in that sense then true Christianity would be the only well-being that does not mix with others like what Jesus taught in Yes, and it and that's you know that's the main job of the church, or one of the main jobs of the church, is to make sure that it doesn't mix. Right? That is uh that was the focus of most of Paul's letters to the churches that he was writing to. He says, guys, be careful, I see you mixing the true gospel with um you know, Gnosticism or what the Judaizers taught, which is that you need to be circumcised and follow the law of Moses to be saved I see you mixing, don't do it, don't do it. You know, he spends chapters and chapters saying like, You foolish Galatians, who is bewitched you, you know, berating them and and not berating, you know, exhorting, rebuking them That's the role of especially the leaders in the church who have to keep the church from mixing the gospel, mixing the biblical worldview with the worldviews in the culture. Okay, so yeah, how do we do that? How do we respond biblically to this worldview? Well, there's a lot of ways you could respond. I've written down here four key truths that we need to preach to ourselves and emphasize. to counteract the lies of moralistic therapy of theism. And then a fifth one that is basically how do we counter it? How do we counter it mostly in our in our own minds, in our own hearts. But also also in our interactions with others. Okay, so first the first truth we need to remember is that Pursuing self-fulfillment in the way that moralistic therapeutic deism says is the purpose of life actually makes us enemies of God Let that sink in for a second. Pursuing self-fulfillment, pursuing our own happiness, if that's our priority in life, that makes us enemies of God. So look at James 4, 1 through 4, which you can either turn there in your Bible or I've copied it down here. Who wants to read that for me? I got it. Okay, thanks, Joel. What is the source of quarrels and conflicts among you? Is the source now your pleasures that wage war in your body's parts? You lust and do not have, so you commit murder. And you are envious and cannot obtain, so you fight and quarrel. You do not have because you do not have. You ask and do not receive because you asked with the wrong motives, so that you may spend what you request on your pleasures. You adulteress Do you not know that friendship with the world is hostility toward God? Therefore, whoever wants to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God. Thank you. Yeah, so this is talking about if you are a friend of the world, you are an enemy of God. So we'll let's go through this verse backwards, right? Let's start with that, because that's a very clear and strong statement. If you are a friend of the world You are an enemy of God. And I mean, we don't want to be an enemy of God, right? So the question is, what is friendship with the world? What does that mean? Who can answer that from the beginning part of the verse? Can I say the question one more time, but just so I can know what I'm doing? Uh sure, yeah. So so the question is what does friendship with the world mean? What is this thing that makes us an enemy of God? Use doing things like doing what the world would think would be right, more stuff like that. That that is true. Uh but in the context of this verse, I'm looking for something uh a little bit more specific Well it talks about lusting. Right, lusting after uh and this is not primarily sexual lust. It's lusting after stuff, right? After what are after your own pleasures. Alright, uh is is the source of quarrels not your pleasures that wage war in your body's parts? Or it says you ask like ask God for things, and you do not receive what you ask for, because you ask with wrong motives, so that you may spend what you request on your pleasures. Right? So this is pursuit of happiness. If you are pursuing your own pleasure and your own self-fulfillment as your highest priority in life, that's what makes you a friend of the world and an enemy of God I might even go a little further. It's it's it's and it's like this extreme view. It's also there's envy in there. Yeah. And it's pleasures to the to the point of waging war in your body. It is an extreme. It's not just like, well, I'm not going to eat today because I don't want to give my cause my body's hungry. It's it's it's like I'm gonna eat like I'm gonna be a glutton and just consume pounds and pounds of lobster all day. It's just it's an extreme Extreme view. If someone else is doing it, well I want what they have. So it's Yeah. Yeah, yeah. sort of graphic picture of what's in the human heart. Well and it's also giving the lie to to another part of the worldview of moralistic heritage at theism, which is that Robin. Uh is that Mm most people are good people. But no, this is actually closer to a real description of actual humans and human interaction. I mean what group of people is not i is free of s of conflict, right? And and the reason for that conflict is not just that people don't understand each other. It's that we're all seeking our own happiness, our own self-fulfillment. uh you know which moralistic therapeutic deism says is fine and good, but actually it's what results in all this conflict. And by the way, it makes you an enemy of God. And I think the um God used the word you adulteresses. Yeah. That is um almost like we have an idol in our hearts. So it's nothing wrong with Al Dizir and Alwant. As long as Al Dizir and Alwant submit to the will of God. Mm-hmm. But when our desire and our want is above the word of God, then that become an idol of the heart. And idol of the heart means like in an ancient day when my religion of Buddha uh idol of the heart is when you actually bow down and submit to the idol you actually see. But idol the heart today is actually some thing that you want more than than God want that you want God. You want that thing more than you want God and you're willing to sin to get it. Because that becomes the eye of the heart. And and so So so uh whatever that is could be good things, could be something really good. But um and that that cause that becomes that you dethrone God and you put that on top of the throne And you bow down to that. Either money can be car, can be can be anything, can be game, can be anything, anything and all of that. Your heart is attached to and master over unique You say you cannot throw two masters. You can have one master. And master over you and it it take over. Right. And James is writing to people in the church here. Right? Who who claim to be believers. So yeah, that's an excellent point. You know, morality and ethics, what defines your your ethic is not necessarily what you consider good and what you consider evil. It's your priorities. These things that they're seeking, uh, whatever they are, you know, food or money or whatever, those are those are good so far as they go in themselves, but Um when it's about priorities, like you're saying, when we make those things a higher priority than seeking the Lord and his kingdom that's when we have gone on gone off the rails into this other worldview even it's false gospel. So it's about priorities. It's um that's what defines your ethic. Yep. I just wanna say I think it's I just ne realized this and I find it very interesting that we call people that we like or we adore idols that He's my idol. I like that person my idol. Yeah, yeah, we've sort of taken the word idol and turned it into a good thing, or at least a benign thing. Right Like but no, it's it's actually adultery against the Lord. Um Yeah, so we the point there is is uh you know as believers we it's not enough for us just to sort of affirm that God is the ruler of the universe and our Lord, and that you know the church is his kingdom, Jesus said we have to seek first the Kingdom of God. It's the priority question, right? That our first priority has to be the kingdom of God. Uh more than our own comfort and happiness, more than like advancing our career and making a bunch of money. Um you know m and that's hard. That is really hard. Like none of us of course does that perfectly. But that's why we need each other to sort of uh encourage one another and uh call each other out, you know, when when we're not doing it right. In general. Yeah. I think what James is doing here calling Yeah. It goes against that worldview too because seems to be I mean going along with being nice to people. Yeah. Amendment on the other end, don't judge people. Uh-huh. You can't say anything negative, no condemnation for anybody. Right. Everybody's okay, just leave them where they are. Uh-huh. Do your thing and Forget about it. Yeah, yeah. That's very contrary to the the world view that says, oh everyone's good, like they're all following their own path. Whatever. Yeah, you look at Jesus, he he has such amazing compassion towards people who knew of their own sin. and were grieved by it. But he had very harsh words to say to people who did not think that they were sinners, like the Pharisees. And you know, James is is echoing that. Alright, number two, truth number two that that we need to counter moralistic therapeutic deism is that Jesus gives us this ultimatum and it's actually repeated in the rest of the New Testament that um you can either seek your reward now in this life And get nothing from God except eternal suffering. Or you can embrace a life of sacrifice and suffering now and get a reward from the Lord later. in in eternity. Alright, you can't so moralistic therapeutic deism says pursue your happiness now in this life, and if you're good you'll go to heaven so you'll get the eternal reward. It says you can Have your cake and eat it too, exactly. That's what more or less the therapeutic theism says. And but that's a lie. So look at Matthew 16, 24 through 27. Can somebody read that for me? It's on the sheet here. And she Uh yep. Okay. Then Jesus said to his disciples, If anyone wants to come after me For ever for whoever wants to save his life will lose it. Whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. For what good will it do Will it do a person if he gains the whole world or forfeits his soul? Or what will a person give in exchange for his soul? For the Son of Man is going to come in the glory of his Father with his angels and and will then repay every person according to his deeds. Okay. Yeah. So what what do we have to do if we want to follow Jesus and get that reward for um that Jesus is gonna bring with him when he comes with his angels. Yeah, we have to deny ourselves, take up our cross and follow me. So what what does that mean? Well I think it goes back to the loss that they were talking you were talking about James. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, we The natural state of human beings is we we seek our own pleasures, right? We seek our own self-fulfillment. So denying yourself means like you're that's not your priority anymore. Right, your your self fulfillment is no longer what you are living for. You're denying that. And then what about taking up your cross? So does that mean so the cross of course was was the instrument of of Christ's execution. Yeah, it was It was his ultimate sacrifice. Does this mean you have to die for the Lord? Die for Christ in order to be his follower No, because well in a parallel passage in Luke it says take up your cross daily. Right? So it's something that happens continually over and over again. You don't you only die once, right? And Most of us probably will not be called to die for the Lord. Some of us might, but um so how do you take up your cross daily? Like being consistent. Being consistent in uh doing what? And following cards like being consistent Uh-huh. Yeah, consistent in in denying yourself and and staying true to what Christ commands of you, right? So why is it why does he call it taking up your cross. If if all he means is like, oh yeah, follow my commands, um deny yourself. Because how does it feel to do that? basically putting off the auto and then putting on the new name. So it's always like follow and take up your cross. The new your the cross is the new name. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. The cross is a symbol of death and you so you you're putting to death you're the flesh with its desires like Paul talks about in the New Testament and you are um being transformed into that new creation in Christ. Exactly. Yeah, so take up take up the self-death, take up the self-denial. Um and uh put to death that part of you that wants to pursue your own happiness at the expense of serving your Lord. Yes. Prior to this, it talks about Christ talks to the disciples and says, I'm going to suffer and I'm going to die. And then Peter says, no, don't let it be true. And then Christ says, get behind me, Satan. You're you are focusing on the world and not on my giving you know this is this is what I've come to do. Right. Peter was like, uh don't die. Hang out with Allah. Well hang hang out with us. Yeah. And so if there's you know you know this is this is the objective of Christ, or this is the objective that God the Father has given to God Christ. You in a similar vein, it doesn't mean you have to be put out of cross, but you in a similar vein, do what do it do what God has set before you. Don't get the strength. Don't become a loser. Because what did Peter think that Jesus was gonna do? Sorry. What did Peter think that Jesus was going to do? gonna do when he came. Which is Dr. Yeah. Yeah, saving for the I was trying to find that either. It's okay, it's okay. I was like think But I do also want to say the cross hurts a lot. Yeah. So when you think that it's um it's almost like thinking I don't know how to say this. Um, but it it hurts it's kinda hard to do it 'cause when can when he was carrying the butt, that thing's heavy I don't know how heavy that is. A very heavy thing. So when you say carry your cross, I I feel like uh like it's gone's hard, it's heavy, but just do it. Right, yeah, yeah, exactly. So and and the question is like how can this apply to people who don't like suffer physical persecution or death for Christ? Um You know, why why would Jesus describe why would Jesus give this as a universal command for his followers and a universal description of what their life is going to look like? And you know, I just want to bring up that God puts us in situations and relationships Where we are forced to deny ourselves as part of everyday life, as part of the normal sanctification process that he leads every believer through. Plus E. So uh things like like marriage and parenting, um, you know I becoming a parent is You know, like some you come home one day, you're used to you're used to sort of living your life mostly on your own terms and on your own schedule, and then somebody comes in hands you a human being who has no power and infinite need, right? Like so and now that's you. You're you're responsible 24-7 for caring for this little human Uh and of course you love that human, right? You you love that that little baby. Um but it is a constant uh decision to deny yourself and to to set aside what you wanted to do and your own plans, your own priorities for the sake of bringing up this little person in the discipline and instruction of the Lord. Um yes, like m most of you don't don't have children. Um y you you may be called uh one day to to embark on that road. But there are other ways. Like what are some other ways that that in your daily life God gives you opportunity to practice this, to deny yourself, take up your cross, follow him. You all did this morning. You woke up this morning and you decided to come to come there 45. You could have you could have sleep in. You could have have a long breakfast, you could do a lot of things. Mm-hmm. When you deny that all that and you come to Sunday school class or come to church on Sunday or could play golf Mm-hmm. Pursuing your own self-interest and uh putting that aside and and doing what God commands of you. Because he commands us to uh not not stop meeting together, as is the habit of some, but to consider how we might stimulate one another onto love and good deeds. And um, you know, it's not just Sunday, right? Like uh if if you are uh following God's command to be faithful in serving one another in the church. Like you might have to wake up early on a Saturday too and go help somebody move or or something like that. You know, look for those ways that God is calling you uh to do to to make little decisions To deny yourself and take up your cross. Yeah. I would say it even would go as far as to apply to like daily Bible reading. So in the morning you wake up and have school So it doesn't even just apply to getting up and coming and serving church. What about your own convictions and making sure that you're saying the word and prayer like spending time on the on the weekends if you want to sleep in or are you gonna choose to get up and stay consistent or even convenience you have to get up at the crack dawn. But I mean like even being consistent on a on a Saturday, on a on a Friday when you're trying to relax, putting an hour aside to spend time in the word. Yeah. It's a great point. These are daily things. Uh even mundane things, right? It's It don't don't deceive yourself by saying that the only things that count for the Lord are these big dramatic symbols of of sacrifice. No, it's the daily stuff. It's the the everyday decisions that God uh wants to to shape your heart in. Uh exactly, thank you. Well up your parents by taking out the trash without being told that So I don't live in home. So we all know who that was. Not me. So I have a question. Sure. So it seems that a common response to all this from an unbeliever from this type of perspective would be Hey, this is how I view Christianity now. If I'm gonna embrace it, no more fun. Whatever I want to do, just don't do that, and then that'll be Christianity. Christianity, right? How do you how do you respond to that? Well, notice that all these passages that are copied here on the handout, they talk about reward. Right. They they don't say, they don't make the the unbiblical mistake of saying that the Christian life is all about duty and obligation. That's not what Jesus is saying. He's saying, seek a greater reward than anything this world has to offer. Alright, so look at um Look at the next one. Look at Luke set Luke 6, 22 through 24. Blessed are you when people hate you and when they crude you and insult you and scorn your name as evil on account of the Son of Man. Rejoice on that day and jump for joy, for behold, your reward is great in heaven. For their fathers used to treat the prophets the same way. But woe to you who are rich, for you are receiving your comfort in full. So he's saying, um, you know, I think there's if if you uh take one passage to the exclusion of its context, it's uh you could say something like, oh, he's he's rebuking anyone who has a lot of money. But no, he's the context makes it clear that he's saying, Woe to you if you are rich because you're ignoring the son of man, right? Because you're pursuing your own priorities and and comfort in life as opposed to the kingdom of God. But what he's saying here is like There's um if you seek a reward here on earth, you'll have it in full. You know, earlier in this passage he talked about those who uh you know do not practice your giving like the hypocrites. who give in front of everybody so that they'll be noticed by men. Uh I tell you, they have their reward in full. Right. So so they they got the recognition from man that they were seeking. And, you know, a fat lot of good it's gonna do them, right? Because They've already they've already spent it essentially. It's gone. It's gone. They're not going to get anything from the Lord. But if you want to maximize your joy, your reward You have to you have to think eternally. You have to think in the long term. Right. You yeah, sure, you will sacrifice a lot of opportunity for comfort and fun uh in this life. Not not all opportunity, right? You will have joy in, for example, the fellowship with other believers. Um yeah, he's not saying he's not saying you have to be an ascetic Uh because asceticism is fundamentally self-focused as well, right? It's not it's not really any different from it's not like the ascetic who who uh wears sackcloth and and feeds his own body and denies himself food is actually seeking the kingdom of God by doing that. But he's he doesn't have God's priorities as his priorities. He's just Self-serving in a in a much more convoluted way. So Jesus is not saying be an ascetic, he's saying make God's priorities your priorities. And yeah, that will cause you to sacrifice and miss out on some opportunities for comfort and pleasure and fun in this world. But your reward is going to be infinitely greater than what you've given up Like remember he said the disciples came to him and said, We've given up uh we've left our families and our homes for you. Um and Jesus, what did Jesus say to them? Yeah, I tell you nobody who has given up who has left homes or families or fields for my sake, will not fail to receive a hundred times more in this life and the next. Alright, so there is some measure of reward even in this life. uh in terms of joy. Um but it's the the the actual bulk of the reward is coming in the next life. Up to Joe questions. No, I was just gonna say I don't think like God puts stuff in your life for you to purposely like be miserable. Like it it always like has a purpose. So I feel like as you come and draw you or as God draws you closer to Him, your desires are slowly gonna change from being doing things that are self serving to doing things that are serving the body, serving the kingdom. And I think like from an unbelievers perspective, that's one of the things that they're not gonna be able to understand because again with going on with like this worldview, their goal is self serving and their goal is Yeah. And if anything gets in the way, including God, then it doesn't apply and it's not something that they're gonna be wanting to do because Like even even the world is like growth is hard. And that applies to the Bible too, because I feel like growing in the Lord is hard. It's difficult. And it's not something that's fun. But after you come through it, you're like, oh, wait, kinda needed to go through that in order to get to here. Yeah. Right, yeah. God designs the the trials, the the difficult things, the suffering for us, not so that we'll be miserable, but so that um so that our faith will be refined and purified and basically so that we will be more able to enjoy him and worship him in eternity. of the reward. Right. That's why that's why it is right for us to seek a reward from God. Because if you look at Psalm thirty seven four, which I didn't put on there, but it says it's the one that says Delight yourself in the Lord, and he will what? Give you the desires of your heart. So notice if we delight ourselves in the things of the world, comfort and pleasure and money, do we get the desires of our heart from God? No, it's only when we make the Lord Himself the object of our desire that we get fulfillment from Him And so that's why it's that's why it's not like selfish to seek that kind of reward. It's it's sort of like uh I mean C. S. Lewis uses this illustration of um marriage. You know, if if a man wants to marry a woman that he loves, uh do we call him selfish for for you know, uh deriving pleasure from that relationship. Like, oh he's just he's just in it for, you know, because he because he loves her and he's gonna have fun with her, you know, and uh being married to her. Like that's he's selfish. We don't call him selfish, right? Because because that kind of enjoyment, the enjoyment of the relationship between husband and wife is intrinsic to marriage. It's connected logically with the act. Now if the man is gonna marry her for her money, right, do we call that selfish? Yes, we do, because money is extrinsic to marriage. It's not naturally and logically connected to the act of marriage. So it's the same thing with seeking a reward from God. What kind of reward are we seeking from God? Is it the reward like money, like stuff that's not connected to who he is? No, what is it? Yeah, we're seeking more of him. We're seeking uh the experience of his presence, of his glory and greatness. Right? We're and in order to be able to experience that, we need to become like him. We don't have the ability right now to experience the joy of the Lord because we're sinners. We gain more and more of that ability to uh to see him as he is and to experience the joy of his presence. And that's what these trials are doing for us. That's the reward that uh denying ourselves, taking up our cross and following him is actually bringing. is the ability to enjoy God. Um the uh the unbeliever will look at your life and say, Man, you have all this free time that you go and do in the serpent church. It's your joy, but what he go out and do his own thing The pleasure he had will never satisfy. And that's a difference. It will never satisfy. Mm-hmm. You wait until the moment where that sat this satisfaction rise to the point where you're like, Oh, I I I have all this money and I spent all this money but still not that that longing design my heart is not meant What is it I'm missing? That when you come in you say it's not fulfilled you you're missing one thing. You have everything, you have the whole world where you're missing only one thing Yeah. Reminds me of Ecclesiastes. Trying every everything in the world and then coming to the end and say That's the dirty secret of the world. It's like even if you spend all your time seeking the pleasure of the world, it's it's gonna slip through your fingers. Pastor Leaf once said that joy, true joy, sneaks up on you, basically. Like you you practice this, the denying yourself and the following taking up your cross and following Christ. You you you serve in the church and suddenly you realize that you're at peace. You know, that you you are fulfilled in God. You're not consumed with the anxieties that that you had when you were just like building your career or whatever. Great game. Yeah. Mm-hmm. One other point that I wanted to make is uh In Hebrews 12. 12, uh or sorry, twelve two, it says, Let us fix our eyes on Jesus, the author and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy set before him, did what? Endured the cross. Endured the cross. So why did Jesus go to the cross? Why did he take up his cross? Because he had a duty? Because he had a uh you know, straight faced sense of moral obligation to his father. Why did he do it? For the joy set before him. He endured the cross. Right? So so he even Christ was seeking a reward in his obedience to the Father. So it is not wrong to seek a reward. It's wrong to seek the wrong kind of reward. It's wrong to seek the reward that the world promises, but never delivers. It's right to seek a reward from God, which is joy in him. John Piper talked a lot about this Christian union. Yeah, who who's heard of John Piper and his his doctrine of so-called Christian hedonism? I I'm not sure I like the name, but I like the doctrine. Yeah, it's really a lot more. Yeah. Oh. But his main point is just that like you can't You essentially you can't love God in the way that he's meant to be loved without enjoying him. Right? Joy is and delight in the Lord is central to the Christian life. to following God. Which is true, and there's so much scriptural basis for it. Um I yeah, John Piper is great. Uh okay, I think we should stop there and or actually sorry, I don't want to stop if there are any more questions. I was just thinking of Matthew eleven. Oh. When we were in that verse, um How do you help picking up his talk and following him? On the flip side, we definitely are helping us with that because even that we can't do all our own like Matthew eleven, um 28 tops to me, like come to me, I'll hear a warry and buried and I'll give you rest. Mm-hmm. Take my oath upon you and learn for me, for I'm gentle and humble and heart and you will find rest for yourself That's right, yeah. That's and that's the truth is that following Christ is actually easier in the long run than following trying to pursue our own satisfaction in the world. You know. Um I think the another thing that Pastor Lee used to say is there's There's the hard way, which is the way of Christ, and there's the harder way, which is the way of the world. There's no easy way in life. Okay. Well, does anybody have any prayer requests? Hi, sir.