Okay. So yeah, we are back in moralistic therapy or theism. Hopefully everyone got a handout. Um it hasn't changed in in two weeks, so if you still got the one from two weeks ago, then you're fine. Um But just as a a brief refresher, so moralistic therapeutic deism, who who can sort of remind us like what that basically is? First, what's the de ism part? Right, yeah, a God who's kinda off over there, not really involved with his creation, especially with our our lives. Um Um and you know in this world view this worldview is different from classical theism like like many of the founding fathers espouse. This is like God is there and he's ready to step in and and rescue us if we get into trouble, if we have you know a hard thing going on. But um, you know, for the most part he's standing off there, not really involved in our lives. Uh that's that's the deism part. Um what about the therapeutic part? Yeah, he's it's kind of the the drugstore Jesus, right? Like I have a problem so I'm gonna pray to God that he would solve my problem so I can go back to Back to doing what? What's the what's the sort of central goal in this worldview? Pursuing happiness. Pursuing happiness, yeah. Yeah, so it's a very self focused worldview, right? Like it's reality's about me, my life is about my own happiness Uh that's what God wants for me anyway, right? Is for me to be happy. So it's okay, like when I get in trouble, I can pray to him and he'll come back come and set me back on my feet so I can go and pursue my happiness again Um yeah, that's kind of the the worldview. What about the moralistic part of the Yeah, exactly. Yeah, that's that's sort of all God really requires of us. You know, we uh we're supposed to be happy and part of that includes being a nice person, like a good a person who's good to everyone. And and you know, it's very pluralistic, right? It's it's a view that says um you know the the Bible doesn't uniquely show us how to be a good person other religions of the world sort of teach the same thing. So, you know, anyone who sincerely follows their own religion is going to live up to the standard of this deistic God. Yeah, so that's the moralistic part, right? So um yeah, questions about um about moralistic therapeutic views and the worldview itself. I don't know if you had a couple weeks now to to think about it. Any questions about what the worldview believes Oh yeah, so um you know it's many of the founding fathers, not all of them, but like many of the the founding fathers who wrote the Constitution and and declaration of independence were um were deists in the classical sort of enlightenment sense of the word uh where they they believed in in sort of the the wind up universe, right? Like God created the universe and wound it up like a watch or like a clock and then just walked away and is letting it run. And so that kind of deism says like you can't even pray to God and expect him to answer you. Right? So that that's the difference between classical deism and moralistic therapeutic deism. Yeah, yeah, it is like uh I would I would describe this as Christianity like with all the all the core doctrines Really eviscerated from it. Yeah. It's it's Christianity minus the fear of the Lord. Yeah, yeah. Exactly. It's just Edward. Yeah. It's um yeah, and you know the alternate title I gave here for it is Cultural Christianity, right? And it can Yeah, it's just Edward, exactly. In St. Christianity. A lot of the um you know sort of watered down prosperity gospel preaching that that exists in American churches um across the country, unfortunately. So last time we started uh sort of giving a biblical response to moralistic therapeutic views and right and um There there are there are many ways that that you could respond biblically. I tried to pick the the five most important ones that I could see. I think one of the core deceptions of this worldview, as we talked about last time, is that we can pursue our own self-fulfillment and be a follower of God. Be be a friend of God. But is that true? No. And so what what does the Bible say about that Yeah. Yeah Right, that's Jesus' call to us, right, is to deny ourselves, to take up our cross daily and follow him And um he says, you know, if you try to save your life, as in if you try to sort of maximize your your happiness here, maximize your life here on earth, you will lose it Right? If you're if you're seeking a reward here and now, you're gonna get all your reward here and now. You're not gonna get anything from the Lord in eternity Uh but if you want an eternal reward, if you want to be a friend of God, if you want God to reward you, what you have to do now is is give up your life, lose your life. deny yourself. So, you know, Jesus' call to us is really an ultimatum like that. It's not it's not you can have your cake and eat it too. You can have your you can pursue your happiness in the world and and be friends with God. Uh in fact, James 4 says, um, whoever wants to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God. And in the context of the passage, being a friend of the world James describes as pursuing your lusts, right? You may spend what you request on your pleasures. Um and the pleasures that wage war in your body's parts, right? So it's people the people who are friends with the world are those who are seeking the fulfillment of their desires in the things of this world. Uh so you can't do that and be a friend of God. Yeah. So Um good, yeah, so we covered that two weeks ago. Those were the sort of the first two um responses to moralistic therapy reviews in Mark Hill. Um So today I want to move on to the next few responses. Um so th those ones focused on you know friendship with the world versus friendship with God. These ones, um, yeah, I think another key deception of moralistic therapeuticism is is that there's essentially no difference between um Christianity and other religions and between Between Christians and unbelievers. Right? It's which this this um this view is easy to understand, right? Like if we It I don't know about you guys, but for me it's easy to look at myself through through human eyes and to look at my um unbelieving coworkers and friends and say, you know, we're really not that different Right? I don't know I don't know if you guys have that experience. Um you know and and it's easy to sort of even get a little bit discouraged about that and say, you know, like what what difference is it really making um in my life that I follow God? You know, like these my my co work my unbelieving coworkers, they're nice people. They s they speak kindly to other coworkers. They Uh they work hard, they do the right thing, they generally tell the truth. Um, you know, what is it that's that's different? Uh so this this deception has teeth, right? Like um however what I want to convey this morning through the scriptures that we're gonna read is that there is actually an enormous difference between believers and unbelievers, especially when you look at us from the perspective of the Lord. Right? If we if we see with God's eyes, if we look at ourselves with God's eyes We have to realize that there's an enormous difference between believers and unbelievers. So Uh let's dive into Ephesians 2, 1 through 10. And here we're on we're on uh bullet 3a of the outline. So this is the Third page of the outline, 3A, I've I've put Ephesians 2, 1 through 10 there, or you can turn there in your Bible if you would like. Who would like to read this whole passage for us? Oh and sorry, before you know, while people are uh you know considering whether you want to volunteer, I'll do the setup for the passage. So this is Paul writing to the church in Ephesus, right? So he's writing to believers. But he's writing about them in the past, uh, in some portions of this passage, right? So he's writing about how they were when they were unbelievers. And then, uh. . So that's what he's talking about when he uses the past tense. And then when he uses the present tense, he's talking about the Ephesian Christians now as believers. So I want us when we're reading and listening to this passage to think about and pay close attention to the differences that Paul describes between unbelievers and believers. Alright, now that you've had some time to think about who wants to volunteer. Okay. Ephesians 2, 1 through 10. Thank you. So according to this passage, what is the main difference from God's perspective between the first time? Between unbelievers and believers. Yes. Right. It's the difference between dead and alive. Yeah. No, no, no. Yeah, it's it's the difference between being dead and alive. Um so And and remember, this is not just us versus them. This is this is who we formerly were as well. Before we were believers, we were also dead. in our trespass in our offenses and sins in which we previously walked. So what does it say, what is God's attitude What's the difference in God's attitude towards unbelievers and believers, towards those who are dead in their sins versus those who are alive in Christ? A little bit buried in there, but um when we were unbelievers before we were saved, we were children of what? Wrath. Yeah, so that's God's attitude towards um towards those who are not following him, towards those who are not saved, including us before we were saved. We were children of wrath. He had the attitude of wrath toward us. What is his attitude toward us now if we are saved? Yeah, it's love is his attitude towards us now. Great, right? This this disposition to give us favor that we don't deserve. Uh or or also it says, you know, like three-quarters of the way through the passage, so that in the ages to come he might show the boundless riches of his grace in kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. Right? So his attitude now is kindness toward us. Now, so far we've been talking about differences between unbelievers and believers that have nothing to do really with our own righteousness or our own goodness. Right. If we're dead, can we make ourselves alive? Yeah, dead people don't do that. Dead people don't really do anything Um if if we are children of wrath, is there anything that we can do in ourselves to make ourselves children of God's grace and kindness? No. No. Who has to act? It's God, yes. Remember Pastor Kirby in his last several lessons before he left was talking about the gospel and he was you know, continually preaching the point that salvation is of God, right? It is God's choice. He is the one who chose us from before the foundation of the world. um in order to take us when we were dead and were incapable of choosing him and pleasing him and transfer us out of that darkness into the kingdom of his beloved son. That was God who made that choice That was not us, primarily. Right? Now we're not reductionists, so we don't believe that there is only one explanation for the same event. So we also we know that inside of God's sovereignty and underneath God's sovereign choice there is actually also a human choice at work there. But that human choice wouldn't be possible without God's first choosing to save us. Right, so so there's a huge difference between believers and unbelievers. And it's a huge difference not based on our righteousness, but based on how God sees us. So, how many of us think like this, right? How many of us see ourselves or make an effort to see ourselves the way God sees us? As alive in Christ. seated with him, let's see, raised up with him and seated with him in the heavenly places. Right? How many of us make an effort to think of ourselves that way as opposed to what we were before, which is dead in our trespasses and sins? That's the kind of thing we need to meditate on and really try to understand. What does that mean? You know, what does that change about me and my life if I start to see myself the way God sees me? And this this is totally incompatible with moralistic therapeutic deism, by the way, right? Like with a uh a worldview. Hey, good morning, guys. Uh If you've got a worldview that says, hey, you just just be happy, you know, just practice like the major teachings of every world religion and then you're you'll be fine. That's not going to raise you from the dead Uh that's not going to that's not going to um yeah, that's not gonna that's not gonna raise you from the dead. That's not going to make you an object of God's Okay, so so there's a there's a difference. It's It's a hidden difference. It's hard for us to see because we have to see it with God's eyes, not our own eyes. But there's a big difference between believers and unbelievers. But how does that work itself out? That's the question. Like how in our in our actions, in our lives, how should this difference manifest? Right. Yeah, so so to some extent, like if we're having a hard time discerning a difference between Between ourselves and the world, that should that should be a a red flag for us, right? The Bible tells us that we need to examine ourselves to see if we are in the faith. So we should examine ourselves if we really can't see a difference between us and the world. But you know, sometimes the reason we can't see a difference, um, at least, you know, in in in a particular situation is because maybe things are just going well for for everybody. And uh that's not those are not the situations where you see the difference between the world and the church, between unbelievers and believers. So just as a way to talk about those those differences, Who remembers what Jesus said? How did Jesus summarize God's standard for how he expects us to live and how he evaluates our lives? Right. He gave two commands that were the sum of the law and the prophets. What was the first one? Oh, Caleb. Um so I'm not talking about the the Ten Commandments. I'm I'm talking about, you know, when when Jesus was asked to give Yeah. Um it's similar, yeah. You you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, mind, soul, and strength. Right, that that's commandment number one, loving the Lord. And yeah, number two is love your neighbor as yourself. Alright, so um You know, so when when we're looking at at ourselves and and comparing ourselves to um to unbelievers and you know it's and it's tempting to say like, oh, you know, we're just we're sort of just the same. Well, first we have to remember that first commandment, right? Love the Lord your God with all your heart, mind, soul, and strength. If you're a believer, um you should be doing that, right? Like you should be uh praying to the Lord, um seeking his will by meditating on his word, uh, you know, serving in the church and and valuing uh the unity and the fellowship and the building up of the church. Right? If you're doing those things, then that's an expression of love for the Lord. That's that's Um none of us fulfill that first commandment perfectly, but that's us attempting at least in in the power of the Spirit to fulfill that first and most important commandment of the law. That's that's not actually something that um an unbeliever can even start to do. Right? Um so already even even in situations where things are going well and everybody is kind of a nice nice person That's a one huge difference in terms of God standard between believers and unbelievers. But if you look at um there are two kinds of situations that really test us uh on on each of those two commandments, to love the Lord and to love our neighbor as ourselves, that really start to show the difference between a believer and an unbeliever. And I would argue the situation that tests that first commandment to love the Lord is the situation of trials. Right? So If you think about a trial, like some some painful suffering that the Lord brings into your life, think about how believers and unbelievers respond differently to that kind of thing. Um you know so say say somebody gets gets very sick, somebody gets cancer, and it and it looks like it's a terminal diagnosis. Right. Um how is an unbeliever typically going to respond to that? Like how would we have responded to that before we were saved? Yeah, sometimes with anger, even at God, right? Like God, why could how could you do this to me? I wasn't you know, I was doing I was I was I wasn't doing anything wrong. I was uh You know, I was pursuing my happiness while being a nice person. How could you smite me with this cancer? Right? Um anger. What what other responses? Yeah, yeah, all these things. Extreme sadness, uh fear, anxiety, worry All those things. Those are yes, those are the kinds of responses that the world gives to to um the These situations of intense suffering, or when faced with death. How does a believer respond to these things? Right. How how would it let's say a believer gets cancer, like Pastor Leek, or um if any of you knew Paul Bodwin. Um yeah, or you know, I was even diagnosed with with melanoma several years ago. Um just thankfully they caught it early. But uh You know, there was there was a while before I knew uh that it was early stage that I was like, oh, you know, I may only have a couple years left to live. So um, you know, what what is a believer how does a believer respond in that kind of situation Yeah. Is there is there fear? Yeah there's there might be a little bit of fear, but like is there consuming fear of death? No, because because after death, um that's when God brings us to be with him and in fellowship with If you're truly a believer and you believe that you are raised up with Christ and seated with him in the heavenly places then like if that's your if that's who you really are, then death means you are going to be fully present where you truly are, right, with Christ. Um yeah, so that's uh so it's not not a fear response. What about what about anger? Does a believer get angry at God for bringing this kind of thing in into his life? I mean there might be some anger, yeah. I mean there's we're we are none of us perfectly embodies the love that we should have for the Lord. But is it going to be an anger that results in disowning the Lord, turning our back on the Lord? No, no. We might question, we might cry out like the psalmist did, why, Lord? Why did you do this? But we say with the psalmist at the end of the day, like um the Lord gives and the Lord takes away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. That might have been Job, I don't remember. So there's so in the in response to trials, there's that's uh a kind of situation that shows a stark difference between a believer and an unbeliever with respect to that number one commandment of loving the Lord. Yeah Yeah. Yeah, no, it's a huge difference, right? I mean and look at um James One. Turn let's turn there. That's this is the the seminal text that shows how we as believers should respond. Two trials. Um let's see. I'm gonna read uh James chapter one, verses one through four. Okay, so this is James, a bondservant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ to the twelve tribes who are dispersed abroad. Greetings. Consider it all joy, my brethren, when you encounter various trials, knowing that the testing of your faith produces endurance, and let endurance have its perfect result that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing. So what should be our response to trials? Joy. Joy. Whoa. Yeah, that's like that's weird. Um yeah, it's it's actually it's very hard to make that our response, right? F in order to for that to be our response, we need to be really meditating on the word of the Lord in times of non-trial so that we have that that foundation in his word when the trial hits, that we just react with joy, right? But we also need to preach to ourselves that this is an occasion for joy because why? Why are trials supposed to be a joy for us? Yeah, next first. Go ahead. Yeah, making us a Yeah. Right, exactly. It's because it strengthens our faith. In and in two two senses really. Like it strengthens our faith in the sense of confirming that we are actually saved. Right? Like if we respond to a trial with joy, if we if we come face to face with death, for example, and and say, okay, no, actually I am confident that I will be with the Lord when I die. That's that's confirming of our salvation But also it not only strengthens our faith in that way, but it makes us complete. It makes us more like Christ. It strengthens our faith in the sense that as we endure the trial like Christ endured trials, we our character looks more like his character. And so that's another way in which we are made complete through trials. And, you know, we say like, well, that's a nice side effect of a trial, but like why would that be an occasion for joy? Well, we need to understand, we need to look at our faith the way God looks at our faith Right. So in God's eyes, our faith is not just like a trivial part of our personality. He says that our a purified faith in the heart of a believer is more precious than gold. He values our faith. Remember Pastor Lee or Pastor Gabe is is preaching on um the fear of the Lord. And he's talking about how our hearts need to be transformed and shaped by God's heart, by God's values. And God values our faith, our strong, sincere faith, above pretty much anything else in us. So when when a trial comes along and is an occasion to strengthen our faith, we should value that too, right? That's why we should consider it all joy Because we're valuing our our faith in the way that God values it Right. Yeah, joy is intimately tied to our hope, the the eternal inheritance that is stored up in us that no one can take away. Okay, so that was that was number one, right? That command first commandment, love the Lord. That's and then trials really show the difference between between unbelievers and believers with respect to how we honor that first commandment to love the Lord. What about that second commandment of loving your neighbor as yourself? Well, I would submit that the situation that really shows the difference between believers and unbelievers with respect to that second commandment is when we are sinned against. Um, you know, when there's sin uh between unbelievers in the world, like I'm not talking about like, you know, accidental uh sin that that can easily be covered over. I'm talking about serious sin that um you know that that would be like relationship ending uh among unbelievers. Right. Well I guess I kind of gave away the answer. I think I've seen it a lot. Uh unbelievers often will will will See no problem with just sort of cutting off relationships uh when when they're sin, right? Like the um you know, if if I as an unbeliever sin against somebody I often don't want to admit that, and so I'm not going to like humble myself and repent, but the other person doesn't want to just absorb the hurt, and so the relationship's kind of cut off, and now we just don't ever relate anymore Um how by contrast, how should believers in the church respond to that kind of sin? To serious sin that ordinarily would would like end a relationship Yeah, practice forgiveness. Yeah, there are some times when when the person doesn't even know, right, and then we have to exercise with them, we should we could probably have a whole uh Sunday morning on this, like about how to exercise discernment about when to go confront somebody about that sin versus when to cover it over in love. You know, because both of those are commanded of us in different in response to different kinds of sins. But, you know, say we do need to go confront somebody about uh a sin that they've committed against us Right. There's there's a there's a biblical protocol for that, right? Like in Go ahead. Loving kindness. Yeah, loving kindness. Like in Matthew eighteen. Go if your brother sins or you know, I think Luke says if your brother sins and Matthew says if your brother If your brother sins against you, or maybe vice versa. But in any case, if there's a brother in church who's sinning, you go to him, show him his faults. If he listens to you, you have won your brother over. Right. That um you know, if if he doesn't listen to you, you do what Yeah, you take one or two witnesses along so that um you know everything can be confirmed by by witnesses and it's not just He said, she said, your word against his word. And then if he doesn't listen to the witnesses, then we take it to the church and there's church discipline. Um so but what's the goal of this whole process? Reconciliation. Reconciliation. The goal is not to burn the guy who send you like you know, get get vindication. Get um no, it's reconciliation is the goal. Right. Restoration of the relationship and And the preservation of the unity of the church. So that's pretty different from what you see in relationships between non-believers, right? That's that's rarely the goal uh that they have. Th there's rarely a willingness to sort of put aside your pride um in in order to reconcile uh and and really exercise that sort of sacrificial forgiveness for the sake of unity. And don't get me wrong, that's really hard for believers to do too, and and we don't do it perfectly by any means. But at least we have the possibility of doing it, right? And I've seen it happen in the church. And that's only because we have the Holy Spirit. That's only because we're saved. Yeah. Yeah, I think um you know, that it's even m maybe even more rare in our society these days, uh, you know, with polarization and social media to to see any commitment to reconciliation or unity Yeah, that's that's unfortunate. I think but it's it's not surprising to someone who has a biblical worldview, right? Technology Uh and and scientific progress is just going to amplify the what already exists in the human heart, um, which is pride and selfishness. Yeah, I think that's a great question. I think um there's a lot of nuance depending on on the nature of the relationship there. Um but the short answer would be yes, I think there are cases where it it is wise to to to separate from an unbeliever, but as you alluded to, it comes back to the heart. That's what God is concerned about, is our heart, not not just our outward actions. So it comes down to like say say uh you're in a uh a working relationship with an unbeliever who's who's I don't know like verbally abusing you or something, right? It may be appropriate to actually withdraw yourself from that relationship um and uh you know pursue like um disciplinary action through the supervisor, but not as uh the heart your heart shouldn't be one of of like wanting to get revenge on that person or or like vindicate yourself, your heart should be one of um wanting to promote uh peace and and stability in the workplace, right? Like wanting to protect other people from getting hurt by this person. So a lot of it comes down to our heart, but a lot of it also comes down to the nature of the relationship. Like Paul, you know, I think of in Paul's letters when he wrote um commands to um masters and slaves. You know he was saying he said slaves obey your masters. It's not a comfortable thing to talk about. But but it's in the scripture, right? He said, Slaves obey your masters not only the ones who are kind and gentle, but also the ones who are are unreasonable. Um so if we have a relationship that we can't get out of, you know, without um without sort of breaking a word or breaking a an agreement that we've made, then it is we we are called to um sort of be faithful and and live in that relationship even when it hurts us. Uh so I wanna I guess I want to say a qualified yes to your question. Takes a lot of discernment and wisdom. That's another thing is like, well, first of all, like you know, if you're a believer, do not date an unbeliever. Okay? Like that's not a good idea. Because it's not going to end well, right? Like do not so so we covered the passage in Second Corinthians that that says, Do not be yoked together with an unbeliever. That's not technically talking about romantic relationships, it's talking about the church and worldly organizations. But I think the principle applies there too, because marriage, you know, if you're if you're dating someone, it first of all it the goal should be either to marry or decide not to marry Right. And and you don't want to be married to an unbeliever, uh, because marriage is such a close, intimate, one flesh union that you don't want to link the priorities and the values of Christ to the priorities and values of an unbelieving heart Right, so so there's just no reason to really date an unbeliever. But you know, some people they were unbelievers when they got married and then one get saved, and so now you have a marriage between a believer and an unbeliever that was not the result of like a foolish decision. And um in in those situations it's interesting Paul's command and Peter's command is Um, you know, if you're the believing spouse you stay with your unbelieving spouse. Uh you don't um you know, y you you're not given the permission just because of that mismatch to to walk away, but you're supposed to be a sanctifying influence in the life of your spouse and in the life of your children if you have any. But yeah, romantic relationships are a challenge in in that regard. Okay, other questions on this on difference between unbelievers and believers? Yeah. Yeah, that's a good question. Um you know related would be like how if we are I'm often dis tempted to say like, Oh yeah, that that coworker, he's such a good guy. Like I just I wish he were a Christian. You know? How many of you have said that about a friend or a A family member or something. They uphold almost all the same thing, just like why don't you just be a Christian and then what happens? So the question is, would God ever say something like that? Would God ever look at at your friend or your coworker, or you before you were saved, me before I was saved, and say, Oh man, that guy is such a good guy. I wish he would just follow me. No, that's ridiculous, right? That's we're dead. He sees us and we are dead in our tr transgressions and sins. We're enemies of him. Like while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Or moral actions would still be considered trash. Yes. Filthy rags, exactly. Filthy rags. So um So I think when when we are tempted to think that way, it's just we're not we don't have right vision, right? We don't have God's eyes to see with uh when when we're looking at as at um unbelievers that way. And I think a lot of it goes back to uh the heart, right? Because we can't see inside somebody's heart, but that's what the Lord looks at. Man looks at the outward appearance, but the Lord looks at the heart. And what he's looking for in their heart is faith, is love for him, because it says without faith it is impossible to please God. Right, so so I mean we don't understand that. You know, it's hard for us to understand. Like, well how can how can somebody who does something that looks so good, how can that be how can that not count because they don't have faith, right? Like But well okay, let's let's talk about that a lot. Like what what do you guys think about that? Right, yeah. And remember the heart is deceitful above all else, right? So we can think that we're doing something for the right motives, but we don't even understand our own motives. Right? That there could be pride lurking like four or five levels deep. Pride in our humility, you know that kind of thing. Um that that could be at work in our hearts. And God sees right through that. He sees right to the bottom And and you know, by the way, this is not this is not about like trashing unbelievers here, right? This is this is things we need to guard against in our own hearts. This is there but for the grace of God go we. Um But I think I think there's even another aspect to that statement, apart from faith, that it is impossible to please God. Because faith, you know, when scripture talks about faith, it's not just talking about belief. Right, it's not just talking about um intellectual assent to God and and what he says. It's it's talking faith is intimately connected in the Bible to authority. Right. Um and I wish I had time to really go through and prove that scripturally, but I don't. Uh so for the sake of this morning, just take my word for it. If Safe is intimately connected to authority. Faith is our response of submission to the authority of God. So the way I I have begun to look at it is um You know, let's say there's a soldier in an army, right, who goes off to uh fight in a war on behalf of his country. Right, and this soldier is is fighting in the war and then one day he he decides, like, you know, my my unit, my commander, is just not using me in a very effective way. And so he chooses to like take off his uniform and go rogue and go out on the battlefield Let's say let's say he kills like a hundred of the enemy. Let's say he takes an entire town by himself. Is he a good soldier? No, he's not a good soldier. Why? Right, he has refused to submit it to submit himself to the authority uh under which he was placed. Right? He has taken off the uniform. He is no longer fighting for his country as a soldier. He's fighting for himself. He's a vigilante. Yeah, he's a he's not even a mercenary, he's not even getting paid, right? He's it's for the funds of it. Yeah, he's just a vigilante. That's You know, if to the extent that an unbeliever does something good, even for a good motive, what what they see as a good motive, the unbeliever is like that. Right? And and because he is not wearing the uniform of faith, right? He's not submitting to the authority of God. That's how God wants us to live. He wants us to be soldiers in his army. He wants us to wear the uniform of faith, to be submitted to his commands, not just to go rogue and do whatever we think is good on our own. Uh right, so so even an unbeliever who does a good thing, God sees that as sort of a vigilante, right? Not not as what he's looking for, which is which is a good soldier. Yeah. I think so. I think it was First Peter I can't remember off the top of my head. Google could probably help us. Yeah, I think I think that's what I was probably had in mind. Um Other other questions, observations. Yeah, yeah, and and you know, how can we at times look so much like unbelievers? Um that's a whole topic for for you know probably its own lesson. Uh I don't know So I I guess I'd like to stay away from the Peter thing because like it's such a special case 'cause 'cause like he yeah, he may have been converted before um Christ's resurrection, but like even if so, he would he and the other apostles would be in sort of their own class of of Frodo believer. Um you know, they they didn't have the Holy Spirit in until Pentecost, right? Like we like we do. So so I don't I don't know if you can apply all the statements of the New Testament about believers to Peter at the time of Jesus' trial. So I I don't know how to answer that question, but with respect to like the question of how can we as believers sometimes look so much like unbelievers? We just gotta read Romans 7. You know, Romans 7 is the the passage where Paul talks about I do the things that I hate. There is there's this war within me between the flesh, the old man, and the new man. Um and sometimes I do what I hate And I hate that I do what I hate, right? Who will save me from this body of death? And the answer is, thanks be to Christ. Thanks be to God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Um so yes, Scripture uh fully recognizes that there is uh you know, a after we're saved, that doesn't mean we're fully sanctified. Right? There's there's a distinction between On the one hand, justification, and the other hand, sanctification. Do you guys know these two words? Like who wants to define Yeah, well justification means Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Um exactly. So justification is God declaring you righteous. That has happened already. That is your your hidden life, right? Your life is hidden with Christ in God. You're seated up there with him in the heavenly places. That's never going to change. That aspect of you, that core of your of your nature, of your being is uncorruptible, will never change Justification. Sanctification, yeah, is the process by which our life, our mind, our intellect, our will, our emotions, our affections become conformed to that image of Christ that we already have sitting up there, right? That's sanctification. And it is a process. And Um yeah, I believe it is not monotonic. Uh right. That's yeah, there's ups and downs in that process. Uh and and I think that is that is scriptural to say that Yeah, the difference is bondage, right. Yeah. The difference is yeah, are you in bondage to that sin? Are your is your affection towards the sin, right? Do you love your sin or do you hate your sin? Uh and that will that will show itself in how how habitual it is or how continual it is. Like do you Do you continually fall to the same sin? Well you've got to examine yourself then. Like is where are where are your affections? Do you really have a new person? Uh are you really raised with Christ or are you still dead in your sins? That should hopefully move some of us to repent and be saved. But if you're a believer And you sin, but you hate what you did. You know, if you if your affections really are towards the Lord and on his standard and on his law, but you occasionally stumble and and commit grievous sins, then that is part of sanctification. There's a verse in Proverbs that says the righteous man falls seven times and gets back up again, but the wicked is brought down by a single blow. The righteousness involves continued repentance. It's not just immediate perfection. Um and sometimes the repentance will be from things that look real bad, you know, like really grievous sins. Um But again, man looks at the outward appearance and the Lord looks at the heart. The Lord is judging your affections, your your desires, your um What your heart is geared towards the early thing. Yeah, I mean scripture doesn't set up a an ironclad wall between the term justification and sanctification, right? Sanctification just means set apart. So so there is a sense in which we are already set apart. when we are saved. Uh but when when scripture speaks of sanctification as that process, um it affirms that we aren't there yet. Right. We aren't we are not complete in Christ. Right. I mean are you thinking of a specific scripture or Okay, yeah, yeah. Right, positional sanctification. I I think you know when when we're When we read and and are able to distinguish between the positional use of the word sanctification and the the process well what would you call it processional use of sanctification. Um we're able to see that positional sanctification is essentially a synonym for justification, right? Yeah, so like it's um it it's like how how the book of James uses justification in a different sense than than Paul uses it. So yeah, we have to be careful about word usage and we have to use context to select from among the many possible meanings of of a particular word. We can't just immediately say like, oh it says sanctification and it's in the past, so therefore we're all like Wait, that's how James is used. using the word, right? It's just we just have to recognize that that like uh like many parts of normal human language, there these two words have each two different meanings. And we we just have to be careful in using the context appropriately to select between the two meanings. Um but when we do that properly you know, the distinction between what God did for us in the past versus what He's doing in our lives continually right now becomes crystal clear, I think. You know, there's no No there's no sense in which uh in in which we can consider ourselves perfectly sinless. Um just because we've been justified. And there's also no sense in which we can say that our that our work uh that our that our salvation, that our eternal inheritance is dependent on the work that we do right now. Um when when we consider the totality of the scriptures, Yeah. All right, well I think I'll stop us there