I'm Lord willing, we'll finish it today, but I've said that before and it hasn't turned out quite well. But uh so Yeah, that was that was good. I was no, I'm I'm happy to go as slow as needed through these things. I think you know that's one of the advantages of of this class is we're not following the the typical quarter structure of other classes. So there's no deadline to finish. So yeah, we can we can take as much time as we need. Um but anyway, just as a a brief reminder, uh moralistic therapeutic deism, it's uh It's a worldview that was named by someone who was studying it, right? By sociologists named Christian Smith who interviewed 3,000 teenagers back in 2005. Uh so my age, my generation. And uh noticed that they all or most of them held to um a form of religion or worldview that that externally looked kind of like Christianity but was actually sort of uh removed had removed all the core doctrines about God and about sin and about uh salvation. And so this worldview believes in a deistic God who um created the world but is not really involved in people's lives. Um and uh it's so that's the deistic part of the world view. The therapeutic part of the worldview is that God's real function is to support me in pursuing my own happiness, right? And when I run into an obstacle to that, like if I um if I fail to achieve happiness or if I um suffer a setback or have a bad thing happen to me. I can call out to the Lord and He'll come and save me and put my feet back on the ground so I can go pursue my happiness again. That's what this worldview kind of believes about God. It's the drugstore Jesus mentality. And then it's moralistic because it believes that God has kind of set things up and and has has this sort of minimal moral expectation of people. And uh let's see where's the the quote would be under um Letter I, what is our primary moral duty? God wants people to be good, nice, and fair to each other, as taught in the Bible and by most world religions. Okay, so that gives gives a clue to um sort of the epistemology of this worldview, moralistic therapeuticism. It uh it follows the tenet of pluralism. Right, so um who knows what what pluralism is? Yeah, it's on the preceding page if you want. Opposite of singularism. I don't know if that's a a theological term, but So plural, yeah, it means many, right? So it's basically the idea that there are many truths. There are many paths to God. It's it's an attitude towards religions. specifically, right? But um pluralism says, you know, all religions represent different paths to the same God. Pluralists use use a couple of analogies to describe this view, right? That um different religions are just paths up the same mountain, right? They may start from very different points, but they're converging on the same thing, uh, which is, I guess, God Yeah, yeah, I think there's that's that's the idea of pluralism is that all all religions are leading to the same I don't know if they would say savior. Um same goal, same, same rust. Fulfillment of human need and and promise, I guess. Right. Well so it it's it's actually really hard to articulate pluralism because It just does not stand up to even the most basic scrutiny of of the religions of the world, as we'll see in a moment. But um Yeah, so that's like one analogy is the mountain, right? The different paths up the same mountain. Uh who's who's heard of the the elephant parable? Uh no. Um this would be like n I'm not talking parable like like a parable of Jesus, but um It's another metaphor that pluralists use to sort of describe the relationship between religions of the world, right? um a group of blind men and they come upon an elephant but they can't see it so they don't know it's an elephant, right? And one of them feels the the trunk and says, Oh, it's flexible and it's strong, so it must be a snake. Um and the other another one feels the leg and says, Oh, it's round and it's sturdy and it's not moving and so it must be a tree. And uh I the other one I think feels the tail and I can't remember what what he says about that. But like um the the pluralists would say, yeah, this is what all the religions of the world are doing. They're They are groping for at the same thing. They're they're they're feeling an elephant, but they're describing different parts of it that on the surface seem contradictory, but are actually part of the same thing Mm-hmm. That's that's what um pluralists would say about human religion. It's just, you know, imperfect glimpses of the same supernatural reality that that we're sort of like working to piece together and finally, you know, if we can just get together and compare notes and and unify our theology, we'll arrive at the same picture of God. Um so you know I doubt that most people who follow moralistic therapeutic eism have have consciously thought of pluralism that deeply But and flo and and this is not the only place that pluralism shows up, right? It shows up in a in a lot of places in our society, but uh but it is a a key factor in this in this worldview that says that uh you know basically everybody um has the sta the same standard of goodness and And and God is going to basically accept almost everybody uh in in their sincere attempts to follow their own religion. So that's what we're going to look at today is uh and so we'll be on um letter J for the biblical response and then and then part four. So last time we talked about part three, which is there's a huge difference between followers of Christ and unbelievers. Right. Even if it's sometimes hard for us to see that, we talked about some of the ways in which we differ uh from unbelievers. And then um especially with regard to the command to love the Lord our God with all our heart, mind, soul, and strength. And then today we're going to talk about there's a huge difference between Christianity and other religions Alright, so we're going to deal with this claim of pluralism. And so the the first response to pluralism, yeah, this is uh bullet four on on Page three. The first response to pluralism is that it just doesn't pass uh muster with a basic scrutiny of good morning. basic scrutiny of what other religions teach around the world. They actually teach incompatible things about God. Right, they're not just describing different aspects of God. They teach incompatible things about God. So um who knows anything about um Saying the fork or who knows who knows what uh Buddhism teaches about God? So Right, yeah, yeah. No, I have a um a friend and coworker who is uh both a Buddhist and an atheist. Yeah, he he takes Buddhist philosophy uh into into a sort of scientific naturalism worldview. Um would you say, I mean W would you say that Buddhism denies the existence of God or it just kind of ignores God, the question of God? Uh-huh. Yeah, so that's you know, there's Buddhism which doesn't really teach about God. Uh there's uh what about what about Hinduism? What does Hinduism teach about? Yeah, that's the main feature. Yeah, I think um you yeah you can sort of attain that that status. Um But there's also there's also gods in their pantheon, right? Like like Shiva and Vishnu and um so you know it it's uh uh it's polytheism, right, many gods, but combined with that that sort of focus on on reincarnation, right? Uh but looking at just what religions teach about God in particular, um, you know, God is in in Hinduism is not one, right? There there are many gods. Maybe there's um there's Brahman who's who's sort of the reality behind everything which maybe is a shadow of of the Creator God, but not probably not in the in the biblical So we've got a religion that teaches pretty much nothing about God, a religion that teaches that there are many gods. What about Islam? What does Islam teach about God? Now there's one God. Does God have a son? No. No. God is only one person, right? Not not just one essence, but also only one person. God the God of Islam is not a relational God, right? He does not have relationships with other with other beings on his level. Um and as such is is is a pretty distant god and is very concerned with external conformity to Sharia law, right? Not about the heart. You know, if you read the if you read the Quran, they talk about uh and and compare it to to scripture and the teachings of Jesus. Uh for example, with giving to the poor Uh the Quran mandates that I think two and a half percent of one's assets be given to the poor. Wow. Um and whereas in in Christianity, right, there is no no specific figure. I mean we talk about a tithe, right, which comes from the Old Testament, but Jesus never actually commanded a tithe And and Paul and the apostles never commanded 10%. They said, give what? Give from your heart. Give sacrificially, right? Give um So it is it's much more the the standard in the New Testament is much more about the heart, much more about um you know, giving sacrificially uh it's about it's about the intention uh and the heart behind the giving. Whereas in Islam it's very much about external conformity to the particular numeric amount. And that's that comes back to what what Christians and Muslims teach about God, right? Like what the Bible versus the Quran says about God. And then let's see, uh for example, Mormonism teaches yet a different thing about God. Uh they teach that There is there is a God, but he didn't he's not eternal, right? He didn't start out as God. He became God. through some process that I that I don't understand. But um so that's that's a completely different thing to say about God than what the Bible says about God, which is that He has always been. He is the alpha and the omega. He has no beginning and no end. Um you know, and and then it's important to understand um What you know in contrast to all these other religions, what the Bible teaches about God, which is that He's a triune God. In one essence. Alright, and so three persons, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, the fact that they're three different persons, what does that mean? They have different roles, yeah. Different roles. Um yeah, what are what are their roles? Yeah, the roles the roles overlap a bit, but uh for example, yeah, like Jesus is the only person of the Trinity who became man, right, who took on flesh and and died for our sins. Um the Holy Spirit and the Father didn't die for our sins. Um the Holy Spirit is the one who inspired Scripture and it and And uh indwells believers. But the scriptures also talk about Christ living in us too, right? Um so and the Father is primarily the one who created and And orders the universe, right? And he he has the plan of of salvation. He initiates uh salvation and and the events of human history. But the Bible also talks about Christ being present at creation and all things were created by him and for him. So these roles overlap. There are there are distinctions, but they're not like hard lines between Yeah Right. Yeah, yeah, exactly. So the fact that there are three different persons, uh when we talk about the the definition of a person, by the way, like um you know, scripturally and and also in in philosophical discourse is uh an intellect, uh a will, and affections. Right? I think Pastor Gabe mentioned this and in s in a recent sermon. But uh so each of the three persons of the Trinity have their own intellect. That means they have their own thoughts, right? Jesus thinks his own thoughts, the Father thinks his own thoughts The Holy Spirit thinks his own thoughts. They have their own will. That means they make their own decisions, right? Um Jesus had to submit his will to the will of the Father when he was praying and gets in. That means that he had the capacity to choose a different path than the one the father had chosen for him, but he decided to align his will with his father's. But they have different will and they have um they have their own affections and and desires. Now they're three different persons, but they share the same essence. What does that mean? It means that they have the same character, right? They have the same priorities. They value the same thing So that's how they can have so much unity, right? That's how Jesus can say, I and the Father are one. is because they're on the same page. They have the same character and priorities and values. They want the same things. So even though they have independent thoughts and and and wills and affections, those those things are so united that um that they are always on the same page. They're not like polytheistic gods who like the Greek gods who are always fighting with one another and arguing and tricking each other and um you know, at war with one another. They're not like that. That's um they have they have perfect fellowship in the Trinity. And this is really important because this is the reason why the God of the Bible is both eternal and relational. Right. His um God is eternal and all three persons of of the Trinity are eternal. But They're eternally relational, right? They've been relating to each other in a relationship of love for eternity since since before the foundation of the world And that directly informs the moral standard that the Bible gives to us Right. The fact that God is relational, that the Father is in relationship with the Son, and they're both in relationship with the Holy Spirit, means that the morality that that the moral standard that God holds us to is also relational, right? It's about the heart and it's about loving others. So that's a very long-winded way of saying that the religions of the world teach totally incompatible things about God. They they're not talking about the same being when they say the word God. They're not even talking about the same number of beings when they say the word God. It's either zero or one or three or lots of them. You know, so so the claim that all the religions of the world are just different paths to the same God, or that they're all just, you know, exploring different aspects of the same God is completely false, right? It doesn't pass basic scrutiny. And people understand this, right? There's a professor of religion at Boston University named Stephen Prothrow. He wrote a book back in 2010 called God Is Not One. He's not a Christian, he's not writing from a biblical worldview, but he is an uh a professor of comparative religion. And and his main thesis in that book was that the religions of the world are not targeting the same thing. They're not talking about the same God and they don't have the same goal. They're not trying they're not even trying to solve the same problem. He focuses on the problem that each religion tries to solve. So this is this is point B here. That the religions of the world offer conflicting diagnoses of humanity's problems. And so, you know, according to to Frothrow, the the problem that, for example, Buddhism is trying to solve is suffering. Right? Buddhism identifies suffering as the main problem of humanity And we suffer because of our desires. And so the goal is to um awaken from our desires into enlightenment where we don't desire anything Um and therefore we have moved beyond suffering. Right. That's the goal of at least some strains of Buddhism. I don't know if if it uh would hold true for all all of them. But um that's a very different goal from uh say the goal of Islam Which you know the goal the the Islam says humanity's main problem is that we are not submitted to Allah in in terms of our external behavior. Right? And so the solution to that is to bring everybody forcibly under Sharia law so that we are all in conformity in their in terms of our external behavior with God's standard with Allah's standard. Very different uh they're targeting very different problems with very different solutions Um for biblical Christianity, what is the problem that's being targeted there, and what's the solution? Yeah, exactly. The problem is sin, and where does sin live? In in our hearts. Yeah, exactly. So the problem is inside us. It's not outside us. Um and so and like you said, you know, because the problem is inside us we are incapable of solving that problem on our own. Right. What we need is salvation. We need we need God to solve that problem, right? To to take our hearts and transform our hearts and cleanse us from the sin that that impairs our ability uh to live the way we ought to live. Right. So again, biblical Christianity is is targeting a completely different problem with a completely different solution from all those other religions of the world. Um and and this is you know even even a a secular person like Stephen Prothrow recognizes this and and refutes the idea of pluralism. So I think this this last point is really important because it's really what sets Christianity apart w it's what sets biblical Christianity apart from the other religions of the world. The other religions of the world say, um, you know, whatever our problem is, whatever our problem is, we ha the solution is up to us, right? We have to achieve enlightenment or we have to um submit to Sharia law and bring others under submission to Sharia law. We have to do it ourselves. But biblical Christianity is the only one which says that the solution of salvation originates with who? Not from ourselves. The solution comes from God. Right. That's that's that is what's different between uh Christianity and and all other religions. Um so you know it's this is this is an important thing to keep in mind when we're studying moralistic therapeutic deism. Because you know, moralistic therapeutic deism says um uh you know if you look back to um part part number H, or letter H on on page two. One of the main tenets of this worldview is that good people go to heaven when they die Right, so and and um in in I uh says the another one of the main tenets is that uh God wants people to be good, nice, and fair to each other, as taught in the Bible and by most world religions. Right, so what moralistic therapeutic deism um is saying, basically, what it what they believe is that um going to heaven, they recognize that that going to heaven is the goal Right, being with God is the goal. And you can get there by lots of different ways by um following the teachings of other religions. So already they have Uh they've essentially ignored all the problem the other problems that the other religions of the world are trying to solve. And they've said, no The problem that we need to solve is is how we get to God, right? Like how how we go to be with Him in heaven. Never mind that other religions aren't even trying to solve that problem. You know, but even if they were, um moralistic therapeutic using says, you know, they they their standard would be good enough. For people to follow that standard and be accepted by God. Alright, so we we need to deal with that claim. We need to deal with that teaching. And so here now we're on on four uh part C. And biblically speaking, God does not accept any religion or any religious effort that originates with man. Okay, so Mark ten verse eighteen says, uh this Jesus said, No one is good except God alone. And this right here is a huge challenge to moralistic therapeutic theism and to pluralism. Right? No one is good except God alone. Um and this this really sort of uh it really challenges our innate view of human goodness. Right? Like we it's very common, uh very easy for us to think like, oh yeah, I'm I'm a pretty good person. The people around me are pretty good people. I mean they're not Christians, but but they don't do anything really bad. In fact, I think that we tend to think of uh human goodness in the following terms. If you were to if you can indulge me in a little bit of chart drawing. So if you have if you were to plot the distribution of human goodness here, right, with um Goodness here on the x-axis increasing going to the right. And number of people on the y-axis. Right? If this is if this is complete evil over here, uh nobody's completely evil. There's some distribution of goodness, right? Looks looks maybe like a bell curve. I don't know what it looks like, but there's some there's some people most people are of average goodness. Uh there are some pretty pretty good people over here. There are some pretty bad people over here. There's some really bad people, a few really bad people down here, maybe like Hitler and Stalin Uh uh would would fall down there. Um But what this ignores is God's goodness Right, so if you were to if you were to put God on the scale, you'd have to have a break in this x-axis here and have to come out way over here and say There's one person, well three persons, who are at perfect smoothness Right? And there's no human that that approaches this. So the question is the question that that um we have to answer is, you know, if God is going to judge the world What threshold of goodness is he going to use in order to determine whether people come to be with him in heaven or go to hell? Where on this line is he going to draw the line? So I think moralistic therapeutic deism would say the line's probably here, right? God's gonna accept most of the people in the world. He's he's gonna he's gonna reject a few of the bad apples, some of the really bad people, but he's gonna take most of them. You know, other other religions might draw a line right in the middle and say, well if your good deeds outweigh your bad deeds, um um then you're gonna come to heaven. Uh you know, I I think I think there may be some religions that that try to set a higher standard. Right, and maybe maybe draw the line over here. Like actually interestingly, if you read the Egyptian Book of the Dead from, you know something like four or five thousand years ago, they had this view that your deeds would be weighed on a scale, right? And your bad deeds would be put on one side of the scale, and the thing on the other side of the scale was a feather. And if your bad deeds outweighed a feather, you would go to bare equivalent of hell. Right? So I thought that was really interesting. It's like the standard has kind of slipped over the years, you know, with great inflation for um for morality. So I think there are probably some religions that draw this line in a different place. Where does the Bible draw the line? Perfect. Perfection, yeah. Right here. You can't, if you're anywhere to the left of Jesus Christ. You don't get to enter heaven. You do not get to enter the presence of God. Why? Why would that be? Yeah. Yeah, he won't tolerate sin to be in his presence. And is it just that is it just that he's like I don't know, grossed out by sin or disgusted by sin, and he is disgusted by sin, but is it just that he has chosen not to tolerate sin? Or is there something deeper? It's his holiness. What do you think would happen to us if we appeared in his presence with sin in our hearts? We would die, yes. We would be consumed. Like, did you guys know that that the Bible uses more fire in its descriptions of heaven than its descriptions of hell? Right? The Bible mentions fire more when it's talking about heaven and God's presence than when it's talking about hell. That's because God is a consuming fire. Right? And if we come into his presence with this flammable stuff called sin in our hearts, we're going to explode. We're going to be consumed. We're going to be burned up by his holiness. So it's not just that he has decided that sin is icky and he's not going to not going to tolerate it in his presence, it's that Um his character is such that it can't coexist with sin, right? Sin will be destroyed. So that's why the line is over there. That's why The entire bell curve of humanity would be consumed and burned up if they were to be transported into the presence of God right now. Yes. Yeah, that's a good one. So so that's why That's why we can't solve this problem on our own, right? I think if we if we really understand what God means by goodness and what kind of goodness is required to be in his presence. We understand why we can't solve it on our own, why we can't just be religious and achieve the kind of goodness that God requires. We have to receive the righteousness of Christ. Uh we have to we have to have some mechanism for uh receiving a perfection that didn't come from us And um you know this is why like if you if you look at First Peter, this is not in the in the handout, but if you look at First Peter chapter one Verses 14 through 16. It says, As obedient children, do not be conformed to the former lusts which were yours in your ignorance. But like the holy one who calls you, be holy yourselves also in all your behavior. Because it is written, you shall be holy, for I am holy. Alright, so so this is another clear echo of God's command, like we need to be holy for he is holy. It draws this parallel between the holiness that we're called to and the holiness that God has in his own character. character. That's the standard. Not 50%, not 90%, not you know, not an A on the bell curve, but perfection. So that is one reason why God does not accept human religion or uh any religion that originates with man. Yes. Right, yeah. Yeah, that's a great point. I mean our yeah, sin is not just in our outward behavior, right? It's in our it's in our hearts, which biblically speaking, the heart encompasses your thoughts and your your intentions and your affections and your desires. So like if you're Uh if you're thinking in your mind, you know, Jesus said, anyone who looks at a woman lustfully has committed adultery with her in his heart. And So if that's going through your mind and if your heart's affection is toward lust, then you have sinned even if you have not gone and physically done anything. And yeah, that's part of God's standard too. That's a real big reason for that gap between the bell curve of humanity and the perfection of God. Yeah. Yeah, they were they were probably even worse than humanity is today, right? Just given that description. Um yeah, it's pretty pretty amazing. Um so the the second reason it's related. The second reason why God does not accept any religion that originates with man is that Christ said, no one comes to the Father except through me. And um he said that in John fourteen six. And so there's not only is no one good except God alone, no one no one can be good uh based on their own effort. There's only one way for people to become good. They can't become good through a different religious system uh through through taking the sacraments or through observing um a particular standpoint standard, they can only come to the Father through Christ. Right? So this is you know this is contrary to pluralism, contrary to moralistic therapeutic deism. God is not going to let anybody in unless they humble themselves and come in through the narrow gate, which is Christ. And then Paul Paul sums it up really in 1 Corinthians 1, 20 and 21. This is This is four dot c dot three on the outline here. Where is the wise person? Where is the scribe? Where is the debater of this age? Has God not made foolish the wisdom of the world? For since in the wisdom of God the world, through its wisdom, did not come to know God, God was pleased through the foolishness of the message preached to save those who believed. Okay. So how many people have come to know God through the world's means? None. Zero, right? Wait, are you telling me not even the wisest people in the world, not even the the most devout religious adherents Um not even the the most expert theologians have come to know God. Especially evidence. Right, especially evidence, right? Right. That's what this is that's what Paul's saying here. For since in the wisdom of God the world, through its wisdom Did not come to know God. So this is presupposing that the wise people of the world, through their own wisdom, are incapable of knowing God. Right, that's that's a that's a pretty clear statement in contradiction to pluralism and in contradiction to moralistic therapy of theism. It is not easy to come to a knowledge of God. Right? And it's in fact so hard that even the wisest people in the world, especially the wisest people in the world, have not done it So what does God say? He says, none of those wise people came to know him, God was pleased through the foolishness of the message preached to save those who believe. So once again we see salvation starts with God. God saw and was pleased to see that none of the wise people of the world could could come to know him. So he said, all right, I'm gonna choose some people to believe through what? Through the wordishness of the message preached So so the m the the message of the gospel, it sounds like foolishness because it's not the message of any other world religion. It's not it's not phrased in the way of do this. You know, try real hard and you'll make it. You'll solve your problem. It's phrased as humble yourself. Admit that you can't solve your problem and accept God's work on your behalf. It sounds foolish. Um but it's the only way that God has chosen to save those who believe. Yeah, it's it's a big topic. Uh if we you know dealing with pluralism, dealing with with Comparing other religions and biblical Christianity could take up a lot of time and we we went through it real quick. But uh any any questions or observations on that Okay. So that that was kind of what opened her eyes to the the need for a savior. Yeah, yeah. It's so it's so crazy like how how intuitive this picture is to us, like how we how easily we believe it, and yet how um self-contradictory it is, you know, how how incoherent it really is when you push on it, right? Like when you when you try to follow it to its logical conclusion. It could be, yeah. I mean I think there are lots of um heretical uh branches off of Christianity that teach different things about Jesus. For example, Jehovah's Witnesses teach that Jesus is not God. He's He he is man, he doesn't share the same the same essence with God. And but if that's true, then he has no power to save, right? He doesn't have that that perfect righteousness that comes only from God There's no one good except God alone. Yeah, we have to be we do have to be careful and work hard to sort of clarify who we're talking about. Right. We can't just assume there there may have been a time in America that we could assume that when somebody said God they meant Yahweh, the God of the Bible. Maybe not. I I wasn't alive during that time. Um but now is not that time, right? We we definitely cannot assume that when somebody here in America says I believe in God, they mean the God of the Bible who created the universe and is Is tryune three persons in one. Yeah, yeah, like Paul, right? Yeah. Paul is a great example. And he holds himself up as a great example of that, right? Like he was the worst of sinners in his own in his own words, um, killing and and imprisoning Christians for following Jesus, and yet God chose to save him And you know what? That glorifies God. That brings God immense glory when when He saves someone whom who the world would say, oh, that guy's gone. You know, like he's irredeemable. There's no hope. When when God saves somebody like that, he gets immense glory from that. So how do we keep from lapsing into moralistic therapeutic music? I mean we've talked about how this is kind of just the it's what happens to Christianity when it gets watered down, right? Like when we stop really running the race for the Lord or or or walking faithfully. in in the counsel of his word. We we just start to subconsciously believe these things. That that life is about my happiness. That that we're all basically good. Doesn't really matter. Um what we believe or or how we follow God. How do we keep from lapsing into that then? Well, I think it's that our hearts must be continually shaped by the fear of the Lord. I I really love that Pastor Gabe was doing a sermon series on the fear of the Lord a couple weeks ago And he gave what I think is is probably the best definition of the fear of the Lord that I've ever heard. Who remembers what he said? There's probably a a lot to ask, but yeah. Yeah, nicely done, yeah. The heart of man being shaped by the heart of God and living according to his heart. And and in in the content of the sermon, Pastor Gabe emphasized that God's heart really points to God's values, right? So it's it's our hearts being shaped by God's heart and coming to value what he values. um coming to to know who he is, to to be like his character and to and to value what he values. Which Really that's that's the antidote not only to moralistic therapy of deism, but to all these other worldviews, right, and to to falling away to the right or to the left, um, into anything Um look at uh let's look at at part C first. put these in kind of the wrong order. But Psalm one nineteen, nine through eleven, that uh that is a a great Psalm, one one of the uh most powerful expressions of the value of the Word of God. Right? And and I think this is really the way that we have our hearts shaped by the heart of God and by the values of God is by uh immersing ourselves in the scriptures. Right? That's why God gave us his word is to communicate to us what he values. And to communicate to us his character so that our hearts can be shaped by his heart. The word of the Lord is the tool for producing the fear of the Lord. So look at you know Psalm 119, 9-11 says, How can a young man keep his way pure? By keeping it according to your word. With all my heart I have sought you. Do not let me wander from your commandments. I have treasured your word in my heart so that I may not sin against you. Alright, so there's there's the attitude that we should have. We should treasure God's word in our heart. And and you know that means we we store it up in there. We don't just like read it once in the morning and then kind of forget about it and then pick it up the next morning. We we read it And then it enters into our hearts and we meditate on it throughout the day. Right? Look at uh look at Joshua 1. 8. This book of the law, um which God there is referring to the the the Bible, yeah. It's At that time it was just the first five books, because that's all that had been written. But this this phrase, the book of the law, really, in anytime it appears in Scripture, it just means every word that God has spoken. Right. It's not just talking about the specific do's and don'ts. It's talking about all of God's self-revelation of of who Right, this book of the law shall not depart from your mouth, but you shall meditate on it day and night, so that you may be careful to do according to all that is written in it. So there's that word meditate. Or Psalm 1, 1 through 3. Blessed is the person who does not walk in the counsel of the wicked, nor stand in the path of sinners, nor sit in the seat of scoffers. But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and on his law he meditates day and night. He will be like a tree planted by streams of water, which yields its fruit in its season, and its leaf does not wither, and in whatever he does he prospers. So there's this contrast, right, between between the guy who walks in the council of the wicked, stands in the path of sinners, sits in the seat of scoffers. On the one hand. And then on the other hand, there's the guy who does what? Meditate. Yeah. He first delights in the law of the Lord. Yeah, we should we should delight in the law of the Lord. You say, Well That's hard to do. Like, you know, it it it can be discouraging because you know, we can read the Bible and and think like, oh I'm I'm really distracted, I'm kind of falling asleep. I don't I'm not delighting in this. That must mean that that there's something wrong with me. Well Delight yourself in delighting yourself in the law of the Lord is not just like flipping a light switch, right? That delight has to be cultivated. We have to ask God for the power and the ability to delight in His Word. Don't be discouraged if you don't find yourself with a natural affection for the Word of God. That can be cultivated. You can do it through through practice and through dependent prayer, asking the Lord for help. But yeah, we have to delight in the law of the Lord, and on his law he meditates day and night. What does meditation mean in this context? Yeah, to think about it. Yep. Um Yeah, so murmuring or muttering, that's that's literally what the Hebrew word means Mm-hmm. So so that carries with it the idea that like, you know, we read something and we're like, oh, the the law of the Lord is perfect. You know, like what does that mean, perfect? Or love the Lord your God with all your heart. What is my heart? Love the Lord your God with all your heart, your mind. Hmm, how do I love him with my mind? You know, you're kind of talking to yourself about what the Word of God says, uh, muttering, murmuring When our culture says, oh, I'm meditating, you know, they they typically mean something like I am trying to empty my mind and think nothing. Right. This this kind of meditation is filling your mind. Uh filling your mind with scripture. Sort of letting it letting it echo around and rumble around in your head Um yes, Yeah, that's a great point. A. W. Tozer, and I'm gonna get this wrong, but it's like Tozer said something like, the thoughts that come into your head when you think about God i is the most important thing about you. Yep, I know. Yeah. I think that's true. I think that's biblical. But do we really believe that You know, how much time do we spend cultivating the right thoughts about God and not the wrong thoughts Yeah, I love that point, but it it starts often as a habit. And and you know, something that you have to do and sort of make yourself do, but then it grows into an affection and a love and a delight in the Lord. Right? Um John Piper compares it to gardening, right? Like you you spend a lot of work preparing the soil and watering and weeding and stuff before the flower comes up. But but that's the goal, right? You don't um his point is that that uh our even though our our obedience to the Lord and our devotion to the Lord can start as a habit or as a duty It never it doesn't stay there, right? It should never it shouldn't stay there forever. It should grow into a love and an affection. And it does, by God's grace. Yeah, so I think um yeah we gotta probably gotta end there