Well, don't let that clock fool you. I'm still going 45 minutes. We had extra stuff today because it was special. For twelve and a half years we have been a church. I mentioned that before, a church without a building, but a church nonetheless. Because as the verse on your bulletin, and by the way, make sure you say thank you to Jin, she reformatted our bulletin for us, and it looks Beautiful, does it not? It says there, the church itself is a spiritual building. It's growing into a temple to house the Lord. That's from Ephesians 2. Well today we do rejoice in God granting to us what we would call another tool for advancing his kingdom. It's a beautiful tool, it's a well-designed tool, and what part I like most of all is full-time. A full-time church building. This building, let everybody understand, is a gift from God. In many ways, God gave it to us through, as uh Ross was reading, through your generosity, through your giving, your gifts of faith. that were able to be accumulated through the years and allow us to have this church building now. We're to use it to expand our ministry, to advance our ministry, I think also to improve the things that we're already doing. You know, it's just like anything that God would place in your hands. Anything that you own, it's given to you so that you would be a good steward of that. Yes? And he gives it to you, not for you alone, although many of the things that God gives to us we enjoy, but so you can be a minister of blessing to other people. You could spread the blessing around. Well, it was given to us It was given to us through answered prayer as well. I think to help us sense maybe more in a way we have before that we're a community of believers, not just on Sunday. We have things going on seven days a week. We always have had things going on multiple times throughout the week, but sometimes we don't see that and we don't have the sense That we're a community of believers. This building right here, as you stop by on a Tuesday or a Thursday night, or a Saturday morning, will remind you: hey, we're a community of believers all seven days of the week. And I think that's a blessing for us as well. As joyful as I am about our church home, I really wanted to take this first Sunday to focus on The reason behind why we have a church building, and that is the topic of prayer. Everything that we are given, we're given by a generous God And we often are given it because we have requested it from God. We often don't have some things because we don't make requests of God. So I'd like us to go back to the Sermon on the Mount. Five years ago, I was in the Sermon on the Mount and I wanted to reflect on these words. If you'd open in your Bibles, I believe there are also Bibles that are provided there, at least in some of the rows. I didn't go around checking, but if you don't have a Bible, look on with somebody. Find one there in a row for yourself. Turn to Matthew 7 Toward the end of the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus said some encouraging words, and I want us to look at them this morning. They're challenging as well. Matthew 7, verses 7 through 11. Jesus said, and I got to stand at the place where Jesus spoke these words up by the Sea of Galilee, and he was giving this sermon there. And just how powerful this must have landed on the ears of the first disciples. Ask and it will be given to you. Seek and you will find. Knock and it will be opened to you. For everyone who asks receives, and he who seeks finds, and to him who knocks it will be open. Or what man is there among you, who, when his son asks for a loaf, will give him a stone Or if he asks for a fish, he will not give him a snake, will he? If you, then, being evil Know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father who is in heaven give what is good to those who ask him? Ask him. Jesus said, Ask God, because prayer works. Now, how prayer works, exactly what God does to make one of our prayer requests that rises up to heaven work, we're not told. Like we don't really need to know, right? We just have to be responsible for what? Praying and what else? Believing and knowing that God is going to answer, and how He does that, we don't necessarily know The specifics we're not told. God moves in our lives around us and circumstances. He's sovereign over all things. We don't know, but he answers prayer. Jesus just simply says, right here toward the end of the Sermon on the Mount, trust God, ask for things. The Father who is above is good and he's going to grant things to us. Now this is a great, great prayer promise. If you're not a believer, you can't claim this promise. It's for believers. God demands that we believe in him. He demands it, he doesn't just encourage it, he demands to be believed. He made us. We're made in his very image. When we're going to talk to him, we have to acknowledge not only that he exists, but that he's powerful enough and wise enough to answer our requests. And so it is our duty to humbly bend our knees or our hearts or whatever and come before Him and pray. It's a great and a fantastic promise for us. It's also an opportunity. It's also a command. Jesus said, God is going to answer our prayer. You might say, maybe this is written for other kinds of people, not people like me. No, it's written for people like you, people who can talk. People who can look up to the heavens and can say, you know, God, I have a need. You know, God, I'm confused. You know, God, uh, I need some help in some area. And then you can talk to God in the name of Jesus Christ, his son, and God will listen to you. What a fantastic promise. What exactly was Jesus uh thinking about? What exactly did he want us asking and seeking about? What is the context uh about here in the Sermon on the Mount here in Matthew seven. Well we're we're not really given a specific context. He didn't say ask for this and seek that and knock until that thing is open. He left it wide open, didn't he? It's a wide open promise. It's a broad promise. It was meant to be. I mean if you hunt around in the context, and I preached through this whole thing once, you'll see that there were physical needs that are talked about back in chapter six. You know, what are we going to eat and what are we going to clothe ourselves with? So all of the physical needs are there. You get into chapter seven and we're commanded, do not judge one another, and we need to have a good self-reflection, and so we need discernment as well When you read on past this verse, you get to verse 12, and it talks about loving one another, treating them well, for this fulfills the law and the prophets, and we certainly need power to know how to do that and energy to do that. And so all of these things and much much more were in Christ's mind when he said, Ask for things and seek for things There are many, many needs that this prayer promise is meant to provide the answer for. Through this promise, Jesus encourages all of his disciples to ask the Father for things in prayer. Why? So that God may demonstrate his goodness and his generosity to his own children, and so that his children have no doubt at all about his goodness. So really for our outline today, just two simple, simple but monumental truths about prayer You know them already, but I want us to focus on them. The first is that prayer works. Verses seven and eight tell us that. And the second is that prayer works because God is good. And that's in verses 9 through 11. Prayer works, and prayer works because God is good. We don't get the how in this passage, but we do get the what and the why. Pray because God is good. Let's look at the first point. Prayer works. Look at verse 7 again with me. He says, Ask and it will be given to you. Seek and you will find. Knock, and it will be opened to you. Three imperatives. Ask, seek, And not. All three of these imperatives in the original Koine Greek are in the present tense, and that indicates that the asking is to be continuous, the seeking is to be ongoing, and the knocking is not to stop. They couldn't be translated, keep asking, keep seeking, and keep knocking. Clearly, Jesus was not referring to some popcorn kind of prayer. You know, poop, it's popped. There was my prayer, Lord, it's all over with, I'm done, gone, and finished. Now you answer it. Nope. That's not what it was about. Jesus is teaching us to make requests and continue in the request. Requests that are dear to the heart that cause us to want to say them again and again to the Lord. Not meaningless repetition, but things with With uh requests with more determination, maybe, with a growing sense of logic as to why we're asking this of God. We could call this persistence in prayer. Persistence in praying. Now, how many of us truly have that characteristic in our prayer lives? That we pray and we don't stop, but we persist in our prayers until God answers. There are many, I think, who ask, but they don't keep asking, wouldn't you think? There are many who seek, they don't find, and so they stop seeking. There are many who knock, hey, nobody's home, and they quit. And they don't persist. So please listen. Jesus teaches us that persistence in prayer is needed. Why is that? Well, I think that the persistent please of God's children brings joy to God's heart because now he knows in a greater sense of dependency and humility And a faith that is born of greater need, we keep crying and asking and seeking until he answers at, as we sung today, his perfect timing. You know, people who are impatient make poo poor prayer warriors If you're an impatient person, you make a poor prayer warrior. You would start something, you know, you're like the sprinters in the race. You sprint You come to the finish line, boom, you expect it all to be over, but this thing's not over in a hundred yard dash. It's it's gonna go on and on. You have to be persistent. In fact, prayer is work. It's not just a nice thing to tack into a worship service or you know a nice thing to have at the mealtime. Prayer is meant to be labor. Prayer is meant to be something we work at in order to see something achieved. To see the will of God accomplished, we have to work at it until we see results. Are we guaranteed results? What did Jesus say in here? Ask and Right? It will be given to you. You seek and you will find. You knock and well maybe God isn't home. That's not what it says. He guarantees the results for us in prayer. Some of you who are more dutiful might have focused on the responsibilities there. I'm supposed to ask, I'm supposed to seek, and I'm supposed to knock, and you get tired thinking about it. Instead of focusing on the other half of it where it says you're going to find things. And the things you ask for are going to be granted. That's a fantastic promise. I ask again, though, how many of you are willing to work at prayer? And Work not just at your private prayers, but times where the churches gathered for corporate prayer, because Jesus also wanted his disciples praying in a corporate context. How many of you have been working hard at prayer in a corporate context? Time to fess up? Right? Time to say whether you have been or whether you have not been. We're going to have a prayer meeting again here. I don't know where it's going to be. It's going to be in one of these rooms. And so we re-invite some of you who haven't been coming out. Come. To the corporate time of church prayer, because prayer is important and because God guarantees results from prayer Lord willing, when we start our Wednesday evening services back up, we'll have an all-church prayer meeting as well. Make sure you don't look upon that meeting as an extra meeting, but as something that is important. What about your prayer list at home? How diligent are you, dads, to pull that list out and say, you know what, we've been neglecting some of the needs of the saints in prayer here on our house. I want to recharge us with that. Let's get started with that again. How are you doing with all of that? You think that it's too much work and too little dividends. See, that's how a lot of people think about prayer. Too much work takes too much time. I don't have time for that. And where are the results anyway? Why should I do that? You know what that mentality is? That's totally opposite of what Jesus was saying here. Yes? He said, Ask, it'll be given to you. It's worth the time to ask. He says, you're going to receive these things. So the question is, do you believe Jesus and do you believe his promise here for your own prayer life? Let's think about these three actions a little bit, asking, seeking, and knocking. Why did Jesus specify these three? What did he exactly mean by them? Well, clearly they're telling us different ways of Emphasizing the importance of making sure we are making requests of God. Prayer is asking things of God. Prayer is seeking something From God. Prayer is knocking, so to say, on heaven's door to ask God for help, to get through to him until he finally answers. But many people also believe that these requests represent three degrees of asking or three levels of making requests Because there seems to be some progress in the intensity of each word. You may ask for something, but sometimes you need to ask a lot, and thus that would constitute real searching. Or maybe some things don't come even when you search for it, and you have to go beyond searching to some very intense prayer, some pounding or knocking. The idea of asking seems to be more basic, and the idea of seeking more intense, and the idea of knocking the hardest Since there's a barrier of some kind that you're trying to break through. I can't prove that from the words alone, but there clearly are varying degrees of intensity to prayer requests that are seen by various men and women in scripture, and so this might illustrate that. Asking is the verb attain. We can call asking dependent praying When you ask somebody, they have something that you need. You're the dependent one and the other person is supplying, right? And so as we ask before God, we come as the inferior one to the superior one, and we ask him because he doesn't have any needs, he provides for our needs. Seeking might be called fervent praying. So we have dependent praying and then we have fervent praying. That's the verb zeteo. Really going after something, persisting until what you are asking for is found. There's more earnestness in that than just simply asking. There's more personal action in it too. You're praying and seeking in prayer. But there's going to be some action that's going to be involved in that as well as you're looking for and seeking what God is doing. During our prayer times with God, we are not to be passive, we are to be exercising the energy of faith. That's supplied by God's Holy Spirit. It is not faith, but presumption to be asking God to provide while we fail to obey what He tells us to do. If we're asking God to do something, we don't just sit there and say, now God, you do it. He's told us that we have things that we're supposed to do, and that as we do that, he will provide for us. So it's not faith to do nothing, it's presumption. We're to seek after the answer or the solution, but we are to commit ourselves first to prayer. Sometimes you know we wait, we try to do it our own way, we wait, wait, wait, nothing happens, nothing happens. You know, have we prayed about this yet? We go and pray about it. Then things start to happen. We wonder what was going on there. Well, God was kind of blocking the road a little bit there for you until you learn to start with prayer Begin with prayer. Start right there. Then there's knocking. It's the verb cruo. We could call this prevailing prayer. Prevailing prayer. The knocking refers to a door because the effect of it is that something is open. So the door is knocked upon and the door is open This represents wanting to get past some barrier, wanting to participate in something, but the something you want to participate in is blocked. You're praying for something that's unusually unresponsive. And so we're compelled by the Lord as he works internally in us by God's Spirit to keep knocking and God will open. See, sometimes people run ahead of God in their actions, and then they need to come back and they need to see what God is doing. They try to fix their own problem their own way And then they tack on a prayer, God, this is what I would like you to do. Would you please participate in my plans? And then we say, you know, I prayed about it. Yeah, you prayed about it. You prayed, try to get God in line with your calendar and your schedule and all of that Rather than doing what God says, changing our hearts so that our will is conform to what God wants, making His priorities Our priorities. Earlier in the Sermon on the Mount, he said, seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness and all these other things you're concerned about, they're going to be added unto you. So make his priorities your priorities. Change your heart, change your habits. Change the way you live, change the things you think about, bring them into line with what God wants, and then you start asking, and your heart will be in the right place to be able to see what God does If you resist God, you know, I'm going to wait and see about God, then it's not going to work that way. God's not going to bow to us, we bow to Him. And that's the way it has to be. It's the way the universe is. So sometimes we try to fix a problem, but we run ahead of the Lord. How do we know the difference? Well, it comes down to motives and faith. What really are your motives for asking for what you're asking for? And did you have faith or did you run about doing the things you were doing? Because if you're really honest, really honest, and God knows what's going on inside in our meditations, You were doubting God and you were nervous and you were worried about whether or not such and such would be provided or such and such would happen or whether so and so would be cared for. And so you went about in a spirit of worry and not in the spirit of believing. And God knows. That. He knows your heart. And so you might say, why wasn't it answered? Well, don't look any further right there. You weren't trusting him. God has a way of answering our prayers that's sometimes very strange. You know? Do you know what I'm talking about? Have you had any strange prayer answers? Some strange ways that God answers prayer. It's not like, okay, God, this is what's going to happen. I'm going to pray the prayer now, and then you're going to do this. There's a straight line between here and there. Do you see that line, Lord? Because I see it And he's going here, here, here, and then there. Why all of that? Because he's wiser than we are, and he's going to do more with our prayer than we thought about with our prayer. He's God, we're not. It's a tough thing for us to learn, right? He's God, we're not. Why does God require the seeking and the knocking sometimes and not just giving simply with the first request to test our faith? Is your faith genuine? Do you really believe in God in the tough times as well as the good times Also, to refine our faith. Yes, you believe in God, you've endured some hard times, but your faith also needs refining. To humble his children When you ask and you don't get it, you're in more of a humble situation. What am I going to do now? I mean, I just talked to God Almighty and it hasn't happened. Who do I have left to talk to? You gotta talk to him what? Again. And then it's still not answered. So where where do you have to go to? I'm done with his prayers. He doesn't answer my prayers. And you go away, you you, you know You fuss a little bit and then you come back and you realize all I have is the Lord. I've got to come back to Him. And so you pray again. And now you are being humbled and you're becoming more and more dependent upon the Lord, and He knows that. By the way, God answers four people. Look in verse 8, it says that he says, everyone who asks, receives. Does that mean everyone in the entire world? No, it means everyone in the context of what he's talking about. This doesn't mean every person who's an unbeliever is going to get their prayers answered. People ask me, you know, does God answer the prayer of those who don't believe in Jesus Christ? He's absolutely under no obligation to answer anyone's prayer. When they don't come to him in the one name he gave to have access to him, and that is his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. Why not? Because A, they don't believe in Jesus. And B, they don't ask the right things because they're not believing in Jesus. And C, they don't seek to glorify God. And D They can't call God their own father, which is what this is all about. Calling God your own father. To call God your father, you have to be one of his children. To be one of his children, you have to have faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. But among those who were his disciples, this is where the promise was given. It's not to some spiritual elite. It wasn't just for the twelve or Peter. Hey, I'm going to give you a special prayer promise James and John, here's a good one. You hang on to this. I'm not giving this to the others. No, no. It was for all twelve, all the seventy that were sent out, all of the disciples from all of time. It's for you and for me as well Everybody in here, everybody in here can have their prayers answered if you believe in Christ. There's no exceptions. This is one of those ministries you don't need any further qualification for. Just pray and believe, and you are in ministry business. In fact, I believe more is done in ministry through prayer than through anything else that we do in the church. Mm let me just say that again because I'm not sure you know we really believe that. More is done through prayer than through anything else we do in the church. Don't nod your head to that Don't you dare nod your head to that if you're not going to come to the prayer meeting. Because I don't think you believe it yet. You're wrestling with it still. God does more in ministry to save the lost, to build up the saints, to put us in a work worshipful attitude to provide buildings and whatever else we need in the building and beyond the building and in our families and in our relatives and in people we can't see in Haiti, he does more in prayer through ministry than anything else. It's the power of prayer that he gave to his church. And God continues to do that. Matthew Henry said, those who would be rich in grace must betake themselves to the poor trade of begging. And they shall find it a thriving trade. Beg God for thanks. Dick Eastman in his book, The Hour That Changes the World gave a series of exhortations about how to make sure we would grow in our prayer life and be excited about praying. He said, make sure your petitions are specific. Why do you think? Because if you don't know what you're really asking for, how are you going to know when it's answered? God, did you answer my prayer? I don't know. I couldn't figure out what it was. What are you asking? We c And that's really a powerful, powerful statement because when you look at the saints in Scripture and you see them in the time of need, you can you can see exactly what they're asking for. I mean, even Samson, he had a confused mind. He's out there, he's dying of thirst, and he says, Lord, are you going to let your servant die in thirst after this great victory of killing the thousand with the jawbone of a donkey? And immediately God Burst forth the rock and he drank. What did he want? Water. Right then and right there. Be specific Also, Dick Eastman says that our petitions should be sincere. I guess that goes without saying. God knows the heart. Our petitions should also be complete so that we do not under ask But ask for all that we need. God, maybe you could supply a little. Who are you talking to? Maybe God could supply a little? What? This is God. We ought not to tiptoe around the throne room of God wondering if we're disturbing him for bringing our requests to him. You understand what I'm saying? I think I might be bugging you. God wants us to know he's going to pour out blessings upon us if we pray. Jeremiah 29, 13, you will seek me and find me when you search for me with all of your heart. And when you knock, your appeals will not be ignored either. It will be open. Remember Jacob, he wrestled with God all night long until he got his blessing. You could call that knocking, I guess, wrestling. So we must believe in a God who answers prayer. Nothing will excite you to pray more than the conviction that your prayers are being heard and will be answered. Nothing will make you a stronger prayer warrior than a belief that when I bow my head, God is going to move. Nothing. Nothing moves my heart more. Ever bowed your head and you knew you weren't believing? Guy next to you hopefully is believing because you're not believing? God knows that. You have to believe in prayer. You have to believe in prayer. This is Jesus' aim in these verses: to excite us to prayer. Jesus lived up to these words. When he was going to choose the twelve disciples, he prayed all night. What was he praying for? Probably to make sure he got the right twelve, including even the one, strangely enough, that would betray him, Judas the Scare. The scriptures say he regularly escaped from the crowds to pray early in the morning. The busier your life gets, Jesus Illustrated, the more you should be praying. I don't have time to pray today because it's busy. It's the opposite. You have to pray more today because it's busy. See? Before he came out walking on the water, he was praying, it tells us, late at night, near the Sea of Galilee, up on a mountain. Before he fed the five thousand, and later the four thousand, it says he blessed the food. He appealed to God in the garden, please remove this cup if it's possible. But he yielded his will to the Father, and God said no, but he still sent an angel to strengthen Jesus for his hour of testing. His life was a life saturated with prayer. And he was the Son of God walking around on earth. He taught his disciples to look for answers because it was true. It was true. He wasn't giving them some teaching. He was telling them the truth. We have to expect God to answer our prayers, to pray and forget what we prayed for, to make general requests, the kind we cannot be sure if God has answered. or to praise some heartless or merely dutiful kind of a request, that's not the kind of praying we should be offering. Nothing is sadder than a Christian who's stuck in his spiritual progress because he doesn't have anything specific that he really knows he should be praying for, for himself and for his family, and for his church. It's like a thirsty man sitting in front of a bubbling stream with a bucket, and he doesn't have the energy to lift the bucket up and go get a drink, and if he did, he has no confidence if he got there, the bucket would hold anything. I remember asking God to provide for my family when we were in California and while I was at seminary, and he provided a pastoral job for me there at the Congregational Christian Church, a Filipino church. He also provided a seminary job for me. He provided gifts from many supporters during that time where I had very little. He provided generous parents and contributions from friends in California. He gave me lots of different experiences to help me and help my faith. I remember seeking to have an office and a home in this area somewhere for our family. And for our church, and we prayed, and God provided just a home just a few miles from here. I think almost all of you have been in that home already. It was more than we could have dreamed of, but we asked God for it and he gave it. I remember when some were praying for improving our music ministry, and God brought along someone who was interested in helping a young church. We prayed for someone in the office to manage things and God worked in Ross's heart to move him to say yes to a job right now he's probably w wishing he said no to We prayed for a facility and we got Fulton Elementary School. We thought that it might be too small for us, and so God enlarged the building. The building. Not our building, their building. And we prayed for a full-time facility, and God first brought us a man named Brian so that he would work with us and help us to know what it is that we need to do. And he took us through some windy roads. And he molded our minds together and he provided this facility. We pray for leaders and some have come and they've gone, they served for a while. We now they'll have a deacon board and new leaders and new leaders to train. We now have some theological training as well for our men. We prayed for better involvement with other churches of like mind. We tried hard with the IFCA and they're still going, but the Lord has now given us some contact with several churches in the area with our Mid-Atlantic Bible Fellowship. It's exciting to pray. It's exciting even more so to see the answers to prayer. It's just exciting. That's what God wants us. God wants us excited about prayer. Oh, got to go to the prayer meeting. You know, pastor will be look, I'll see pastor seeing whether or not we're going to the prayer meeting or not. No, you should be excited to go to the prayer meeting. We still need to continue to pray. What should we be praying for now specifically? Well, we're praying about when and who to hire as a new pastor. The Lord willing later this year or next year. We need to keep praying for the increased, sustained, and increased giving by our church for workers to care for our facility. More on that coming later. Elder and deacon candidates, we need to pray for each of them. We need to pray for evangelism teams to develop, for the office and its transitions here and its needs, for our ministry leaders to have a growing vision for their ministry here. For outreach to our new neighbors here in South Columbia, for the holiness of our congregation, particularly to guard ourselves from the big sins that are around us, materialism and sexual impurity. Phillips Brooks, a bishop in the Episcopal Church in the 19th century, said, Do not pray for tasks equal to your powers, pray for power equal to your task. And he also wrote, prayer is not conquering God's reluctance, but it is taking hold of God's willingness. That's in a nutshell what I'm trying to say today. Prayer is not conquering God's reluctance, but taking hold of God's willingness. Ari Tori exhorted: pray for great things, expect great things, work for great things, but above all, pray You say, but Pastor, aren't there any restrictions to this promise of Christ? Does everybody who asks get everything they ask for? No, they do not. We're told over and over again that we have to ask according to God's will. Even back in chapter six in what's called the Lord's Prayer, I like to call it the disciples' prayer. Jesus said, pray for God's kingdom to begun be done and God's will to be done. I messed that up. The kingdom to come and God's will to be done, not our will. When we assert our will against God's, no matter what it is, God is under no obligation to grant it. That would be arresting these words out of their context. Many of you know James chapter 4 and verses 1 through 3, and it says there that we ask and we do not receive, because we ask with what? Wrong motives, so we can spend it on our pleasures. Proverbs twenty-eight nine says, He who turns away his ear from listening to the law, even his prayer is an abomination. God doesn't even like listening to those prayers. Some say it's unscriptural and a lack of faith to pray, if it is your will, Lord, those people are wrong. It is unscriptural and a lack of faith not to pray that. For it is only the will of God we should ever pray for. 1 John 5, 14, this is the confidence which we have before Him that if we ask anything, according to His will, He hears it. And then it goes on to say, if we know that he hears us, we know that we have the requests we have asked from him. Whatever we ask, we receive from him because, listen, because we keep his commandments and do the things that are pleasing in his sight. See, there is a kind of asking that does not receive, a kind of seeking that does not find, and a kind of knocking where the door stays shut. You may be in that kind of prayer right now. Remember the thief on the cross, the other thief? Requested of Jesus right there on the cross. Save yourself and us if you are the Christ. Christ didn't answer that prayer. He knew exactly what was in the heart of that thief. So this is not a wave the prayer wand and God will dance to my tomb. God is not a genie in a bottle. The name it, claim it people are acting like they're God, and God's the genie in the bottle. We always subject our hearts to the will of God. There's no open sesame with God. In fact, God sometimes says no to the request, but yes to the spirit of the request. bringing about not exactly what we asked for, but what we really wanted. And we see it and understand it when we're on the other side of that request. 2 Corinthians 12 9, Paul asked for the removal of the thorn of the flesh that he had. Three times he asked, and each time God said no. And he answered this way, My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness. And Paul learned, you know, that was better. And he proved it because he went on to say, I most gladly will boast about my weaknesses. So that God may be glorified in me. In Mark 5, there was a man who was freed from demons, and he asked if he could travel along with Jesus, but Jesus told him, No, go back to your hometown and be a witness for me there. He got what he wanted. He wanted to serve Christ. The point is that the earnest, sincere praying, guided by the Holy Scriptures, which reveal the will of God, work. It works, and we need to believe in it. Oh, the Bible is filled. I don't have time to go through all the illustrations of personal requests and petitions people made. Solomon asking for wisdom. Daniel asking for an interpretation for a dream, Hezekiah and Isaiah for protection, and on and on. Request after request after request that is asked of God, and God answers. James 5 asserts the effective prayer of a righteous man can accomplish much. And Psalm 86. 7 confidently declares In the day of my trouble, I shall call upon you, for you will answer me. Do you hear how personal that was? You will answer me. Well, your motivation for praying is lifted even higher when you consider second why it works, and we won't take as long on this, but we've got to at least talk about it in verses 9 through 11. Look at it again. For what man is there among you, Jesus is asking, who, when his son asks for a loaf, will give him a stone, or if he asks for a fish, he will not give him a snake, will he If you then being evil know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father who is in heaven give what is good to those who ask? Verses 9 and 10 start with the word or and then verse 11 has the if-then connection. So the or means something like, or to put the matter another way, Jesus is saying to try to convince you further, I'm going to give you this to think about as well. Parents don't usually deceive their own children when they ask for something beneficial, do they? They don't give them something that's similar and yet worthless or even dangerous. Jesus says if they would ask for a loaf, you would not give them a stone, would you? Well, the question expects a negative answer right away. The word for loaf is the word arton. It's the flat bread. A flat stone might resemble a flat bread, but it's obviously of no value to satisfy the hunger of children. Everybody knows that And a fish is brought up next because asking for the fish goes along with the bread, especially they're right there in the neighborhood of the Sea of Galilee, where fish fishing was uh a regular enterprise there. And then the idea of the snake is not so much that it resembles the fish with scales and all that, but that it's a poor substitute for a reasonable request. And if it was given alive, obviously it would be dangerous as well. Besides, snakes were unclean animals, so you wouldn't give those to your children if you were a Jewish parent. Jesus is saying, in the plainest words, that God is not a poor parent. Yet it is amazing how many people think of God that way, that God, in his giving policy to his own children It's kind of behind us. We give better gifts to our children. We look after our children. We know what they need. And we provide for them better than God does for his own children. God is stingy, is the devil's message. That's what he told Adam and Eve in a garden. You're not going to die. God's withholding something good from you. Go ahead and eat it. You'll see. It's going to be great. God's stingy. God doesn't want to give up the good light. That's the lie of the devil. And that's why Jesus brings his disciples back to such a basic truth like this. I mean, this is simple, isn't it? It's not that parents just give. When parents give to their children, they give really good things. Really good stuff. I mean, what'd you guys get for Christmas? Ask the kids. What'd you get for Christmas this year? You get good stuff, right? Jairus wanted a good thing for his daughter. His daughter had died. Came to Jesus, was about to die, came to Jesus for healing. Jacob mourned for his own son when he was told that Joseph was torn apart by wild animals. Parents desire good things for their children. It's the heart of a parent. A parent loves a child. Well, so does God. Remember back in chapter 6, if you look back there at verse 31, it says, Do not worry then, saying, what will we eat or what will we drink or What will we wear for clothing? For the Gentiles eagerly seek all these things? For your heavenly Father knows that you need all these things. He's looking after his children. And then the contrast is even greater because he says, if you then being evil. Now Jesus was not speaking to hardened criminals in the land. He was talking to his disciples. Many people are just regular people. And he says, regular people are evil. He says, you're evil. If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts, how much more? And that's the contrast he wants us to think about If I, with my wicked desires and my selfishness and my pride that gets in the way with all of that, if I can muster up, still having the image of God in me, some good gift to give To my children, even when I didn't know the Lord, how much more will God give what is good to those who ask him Wow. We're to think of God that way. Think of God as generous. Think of Him as ready to give. Think of Him as guiding our prayers so that we would ask and He could give. Well, this just plunges us into the truth of the fatherhood of God. Some of you may not have had fathers the way you wanted to have fathers, but this father is a good father. No, this father is a perfect father. He's a perfect, loving, faithful, giving, generous, watch out for his children, kind of a father. He will never forsake you, he will never leave you. He's always there with you every step of the way in this. in this life and beyond. D. A. Carson writes, what is fundamentally at stake is man's picture of God. God must not be thought of as a reluctant stranger who can be cajoled or bullied into bestowing his gifts, as a malicious tyrant who takes vicious glee in the tricks he plays. Or even as an indulgence grandfather who provides everything requested of him. He is the Heavenly Father. The God of the kingdom who graciously and willingly bestows the good gifts of the kingdom in answer to prayer. Please understand, Jesus is not writing about the gifts of common grace that He's poured out on all of mankind. There are all kinds of things that we have, we just take for granted. Unbelievers don't pray to Christ, they have it. He's saying there's so much more to give. There's so much more to shower down upon you. And you have to ask for it. I can bring every request to God in confidence because though I don't always know what is best, he does. God is way too wise to make an error. God is too good to be untrue to the word that he promised to fulfill. God is too faithful to neglect even one of his children. God is too compassionate to close his heart to our pleas when we are in pain. God is too just to look the other way when we are mistreated. God is too committed to your soul to leave it unattended. God is too generous to close his hand when we are in need. God is too holy to give us what is evil and harmful. And God is too great to be thwarted by the difficulties you and I face God is too concerned a father to close his eyes and his ears to his children. How good is God? Listen to the scriptures again. The young lions do lack and suffer hunger, but they who seek the Lord shall not be in want of any good. For the Lord God is a Son and shield. The Lord gives grace and glory. No good thing does he withhold from those who walk uprightly. Psalm 84, 11. Psalm 85, 12. Indeed the Lord will give what is good, and our land will yield its produce. Jeremiah 29, 11, for I know the plans that I have for you, declares the Lord, plans for welfare and not for calamity, to give you a future and a hope. Psalm 25:8. Good and upright is the Lord, therefore he instructs sinners in the way. Psalm 34:8, O taste and see that the Lord is good. How blessed is the man that takes refuge in him! Psalm 86. 5, for you, Lord, are good and ready to forgive, and abundance and loving kindness to all who call upon you Psalm 100 verse 5, For the Lord is good, and his loving kindness is everlasting, and his faithfulness to all generations What good things has God already given to you? Have you ever written them down? Have you ever thought about it? Have you ever made a list? He gave you his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. Remember that? He gave you his Holy Spirit, not flying around in the world somewhere, but to come and take up residence in your heart. He gave you adoption as sons so that you would have an everlasting and unfading inheritance, riches beyond belief. He gave us deliverance from the fires of burning hell. He gave us a new nature in Christ so we could learn how to serve Him and please Him. He gave us reconciliation to himself when we were the enemies and we were disobeying his law. He gave us a just standing in his presence when we were in his court and we should have been declared guilty. He gave us truth so we would love it. He gave us his love in our hearts to share among ourselves. He gave us joy as energy to serve him mightily. He gave us hope for a bright future. And unbelievably, he gave us this tool called prayer that we could ask for even other things, and he could give us more. It's unbelievable. Indeed, your good Heavenly Father awaits your requests. About 14 years ago, I used to walk down these external stairs to our apartment complex in California. there in Canyon Country, California. I'd walk around the building to the back where there was a little circle and a little guardrail around it. Kids used to ride their bikes there and play. But at nighttime it was a quiet place and I'd sneak out there, put my foot up on the railing and look out through some bushes. to the valley below and then the mountains uh in the background. That was one of my favorite places of prayer. I love praying at nighttime. I love praying alone. And it was a time where I was in seminary at three young children and um didn't have any connection to any affiliation, any denomination, anything like that. And I was asking God, what am I gonna do when I graduate? Go to the seminary, what am I gonna do? Where are we gonna go? What's gonna happen? I didn't uh see anywhere where I could turn for support and later some of the places that I did turn for support kind of dried up. Uh there was not really a lot of support for this uh this church plant when it got started. Uh just a few faithful families and a few more that came along after that. But you know I couldn't see any of this that day. Couldn't see any of it. I could see the mountain on the other side. Uh but I couldn't see I didn't even know most of you. And uh there I was and I was praying. I didn't know that I should go back to Maryland. I didn't know if I came to Maryland that God would sustain a work. I didn't know that he could use me. I had no experience in church planning. No one really had any mature experience in that in our church planning core group that started this church. Couldn't see anything with my eyes, couldn't couldn't visualize any of this. Just had to take the next step by faith. Just had to trust him that if I asked, though I couldn't see, that I didn't know how it was going to work out, that I just needed to take a step forward. I needed to believe him. And it was hard. It was exercising faith. Beloved, today as I stand here today and I see your faces in these beautiful blue chairs, I see this building around us, I think about the work that's been happening, you know, all through the years. You know, I say that I can see now some of the things I could not see then. And I rejoice in that. And I really thank God that He has shown me that He answers prayers And I think God wanted me to say that so I can just testify to you that there are things right now that look like mountains, and you cannot see the solution to what you're asking for. And the pain and the trouble seem ongoing. And the answer seems a very long way away. And God wants you to know. He wants you to know this day. That he loves you, that he's there to provide for you, and that he wants you to persist in your prayers and persist in your faith until you see His answer. It'll bring him glory and it'll bring you joy. Amen. Alan's going to bring a benediction here in a minute. Let me just close the sermon prayer. Heavenly Father, we are grateful for your power. Your presence, your protection, your provision. We're grateful for your love and goodness. In Jesus' name. Amen.