All right. Uh as I was looking, I I think last week I had anticipated moving on to a series of weeks on the One Anothers. And so in my own mind I was thinking, okay, I'm gonna need to start you know preparing for that Monday, Tuesday. And then I looked at the class outline like, oh, there's a session on communication in there. So So this is Perhaps a surprise to you that we're talking about this, but uh obviously it's important. Let let me ask you these series of questions and just think in your own in your own mind. You don't need to answer or raise your hand or anything. Have you ever said something that you immediately regretted? Have you ever regretted not saying something? So much for not answering. Have you ever been in a situation where you didn't know what to say? Have you ever been hurt by something someone said? Have you ever been helped by something someone said? Communication is not just an important part of a relationship. It is what creates, what strengthens, what sustains relationships, or what damages and destroys relationships. Of course relationships require more than communication, but relationships can't exist without communication, right? In fact, you can think of it this way. The significance of communication in relationships is what makes social media possible. Right? Uh social media relationships really have no other component than communication. Maybe there's implicit uh components of shared interests or or times by virtue of how much time you're spending on the computer. But the the relationship is carried on by means of communication and and virtually nothing else, unless of course that relationship exists outside of social media. But even the type of communication we engage in in social media is different, right, than the kind of communication we have outside of social media. Perhaps you've heard this joke, but I think it's worth repeating in light of today's lesson. So quote I am trying somebody says this, I'm trying to make friends outside of Facebook while applying The same principles. Every day I walk down the street and tell passers by what I've eaten, how I feel at the moment, what I've done the night before, what I will do later and with whom. I give them pictures of my family and my dog and of me gardening, taking the same. Taking things out of the garage, watering the lawn, standing in front of landmarks, driving around town, having lunch, doing what everybody else says every day I also listen in to their conversations and give them a thumbs up and tell uh uh and tell them I like them. And it works just like Facebook. I already have four people following me. Two police officers, a private investigator, and a psychiatrist. Now of course he he didn't mention he butts into other people's conversations and argues with their friends, right? Suffice it to say, the way we communicate on social media is very different. And fosters n uh different kinds of relationships than our personal interaction. Well today we have more methods of communicating, right? And we have the opportunity to communicate with vastly more people than we have ever had before. And yet it seems like we're getting worse and worse in our communication We're digressing. Why is that? I would propose to you that it's because of the truth of Proverbs ten nineteen. When there are many words, what does it say? Yeah, transgression is unavoidable. Why? Because the more we communicate, the less we think about what we're saying, the more we open our mouths. the more difficult it is to filter our speech. So what we want to do today is is walk through some biblical principles of communication. And my hope is that as we think through what Scripture has to say that it will uh perhaps convict us. I know I'm always convicted when I think about communication, um, and help us think better about how we can use our words to encourage to foster God honoring communication and promote and strengthen our relationships and handle uh even difficult situations in a way that's pleasing to God So that's the introduction. Let's consider the power of words. I have a a number of biblical passages that I'll read and then just make a couple comments on each. one. And my my point here is just to identify and to I'll say bring to light, but really I'm just going to remind you of what you already know that power words are powerful. Consider Proverbs 1213. Proverbs 1213. An evil man is ensnared by the transgression of his lips, but the righteous will escape from trouble. Okay? An evil man is ensnared, but the righteous will escape. This simply means that words have the ability to get you into trouble. Or out of trouble. Someone was telling me recently that they're reading a book called Judo, what is it called? Verbal Judo. And it's it's written to help uh particularly law enforcement, those who are in law enforcement, but really anybody, on how to de-escalate situations with your words. Of course, those who are in law enforcement tend to find themselves in tense situations with angry people on a regular basis. And this particular book, uh it's a secular book, helps them learn to de-escalate those situations with their words. Again, the the the righteous will escape from trouble. Your words can earn you fines or jail time, or they can get you out of a speeding ticket and get a warning instead. Words are powerful. Consider Proverbs 12, 25. Proverbs 12, 25. Anxiety in a man's heart weighs it down, but a good word makes it glad. Anxiety is not a problem of outward circumstances. A person who is anxious tends to think, well of course I'm anxious. Look at what's going on around me. But that's not the reason we are anxious. The reason we are anxious is because of our internal perspective. our internal thoughts about what is going on or maybe what will happen. Uh the way we think about our circumstances is what produces anxiety. And so a good word is something that helps someone gain perspective. In fact, I heard we had a conversation with Harry Walls last night, who was here for the conference yesterday. And uh he made the statement uh no one can give themselves the gift of perspective you can give other people the gift of perspective, helping people to think differently. And so that's just what this verse is saying, that if you use a good word to give someone perspective, you can relieve the anxiety and have it turned into gladness. Words are powerful. Proverbs 13:3. Proverbs 13:3. The one who guards his mouth preserves his life. The one who opens wide his lips comes to ruin. There are times when you can say something or or say many things and so escalate a situation that someone is Now wanting to harm you where they weren't wanting to harm you before. Or putting a guard over your mouth can help keep you safe. People's careers have been ruined by things that they've said, right? Ill-considered comments, racial racial slurs, rash conclusions, public mockery of someone else If if you don't put a guard over your words, you can get yourself in a whole lot of trouble. What about Proverbs 15, 1? This should be a a verse that all of us have memorized. A gentle answer turns away wrath, but a harsh word stirs up anger. Proverbs fifteen one. He did heated arguments, think of it this way, heated arguments don't happen because there are sharp disagreements. Heated arguments happen because disagreements are stated sharply. How you say your opinion, how you state what you want to say will have a significant impact on how that conversation is going to be carried out. Whether again it's going to be escalated or whether it's going to be de-escalated. How you speak in a moment of tension can either remove the tension or cause it to explode. Or think of this word picture. If there's gas in the air, your words can either light a match or diffuse the error. Words are powerful. Or verse two, Proverbs fifteen two. The tongue of the wise makes knowledge acceptable, but the mouths of fools spout folly. When you have an opportunity to speak words of wisdom into a situation where people aren't thinking wisely Maybe it's uh your child who's being foolish in a moment, and as a parent, you're like, okay, have some words of wisdom to share. Or maybe it's uh in a small group context or just with a friend. Uh how you say How you communicate that wisdom will either make that information appear as wisdom to them, or it may it will make it appear as folly. So we not only have to have wise words, we also have to communicate wise words in a wise way to make it appealing. Proverbs 1821. Proverbs 1821. Death and life are in the power of the tongue, and those who love it will eat its fruit. Words can cause someone to take their own life. We've heard that. On the other hand, words can cause someone to continue living, to at least have the desire to continue living. I was talking many years ago to a man who in his college years worked at a suicide hotline for his university And he told me that uh the day he quit was the day he took a phone call and you know, he's doing what he was trained to do, trying to talk someone down. And he wasn't able to. He not only heard a gunshot through the phone, he heard a gunshot from across the street at the same time. It was a fellow student. Of course, unbelievers have very little hope to give. It's not that they can't give hope, it's not that they can't in some situations preserve someone's life with their words, but as believers we have so much hope we can give, so much life we can communicate through our tongue Moving to the New Testament, Matthew twelve, thirty-six through thirty-seven. Matthew twelve, thirty-six through thirty-seven. But I tell For by our word by your words you will be justified, and by your words you will be condemned. So with this text we see that the power of words not only relates to our horizontal relationships, but they also relate to our vertical relationship with God. Jesus tells us here that our words have internal consequences. We know that Everything that we post online can't truly be deleted, right? Or at least you should know that if you didn't know that already. Even if you hit a delete button Uh there's some server somewhere in the world that's still going to have a record of what you've said. But more important than that, the record of everything you say will be kept in heaven, is kept in heaven. And that's a scary thought if it weren't for the grace and forgiveness that we have in Christ, right? For the believer, every rotten and worthless word will not be used against us in judgment. It'll just be burned up through the fire. uh of testing. But every good and worthwhile word will earn, will contribute to our eternal reward. So again, words are powerful because they last forever in that sense. They they go on into eternity and have an impact on eternity. And then finally, James 3. James 3, verses 3 to 6. Now if we put bits into the horse's mouth, So that they will obey us, we direct their entire body as well. Look at the ships also, though they are so great and are driven by strong winds, are still directed by a very small rudder wherever the inclination of the pilot goes. Directs or desires. See how great so also the tongue is a small part of the body, and yet it boasts of great things See how great a forest is set aflame by such a small fire. And the tongue is a fire, the very world of iniquity. The tongue is set among our members as that which defiles the entire body and sets on fire the course of our lives. And is set on fire by hell. So there's a lot there, but we'll we'll just say this. You know, you know how uh the saying a picture is worth a thousand words? You can communicate things with pictures, of course. You can communicate things with your hands. And I'm not talking about sign language. That's a separate issue. You can use words with your with sign language, but just If you're a foreign country, you know you can get yourself to the bathroom by trying to tell folks, hey, where where's the bathroom with your hands or um you can communicate things with with facial expressions, with your posture But there are over a hundred and seventy thousand words words in the English language. Hundred and seventy thousand So nonverbal communication is useful, but verbal communication can take you down the path of life or the path of death. The extreme amount of specificity and clarity uh and usefulness of words can drive our lives. So words are powerful. And so we need to think about our words. Uh we don't just learn how to speak, learn how to write, learn how to communicate and and not think about, okay, how do I use this tool? Because it can either be a tool or it can be a weapon. And so we have to think carefully about how we use our words. The next uh section as we think about the power of words is we have to realize that words come from God. We could ask the question, why are words so powerful? Why is it that words have such an impact? And I think the reason is because they come from God. That is, communication comes from God. It's a reflection of his character. It's an aspect of us being made in his image. Isaiah 55, familiar passage to many of us, Isaiah 55, verses 10 and 11, says, For as the rain and the snow come down from heaven And do not return there without watering the earth, and making it bare and sprout, and furnishing seed to the sower and bread to the eater. So will my word be which goes forth from my mouth, it will not return to me empty, without accomplishing what I desire, and without succeeding in the matter for which I sent it. We know that God's word created the universe, right? Genesis 1? God's word sustains the universe. Hebrews 1. 3. God's words bring about the new birth that When each one of us is born again, that happens by the word of truth, it says in James 1 eighteen. God's words accomplishes judgment, Matthew 7. 23. So God's words are powerful, and because we are made in God's image, our words have significant influence. Now this is where we depart ways with the word faith. Theology, right, where they say that your words actually have the ability to create. You know, where does this whole name it and claim it idea come from? It comes from the idea that just like God's word ha power, so our words have power and we can create things with with our words so we can say things like, I declare my house is paid off. You know, how's that working for you? I declare I'm debt free As if saying those things can somehow uh create those realities. And of course that's just silly and ridiculous. But it's not that those words are powerless. Think about this. It's not that those words are powerless. It's that they are powerful in a different way. Words like that have a powerful deceptive influence. They cause people to lose faith because all of a sudden, well, what I think God's Word is saying isn't True, it's not happening in my life. And so those words are powerful but in a very different way than what those false teachers communicate Those kinds of words bring repute to the name of Christ. So so those words are powerful, but again in diff in a different way. On the other hand, in the same way that God's words bring comfort And encouragement and strength, so can our words do the same for others. can have a powerful effect in other people's lives because we are made in the image of God and our communication is a reflection of of God's character and God's ability. The power of words does not derive from us, it derives from God. And so how we use them will either reflect Him, which means to glorify Him. or they will deny him, which means to bring judgment on ourselves. So words come from God, but words also come with trouble. James chapter 3 again, verse 2, and then verses 8 to 10 say, For we all stumble in many ways. If anyone does not stumble in what he says, he is a perfect man. able to bridle the whole body as well. But no one can tame the tongue, says verse 8, it is a restless evil and full of deadly poison. With it we bless our Lord and Father, and with it we curse men who have been made in the likeness of God. From the same mouth come both blessing and cursing. My brethren, these things ought not to be So because of the fall, we have the ability to to say words that are destructive. We can do good things with our words, or we can do destructive things with our words. And because of our sin, which is fundamentally selfish, our words tend to be self-oriented. Well we have to listen carefully if we want to really understand what other people are saying. We have to be good listeners. Yeah, and and if we don't understand we can ask questions like what you're doing right now. So we can say, Well I this is what I'm hearing you say. Can can it am I understanding Am I understanding you properly? Am I thinking rightly about what you're saying? Uh understanding receiving clarity can be challenging, but But that's where the communication comes in is we don't just make assumptions about what I thought I heard you hear. I'm asking questions of did I hear you accurately? Did is this really what you intended to say? That's really important. We'll we'll mention that briefly toward the end. Sometimes it's not just that our words are selfish, it's that our own self-importance, self sense of self-importance is selfish, right? We think my ideas are more important than your ideas. So rather than listening to what you're going to say, I'm just thinking about what I'm going to say and try and get you to listen to me. We're quick to speak and slow to listen. As opposed to the opposite, which James tells us to do. We often are quick to judge motives and just say hasty words. We assume that we have all the facts, make hasty judgments. We have such a high view of our opinions that the we say the first thing that comes into my my mind without really thinking about whether or not that's the right thing to say. You know, if it came to my mind, it must be right. If I thought it, it must be true. And so here you go. Here are my words of wisdom for you. Very often when we use our word we uh when we use our words they cause harm. And instead of acknowledging that it's my words and my thoughts and my selfishness that has caused harm, we are quick to blame the other person instead. Instead and say, well you're judging my motives or you didn't understand what I said or you're just too sensitive. And so again we're even selfish in thinking that we were in the right even when we didn't do something right. We're slow to consider. If we said the right thing in the right way in the right time. Again, Proverbs 10:19, when there are many words, transgression is avoidable. So why is it that trouble comes with words? Why is it that trouble is so near when words are many? Well I want you to turn in your Bible to Matthew twelve. I think there's a good passage that's worth turning to. One that I would encourage you, if you're inclined to do this kind of thing, to underline in your Bible, if you don't already have it underlined. Matthew 12, 33-35. If uh if you take multiple classes from me over the course of time, you will probably have this idea coming out again and again and again and again of what drives our lives because it's so important. Matthew 12, 33 to 35 says, either make the tree good and its fruit good, or make the tree bad and its fruit bad, for the tree is known by its fruit. You brood of vipers, how can you, being evil, speak what is good? Of course, he's talking to the Pharisees in the moment. For the mouth speaks out of that which fills what? The heart. The good man brings out of the good treasure what is good. The evil man brings out of his evil treasure what is evil. But I tell you that every careless word that people speak they shall give an accounting for in the day of judgment. I read this earlier, for by your words you'll be justified, by your words you will be condemned So the trouble that our words produce comes out of the reality that it that's what's in our heart. We we say the wrong thing, we we let the wrong thing come out because the wrong thing is in our heart We say hurtful things because hurtful things are in a heart. We say mean things because mean thoughts are in a heart. And if you want to be humbled on any given day as you're laying your head down, just uh think back through that day and think about what you said and how you said it. and consider what does this say about my heart because what you say is this a reflection of what's going on in your heart. Right, have uh we've all been in situations where we've said something and then we say, oops, I didn't mean that. No, the reality is I didn't mean for that to come out. Yeah, Carol. Okay. It's in anger sometimes that says some things that I don't really feel. It just kind of I don't know where it comes from, but nothing is Yeah. Well so you got it. Idiotic but that's what I said. Yeah, well th there is a reality that we are helping out of this. Sure. So there's the reality that we're not perfectly sanctified, right? But there is a measure in which hopefully we are somewhat sanctified. And so, Lord willing, none of us speaks spews out bad things, evil things continually. Hopefully that's nobody here. That you know, every time you m you open your mouth, you're just sinning, sinning, sinning. Hopefully you've if you're a believer, hopefully you've been sanctified to the point where a lot of what you say is actually good and helpful and kind and true and all of that. But we do have to ask ourselves When something comes out that isn't good, where does that come from? And and the answer that we have to fall to is Well what does Jesus say? What does Scripture say? Is it it comes out of the heart? Now it may be a momentary uh isolated area of our life that After that the the sanctified patience and the tolerance and the long suffering, the layers that has been built up, the endurance that's been built up over years gets worn down, that okay, there's still there's still a little bit of impatience uh a little bit of simpleness deep down the heart that after all all I've I've been patient for for uh minutes and hours and days and weeks, but all of a sudden that's it, I've had enough And so the fact that something comes out of a heart shows okay, that's still in there. Um you know, you think about the Lord Jesus and the incredible patience that he had. I don't know why, it's funny, but I wanna tell though. Um So you think about the Lord Jesus and the immense amount of patience, you know, that he had to have. Not just with the Pharisees, not just with the crowds, but with his own disciples. You know how you continue teaching and teaching and teaching and and telling the disciples, um, I'm I'm gonna die, I'm gonna be I'm gonna be risen from the dead. And you know, he tells them that and they're like, Who's going to be greatest in the kingdom? I'm the best. I'm the best of disciple, you know? And they're just stubborn all get to all get out. But but the Lord is patient. And if if our heart is pure And there is no sin in our heart, then nothing will ever come out that is that is sinful. And uh many of us, even if we haven't said certain things, perhaps we've thought certain things and the Lord has allowed us to put that filter right in place. But even the fact that we think certain things is a reflection of remaining sin in our lives. So it is an occasion for us to acknowledge and and humble be humble to say Say, Lord, I am not like you. I still need your grace. You've matured me, you've grown me, I've grown in so many ways, but I still need your grace. So help me. uh to to be humble, to repent even of this uh one thing. So it might not be a life dominating sin, it might be a once in every ten years thing, uh what whatever it is for for you, but um But it's still a reflection of of what's in our heart. Markia. Oh I think I was just gonna say, um, you know, in terms of words not always being a reflection of what's in our heart because isn't the opposite also true that I think a lot of times we are trained to say the right thing. We are trained to you know say the right word and do the right thing but it's not a question like the heart can build my children. you know, do something and then you say, apologize to your brothers. Apologize to you and brothers forgive you. Yeah. You know, and but you know that that's not what's in their heart. So I think the heart of the text is that it's not even it's not we can't focus so much on the words, but the heart is more than the mouth is so posture the mind. It's the the will of the spirit, if that makes sense. Yeah, yeah. There's external influences that can pressure us to to say things that we don't really mean. Certainly that's true. Um that that's that can be true in in a hypocritical way. Uh and it can also be true in a good way. For example, so the hypocritical way you've given a good example. I think that happens with with most of us and our kids Uh and sometimes we do that ourselves. We just say the right thing even though we're just But sometimes as an act of obedience to the Lord, again we can think a certain thought and like, okay, I'm I'm really upset. This is what I'd really like to say. But out of obedience to the Lord, I'm going to say something that's different. And saying something or doing something that isn't necessarily um what comes naturally Is not hypocrisy. If if we have the intention of ob obeying the Lord even when we don't feel like it That's obedience. Uh that's what it means to again have Lord uh Jesus as our Lord and we're his his slaves is that we're obeying him sometimes even when we don't feel like it. Now the difference is when we do that we say, Yeah, because this is what I want to even if I don't want So we we how we again think about ourselves and the humility with which we we carry ourselves is is the key there. So Carrie. Isn't this too kind of a you know it's it's like we don't really comprehend uh we were we were born in sin. We We have this nature. We get saved, which is uh a grace, a blessing, it's it's huge. But yet we're this nature is being put to death. It's it's innate in us. And we don't I think a lot of times we get saved and we think, oh good. Or you know Well and w we we do uh have change. We we do do a lot of things, but we forget the power and the nature of sin. And we say, Well, where did that come from? came from the this is the curse that we were born into. And and and it's uh we forget how powerful this stuff is. God we can we talk about the will, the will's good. we need to to take our will and apply it to God, but it's raised it's his it's really exposing ourselves to our our uh our weaknesses and God's great changes it from the end to the end. I I can't I can't change myself anymore that I can save myself. I think we forget that It's great. It's got uh I mean there are there are disciplines and efforts I do for sure. Right. And But at the end of the day it's gotta change in my heart. Right. Victoria? I think it's uh it's a good example of where my experience, my feelings are contradicting. And then scripture has to trump the the experience over I think. And then you know, even when you apologize and you don't mean it, it is a reflection of your heart to see. So um yeah. God says let God be true in every man of wire. So if God's saying it's coming from your heart, then that's where it's coming from. Yeah, one of the I see incorrectly. It honors the Lord when we think rightly about ourselves, when when we acknowledge our sinfulness, when w we uh confess, when we say the the same thing that God says about us. Uh and so again, even if we we we see our sinful tendencies, our what naturally comes out of us and and we acknowledge that, that in in itself Uh as long as we acknowledge that God is right when he says that's wrong and that's sinful, that's that's glorifying to God. And uh And the process of repentance is turning away from that, even if it again w it feels like that's what comes naturally, but turning away from that saying I'm going to please the Lord because that that is my desire. incapacity to do that which is right and pleasing before the Lord as unbelievers, which is then changed at salvation where now we are given a new spirit, a new heart. We're given spiritual life. We're now given the ability to please God. Um as Carrie was saying, that doesn't mean that our sinful nature isn't there. What Paul says in Romans six is Now that we have died to sin and we are alive in Christ, righteousness, what that means is we have the ability to say no to sin. It doesn't mean it doesn't exist, it's not there, it means it is there. You just you have the ability to say no. Sin shall not be your master. Uh and he says, Don't you know that you are the slave of this is a paraphrase, a slave of that to which you obey? Whoever you obey, well that's that's your master. Doesn't matter who you say is your master, it's who do you obey. Um and so if you if you are a believer, you now have the ability to say no to sin. and say yes to righteousness, yes to the Lord, regardless of how you feel in the moment. But I think what God does in sanctification is as we obey Him, contrary to our natural base feelings, then He begins to change our feelings and give us that desire to please him. And then what once was natural sin becomes unnatural so that it actually becomes infrequent. We're like, where did that come from? I haven't experienced that. I haven't had a thought like that. Uh and that's that's a sign of God's work in your life, of God's grace. Uh because that that is only produced by the power of the Spirit as as we submit to him day after day after day. Any other thoughts or comments? Yeah. Sometimes uh I'll tell the men at the end breakfast that uh you know kind of being being built with the spirit, it's this notion that I'm filling my mind, you know, whether I'm meditating my mind scripture, I'm thinking on you know God's thoughts after him kind of thought idea. Uh conversely, if you are you know, maybe watching political TV or you're playing violent video games or you know, that you're filling your yourself with these things. It's kinda like a cup where you fill it up with something. And then somebody bumps you and then what comes stalling out is what you've been filling yourself with, and a lot of times that surprises us. You know, it's it's just This notion a lot of times, you know, I'm driving down the road and somebody cuts in front of me and affects my sanctification, you know. It's just an an awareness. It's like, why did I react that way? It's because it's It's just where where my mind's been lately. Very good. Very good. Alright, well let's turn the corner and talk about How to communicate in a way that's pleasing to God. So I I imagine we've all been thoroughly convicted, or at least partially convicted. We all know that we struggle. Again, James 1. If anyone stumbles in what he says, if anyone doesn't stumble in what So we all stumble, we know that. So the question is, okay, how do we grow? Turn to 2 Corinthians 5. 15. Second Corinthians five fifteen Paul writes, this is kind of middle of a sentence. Well I'll just start in verse fourteen to start at the beginning of a sentence. For the love of Christ controls us, having concluded this, that none Sorry, that one died for all, therefore all died. And he died for all, so that they who live might no longer live for themselves, but for him who died and rose again on their behalf. So Verse 15 says that Christ died so that we might live, not for whom? Who should we not live for? Ourselves. And who should we live for? Christ. When Paul calls us to live for Christ, that com that command includes how we communicate. Our communication should be a reflection of the fact that you are a citizen of heaven. And can I tell you right now, there is no free speech in heaven. Heaven has speech codes. You understand what I mean by that, right? God doesn't say, just say whatever whatever you want. Publish whatever you want. Again, I've this will be a third time, Matthew twelve, but I say to you but I tell you that every careless word that people speak they will give an account an accounting for in the day of judgment. By your words you will be justified and by your words. you'll be condemned. So as citizens of heaven, as sons and daughters of God, we have to think about what we say because God doesn't just give us a free pass, right? Certainly, as again as Paul says in Romans 6, The idea of let us sin that grace may abound, that doesn't apply. We can't live like that. We have to think about what we say and how we say it. So let's talk about these kind of sub-points here Of how God would have us think about our speech. First, there is the purpose of our words. The purpose of our words. If you don't If you don't mind, you can turn to Ephesians 4. 29. Again, another passage that everyone should have memorized. In in many of my counseling Situations I encourage people to memorize this passage and to meditate on it on a daily basis. Ephesians 4:29, let no unwholesome word proceed from your mouth. But only such a word as is good for edification according to the need of the moment, so that it will give grace to those who hear. What does edification mean? Who has a a definition or a explanation? It doesn't have to be dictionary definition, but what does edification mean? Yeah. It's it's a building term that you you're building up a structure, you're strengthening someone. Yeah. If we if we only said what we should say, there'd be a lot of silence. Okay. No, I mean maybe that's not true. I just think that's true. I didn't think it that way. That's uncomfortable. Well I I'd have to think about that for a longer period of time. I I I guess my initial response is well there there are many opportunities that we have to encourage one another. to build up one another, uh to speak well of one another, to one another, that uh because we don't tend to think about, okay, how can I build this person up, we tend just to not say things. And so, you know, we all know the saying if you don't have anything nice to say, don't say anything at all. And so typically we think, okay, that means there's gonna be a lot of silence. But we're not thinking proactively of, okay, what can I say? How can I build this person up? How can I encourage how how can I thank them for For what they've done. Right? So husband comes home after a long day of work, mom has been working hard or wife has been working hard, whether in her job or caring for the kids, uh caring for the home, and uh He sees things in the house that he's not terribly pleased with. I'm not necessarily telling you my biography, but this is something that I have struggled with. And if if if I had operated off of the the idea of if you don't have anything nice to say, don't say it at all, you know, maybe I wouldn't have said very much. But one of the things that uh I've had to learn and probably still learning is how can I encourage, how can I build up, how can I have uh positive interaction and communication. How can I express gratitude? How can I how can I offer how can I serve? How can I offer to to to join in what's going on and and provide help Yes, very slowly, as my wife would tell you. funny to me. Okay. We weren't raised on compliments. Right. And uh and sometimes I think it is so funny what we see to me. Hm. It is It doesn't hold any anything. Oh, you look lovely today or oh what he's so stupid. So how do we build up with something that's of value rather than Silliness. Isn't that nice? Yeah. Well that's what we add to their You can't look at it here. So okay, what do you mean? Okay, I just want you to ride more than Loreg and have a wish. Silliness that is only building up their egos rather than their Christianity. Sure. Yeah, I mean th there's uh again these are these are all things that we all have to hold up by a point of view I mean it's it's it's the uh it's the typical small talk, right? How you doing it's the typical small talk. How you doing fine? What's what's the easiest thing to say? Oh nice day today, nice weather, love the rain, grateful for the rain. And uh and there's there's a sense in which there's nothing wrong with those things, but at the same time we do want to think about, okay, how can I use meaningful uh speech to to build up and encourage because saying, Oh, you look lovely today, uh that that does build people up. But if that's all you ever say, like I think about this with my daughter. Um Right. If I only ever say, Oh, you look cute, you look beautiful, blah blah blah, and that's I keep it at that level, then she's gonna grow up thinking, Oh, I just care about what people think about how what uh how I look. So I need to be mindful about how I build her up in in the right way. Not that I shouldn't or can't say, I mean I want to encourage her, but uh I don't want to communicate that that's the only thing I care about. Character rather than outward looks. Right, Sean. So I I I'll recommend a book on the table How long do we get just the suspicious? I think I think you know a lot of times when we talk about this and we talk about things is um We need to show grace in two directions. You talk about, you know, encouraging and edifying something, some people We're all still messed up. We're not fully sanctified and holy. And so we don't do things entirely right. And there's people that are more socially awkward than others. Okay, that that uh try to do something. And sometimes we don't show grace to the person who's making the effort. But if the one receiving that, we need to have maturity and grace to say, look, they're really making an effort and I appreciate that. And so maybe it is small talk. Maybe to you it doesn't seem sincere based on how you were raised, but the person reached out and said something, and the last thing we need to do is take a sledgehammer and say, You're not talking to me like I want to talk about I have no problem with that. I'm just asking I just want asked to change our focus. Sure. More to more godly things rather than superficial things. Oh no stop it. And one of the ways that we build other people up and and uh help people grow in those areas is we provide a good example. You know, I've learned so much just by listening to how other people talk. You know, when I hear someone who's particularly good at how they interact with a stranger, maybe how they meet someone, the kinds of questions that they ask, or just how they you know interact. Uh I I take note of that because it is s relatively uncommon. And uh again, none of us is perfect, we're all growing and and uh and so it's important to not only identify what we see as weaknesses, but model good communication and others will pick up on that. Well let's let's talk about what are those needs of the moment type communications. Uh think about these different uh moments uh that that uh s our communication can can meet. There are moments when people need comfort. Right? Words that are medicine for the soul. Where w you're you're trying to uh Encourage them in with a particular aim at their distressing situation, words of comfort. There are times when people need encouragement. Um you know maybe they're down about themselves 'cause they had a bad haircut or You're gonna get that more, I'm sorry. So words that build up, that strengthen, that affirm. Um words uh moments of teaching. You know, so the the last four here come right out of uh 2 Timothy 316, words of teaching where you are providing new infrastructure information with someone. And of course this doesn't necessarily mean you're up in the front of a classroom. It could just be you're having a casual conversation and uh y maybe you're talking to a younger, more immature person and You want to give them some information because you see that uh that they're being ignorant on a particular issue. Uh reproof. There are times when we need to reprove one another. That is identifying errors in thinking, errors uh in in behavior. Well we say, you know what? That's not right. That's not biblical. That's not honoring to the Lord. There are times when correction is needed, and so what's the difference between reproof and correction? Reproof is identifying the wrong. Correction is saying, okay, let's move back into the right. It's it's redirecting from the wrong to the right. It's the second half of the sentence. That's wrong, but I think this is a better way to think about this. And then there are times where we need to train words that explain how to implement what is right, how to put something into practice. So, you know, example in parenting is reproof is that is not how you wash dishes. Correction is uh when you wash dishes you need to scrub it. Well, you tell a kid to scrub it and they're like eater eater eeger, you know. No, here's here's how you scrub it. That's that's training. So words of comfort, encouragement, teaching, reproof, correction, and training So that's the purpose of our words, to build others up according to the need of the moment. And again we have to think about that. And I think generally we are sensitive in in general terms, you know, when we see someone weeping After a service, you're not going to go up to them and say, oh, how you doing? You know, you're sensitive to their emotional state. And so we just always need to be mindful of that. Sometimes if we aren't sensitive, you know, we walk into a conversation and we don't realize Uh maybe what two people have already been talking about and and we can um not be helpful in the moment, but we we need to be mindful of of what that is needed in that moment. Well, what about the content of our words? Just a couple brief ideas here. And this is very simply stated. Ephesians 4:15 says, But speaking the truth in love. we are to grow up in all aspects into him who is the head, even Christ. And then verse twenty-five, there of Ephesians four, therefore, laying aside falsehood, speak truth, each one of you with his neighbor, for we are members of one another. So the content of our words is truth. That should be obvious. We're not to lie to one another. We are to speak that which is truth, that which corresponds to reality. Uh we don't wanna you know, when someone comes in and I don't know, they they look awful, you know, like they've Worked an overnight shift and they got in a car accident on the way in and they're all dishevlue. You look lovely today. I mean none of us would do that, but We want to speak the truth. And not that you tell them how they look, but in that moment, what's the need of the moment? Right? You express concern. Oh, what what's going on? How are you doing and it looks like you had a rough night. Um You know, sometimes we can tell. We can tell when someone is struggling. You know, they're maybe they're trying to put on a good face, but you can see it in their eyes. They're hurting. They've been crying. Their eyes are red. Maybe they just look really, really tired. You know, how's your week been? Have you had a rough week? And and that can reveal an opportunity to minister to them with our words. Well let me close with some wise advice. And this is just uh passages from Proverbs. Uh it it's just amazing to me how um how much wisdom God gives us in his word with regard to communication. Again, it's such an an important part of life. And uh just another rock on the pile of of the sufficiency of Scripture that adds weight to the doctrine. uh that God has so much to say. Proverbs fifteen thirty-one says, he whose ear listens to the life-giving reproof will dwell among the wise. What is this saying? If you listen when other people are making an effort to correct you, you will dwell among the wise. How easy is it for us to become self-defensive? When someone says something we don't like, whether it's something we disagree with, just like maybe a doctrinal statement or a political statement or whatever. Or if it they are trying to tell us something about ourselves, like, oh no, you don't you don't understand me. The best thing we can do that will show the wisdom that will show wisdom is listen, consider. And even if we disagree, We think about that. You know, is there any truth? Is there an element of truth in what they're saying? We need to listen to life giving reproof. Proverbs 17. Proverbs 17, 28, or 27 and 28. He who restrains his words has knowledge, and he who has a cool spirit is a man of understanding. Even a fool, when he keeps silent, is considered wise. When he closes his lips, he is considered prudent. Now maybe this speaks to Victoria's point that if we should if we said things that we didn't or that we should say maybe there'd be more silence. I mean that I think the reality of what this is saying is we probably tend to say more than what we ought to say, especially on social media. That the the less that we say in some ways the better. We shouldn't withhold good words. We shouldn't hold we shouldn't withhold wisdom. But uh so often it's better to say less. And particularly if you are the kind of person who struggles with your words, and maybe you sense that you are a fool and how you speak. The process of growing starts with just keeping silent, listening well. Proverbs 1813. I say this pretty much every time I meet with someone for the first time. in counseling. He who gives an answer before he hears, it is folly and shame to him. Proverbs 1813. In other words, if I speak into a situation when I haven't yet had an opportunity to hear about it Uh, you know, if a couple comes to me and and th they're coming to me because they have marital problems uh and I have maybe a few lines of information from an email or something. And that's uh they come in and sit down and say, okay, let's go to Ephesians 5, let's go to uh I don't know, Matthew 19 that talks about divorce, and let me tell you what the Bible says about marriage. I'll probably be proved to be a fool Because I don't yet know the the full extent of their situation. And so uh we have to listen well, and this is what's so difficult again because we have to humble ourselves to acknowledge in in any situation, I need to listen before I speak. I need to understand what's going on before I speak. I need to make sure I understand their perspective So maybe I understand the words that they're saying, but I need to understand what's going on in their thinking, maybe what their interests are, what their goals are. And maybe we're using the same words and there seems to be a contradiction, but additional information will reveal that actually there's not a contradiction, that we're just kind of thinking on two different planes. So we have to listen well and and as I was saying to Sarah earlier, that means that we have to ask questions. Uh we have to say, this is what I'm hearing from you. Is is that accurate? Uh we have to really exercise great patience and humility uh to understand and listen well. And that's difficult. And then finally, Proverbs 21:23. He who guards his mouth and his tongue guards his soul from troubles. Again, just the point that we need to protect, uh guard, keep, be mindful of our mouth and our tongue. And uh if if we will do that, if we will do that with diligence and vigilance, we will guard our soul from trouble. I think it's probably true to say for all of us that what causes trouble in our lives is not what we say but what's not what we don't say but what we say. It's not the fact that we are silent too often, it's that we speak too often and too quickly. And uh as as we are growing in how to honor the Lord, how to glorify God with our speech, we need to be more mindful about what we say and how we say it. That's that's what I have for my notes. There's more in scripture regarding uh communication. I didn't mention Uh I think it's in Colossians where it says that our speech should be always seasoned with salt, right? Uh there's more in Proverbs that I I didn't bring out. Let me give you a couple of books if you're interested that are really helpful in this area. One is Paul Tripp's book, War of Words. War of Words by Paul Tripp. Um another helpful uh book, the the the book on relationships Uh Relationships and Mess Worth Making by Paul Tripp and Tim Lane, which uh I've referenced uh throughout this course. Um Relationships and Mess Worth Making. I think it's chapter six is about communication. Um there's a book by uh Wayne Mack called Your Family God's Way. Your family God's way. And uh I I think that it should be retitled Communication God's Way because There's a parent uh chapter on husband husband's roles, wife's roles, parenting, and then like six or eight chapters on communication. So the bulk of the book is on communication. Your family, God's way. All right, we have just a couple minutes left. Any uh There's of course a lot more we could say, but any other thoughts, comments, questions, suggestions? Yeah. Yeah words words can change people's lives. John John Piper has said sermons don't change people, sentences change people. Of course it's that's not scripture. Uh that's not a that's not a biblical that's not a that's not taken out of scripture. Wanna make sure I don't misstate that. But just the reality that sometimes the Lord uses just a brief statement to to radically change someone's life, to open their eyes. So be mindful. This week, today, as you're interacting with one another, as you're interacting with other believers, with your coworkers, with fellow students, whatever social environments you find yourself in. Be mindful about what you say, how you say it, and be intentional about trying to encourage, trying to comfort, trying to speak words of life. I'm losing control here. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this morning. Uh we thank you for your word that does speak to this Critical aspect of our lives. And Lord, we all confess that we are weak. Uh, we desperately need your help. To guard our mouths and also to fill our mouths with truth and words that are edifying. So help us, Lord, to be Making effort by your strength and by your spirit to speak and communicate in ways that are pleasing to you. In Jesus' name, amen.