Um it's good to see you all. Glad you could join us today. Uh we're on page 23 of our notes, The Heart of Conflict. I know this will be a difficult day for all of us in various ways. So let's ask for the Lord's help, shall we? Alright, well I'm gonna do my best to get through the notes here. Um so the heart of conflict, we've been looking actually let me start with this. Just to give you a preview of what we're going to cover today, it's actually quite a bit, so I'm going to move relatively quickly through each section of the notes, hopefully. But we're going to look at what is the source of conflicts. Why do I want what I want? That kind of gives you a hint of what are the source of conflicts. It's the things that we desire. We're going to consider the biblical view of the heart, a biblical cardiology, if you will. And then the heart of talk about the heart of worship, how we were made to worship, and then we're going to look at just a brief uh boiled-down summary. of the the solution. Two helpful questions that we should ask in in conflict and then the solution that we will then tease out the rest of this class. And just a reminder, Mike Moody is going to be teaching in the month of April, and then I'll come back and teach in the month of May. So looking forward to having him serve us in that way. So as you see in your notes there, up until now we've been uh setting the groundwork for how to think about conflict as a Christian. You know, we've talked about the four G's. Glorify God, get the lock out of your eye, gently restore, and go and be reconciled. In all that we do, and especially in conflict, we ought to be seeking to glorify God the interpersonal conflicts that we have with one another, uh those difficult moments, whether it's uh just a silly argument over something in the home or if it's a a more significant conflict in a relationship or even within a group of people. That's just a microcosm of the conflict that has exig existed since the fall. And not just the conflict among mankind, but the conflict between mankind and God. And God has so worked in history that he has reconciled his enemies, mankind, to himself through the cross by giving us his son, the Lord Jesus And so now as believers, we have the opportunity to glorify him by imitating how he reconciled us to himself in our reconciliation with others That's what we've really set the groundwork in. And so conflicts, as we've said, are not to be seen as intrusions into our lives. They're not to be seen as annoyances, or I just wish this would be over with. We should see conflicts as opportunities. Opportunities to glorify God, opportunities to grow in Christ-likeness, and opportunities to serve others in a variety of ways. So that's really been the groundwork that we've been setting in these last few weeks. And today we're really going to go right down to the core of what is it that drives conflicts? Where do conflicts come from? When we, you see in the second paragraph there, when we think about the nature, source, and remedies for conflict, we fundamentally think differently about uh than the secular world If you were to pick up a book by a secular author on how to handle conflicts, they're not going to have a chapter on the heart. because they just don't have that revelation. And this is not something that you can just gain from observation. And so this is a profoundly different view of human humanity and relationships, justice and fairness. And so our understanding of where conflicts come from and how we go about resolving them will be equally incompatible with the world. It's not like we have a different understanding of the source of conflicts, but we all agree on how to resolve them. There's a fundamentally different view of the source and the solutions. So that's where we're going to go today. What are the source of conflicts? And so you see there, James chapter 4, verses 1 to 3. And Scripture just asked this wonderful question that we all want to know the answer to. What is the source of quarrels and conflicts among you? Why do you fight? Why do you argue? Why do you have these arguments? And the answer is equally simple. Is not the source your pleasures that wage war in your members? You lust and do not have, so you commit murder. You are envious and cannot obtain, so you fight and quarrel. You do not have because you do not ask. You ask and do not receive because you ask with wrong motives, so that you may spend it on your pleasures. And so we see that word again. So if we're to understand this passage of Scripture, we have to understand these key terms that he identifies as the source of our conflicts. The first term you can see there is pleasures. The second term is lust. Pleasures translates the Greek word hedone, from which we get the word hedon or hedonism. Related synonyms would be delight or enjoyment. And in the New Testament, this word always has a negative connotation. Uh if you're familiar with John Piper's ministry, he's kind of popularized the concept of a Christian hedonist. And so you have to really listen to his explanation to understand Why does he, you know, how how can he take uh an entirely negative term and turn it into a positive? And I think he makes a good case for that. But biblically, just the word hidone or pleasures is always used in a negative way. We see some examples there in Luke chapter 8 verse 14. The seed which fell among the thorns, these are the ones who have heard, and as they go on their way, they are choked with worries and riches and pleasures of this life, and bring no fruit to maturity Titus three three for we also once were foolish ourselves, disobedient, deceived, enslaved to various lusts and pleasures spending our life in malice and envy, hateful, and hating one another. And you see the same use there in 2 Peter 2. 13. So the the the implication or the applic the um the the meaning of the term really is the the fleshly earthly pleasures that we desire that are of this world, that are of the flesh. That's what the word pleasures refers to. It's it's looking at material pleasure, it's looking at uh even physiological, uh, physical, fleshly pleasure. It's those kinds of things that we desire, the things of this world, the things of this earth, the things of the flesh, that drive our conflicts. The other term he uses is lust And that translates the word epithumia, which means a strong desire. A strong desire. The context of this word always determines whether the desire itself is good or bad, but it's always a strong, compelling desire. You see some examples here of on the positive side, Paul says in 1 Timothy 3, it is a trustworthy state statement. If any man aspires to the office of overseer It's a fine work he desires to do, and that's the word epithumia. In order to be an elder, there needs to be the strong compulsion of I feel called to this work, to this ministry. Being a pastor, being an overseer, being an elder is not an easy task. It's, you know, you're working with The challenges that people face, you're ministering in the context of sin and suffering, and there's a great weight to the task. And if you're just wanting to do that just for the fun of it, hey, I have some spare time. Let me be an elder. Uh you're gonna quickly realize, oh this is not this is not easy. And so you have to have a strong compelling desire uh in order to really be sustained in that works. And then that's a good thing. That's a desire that is given by the Lord. You know, some churches would uh assign a pastor, this is kind of going down a rabbit trail, some churches would say, hey, this is a good guy, let's let's make him an elder. It's like, okay, I guess I'm voted in as an elder. That's not the criteria of eldership. There needs to be a fundamentally a desire on the part of the man to do that work. Jesus said in Luke 22, 15 And he said to them, I have earnestly desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffered. So of course this is referring to the last supper, that night before he was crucified. And he tells the disciples, I have been longing to have this meal with you. He's been thinking about it. He's been anticipating it. He's been planning and preparing for it. He was compelled to move forward in the plan of God. And part of the aspect that he was longing for and desiring was this final meal with his disciples. I was just actually reading this chapter this morning. I had to catch up a little bit on my Bible reading. And uh uh and you know it's it's so sad how while they're eating there, you know, in the upper room Jesus tells them, you know, one of you is going to betray me. And it goes from that, you know, which one of us is it going to be immediately to who's the greatest in the kingdom? You know, and it I've never had this thought before, but it just occurred to me that maybe the way that that transition happened was, well, I wouldn't betray him because I'm the greatest disciple, I'm the most committed. So it couldn't be me Um and here Jesus is like, guys, I'm about to die. Can we stop talking about this? Um anyway. So that's the on the positive side. We can have good longings, good desires. Negatively, we see an example in 1 Corinthians 6, or 10, 6. How these things happen. Now these things happen, and he's referring to what happened while Moses was up on the mountain and Israel was worsh worshiping the golden calf. Now these things happened as examples for us so that we would not crave, there's the word, evil things as they also craved. There it is again. So negatively, they were craving a physical representation of a God to worship. And in addition to that, they were also engaged in sexual immorality. That was part of how they worshiped the golden calf. So they were craving something earthly, something fleshly. They wanted something tangible that they could bow before. They say, where's Moses? You know, who's this God? Also negatively a more familiar passage, Matthew 5, 28. But I say to you that everyone who looks at a woman with lust for her has already committed adultery with her in his heart. That's typically the context in which we are familiar with the word lust, that it's a sexual desire, uh and and certainly it can be. But the the term is not narrowly defined as we've seen in the realm of sexual desire. It's any Strong, any strong, compelling desire that causes you to think about something, to long for something, to pursue something So, to the question why do I do what I do or why do I fight and quarrel with others, the answer is simply because I want what I want. There you go. Because I want what I want. You know what? I just realized I'm not sharing my PowerPoint screen. I'm sorry for those of you who are online. I totally forgot to click the share button. All right. Should be good. If you uh if you miss the blanks, um Let me just show those to you. Related synonyms of pleasure would be delight and enjoyment. Delight and enjoyment. For lust, the blanks would be a strong desire or a compelling desire. Strong desire or a compelling desire? And then here we are on the current slide. Why do I do what I do? Because I want what I want. We fight and quarrel because we have desires. And that desire can be kind of a momentary desire like I just want to have toast that's not burnt, and I'm going to argue with you because you burned my toast. Or there could be kind of a deeper desire of you know comfort and pleasure, and we'll we'll get into that here. So why do I fight and quarrel? Why do I do what I want? Why do I do what I do? Because I want what I want. If I'm fighting, if I'm arguing, if I'm in conflict with someone, I'm wanting something. That's always the case. You're never going to find yourself in a conflict without there also being some desire that is driving that conflict and which is in conflict with the other person's desires. So part of coming toward a solution is understanding what are these desires that we're that we're in conflict over. Now let's go a little bit deeper though While knowing our wants is critical to understanding our motives in any given situation, we must go deeper to get what is behind our situational desires. In other words, why do we want the things that we want? Or, better, why where do our wants come from? Well, the Bible teaches that humans are dichotomous beings. So we're going to get into now the biblical cardiology, if you will, an understanding of the heart Where do our wants come from? Why do I want the things that I want? Well, fundamentally, we have to go all the way back to the fact that we are body and soul. When God made Adam, he formed him of the dust of the earth, that was the material part, and then he breathed into him, excuse me, the breath. of life. And Genesis 2 there says the man became a living being. The word living being is nephesh. He became a soul A soul. Matthew 10, 28. Don't fear those who kill the body, the outward physical part of us, but are unable to kill the soul, the immaterial part of us. So we have a material part and an immaterial part. James 2. 26. For just as the body without the spirit is dead, so also faith without works is dead. So again, there's this clear dual division, this dichotomous uh separation between the body and the soul, or not separation, but that just these two aspects of us. So we would be a church that would teach in the dichotomy of man, as opposed to the trichotomy of man, which would divide the nature of humanity into Body, soul, and spirit. And the reason that we don't hold to that trichotomy position is because of how Scripture uses all of those terms. As we see in these passages, even I didn't read all of them, they're Ecclesiastes 11, Romans 7, but you have the soul, the immaterial part being referred to as both the soul, the heart, the mind. Scripture uses all of those terms, soul, spirit, mind, and heart, in the same way. If you were to do just a word study and pull all of the passages that include those words, and of course you gotta, with Spirit, you gotta remove the passages that refer to the Holy Spirit. But all all the words that refer to the human spirit or the soul or the mind or the heart, and you were to kind of categorize them under the functions of what are these things doing. They are all doing the same kinds of things. And we'll get into that a little bit in a minute. There's no clear way to distinguish these terms when they are used together. Excuse me. And when they are used together, they are often meant to refer to our entire being. So we have the great commandment. The greatest commandment, right? Deuteronomy 6, which is also in Mark 12. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your might. And then when Jesus quotes it, he says, with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, and with all your strength. Jesus is not saying, on the one hand, you are heart soul, mind, and strength as were as if we were what would that be a quad uh quad quad what did you say? Yeah, quite a quite odd and I can't even say it. Um that's not the point that Jesus is making. He's just using Term upon term upon term to say, love the Lord your God with all of who you are is just compounding term upon term And then many times the terms are used together as synonyms. So one passage that's often used to support the trichotomy position is Hebrews 4. 12. Where it says, For the word of God is living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing as far as the division of soul and spirit, both of joints and marrow, and able to judge the thoughts and intentions of the heart. So the trichotomy position would say that what the author of Hebrews is doing is he's clearly making a distinction between soul and spirit. Because look, The Word of God can divide between these two things. Where my understanding of this passage is that the point that the author is making is that the Word of God is able to divide that which is indivisible. He's making a statement about the power of Scripture, and he's not saying that the Scripture can do the same things that you and I can do. He's saying the scripture can do what you and I can't do. He can divide even to the point of distinguishing between soul and spirit spirit. So in a sense, he's making the point of the power of Scripture by saying it can do the impossible. And I think that's why he also adds as illustrations of both joints and marrow. Where the you know there's no clear distinction in the ancient understanding of the body of those two things. Or the other d the other illustration of judging the thoughts and intentions of the heart. You know, there's no clear division between thoughts and intentions. Intentions are part of your thoughts. So he's just saying that Scripture can do the impossible. Or Isaiah 26 verse 9 uses these terms in parallel. At night my soul longs for you. Indeed, my spirit within me seeks you diligently. So using Hebrew parallelism, he's saying the same thing, just using different terms. And thus equating them. Job does the same thing, therefore, I will not restrain my mouth, I will speak in the anguish of my spirit, I will complain in the bitterness of my soul. He's uh again doing the same thing on the one hand he's speaking, on the other hand he's complaining. Well those are that's the same thing. When you complain you're you're doing it with your lips, right? So So he's speaking both with his spirit and with his soul. He's just using Hebrew parallelism to equate the two. But In my estimation, the most significant reason that uh I think we we can affirm a dichotomy position is because by orders of magnitude The word that the most common word that Scripture uses to refer to our immaterial part is the heart. If you just do a plain word search on the word soul, you're going to come up with about a couple hundred uh instances in the in the whole Bible uh and with the Spirit and again taking out the passages about the Holy Spirit. Same thing. Whenever it's referring to the human sphere, you're going to get it about a couple hundred instances in the whole Bible. But if you put in the word heart Which there's very few instances that refer to the material heart. Mostly it's the immaterial heart. That's somewhere around a thousand uses. And by the way, mind also is just a couple hundred users. So the the Holy Spirit, as he inspired both the Old and New Testament, which of course uses different words, Hebrew and Greek. He prefers the word heart to refer to the immaterial part of us. And he equates the heart with the soul, and he equates the heart with the spirit. He equates the heart with the mind. So, you know, it's like that old math equation. If A plus B equals C and A and B B plus C equals A or whatever, however that goes. You know, they're just all equal. And that's exactly what Scripture does for us in its use of these terms. So, since the Holy Spirit prefers the word heart, I think that's good for us to have the same preferences as the Holy Spirit. So I like the word heart. So let's talk about the heart. If we're going to say that our desires, our conflicts rise out of our hearts and Our desires, then we need to understand the heart itself. What is the heart? Well, the heart is the control center of life, it is what drives us. Your brain is not the control center of your life. It's kind of the control center of your body. Your brain tells your body what to do, but what tells your brain what to tell your body? Right? What tells your brain to tell your body? Your heart does And we see that here in Proverbs chapter 4, verse 23. Watch over your heart, guard your heart. With all diligence, for from it flow the springs of life. All of your life, everything in your life, flows out of the heart. And then he gives us these specific examples What does it look like to watch over your heart? Put away from you a deceitful mouth, and put devious speech far from you. So your heart directs your speech, what you say, and of course the New Testament affirms that as well. Let your eyes look directly ahead, and let your gaze be fixed straight in front of you. So your heart determines where your eyes go. Watch the path of your feet, and all your ways will be established. Do not turn to the right nor to the left. Turn your foot from evil. So your heart directs where you walk and what you do. Specifically, we see all these instances of how the heart directs us and what the heart does. The heart speaks. As I mentioned, Matthew 12, 34, you brood of vipers, how can you, being evil, speak what is good? For the mouth speaks out of that which fills the heart. And you got other passages that affirm the same thing. The heart plans. Psalm 33, 11, the counsel of the Lord stands forever. The plans of his heart from generation to generation. So this is true of the Lord as well as for us. Or Proverbs 6. 18, the heart that devises wicked plans, feet that run rapidly to evil. 161, the plans of the heart belong to man, but the answer of the tongue is from the Lord. So the heart plans. Again, there's thinking, there's there's um considering various factors, there's anticipating the future. That takes place in the heart. The heart desires. The heart desires Deuteronomy 14, 26, you may spend the money on whatever your heart desires. For oxen or sheep or wine or strong drink, whatever your heart desires. Or familiar passage, Psalm 37, for delight yourself in the Lord, and he will give you the desires of your heart. The heart thinks. The heart thinks. Deuteronomy 15, 9. Beware that there is no base thought in your heart. Or twenty Proverbs 23, 7, for as he thinks within himself, so he is. He says to you, Eat and drink, but his heart is not with you. So whatever he says, you know, he might be lying to you, but in his own heart, he's having thoughts that are the true the true person that he is. The heart emotes, if we can put it that way, emotions come from the heart. Judges 16, 15, when he said then she said to him, How can I say I love you when your heart is not with me. There's this sense of devotion and emotional connection or a hatred in Leviticus 1917. You shall not hate your fellow countrymen in your heart. Or happiness. Sorrow is better than laughter, says an Ecclesiastes. When a face is sad, a heart may be happy. Or sorrow, John 16, 16. Because I have said these things to you, sorrow has filled your heart. And then finally, joy, Psalm 119, 111. I have inherited your testimonies forever. For they are the joy of my heart. So your emotions rise out of your heart, whatever they are, good, bad. They're from the heart. The heart acts. The heart does things. It moves. uh moves your your physical body to do things. Deuteronomy 30 verse 2. Return to the Lord your God and obey him with all your heart and soul. See that there. Or Proverbs 3, my son, do not forget my teaching, but let your heart keep my commandments. And you can read the other passages there. The heart is the one you you obey out of your heart, you do things out of your heart. Good things, you obey the Lord, you disobey, you do evil things, all from the heart. And then finally, the heart worships. The heart worships. Psalm 119. 10, with all my heart I have sought you. Seeking the Lord is a form of worship. Beware that your hearts are not deceived, and that you do not turn away and serve other gods and worship them. Generiah 13:10, the wicked people who refuse to listen to my words, who walk in the stubbornness of their hearts, have gone after other gods to serve them and bow down to them. So the heart is re involved in worship, worshiping God or worshiping false God. So the heart speaks, it plans, it desires, it thinks, it emotes, it acts, and it worships. The heart is the control center of life. It is what drives you. You do what you do because of what is in your heart. And so we can say who you are is who you are in your heart. You can deceive yourself. You can think of yourself as better than you are. I'm a great person. You can deceive others. You can portray yourself to others by your words and by your actions in a particular way. But you cannot deceive God because he can see into your heart. I can't see into your heart. Others can't see into your heart Sometimes we can again become self-deceived and not reflect accurately on our own heart, but God knows the heart. Well that's that's true. Of course, because of the curse of sin we are deceitful the heart is deceitfully wicked. Psalm 44, 21. Would not God find this out, for he knows the secrets of the heart. Acts 15, 8, and God who knows the heart, Testified to them, giving them the Holy Spirit, just as He also did to us. And you have other passages there. So God knows the heart. That's why when we're in conflict, uh we need to make sure that we deal with it thoroughly because if we just deal with it on a surface level, God knows whether or not we're actually dealing with our conflict. And we're not going to be glorifying Him if we just deal with it on a surface level and we just do whatever we can to uh to eliminate the uh the conflict without actually dealing with the heart issues. No, if we're going to glorify God in conflict, we have to glorify him down to the depths of our heart. So because the heart is the core of our being and the wellspring of life, we will never truly address a problem until we address the heart. And God has given us the sufficient and necessary truth in His Word to do just that. As I mentioned, the secular man, the unbeliever, has no access to this truth. They don't understand a biblical anthropology, a biblical cardiology, to know what is it in a heart that makes conflict that drives conflict. Proverbs 20, verse 7 says, A plan in the heart of a man is like deep water, but a man of understanding draws it out. The only way we get understanding is to do what Solomon says earlier in Proverbs, that we need to seek after it, we need to cry out for it, we need to pursue it with all of our heart. And then he promises back in Proverbs 2 that if we seek it, if we pursue it, if we cry out for it, the Lord will give us understanding. So we have uh the ability, if we pursue it, to understand the heart. First Corinthians two eleven to thirteen. For who among men knows the heart, the excuse me, knows the thoughts of the man except the spirit of the man which is in him. Even so the thoughts of God no one knows except the Spirit of God. Now we have received not the Spirit of the world, but the Spirit who is from God, so that we may know the things freely given to us by God Which things we also speak, not in words taught by human wisdom, but in those taught by the Spirit, combining spiritual thoughts with spiritual words. So again, only God knows the heart, but he has given us his revelation. Therefore, those who have the Spirit of God, those who have the mind of Christ, have the ability to know the heart of God as well as understand the heart of man. So let's study this heart of man. We've already noted the variety of functions of the heart. And while most of the functions cannot be put in any order of importance, they're just they're all kind of lumped together, we can identify one function as being the primary function under which all the others fall, and that is The heart is primarily made to worship. The heart is primarily made to worship. At the end of Romans 11, we read, For from him and through him and to him are all things. To him be the glory forever. Amen. We, everything that we have, everything that we are, comes from God, and we are to point everything to God Everything that we do, as we've talked about, is to be aimed at glorifying God. Colossians 1 At the end of the verse there it says, All things have been created through him and for him. And then the familiar passages, do all to the glory of God and make it your ambition to please him. That's what we were made to do. That's why God created humanity to glorify him, to worship him, to serve him, not just with our actions, but with our heart. So worship is what we were made for, but because of the fall, false worship is what we do. False worship is what we do. Romans 1, 21-23. For even though they knew God, they did not honor him as God or give thanks, but they became futile in their speculations, and their foolish heart was darkened. Professing to be wise, they became fools and exchanged the glory of the incorruptible God for an image in the form of corruptible man and of birds and of four-footed animals and crawling creatures. That's why the first and second commandments relate to the worship of God. Not just don't worship other gods, but don't Create idols, don't create physical representations of God and bow down to worship them These are the first two of the Ten Commandments because that is our natural tendency as humans. Under the fall, we are bound to worship that which is not God. Now, what are gods? What are false gods? A god is anything to which you attribute the power to control the world. Control your circumstances, meet your needs, protect you, provide for you, give you children, bring you happiness, satisfy your desires, rescue you from enemies, define your identity. That's a big one. give meaning and significance in life, give you the will to live, and on and on we could go. Now this is a a whole host of of things that we attribute that only God can do. And because these are such significant aspects of life, uh You know, a lot of cultures say, well, that's too much for one God, so we need to have multiple gods. You know, we've got to have the rain god and the fertility god and the this god and the that god Because you know, one God surely can't do all these things. Well, of course, our God can. The one true and living God can. But what we do in our fallenness is we attribute to things to people, to circumstances, uh the ability to to do a variety of these things. If I only had children, I would be happy. I would be satisfied. If I only had a certain kind of wife or a certain kind of husband, life would be so much better. If I only had a job, I would have meaning and purpose and significance in my life. I mean, you just you can go down the list and and we make gods out of things. We seek to define our identity in things other than the one true and living God. So what does it mean to worship a false God? We worship false gods when we look to any object, person, or situation to achieve for us what only God can do. To achieve for us what only God can do. I love Jeremiah 2. 13. It's such a helpful illustration, a vivid picture. The Lord says, For my people have committed two evils. They have forsaken me, the fountain of living waters, to hew for themselves cisterns, broken cisterns that can hold no water. Remember how Jesus said to the woman at the well, you know, if you would, if you knew who was talking to you, you would have asked in him, he would have given you living water, and you would never thirst again. That's who God is. He is the fountain of living waters. He is the all-satisfying being who provides for us and protects us and cares for us and gives us our identity and our meaning and significance. He motivates us to get up every day and do what he's called us to do. But we take this incredible, awesome, holy God. And we say, I like this puddle of mud over here. I think this little puddle puddle of mud will make me happy The idea of a hewing for themselves a cistern is, you know, in ancient times in an arid culture, they would kind of dig these uh big holes in the ground and line them so that uh water would be collected and not necessarily uh and and not uh uh seep through and go down into the ground. So they would collect water and you know just kind of like a well, they would uh pull water from this uh uh after there was rain and whatnot and And he says these weren't just cisterns, these were broken cisterns. They were cracked. So the water would actually seep through. And what would happen as water then just goes down in the ground is what's left is basically muddy water. You know, you just got a little puddle down at the bottom uh where there's um uh just a a mix of dirt and water. And it's uh as if Israel, you know, when they have the source of living waters right in front of them, they're just trying to lap up from this little mud puddle, trying to get their thirst quenched. I'm everything you need. I'm giving you your your life, your identity. I'm meeting, I can protect you, I can provide for you, I can show you the right way to live. And they kept going after false gods. Through Isaiah, the Lord kind of pointed out the ridiculousness of idols. He gives us illustration for those who fashion a graven image are all of them futile, and their precious things are of no profit. Then he gives us an example. A man goes out into the wood and he chops down a tree. That's the dot dot dot part. And then it says he takes some of the wood and warms himself. He also makes a fire to bake bread He also makes a God and worships it. He makes it a graven image and falls down before it. Half of it, half of this tree that he cut down himself, he burns in the fire, the other half of the tree he makes into a God, his graven image. He falls down before it and worships it. He also prays to it and says, deliver me, for you are my God. You know, he uses the example of a tree because that's that's what people would do. They would say, oh, a piece of wood, I can I can cut that, I can make that into an idol. You know, but you take i any object, you know, one of these tables here. And you say, I'm going to use that as my God. I'm going to bow down to it. I'm going to pray to it. I'm going to ask it to provide for me, to protect me, to care for me. I mean it's just absolutely ridiculous. Uh it's insanity is what it is. But again, we do that all the time. God was to be their source of sustenance and strength and satisfaction, but the Israelites turned away from him and looked to all kinds of other things to bring them life and strength and joy. And again, we do the very same thing. We look to to people uh to give us our identity We look to a relationship, whether it's marriage or parenting or children, to give us meaning. We look to a job or to our possessions. And why do we give so much care to that brand new car so that if it gets scratched, you know, we might get angry You know, little Johnny, how could you ride your bike right next to my brand new car? Didn't you know? Ah. Because there was something about that car that was giving me significance and meaning. This was gonna make me happy. This is my dream car. I remember this is not a bad this is a positive example. Um my brother-in-law bought um what was basically his dream car. His dream his actual dream car was a little bit on his budget. So he got the next one down, but basically his dream car. Um and uh uh he would leave it parked out in in in front of their house. This is in Washington State this last year and one night was particularly windy and they had uh one of those upright basketball hoops, you know, that you can kind of move around. Well guess you can guess what happened, basketball. And uh you know, in many i if one is not Thinking rightly if one is not godly, can you imagine how that would ruin your day? I just got this car. I had another cousin who got also a brand new car. I think it was one when she first got her license And literally, as she was driving out of the lot, you know, she didn't look and got hit right there. I mean those are those are painful no matter how you slice it, but it doesn't have to ruin you, right? If your mindset is Hey, it's a car. It's a way to get from point A to point B. Yeah, maybe it's a fun way. It's a cool way. It has driver assist or you know whatever features it might have. But it's just a car. I don't need to get mad at others. I don't need to I don't need to deny God. I don't need to get angry at God. I don't need to sin against God because this happened. That's if you're thinking rightly If you're thinking wrongly, man, you're gonna sin, you're gonna act like, you know, where is you where are you God and where is you? Um does it think the worth is worth if I don't Four feet degrading could be there. Those who think the word is idols turn away from God's love for them. Uh the NIV says it's a good thing. John 2 8. Exactly. Oh, Jonah 2. 8. And you realize, oh yeah, I need to take things confessive and tip them out. Yeah. Yeah, those who worship vain idols. Yeah, those who worship worthless idols. Turn away from God's love for them. Turn away from God's love for them. So again, we do this all the time, uh with little things, with you know in a moment, in a flash. Uh with bigger things. I remember a number of years ago at our previous church, I had the privilege to minister to a couple who had a um Teenage daughter that was rather rebellious and um the wife was just devastated. And through uh seeking to draw out her heart and what was it about I mean yes of course you're gonna be devastated when you're when your kids are rebellious. There's there's no doubt about that. But I was trying to discern what specifically made this devastating for her. And through drawing it out through drawing out her heart Came to understand that she was seeking her identity in the fact that I must be a good mother. And if I'm not a good mother, meaning I have good kids, then what am I? Well, that's not that's worshiping motherhood as an idol, and that was not uh that that was producing in her these emotions and these difficulties. And so Frankly, just once we recognized that, brought truth to bear, then all of a sudden, you know, she was l- I mean you're still heartbroken over a rebellious child. But in terms of your own demeanor, your own attitude, now all of a sudden there's a different outlook on the situation. So Let's see where are we here? Yeah, the next paragraph. There are all kinds of things we want because we think those things will bring us happiness and satisfaction and peace and meaning in life. And we're willing to die on those hills. We take what God has given us to worship Him, to serve Him, to please Him, and we twist and distort it into worshiping and serving other things in order to please ourselves. This is the frustration of the heart. Instead of worshiping God, we commit idolatry. Paul Tripp says, An idol of the heart is anything that rules me other than God. As worshiping beings, human beings, always worship someone or something. This is not a situation where some people worship and others Don't. If God isn't ruling my heart, someone or something will. It is the way we were made. And you have there Joshua 24 where you see this really exemplified. He says this is of course after they've conquered the land, and now Israel is transitioning into this state of, okay, now we're going to live in the land. We've conquered, we've divided. Liter literally. And now it's time for us to settle, to enjoy relative peace. And so Joshua gives them this charge. He says, Now therefore, fear the Lord and serve him in sincerity and truth. and put away the gods which your fathers served beyond the river and in Egypt, and serve the Lord If it is disagreeable in your sight to serve the Lord, choose for yourselves today whom you will serve, whether the gods which your fathers served, which were beyond the river, or the gods of the Amorites, in whose land you are living But as for me, and my house, we will serve the Lord. So he didn't say worship the Lord or become an atheist. No, he said, you've got to choose who you're going to worship. If it's not going to be Yahweh, you've got to choose somebody else. Choose whether the gods from beyond the river or the gods of the Amorites, you've got to choose someone to worship, because you're going to worship no matter what. So just make that choice. Just be honest about it. And so, of course, he says that great statement, but as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. All of us worship, even the atheist. The atheist just worships himself. So, how do you determine? Okay, so really we've come all the way down. Why do I do what I do? Because I want what I want. Why do I want what I want? Because I'm worshiping something. I'm worshiping something. So, how do you determine if what you're wanting in the midst of a conflict is an idol in your life? If you're actually worshiping it as you're engaged in this conflict. Well, consider these questions. Do I want something that God does not want for me? Am I seeking to control my life and the life of those around me? Well, God doesn't want you to do that. That's not your role or responsibility. Do I just want to amass to myself wealth? And therefore when I uh when the stock market cr goes down and I lose my investments and I Uh is is do I get angry about that? Uh well God doesn't care about our wealth. Uh He knows that He's going to provide for us. Possessions, I gave you the car example. You know, do I want fame? And so I'm in conflict with others because they're prohibiting or they're limiting or they're creating a barrier to me seeking fame? Well, God doesn't want me to pursue fame. So, do I want something that God does not want for me? Or do I want something that God wants, but I want it so much that I become ungodly to obtain it, or when I don't obtain it? You know, my health. God obviously He made the body. He wants us to be good stewards of the body. He wants us to be as healthy as we can be. But He doesn't want us to so pursue health that we're going to sacrifice uh our our relationships, we're gonna not fulfill our re our responsibilities, that we're gonna become ungodly uh when you know we get that diagnosis. Uh employment. God wants us to be employed. He wants us to work with our hands to fulfill our responsibilities, whether that's outside the home or inside the home. And when that's taken away, do I become ungodly? Or do I become ungodly in order to get it? I lie on forms, I lie on my resume. Because I desperately want this job, well that's not pleasing to God, so that has become an idol in my life. If I've become ungodly to get it or when I don't get it. You know, being on time to church. I think God wants us to be on time to church. I don't know if that's just me. At least it's consistent. I don't, you know, he probably doesn't care too much But am I going to sin in order to get my family on time to church? Am I going to become ungodly? Or am I going to honor the Lord when that doesn't happen? Am I controlled by expectations such that when my expectations are not realized, I become ungodly in thought, word, and action? Expectations of your spouse. You know, you enjoy the dating and the engagement time and uh now the wedding has happened and I remember the story one of my pastors used to say of uh a couple he had done premarital and The morning after the wedding, first morning of the honeymoon, fairly early in the morning, he gets a call, and the wife is just weeping and weeping. What's going on? What happened? You know, just yesterday you were all happy. Well, they had had this big argument because in the wife's home growing up, the dad always got up and made coffee for husband and wife. And in the husband's home, the w the mom, his mom always got up early and made coffee. And so they had this fight about who was going to make the coffee. And they thought, oh, it was a mistake to get married. Well, they had these expectations that were, you know, silly in in many ways, but they became ungodly when their expectations weren't met. You know, you could just think in your own life about your y your relationships with your s spouse or children or Employer, employees, you know, when those around you aren't doing the things that you think they should be doing, the question is, are you willing to become ungodly? When that happens? Are you willing to sin in thought, word, or deed? Are you do you grow in bitterness? Do you use language that's destructive and demeaning? Do you have a negative attitude? You know, when when you were looking forward to a beautiful Saturday and, you know, doing workout in the lawn or enjoying some some recreation time, but then something happens that gets in the way of that, do you become ungodly Do I have a perceived right that when I am denied that right, I become ungodly in thought, word, and action? Yeah, the right to be treated with respect and loved, the right to be treated justly and fairly. Do I become ungodly when I am mistreated? You know, we're Americans. We believe in our rights. And that's fine. That's good. You know, these the rights that we have as Americans are a blessing. But are we so willing, are we so holding on to them and and view them so significantly that we're willing to sin against God or sin against others when those rights are violated. And then finally, do I have an ungodly mindset that leads to ungodly thoughts, words, and actions Do I have an ungodly mindset that leads to ungodly word or thoughts, words, and actions You know, you can take the idea of God being a provider too far and say, well, God's going to provide for all my needs, so I don't need to worry about finances, so I'm going to be foolish uh and how I spend them. Or the Bible says that I'm the man of the home and that means that I get my way and I can do you know make whatever decisions I want. No, that's that's a faulty mindset, an ungodly mindset. cloaked in in a theological truth. Do I have an ungodly mindset? So these are just examples. This is certainly not an exhaustive list, but just ways to think about maybe the conflicts that you have or have had. And analyze, okay, what was I wanting in that situation? What was I desiring? What was going on in my heart, in my mind that led me to respond in an ungodly way? It's critical that we think analyze ourselves. So the two helpful questions, what am I getting? What am I wanting that I'm not getting? In a conflict. What am I pursuing? What am I trying to accomplish? What am I trying to obtain? But something is getting in the way. What am I wanting that I'm not getting? Or what am I getting that I'm not wanting? Something is happening. And I don't want it. Answering these two questions, or at least one of these two questions, will give you an indication in the midst of conflict. of what you might be embracing too tightly. Whatever the answer is, it has become a craving, a ruling desire, an idol in your life. And these are the things that set the stage for a conflict. So again, that's that's really the heart of it. Why do I fight the way I fight? Why do I argue over the things that I argue? Just because I'm wanting something. I'm desiring something. And I'm willing, i if it's a true conflict where I have sinned against the other person, I've become ungodly, what I'm saying is I'm willing to set God off his throne, put myself on the throne and say, uh, this is much more important than submitting. to God. I'm making myself Lord of my life because I know what's better for me than God does. God might say, be patient, be long-suffering, be forgiving. Be others-minded, look out to the interests of others. But that's not what's important right now. What's important right now is that I get what I want. That's idolatry, false worship. So a false worship is the problem, true worship is the solution. All our wants, all our desires and expectations and perceived rights and mindsets must be submitted. to Christ who alone deserves our worship. So our hearts must be submitted to Christ. Everything in our hearts Must be laid down before the throne and said, Christ, I give this to you. This is a desire. It might be a good desire. It might be a great desire. But if you choose to not allow this desire to be fulfilled, I will still worship you. I will still honor you. Second Corinthians ten three to five For though we walk in the flesh, we do not war according to the flesh, for the weapons of our warfare are not of the flesh, but divinely powerful for the destruction of fortresses. We are destroying speculations in every lofty thing raised up against the knowledge of God, and we are taking every thought captive to the obedience. If you're familiar with 2 Corinthians, that's the letter Paul wrote really defending himself against the false apostles, those he he kind of mockingly called super apostles. uh who were trying to get the church of Corinth to turn against Paul. And I don't know about you, but if I had had visions of heaven If I had had a direct vision of Christ that was my testimony of how I came to Christ, and if I had seen the the fruit of and my service to Christ and churches planted and and all of what God had done through him and I had suffered for Christ the way that he did. In my flesh, if someone was trying to discredit me, That would be hard to swallow. There there would be this desire, fleshly desire to even, you know to use physical bias to say, who do you think you are? To tear them down with their with with speech. But Paul, what however he struggled, the Spirit helped him. to say it's not about flesh and blood. This is not a battle between between me and them. This is a spiritual battle. And we need to submit our thoughts, our desires, uh and everything that we are to the obedience of Christ. As Romans 12 says, therefore I urge you, brethren, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies as a living and holy sacrifice acceptable to God, which is your spiritual service And do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, so that you may prove what the will of God is, that which is good and acceptable and perfect. We are to live a sacrificial life. We are to die at the altar so that God can take our life, He can receive that offering of sacrifice and do whatever He wants with it Whatever his purposes are, however he wants to use us, wherever he wants to place us, whatever he wants us to do in those places, whatever he wants, whatever he purposes for others to be doing in and around us. I'm just a sacrifice. I'm just here to serve the Lord. It's not about me. It's not about getting what I want. It's about serving Christ and honoring Him. In other words, the solution to false worship is being a disciple of Christ, following the first and basic command of Jesus. Jesus said, if anyone comes to me and does not hate his own sin, excuse me, his own father and mother and wife and children and brothers and sisters, yes, even his own life, he cannot be my disciple. Whoever does not carry his own cross and come after me cannot be my disciple. Matthew, if anyone Wishes to come after me, he must deny himself, take up his cross, and follow me. For whoever wishes to save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will find it We need to lose our lives. That's why Paul can say in 1 Corinthians, don't if you're in a conflict with another believer, a brother or sister in Christ, don't take them to court. Deal with it in the church. Follow the principles and the processes that Jesus Himself laid out for how to deal with sin in the church. And if that doesn't resolve the issue, he says, Paul says, why not rather be defrauded? Why not rather be wronged? Why not just allow yourself to be taken advantage of, in other words? Why not lay your life down as a sacrifice to the Father To say, all right, Lord, you have chosen in this situation to not have this conflict resolved, to not have this wrong corrected. I'm yours, Lord. I'm not going to fight anymore. I'm not going to go so far as to take this to the civil courts to get what I want. I lose my life because this life is not all there is. So I can lose everything in this life. I can lose my reputation. I can lose my position. I can lose my possessions. I can lose my health, and that's okay, because I have eternity to live. Yeah, Bruce. Um Matthew si well the first was Luke fourteen twenty-six to twenty-seven. The second was Matthew sixteen twenty-four to twenty-five. Oh, First Corinthians six. First Corinthians six. So you have there on the last page these two charts, just walk through these briefly. If you start with the first one at the top, it'd be better to put these side by side, but I couldn't do that, otherwise they'd be too too small. So the one at the top is is the first one to look at. The heat at the top, you know, if you think of it like a volcano, that's where the the conflict is blowing over. That's where the lava's coming out. There's there's fireworks, there's uh smoke. billowing out. That's the conflict. Well, yeah, you can talk about relationship skills as contributing to that conflict. You know, communication. uh commonalities, unity, uh serving, loving one another, uh th different aspects uh of uh good relationship skills, how to engage in relationship. That's certainly contributes uh to the the conflict when it's not followed, when we use poor communication when we don't love each other, that's going to push the lava up further. But even deeper in terms of what's contributing to conflict is character traits. You know, if I'm an angry, bitter, uh if I lack patience. uh if if I'm always self-seeking, uh if I'm proudful, prudful, if I'm prideful, uh that's really uh getting deeper to what's producing conflict and I'm gonna be in conflict with with a lot of people. But if we go down even deeper, then there you have the heart. You have these desires, these idols of power, control. These are all P words, but power refers to control, authority, pleasure. I just want to enjoy the good things of life. I just want to play. I want to have leisure. people. I I I wanna I want people to think well of me or I want to have um I want to have a a certain kind of marriage or a certain kind of child, physical health. We kind of alluded to a variety of these kinds of things. That's really the core. That's where the lava gets heated up, if you will. And uh if if we are seeking things, if we're worshiping things that uh either are ungodly, God doesn't want them for us, or they're good desires, but we want them more than we want to please God. then w uh with poor character, with poor relationship skills, there will be an explosion of conflict. Because fundamentally we would be worshiping these things in our heart. So we need to understand what is really going on in the heart. And so the solution there is the bottom triangle. Resolve those desires. Learn to worship God from the heart. Learn to think rightly about your desires and your wants. and to have the desire to please God above all. Certainly develop character traits, you know, practice good character traits like the fruit of the Spirit Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, gentleness, faithfulness, self-control. Develop the character of Christ. And yes, certainly you've got to have good relationship skills. You've got to learn how to communicate, how to speak in loving, kind, gentle ways. You gotta learn to love others the way that God has loved. You've got to learn to practice conflict resolution properly in terms of confession and seeking forgiveness, understanding forgiveness. And then if you do those things, really you're not gonna you're not gonna have a blow-up. The heat really becomes a God-glorifying moment. Where whatever previously would produce an eruption now just produces a situation where God is glorified. So over the next few weeks, that's what Mike is gonna continue to talk us through as we look at taking responsibility and r restoration and whatnot, forgiveness. We're not necessarily going to use that this triangle diagram, but that's just a helpful way to visualize uh what we're aiming for. All right. We have just a couple minutes left. Any uh let me pull over the zoom stuff. Any particular Questions? Yeah. No, the heart is just a muscle. It's a heart. Yeah, so what our mind talks about using the mind. Right, yeah. So when we're talking about the heart, we're not at all talking about the physical heart. Uh we're just talking about the spiritual heart. Yeah, yeah. And you know the the words in um Hebrew and and Greek well in Greek it does refer to the heart. In Hebrew it refers more to the bowels Uh in terms of that's the same word they would use to refer to that physical part of you. Because of how so often, you know, when we have emotions, we feel things in our gut. So it's just an analogy word to refer to, you know, the most uh the most central part of us. Okay, well let me pray and we'll prepare ourselves for for worship