Alright, well uh if you have a full packet of notes, we're on page twenty-three or somewhere around there. Um the heart of conflict is uh is today's uh subject And so you can see the preview there. We're going to talk about what is the source of conflicts, where do they come from, why do they happen. We're going to ask the question, why do I want what I want? uh which ultimately is the answer to the source of conflicts. We're gonna do a biblical cardiology, which I know some of you, if not many of you, have done uh in other contexts and other classes. Uh so it'll may be review for for some of you. But I would encourage you if it is review not to just check out and say I I know all that already but rather to hear it again and think about it again because uh repetition is the key to learning. And so uh you want to get to the place where not only do you uh does it sound familiar, but uh you yourself are able to articulate it uh to others. Uh and then we'll talk about the heart of worship. and uh and close out with uh how to address heart issues at a very basic uh level So up until now, as you see in the notes there, we've been really setting the groundwork of how to think about conflict as a Christian Uh that's just essential for us that as we approach a conflict, rather than um uh approaching it with a perspective of this is unpleasant, this is undesirable, I'm hurt, I'm offended. Um I you know I I feel bad for what I've done. You know, just kind of a me centered way of thinking, uh a fleshly response of of the mind. We really need to adopt God's frame of mind so that we can be in a good position, the right position to respond to the situation in a way that honors the Lord. Everything we've talked about so far is really fundamentally different than how unbelievers would approach conflict. There's, you know, of course the opportunities of glorifying God and becoming like Christ are of no interest to unbelievers. And so those things separate what we've discussed from how the rest of the world would deal with things. And that will continue to be the case, and especially uh today, as we talk about the heart uh of conflict When we think about the nature, source, and remedies of conflict, we fundamentally think different than the secular world, or at least we ought to, right, if we're if we're adopting the mind. of Christ. We have profoundly different views of humanity and relationships and justice and fairness. Such that our understanding of where conflicts come from and how to go about resolving them will be equally incompatible with the world. Yeah, a lot of times we can hear practical wisdom from the world. We can read a book written by a secular author who can give some tips and uh things that would be helpful in interacting with someone that you're in conflict with and you know that's fine, there's nothing wrong with that. But we often have to ask ourselves what's what's the worldview, what's the anthropology of of this uh source. What do they believe about mankind? What do they believe about God? And uh when we get to those issues, uh Um we'll see that their secular sources will be of limited help. So in thinking about what is the source of conflicts um We can turn to a passage like James 4. I don't have it here on the screen. So if you have your Bible, I'd encourage you to turn to James 4. And the question is asked by James in the, which is you know the New Testament version of Proverbs, a wisdom epistle. James asks the direct question, where do conflicts come from? And he says this in verses one to three. What is the source of quarrels and conflicts among you? Is not the source your pleasures that wage war in your members? You last and do not have, so you commit murder. You are envious and cannot obtain, so you fight and quarrel. You do not have because you do not ask. You ask and do not receive because you ask with wrong motives, so that you may spend it on your pleasures. And it goes on from there. So a direct question, what's the source of fights and quarrels among you? And a direct answer is not the source your pleasures that wage war. in your members. Now as we think about what James is saying here, we have to think about the words that he uses. First of all, pleasures translates the word hedone, from which we get hedonism. And hedonism is a philosophy that says that whatever is pleasurable is good. And so uh obviously the modern philosophy is not the same as what the Greeks were dealing with precisely, but that's that's what the word means. It refers to pleasures And so related synonyms would be delight and enjoyment. And you know, pleasure in and of itself is not a bad thing. It's not, you know To enjoy good food is not a sin. To enjoy a beautiful day and and delight in in playing games or spending time with family, having pleasures in that respect, you know, going on a roller coaster You know, n none of that is bad, but it just so happens that this particular word in the scripture is always uh always carries a negative connotation. For example, in Luke 8. 14, when Jesus is talking about the different seeds in the gospel that's being proclaimed and the responses to uh that gospel. He says, the seed which fell among the thorns, these are the ones who have heard as and as they go on their way, they are choked with worries and riches and pleasures of this life and bring no fruit to maturity. In other words There are those who hear the gospel and initially they respond with joy. They believe the gospel. They're excited about the gospel. But then as they're living their life, they're like, wow, I really like my car. I really like my house. You know, I really like whatever. I like the money that I'm making. I'm able to have a whole lot of fun I don't really have time for Jesus. And so that kind of chokes out uh the faith that they have professed to have. And so pleasures uh can be a distraction and cause someone to turn away from the truth. Titus 3. 3, as we saw last week, for we also once were foolish ourselves, disobedient, deceived, enslaved to various lusts and pleasures. We have a natural propensity because of our sinful nature that we crave to experience pleasure. We don't just want it once. We we don't uh feel content to experience pleasure in a moment. We want it again and again and again and more and more powerful and more exciting. And so we become enslaved to pleasures. Or 2 Peter 2, verse 13, the unrighteous count it a pleasure to revel in the daytime. They are stains and blemishes, reveling in their deceptions. As they carouse with you. So the unrighteous, unbelievers, they uh make it uh the business of their life uh to uh spend their lives in pleasure rather than uh for the will of the Lord. So pleasures is is the idea that uh James is saying that we long for we crave. We we want things that will bring us pleasure. We want things that will delight us that we will enjoy. And because we're craving and we're holding on to those pleasures, we're pursuing those pleasures, therefore we have quarrels with one another. Now another word he uses in verse 2 is lust. Lust is uh translates the word epithumia, which means a strong desire, a strong compelling desire desire. You know, it's not just the, hey, yeah, it'd be nice to have that car, or yeah, I like that dress or, you know, whatever. That that's a mild, uncompelling desire. But rather this is the kind of desire that you strive after. that you make sacrifices for that you're thinking about all the time. You're you're planning how to get the object of your desire. It's a strong, compelling desire And it's a word that can be used in a good sense, and really the context in Scripture determines whether or not it's a good desire or a bad desire, but it's always a strong or compelling desire. So a couple good examples would be First Timothy 3. 1. It's a trustworthy statement If any man aspires to the office of overseer, it's a fine work he desires to do. You could throw the word lust in there. He lusts to do the work of an overseer Well, we don't use the word less because you know in our in our modern English that's a negative connotation. But Timothy is is saying if you want to serve as an overseer in the church That has to be a strong, compelling desire. It can't it shouldn't just be that you know someone nominates you uh and you're like, eh yeah, whatever, you know, I'll I'll do that. Being an elder has a variety of challenges that you have to desire in order to persevere through the difficulties. And so he says that if you have that strong, compelling desire, it's a good thing Or in Luke 22, verse 15, this is Jesus when he is meeting with the disciples in the upper room, and he says to them, I have earnestly desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer. So as Jesus has been moving toward the cross, he's been uh it says earlier in Luke that uh I think it was a year before his death, that he set his face like flint to go to Jerusalem He was intentionally moving toward the cross. But he wasn't just thinking about the cross and salvation that he would accomplish. He was thinking about the night before in addition. He was thinking about I'm going to spend my last final hours with the desi disciples, and I have a lot that I want to tell them. I need to prepare them for my departure. And so he was longing for that time with them before he would suffer. That was a good desire. On the negative side, we have a passage like 1 Corinthians 10, 6, which tells us about Israel when they were at Mount Sinai and Moses is up on the mountain. And the people made the golden calf, and it says they got up to play, which speaks of immorality that they were practicing openly And uh based on that account, Paul says, now these things happened as examples for us, so that we would not crave evil things as they also craved. So that's the same word there. That they were craving for a physical representation of a God And so that's why they made the golden calf. They were craving for sexual immorality, and that's why they practiced it so openly. And then obviously there was judgment that was brought to them. So craving is the idea of a lust. And then there's the typical way we use the word lust in Matthew 5. 28 But I say to you that everyone who looks at a woman with lust for her has already committed adultery with her in his heart. One of the key issues with sexual lust is this just a desire. It's desiring something that doesn't belong to you, desiring someone who doesn't belong to you. So, with all of that said, when James says, what is the source of quarrels and conflicts among you? And then he answers, Is not the source your pleasures that wage war in your members, and that you lust and do not have, so you commit murder, you are envious, so you cannot obtain, so you fight and quarrel What he is saying is the reason you fight is because you want something. And so we can ask ourselves, why do I do what I do? Why do I fight the way I fight? The answer is because I want what I want. I want what I want. Even if you are the innocent party in a conflict and someone has sinned against you or they've you know done something to hurt you in some way. Why do you feel the way that you feel in that moment? Well, it's because you want something. And it may not be a bad thing. It may be that you want something good, that you want a spouse who loves you and treats you with kindness and respect Maybe you want children who obey you and honor you. You you want something that is honorable, something that is good. And so, because you don't get it, you know, you have a certain emotional reaction to that, and uh you respond accordingly. Or maybe you're on the offending side, you know, and uh you you crave for people uh to to do what you want, to see you a certain way. You crave for control and so You act in sinful ways because you're you want something from others. Uh we'll get into some more detail of that. But the the fundamental issue is why do I do what I do And the answer is because I want what I want. Now, while knowing our wants is critical to understanding our motives in any given situation, so it's good to think about what am I wanting in this situation. Why? What is driving my emotional response? What is driving my words? What's driving my actions? What am I craving for? What am I longing? What am I wanting? in this situation. That's a good thing to think about in any given situation. But we have to go deeper than those kind of situational desires in order to understand why do we want the things that we want Why do I want children who obey me? Why do I want a spouse who loves me? Or more generally, we can ask, where do our wants come from? Where did I get that desire that my boss see my work and promote me? Whatever it might be. Well This is where we have to go deep into anthropology and understand how God has designed us, how he has made us, and so this is where it gets Um it it almost feels like we're sidestepping, we're moving away from biblical reconciliation, but because we're dealing with we have to deal with some core issues. So the Bible teaches that human beings are dichotomous beings that were made up of body and soul. We have a material part, that's our physical body, and we have an immaterial part, that's our soul. We see this in a number of passages, Genesis 2. 7. Then the Lord God formed the man of dust from the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life. And he became a living being. Now, that's the New American standard. The word living being is nephesh, which means soul. So he became a soul. So so God formed the man of the dust, that's his material part. And then God breathed the breath of life, and so he became not only a physical being, but also a soul, a spiritual being. Matthew 10, 28. Do not fear those who kill the body, but are unable to kill the soul. But rather fear him who is able to destroy both soul and body. in hell. So again, not only is it at the creation of life at the beginning of of creation that God defines man as body and soul, but Jesus says at the end of a person's life uh The body can be killed and the soul can live on if killed by man, or God Himself can destroy both soul and body in hell Or think about James 2. 26, where James writes, for just as the body without the spirit is dead, so also faith without works is dead. So here we have a different word, not soul, but spirit, but used as a synonym for soul, recognizing that there's only two parts. There's the body and the soul. There's the body and the spirit. The Spirit is the soul. Or another word used for the soul in Proverbs 14, verse 30, a tranquil heart is life to the body, but passion is rottenness to the bones. So there we don't read soul, we don't read spirit, instead we read heart As the alternative, as the immaterial part of the body. We see that again in Ecclesiastes 11. So remove grief and anger from your heart. And put away f pain from your body because childhood and the prime of life are fleeting. So use this heart again to make a distinction between the two parts Now here's another word in Romans 7. But I see a different law in the members of my body waging war against the law of my mind, and making me a prisoner of the law of sin which is in my members. So, as we see in these passages, the immaterial part of us referred to interchangeably throughout Scripture is the soul, the spirit, the mind, and the heart. The alternative view of all of this is a trichotomous perspective that we are body, soul. and spirit that actually originated out of a secular um philosophy that has been adopted into um many in the church today But if you examine how these words are used, you can only come to the conclusion that soul, spirit, mind, and heart are all synonyms referring to the immaterial part of man. In fact, there really is no way to distinguish these terms. Um some say that you know the soul is the the part of a person that relates to God, uh the spirit of a person relates to uh other aspects of a person's being And and they're different and distinct. They have different roles, functions, purposes. But when you really look at all the scriptural evidence, there is no way to distinguish those two. They're used in parallel all the time In fact, they're even used together, like in Deuteronomy 6. 5, where it says, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your might. Or Mark 12, where that command is repeated, you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your mind, and with all your strength. And so when these terms are used together, it's not as though the author is saying, or in that case God and Jesus, saying, well, you have these different parts of you that you need to worship God with. But rather he's using all the terms to say you just need to worship God with all of who you are. And he's just lumping together synonyms with the distinction between the immaterial and the material parts of us And then there's other passages where they're used interchangeably. Hebrews 4. 12, which says, for the word of God is living and active. sharper than any two-edged sword, and piercing as far as the division of soul and spirit, of both joints and marrow, and able to judge the thoughts and intentions. Of the heart. Now many would use this to say, see, there's a distinction there. The Word of God can make a division, and therefore we can too And I would just appeal to the fact that I what I see the author of Hebrews doing here is making the claim that the Word of God can do what no one else can do. The Word of God can do the impossible To divide the soul and the spirit. Or Isaiah 26, verse 9, at night my soul longs for you. Indeed, my spirit within me seeks you diligently. Through Hebrew parallelism, he's saying the same thing two different ways. Or again, Job 7, verse 11, therefore I will not restrain my mouth, I will speak in the anguish of my spirit I will complain in the bitterness of my soul. Again, just using different terminology for variety, but ultimately saying the same thing. Now the interesting thing is that when you look at these individual words throughout Scripture, by orders of magnitude, the word that the Holy Spirit favors above the others is the word heart. The word soul is used somewhere around 200 times, give or take. The word spirit, when in reference to the human spirit, is used somewhere around 200 times, give or take. But the word heart is used around a thousand times, give or take. So uh it seems both in the Old and the New Testament that for whatever reason the Holy Spirit's chosen to prefer to use the term heart. as the preferred term for the immaterial part of man. And so for that reason, rather than saying we're going to do a psychology study of the soul uh or a pneumatology, a study of the spirit. We're gonna do a cardiology, a study of the heart. Alright? Now, uh the heart, moving on to the biblical view of the heart, what what is this? And again, we're just saying what what is the soul, what is the spirit, what is the mind, but we're going to focus on the heart. What is the heart? It is the control center of life. It's the control center of life. It's what drives us. It's like the engine in the car. Proverbs 4. 23 says, Watch over your heart with all diligence, for from it flow the springs of life. In other words, out of your heart is what flows, everything that comes out of your life. The springs of life actually refers to kind of the the uh uh the gates in a city or the the outlets of a stream, that out of the heart is where everything comes out of your life. And then he goes on in that passage to talk about the different aspects of your life. He says, put away deceitful sp uh a deceitful mouth and put dis uh So what you say comes out of your heart. And of course that's reiterated multiple times in Scripture and in the New Testament. And then he says, look your uh let your eyes look directly ahead, and let your gaze be fixed straight in front of you. So why do you look where you look? Why do you fix your gaze on certain things It's because your heart is longing for something there. He goes on to say, uh, watch the path of your feet, and all your ways will be established. Do not turn to the right nor to the left. Turn your foot from evil. So where you walk, where you travel, that is all coming out of the heart. And so Scripture gives us a variety of functions of the heart. So we'll walk through these pretty quickly here. The heart speaks, Matthew 12, 34. You brood of vipers, how can you, being evil, speak what is good? For the mouth speaks out of that which fills the heart. If you ever found yourself in a position where you say something instinctually and immediately you realize that was not the right thing to say, Or I didn't want to actually express that. And so you're like, oh, come back, come back. And the way you try and pull it back is simply by saying to the person, I didn't mean to say that. Well the reality is, well, you meant it. You just didn't mean for it to come out. But that's what was actually in you to say. Matthew 15, 18, but the things that proceed out of the mouth come from the heart And those defile the man. So the heart the mouth speaks. The mouth also or excuse me, the heart the mouth speaks. The heart speaks. The mouth also Oh my goodness. The heart plans. The heart plans. Psalm 33, 11, the counsel of the Lord stands forever, the plans of his heart from generation to generation. So God makes plans out of his heart, and because we're made in his image, our heart also plans. We see that in Proverbs 6. 18. A heart that devises wicked plans is one of those things, is one of the things that God despises and abhors and abominates. Or Proverbs 16, 1, the plans of the heart belong to a man. But the answer of the tongue is from the Lord. So when you're making plans for vacation, when you're making plans for what to eat for lunch, all of that is going on in the heart, in the immaterial part of you. Also, the heart desires The heart desires. Deuteronomy 14, 26, you may spend the money for whatever your heart desires. For oxen, sheep, wine, strong drink, whatever your heart desires. Desires. Or Psalm thirty seven four. Delight yourself in the Lord, and He will give you the desires of your heart Which just as a side note I think does not mean that he'll give you whatever you want, but rather he'll Align your desires to his, that as you are delighting yourself in the Lord, as you grow in your love for him, you will want the things that he wants. He will, in a sense, give you his desires for you. He'll place those on your heart. So your heart desires. The heart also thinks. Thinks. Deuteronomy 15, 9. Be aware that there be no base thought in your heart. Proverbs 23 verse 7, for as he thinks within himself, so is he. He says to you, Eat and drink, but his heart is not with you. Yeah, we understand this. We can say to someone things that we're not really meaning. You know, somebody uh comes in, we're like, hey, you can come sit next to me. Please don't. Right? Um you know, somebody says to you, Hey, we should go out for lunch, and you're like, uh Yeah. Yeah You're thinking within yourself, you're thinking in your heart, but what comes out is different. James 1 26. If anyone thinks himself to be righteous, excuse me, to be religious, and yet does not bridle his tongue he but deceives his own heart, that man's religion is worthless So there's thinking that goes there's even self-deception that goes on in the heart. So the heart thinks. You know, we typically think of the brain as the place where thinking and planning and and whatnot take place and you can certainly look at scans, what is it, FMRIs or whatever, that uh that can uh monitor the activity of the brain as a person is going about um their activity and uh and that's true. The brain is the organ, the physical, the material organ that's that's carrying out those things. But why is the brain doing what it's doing? What's driving the brain? And the answer is the heart, because once that heart gets removed, the immaterial heart, the brain stops functioning. So it's not the physical body that does these things, but rather the immaterial part of us That is the source and the driver. The heart also emotes. It emotes. It experiences emotions. Judges 16, 15, then she said to him, How can I say? This is by the way a Uh Samson uh and Delilah, um, you know, he lied to her multiple times about where his strength came from. And so she said, How can you say I love you when your heart is not with me You have deceived me these three times and have not told me where your great strength is. So she's accusing him of not actually loving her the way that he claims. Or Leviticus 19, 7, you shall not hate your fellow countrymen in your heart. You may surely reprove your neighbor, but shall not incur sin because of him. So we hate in our heart. Or Ecclesiastes 7, sorrow is better than laughter, for when a face is sad, a heart may be happy. So a heart can be happy. John 16, sorrow is in the heart. Psalm 119, 111, for they are the The testimonies of the Lord are the joy of my heart. So all these various emotions, the good, the bad, the ugly, the painful, the wonderful, all of the emotions we experience flow out of our heart. Then also the heart acts. And it it is what the source of our actions. It is the source of our actions. Deuteronomy 30 verse 2. Return to the Lord your God and obey him with all your heart. and soul, according to all that I command you today. So God doesn't want us just to externally obey while we're grudgingly and bitter in in our heart. He wants us to obey out of our heart. That's the truest expression. of obedience. Proverbs 3. 1. My son, do not forget my teaching, but let your heart keep my commandments. When there is genuine obedience in a person's life, it's not because of something that you see in their life, it's not because there's actions taking place. but rather because there is a heart that is committed to obedience that is the source of that obedience. Proverbs 725, do not let your heart turn aside to her ways. The young man who ended up in the red light district. Uh in in Solomon's day, uh the reason he went that direction is because his heart wandered him in that direction And he was warning him about that. Anyway, you can see those other passages there of how the heart acts. It's the source And then finally, we can say that the heart worships. The heart worships. Psalm 119, verse 10, with all my heart I have sought you. Do not let me wander your from your commandments. The the act of seeking the Lord is an act of worship. It's recognizing that God is worthy to be sought after, that God is worthy of our attention and of our devotion. And so Seeking the Lord is worship. Deuteronomy 11, verse 16. Beware that your hearts are not deceived, and that you do not turn away from and serve other gods and worship them. So he's warning them not to have their heart redirected to the worship of false gods, but rather to the worship of the true God. Or Jeremiah 13, 10. This wicked people who refuse to listen to my words, who walk in the stubbornness of their hearts, and have gone after other gods, to serve them and bow down to them. So all worship rises out of their hearts. Or perhaps most helpfully Isaiah 29, 13, and the Lord said, Because this people draw near to me with their words and honor me with their lip service But they remove their heart far from me. Right? So we know very well when we're in the worship service and we're singing words, but our mind is on something completely different. In that moment We might be singing praise, but we're not praising. Right? We might be looking like we're worshiping, but we're not worshiping. Our heart is far from the Lord, at least in that moment. Right? And God forbid that that would be the character of our lives. But we worship out of our heart. So, with all that said, with the fact that the heart is the source, the driver, the control center of all of life, and manifests itself in all these ways, we can say that who you are is who you are in your heart. And so you can deceive yourself. You can think, yeah, I'm a pretty good person. Yeah, I I'm a loving person. I'm a patient person. You can say whatever you want about yourself. You can think whatever you want And you can certainly deceive others. You can come to church every Sunday and put on a good face and love your wife, give her a side hug during worship service, and uh just everything's wonderful on a Sunday morning and everybody thinks life is wonderful But then you go home and everything is different. So you can deceive others, but you cannot deceive God. Because God looks into the heart. So you can deceive yourself, you can deceive others, but you cannot deceive God because God knows your heart. 1 Samuel 16, 7, when Samuel was going to anoint the next king and the Lord was showing him who to choose. It says the Lord said to Samuel, Do not look at his appearance or at the height of his stature, because I have rejected him Speaking of David's eldest brother, for God sees not as man sees, for man looks at the outward appearance, but God looks at the heart. Psalm 44, would not God find this out, for he knows the secrets of the heart. Just time and time again, Scripture says, The Lord knows the heart. So you can't come to the Lord and say, God, here I am. You know, I'm a wonderful person. God knows exactly who you are, no matter what you say to him about that. So who you are is who you are in your heart, and God knows what that is. Because the heart is the core of our being and the wellspring of life, we will never address a problem until we address the heart. Right? You you take your car which has been kind of clunky and making noises and and whatnot, you take it to the mechanic and uh you go to pick it up, and he's like, Yeah, we washed it It looks fantastic. In fact, it's really clean on the inside. And it looks good, but does it work? You know, is it still broken? And sometimes that's how we what we do with our relationships, that's what we do with our struggles with sin, is we we do all these external things to make ourselves look good or to maybe to repair a relationship momentarily, but we never deal with the heart issues. And so the w what happens is then those hard issues start to reveal themselves again. You know, as you as soon as you start living life uh and and coming across challenges, the hard issues uh come out. So God has given us in his sufficient word the necessary truth to address the heart, because that's what he wants us to do. Proverbs 20 verse 5, a plan in the heart of a man is like deep water, but a man of understanding draws it out. All right, so that's that's kind of a overview of a biblical cardiology, who we are as human beings. and what drives us where the source of our issues are. Now, we've already noted a variety of functions of the heart. And while we can't really put that list in any kind of numerical order of importance or priority or chronology or anything like that. There is one of those functions that really uh is the height of them all in terms of our ultimate purpose of why God made us. And under That one function, everything else is listed, and that is that the heart is primarily made to worship. We were made to worship. We were made as worshiping beings. That's what we do. The fall didn't change that. We still continue to worship. That is our nature, it is to worship And we worship in all of those ways. We worship in our planning, we worship in our desiring, we worship in our emoting, we worship in our speaking and our acting. All of that is a function of worship. Romans 11, 36 says, For from him and through him and to him are all things. To him be the glory forever. Amen. Everything comes from God. He made all things. Everything is the result of His decreed will. Everything is through Him. He sustains and upholds the universe by the word of His power. He gives us grace and strength to live and to know him, and then we do all of that to give praise to him, to live for him, to worship him with all of who we are. Quick uh question. Yeah. So uh if uh the heart's primary function is to worship, it's really just what is the object of the worship is the question. Correct. Okay. That's right. Yeah Um first Corinthians ten thirty one, whether then you eat or drink, whatever you do to all to the glory of God. That's our aim. Or 2 Corinthians 5. 9. Therefore we also have as our ambition, whether at home or absent, to be pleasing to him. In that context, when he says that home or absent, he's talking about whether we're here on earth or whether we're in glory with Christ, we have one purpose that transcends our life here on earth and our eternity, and that is the purpose of of pleasing him, being pleasing to him. And so that's what we were made for. Worship is what we were made for, but because of the fall, false worship is what we do That's what we do naturally in the flesh. Romans 1:21 for even though they knew God, they did not honor him as God or give thanks, but they became futile in their act in their speculations and their foolish heart was darkened. Professing to be wise they became fools, and exchanged the glory of the incorruptible God for an image in the form of corruptible man and of birds and four footed animals and crawling. creatures. It's just reflecting the reality that fallen man has rejected the glory of God, and in rejecting the glory of God, he has worshipped creation in in all of its different ways. This is why in the Ten Commandments it says, You shall have no other gods before me. You shall not make for yourself an idol. or any likeness of what is in heaven above, or on the earth beneath, or in the water under the earth, you shall not worship them or serve them. That's our propensity when we turn away from the living God. Now here we are, 21st century America, Maryland, you know, we don't have uh uh idols strewn about the city. Uh we we don't uh have ceremonies where we see crowds of people bowing down uh to specific idols. Uh most people in the in in our culture don't have uh altars in their home where they bow down to household gods. Now of course some do because of their false religion. But uh for for many of us we don't, right? Whether you're a believer or unbeliever In American culture, there's very little what we would consider to be overt idolatry. But uh this is not talking about exclusively idols that are of physical manifestation or representation. So we have to talk about what are gods? What are the things What are the ways in which we worship something or give something a divine attribute? A God is anything to which you attribute the power to control the world To control your circumstances, to meet your need, to protect you, to provide for you, to give you children, bring you happiness, satisfy your desires, rescue you from enemies, define your identity, give meaning and significance. in life, give you the will to live, so on and so forth. And it's not that a God is is something that you attribute all of these things But rather any of these things, and at any moment of of time. Sometimes you do and sometimes you don't Uh sometimes it's a momentary attribution of I want you, I'm gonna trust in you to to change this aspect of my life, but then there's a backing off and and that goes away But these are all elements of what God does for us, right? God is the only one who has the power to control the world. God is the only one who can control our circumstances. God is the only one who can meet our ultimate needs. God alone can protect us, provide for us, and all the rest. But what we often do is we look to something, an object or a person or a situation, a relationship, to get these things from us. Right, one biblical example would be uh Hannah and uh Pana not Hannah uh Samuel's mother. Hannah, right? Yeah, Hanna Hannah and Panina If that's how you say his name. No, that's the other woman. I just read this recently. Uh Alimelech. Right? Okay. It's not in my notes, so I'm going off the top of my head. You know, where she was longing for a child. She was craving a child because of the significance of having a child in that culture And it seemed as though uh she was craving it so much that her relationship with her husband was strained to some degree, to the point where he's like What am I? You know, what d don't don't you love me? Like am I just chopped liver? Am I just a piece of flesh that's, you know, that just there to help you to have a child? Um that would just be one simple example. And of course, she had a good desire and the Lord did bless her, and so I'm not saying that she was an idolater and shame on her and all of that kind of thing, but That's just one example of sometimes we crave something in a way that that uh maybe it's beyond what God would have us uh to think in that way. So that's that's what we do with with gods. You know, in various cultures, there's the sun god, there's the rain god, there's the god of fertility, there's the god of the harvest. Uh and whether or not those gods are manifested in a physical way, uh different religions, different cultures uh view things in that way. Of course, in our culture, in the materialism that we have in our culture, it's You know, this car will make you happy, this watch will make you look success successful, you know, this home will make you um show that you have uh success in your life uh you know this kind of person in your life will give you pleasure, uh satisfy you, all of these kinds of things. So what does it mean to worship a false God? What does it mean to worship a false god? We worship false gods when we look to any object, person, or situation to achieve for us what only God can do. A key passage here is Jeremiah 2. 13. For my people have committed two evils. They have forsaken me, the fountain of living waters, to hew for themselves cisterns, broken cisterns. that can hold no water. So the Lord presents himself here through Jeremiah as a fountain of living water. Let me go ahead and I don't have a blue, so we're going to use black. Forgive me if you can't see it from that angle. But let's just say that you know there's the ground and there's just this Fountain some water. I know don't um don't anybody take a picture? I'm gonna sell this later. Copyright rules and all. But the Lord is the fountain of living waters, right? And this is an endless source. There's a you know endless lake underneath the ground And God's like, I'm here. I'm giving you precious water, I'm giving you life-giving water, I'm giving you pure water. You just need to come. You need to come and draw water from me, and I will give you life And instead what Israel did was they had cisterns, you know, these kind of bowls in the ground that would collect rain water, and these bowls were cracked. And so the water that was being collected would just seep into the ground, and all that was left would be basically mud on the ground. And it's as though, the Lord is saying, it's as though the people of Israel were climbing down into the cistern, trying to lap up those last remaining elements of liquid, just to satisfy their thirst. And to to give them joy, and to give them meaning and identity, and to give them direction and and protection in life and all of those other things. All the while they had an endless source of living water at their disposal How irrational is that? How insane is that? If you want to see a picture of insanity, think about Isaiah 44. Where Isaiah is giving another picture of the insanity of false worship. And this is just a brief summary of that passage, but He says, those who fashion a graven image are all of them futile, and their precious things are of no profit. And then he directs his attention and uh talks about a someone who chops down a tree And he takes wood and warms himself. He also makes a fire and bakes bread. He also makes a god and worships it. He makes it a graven image and falls down before it Half of it he burns in the fire, but the rest of it he makes into a God, his grave image. He falls down before it and worships. He also prays to it and says and says, Deliver me, for you are my God. Now just imagine in your mind or with your eyes, you know, this isn't a tree obviously and who knows how how real of a wood this actually is Well let's just say we get in a very desperate situation and you know this is what I got to work with to to warm myself to uh cook food and whatnot. And so I take this thing apart And I take part of it, build a fire out of it, uh to to warm myself, uh, another part of it uh I I use to to make some food for myself And then another part of it I carve out and say and bow down to it and say, You are my God, all from this hunk of wood right here. And y y you would be thinking, what is that guy doing? Like he needs to go to an institution, right? That's insane. But that's what a person does when they make a false idol a a god and they bow down to it, whether it's a piece of stone or a piece of wood or a tree or a rock or the sun or a car or another person in their life That's what we do. We look to things that are not God to provide for us the things that only God can provide. We want other people to treat us the way we want to be treated, and we think if they treat us that way, everything will be good in life. We want circumstances to work out in a particular way, and if those circumstances work out the way that I would orient them, then everything would be good in life We want possessions. That if we only had a bigger house or a newer car, if we didn't have to keep going to the mechanic, everything would be good in life. If we only had children who obeyed us and who did what we told them to do the first time uh then people would would look at our family and they would know that I'm a good parent and everything would be good in life. And all of that is a function of insanity It's looking to things that aren't God for things that only God can provide. Going back to Israel, God was to be their source of sustenance and strength and satisfaction. But the Israelites turned away from him and looked to all kinds of other things to bring them life and strength and joy. And again, we do the very same thing. There are all kinds of things that we want because we think those things will bring us happiness and satisfaction and peace and meaning in life, and we're willing to die on those hills. And when I say that, what I mean is we're willing to yell at someone because they're not giving us what we want. Or we're we're willing to go down into anxiety and depression because we're not getting what we want. We're willing even to get violent because we're not getting what we want. We take what God has given us to worship him and to serve him and to please him, and we twist it and distort it into worshiping and serving other things in order to please ourselves. So that's the frustration that goes on in our heart when we're in conflict. Instead of worshiping God, we commit idolatry because we're willing to sin. We're willing to violate God's law, set aside God's law in order to get what we want. Because we think this object, this person, this situation Um it's right. We think that's more important than worshiping God. Appreciate what Yeah, Kirk. with the biblical cardiology that you laid out is that it's obvious that the heart is operating in a in a voluntary way and never an involuntary way. And that as we make plans or have desires or things or emotes It's we're making a conscious decision. Whereas you could you could view the heart as it's just subject to That it's involuntary and we're we're not actually making a decision that we're not in control. But it the way that um I'm viewing that you've laid it out is it's always a conscious decision. We're not just subject we're not just floating and subject to the influences around us. And our desires are actually coming from a conscious choice and not not just floating. That is a really interesting point to make and I don't agree a hundred percent. Let me nuance it a little bit to affirm what you're saying, but to put it in ways that I think is is closer to reality. We just to use an example that our culture uh is so prevalent in our culture. When we crave when we when we see an advertisement for that new truck, you know, like I'm not a construction person, I don't I don't need a truck. But something in me is like, I gotta have that truck. Like it w you know, that would be wonderful for me. Uh that's not really a conscious choice to say that is, yeah, I know I don't need that, but I love it and I want it. And I know what God says, but I'm I'm disregarding what God says and I just I just want that truck. It's not usually a conscious, overt decision to reject God and to bow down to an idol In the sense that we have that thought process and we kind of work through the various truths that we know and then come to that conclusion of, okay, I'm going to worship this false God. So in that in that sense, it's not a conscious decision and m I maybe you didn't mean it that way, but that's when I hear conscious, that's what I think about it, that I'm a ver that I'm very well aware of what I'm doing Usually I would say we're not aware uh in our in our conscious thinking. And s and what I'm To anticipate a response, what I'm not saying is we have conscious thoughts and an unconsciousness that there's some like there's two parts of us that are taking place. Here's how I would phrase it There are the active thoughts of our minds, which we'll just call it our conscious thoughts, the uh actual thinking and processing and analyzing. concluding that we go through. And then there's the less conscious thoughts, which are just totally consistent with our conscious thoughts So it's not an opposition, it's not a set totally separate thing. But because of our a priori commitments and beliefs and nature, just who we are, that there's just there's a tendency to move that direction So if I am already a person who is attracted to materialistic things for joy or pleasure or comfort. then I don't ever every time I'm tempted I don't need to go through the whole process of analyzing and thinking through and whatnot. It's just that just becomes my my habit, my manner of life Uh and so again it's not a conscious decision every time. And even though it's totally off topic but it's consistent in in terms of what what what what I'm saying here is when we think about um people who are enslaved to sin I don't uh I've never heard of someone who has said Yeah, you know, I started having these thoughts and feelings that I was attracted to people of the same sex and you know I did all this anal analysis and I thought through all these things and I came to the conclusion, yeah, I want to be a homosexual Uh what people typically say is I've never really not felt this way. I've just this has been a struggle and finally I just became comfortable or or whatever with that conclusion. And so Uh it's not I didn't choose this is what people say. And what they mean by that is they they didn't look at the options and pros and cons and okay, yep, I want that one. Because they would say, why would anyone choose that? Because there's so much um antagonism that comes and difficulties that come uh with that uh ultimate decision. Well why did they uh uh ultimately decide to live out uh a sinful lifestyle is because there were a whole host of decisions previously in their life, there was a foundation of beliefs and convictions and desires that all undergirded what a uh what in their experience was a natural movement and embracing of something that isn't true. So um You know, uh sometimes people say, uh well y the only reason you're a Christian is because you're in America. If you were in I Iraq or Iran or something, you'd be a Muslim or if you were in China you'd be a Buddhist or you know, whatever. Um your location and your influences really determine your religion. Obviously there's a sense in which there's some measure of truth that your influences determine how you think about life and the decisions that you make But again, it's not because we look at all the options and we make a conscious decision. I know I could choose this and I could choose that and I could choose the other, but I'm going to choose why uh or uh whatever. Um but rather it's it's there's there's a whole life and this is where the the uh uh a a broader understanding that of the heart than we've had time to go into today uh comes into play of the the thoughts, the beliefs, the convictions, the commitments. uh of a person all kind of come together and mesh together in ways that are imperceptible uh but are consistent with who a person is in their heart So that no one can claim, well that wasn't me, or I wasn't aware of that, or I wasn't, you know, this wasn't a choice that I made. It's it's one choice that was made up by a thousand other choices. uh in a sense. So I gosh, have I totally muddied the waters a complex um topic to try to understand as far as uh our the origin of our desires. Yes. And the fact that we're fallen creatures, that's going to in some ways predetermine our wrong desires. Right, so there's there's a lot of things we have to think through um and repent of when we realize wow we've really gotten to the point where we've looked at something other than God to to to be our source of identity and purpose in meaning. Oh don't bring scripture into this. He he talks about how this is so frustrating to Yeah. Uh he says, For what I am doing I do not understand, for I am not practicing what I would like to do, but I am doing the very thing I hate For I know that nothing good dwells in me that is in my flesh, for the willing is present in me, but the doing of the good is not. For the good that I want to do I do not do, but I practice the very evil that I do not want. I find then the principle that evil is present in me, the one who wants to do good. And so he's He's got this struggle that he he knows what the right thing to do is. And he finds himself in the bottom of the system sometimes. And you know that's there there are choices involved there, but there's also the fact that we have a a sin nature that that it's not gonna be gone until we're Lord of Christ. Yeah, there's this old man that's attached to us and sometimes it it moves us in directions that the new man doesn't want to be moved So can you have an idol in your life and not know it? In in other words, you give something a lot of your time that you purposely make sure that it doesn't come between you and the Lord. Hmm. Can I answer that? Sure. Well but because we've been talking today, I've been concerned So yes, I would say yes because I didn't realize I had put the United States government as my idol. I had looked for them as a conception. And I agree as I I believe our country is is failing and dying. And I didn't realize until we were going through this and you said, Who are you looking to to protect you? to care for your children, to give you your health. I remember one woman when Obama was elected who said, Obama didn't give me a cell phone. Who is she looking to? To provide for for the government or for cell phones? So yeah, so that that's helpful. Um and how do you how would you recognize something like that? Well, we'll walk through here. We have some uh questions and things to think through of whether or not something is become an idol. Um so to add to what was your name again? Gwendevere. So to add to what Gwen Guinevere just said, um I I think it is possible to just be self-deceived, I'll just put that generally. But if if you're conscious of a specific uh thing like let's say the US government and you're like, yeah, I'm really tempted to make them my idol, but I'm gonna make sure that I I'm gonna do whatever I can to make sure that they don't become my idol I'll just say you're probably less likely to identify that as your idol, but you might still have some degree of of self-deception. Margot. Yeah. Um I don't know that we'll really address it when we walk through how do you determine if something is an idol in terms of that very specific thing. Uh a more uh Uh you know there's that uh a loss of dream, you know that maybe one way to put that. Uh certainly a loss of a loved one where we grieve Uh I think the the question uh in those situations is uh number one, it's okay to to grieve, to to lose someone something or someone that that you love, something that you desire But does that grief, does it come from a heart that was putting one's ultimate hope in the object of grief Um such that now, you know, I've lost meaning in life because I don't have that anymore. I don't have my beloved spouse and what's the point of living? I don't have my career anymore. What's the point of living? That would be one example of, you know what, that's probably that was probably an idol in your life. Um but sorrow and grieving over loss in and of itself would definitely not be. So w m perhaps some other things that we'll talk to would touch on Did I see a hand? You did. I just um I really appreciate Rob's point, but I really needed to hear the wretched man that I am who will set me free from this body of uh thanks be to God through Jesus Christ right now. Right to keep going. Right. And and um and and there have to be other But we don't recognize the heart because all the wisdom that we get in scriptures appointed at us and as you're working through to diagnose things So we're missing. Yeah. And we need to grow to to grow in our worship and love the Lord, it represents the problem is that sometimes they look really good. a career that is successful doesn't look bad even in the church necessarily. But it can be it can be a you know a censoring art of sin behind that. Yeah, in fact I would say that for most believers, um the idols that we have in our life, whether they're kind of life-dominating idols or just more momentary idols, the vast majority of them are good things And we'll we'll address that a little bit. Um but good things that have become disproportionate, good desires that have become dis disordered or disproportionate, uh out of order uh between our Our l excuse me, our love for the Lord. Alright, let's let's let's continue here. Those are all really helpful um I mean things So this quote from Paul Tripp, an idol is anything that rules me other than God. As worshiping beings, human beings always worship someone or something. This is not a situation. Where some people worship and some don't. If God isn't ruling my heart, someone or something will. It is the way that we were made. And so you see Joshua there at the end of his life as he's calling Israel to uh return to a devotion to the Lord. And we see You know, he makes that great statement as for me and my house we will serve the Lord. What he tells the people is, you know, worship the Lord, fear him, serve him. Get it rid of your false gods. But he says, if it's disagreeable in your sight to serve the Lord, choose for yourselves today whom you will serve. And then he gives options, the gods which your fathers served, which are beyond the river, or the gods of the Amorites in whose land you are living. In other words, you are going to worship someone or something, so just make a choice. Serve the Lord, worship him, or worship something else. Choose what you're going to worship. And the same is true for us. We're going to worship something. The question is what or who? So, how do you determine if a desire has become an idol in your life? Consider these questions Do I want something that God does not want for me? So this would be a a sinful inherent desire. I just want to control. I want to control people, I want to control my circumstances, I want to be uh in charge of everything. Well God doesn't want that to be the case. Uh it's different, you know, uh it's different than wanting to, you know, be uh self-employed where, you know, you just do your work without being under another employer. This is not that's not what this is talking about. Um but uh but uh God doesn't want us to think that we are in control of everything. Now I just want to live my life for pleasure. I just want everything to be hunky-dory, to be wonderful. I wanna just have one experience of pleasure after another. Don't want to go through anything difficult. Well God doesn't want that for us. Uh and you see other examples there of things that um uh one can desire that God doesn't promise and are really unimportant uh to God. Or second question, do I want something that God wants, but I want it so much that I become ungodly to obtain it or when I can't obtain it. So again, this is a good desire that has become unmeasured. It's kind of run away from its appropriate measure. Health. God wants us to be healthy. He wants us to take care of our bodies. But if we get a diagnosis that we have no control over and we fall apart and we sin, we come ang be become angry and bitter at God, or we get angry at the doctors because they're not dealing with this, they're not fixing this So we're responding sinfully. That shows that our health has become more important to us than it is to God. Uh employment. You know, God wants us to work. He's created us to work. But if we find ourselves in a position where we're struggling to find work And we respond to that by falling into depression or anxiety or worry. We're getting drunk with the money that we don't have. uh we're becoming derelict in our responsibilities because we can't get a job, then that shows that that desire for a job has become unmeasured Am I controlled by expectations such that when my expectations are not realized, I become ungodly in thought, word, and action? You know, expecting certain behavior from your kids or certain response from your spouse or certain way that people treat you. uh expecting that you're up for the promotion or you're up for a pay raise and then it doesn't happen and then do you respond in a way that's ungodly that shows that at least for a moment that has become an idol in your life. Do I have a perceived right? Perceived right that when that when I'm denied that right, I become ungodly in thought, word, or action. Again, the right to be treated with respect, to be loved, the right to be treated justly and fairly. You know, we see that our culture, how it has responded to injustice in the last couple of years. Is there injustice? Absolutely. The question is what do you do about it? How do you respond to it? Becoming ungodly in the face of injustice is not Right, that's a sign that that justice has become an idol. Or do I have an ungodly mindset that leads to ungodly thoughts, words? And actions, like the husband who says, I'm the man of the home, everyone must do what I say, a dictatorial mindset So those are certainly not exhaustive questions, but helpful questions to think through. I mean, really what it all boils down to is what am I getting that I'm not wanting What am I wanting that I'm not getting? And am I responding in a way that is ungodly? Am I responding with ungodly emotions? Depression, anger, fear Am I responding with ungodly words? Attacking people verbally? Yelling? Am I attacking am I responding ungodly with my actions? Sinning in in a variety of ways. That's how you know something has become an idol. Again, it may not be something that you've been bowing down and worshiping your whole life. It might be a momentary situational issue. But at least for whatever length of time, that thing that you've become ungodly because you've experienced it and didn't want to Or you want to have it, but you can't get it, when you become ungodly, you say, it is better for me to let the world know how unhappy I am rather than to worship God. But when we're truly worshiping God, no matter what takes place in our life, no matter what other people do, we're going to be imitating Him. We're going to be responding with love, with grace, with compassion, with patience. Long suffering. And so when we're not responding by God, we show that something has become our idol. Whatever the answer is to those Where am I going here? Uh I don't have this on the PowerPoint. Whatever the answer is to those two questions, what am I wanting that I'm not getting? What am I getting that I'm not wanting? It has become a craving, a ruling desire, an idol in the life. And that's what sets up conflict. That's what creates conflict between us and others. So what's the solution? If false worship is the problem, true solution the true worship is the solution. All of our wants, desires, expectations, perceived rights, and mindsets must be submitted to Christ, who alone deserves our worship. 2 Corinthians 10, 5. We are taking every thought captive to the obedience of Christ. Romans 12, we are to present ourselves. As a living and holy sacrifice acceptable to God, which is our spiritual service of worship and to be transformed by the renewing of our mind. In other words, the solution of false worship is to be a disciple of Jesus Christ, which is the first and basic commandment. Jesus said, if anyone wants to come after me, does not hate his own father and mother and wife and children and brothers and sisters, yes, even his own life He cannot be my disciple. Whoever does not carry his own cross and come after me cannot be my disciple. We have to be willing to give up everything, give up our relationships, give up our possessions, give up even our own life, give up our reputation Because Christ may call us to sacrifice it on the altar of following Him Alright, we don't have time to get into these uh two diagrams, but just uh suffice it to say that let me go to that one. Um That when there's heat at the top of the pyramid, this is more of a volcano kind of thing. When the when the when the volcano is blowing up, you know that down at the bottom there's the heart, there's heart issues There's desires, power, pleasure, play, people, protection, physical health, popularity, peace, possessions, prestige, you know, any of those things. I didn't come up with that. I got that from somebody else. I'm not that smart. And so if we want to resolve conflict, if we want to examine ourselves, get the log out of our eye, we have to go down to the heart level and say, what am I craving? What am I wanting. Yes, character plays into this. Yes, relationship skills play into conflict, but ultimately it goes down to the heart. And so once we do that, once we deal with those issues Then we go to the true worship. We repent, we conform to the image of Christ, and we work up to resolve the conflict. Alright. That's it for today. Let me pray.