All right. So you see that first paragraph. One of the most common attendant sins in conflict is bitterness. You know, we all have uh tendencies towards sin. Some people uh in a situation of conflict when they're sinned against, like they don't they don't struggle with bitterness. You know, maybe maybe that's you. You just you're able to move past, you're you know, somebody forgives you or somebody asks for your forgiveness, you forgive them, and that's it, no problem. Uh or others somebody forgives you and you just have thick skin and you're able to like, well, okay, whatever. Uh and so you just don't battle bitterness. And other people are very um Uh not like that. And they do struggle with bitterness. They they really take the sin deep inside and personal, whether it's It's uh a a a direct personal sin, or sometimes it's even just a perception of something that somebody did or maybe a facial facial expression that they made, and we start to cultivate this this sense in our souls uh bitterness. Um if anger is a flash in the pan, strong but temporary, bitterness is a simmering pot. It's always there and it can boil over any time. Right? So y bitterness is not something that we typically see unless you live with a person. But it's something that's always there. It's in the heart, it's simmering, there's there's bubbles from uh from time to time and uh and then at some point it will manifest itself Jim Wilson says, bitterness is what we feel when someone sins against us, whether that sin is real or imagined. In other words, bitterness is what we feel when we think someone is getting in the way of my happiness. That's the blank there. Getting in the way of my happiness. We've talked about the heart of conflict and how we uh we long for something. We have desires, we have hopes, we have expectations. And when someone gets in the way of that, whether because they've sinned against us or they're just in the way. They're at cross purposes with us you know, they're driving too slow on the freeway or, you know, whatever it might be, uh our anger uh builds up and uh and we can be we can become bitter. Ephesians 4. 31 says, There, let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and slander be put away from you, along with all malice. So bitterness is something that resides in the heart but must be put away. It must be put off. Um when we're sinned against, it's it's more or less a natural response. Uh it's just, you know, because someone has sinned against us and we're sinners ourselves, bitterness and anger is just something that that is part of that uh sin cursed process But we need to put it off. We need to recognize it, acknowledge it, and say, I'm not going to allow that to continue to remain. And the reason that's important is because of what Hebrews 12. 15 says See to it that no one comes short of the grace of God, that no root of bitterness springing up causes trouble, and by it many be defiled. So when we think about bitterness, it's not just an isolated issue like anger or wrath or malice, not that those are necessarily isolated either, but bitterness specifically here is defined as a root And we all understand the the concept that out of roots grow uh fruits or or plants or trees, manifestations of that. And so bitterness is one of those things in our hearts that if we don't deal with it, if we don't put it aside, if we don't put it off, uh it will manifest itself in all kinds of ways. And the the difficult thing is that we may not be cognizant of the ways in which bitterness is manifested I've worked with people who, you know, because of ways that in which they've been sinned in the past, um, have cultivated or or had bitterness in their heart. And they just cannot see the what to an outsider are the obvious manifestations of bitterness. And so we might think, well no, I'm just, you know, I'm I'm just angry at this person or You know, I just have this attitude toward this one person, but they don't realize how blind they really are to all of the the manifestations of bitterness. And so uh in order to avoid being self-deceived We need to put it off as quickly as possible. And when someone confronts us and says, I'm kind of concerned that you know this might be a manifestation of bitterness in your heart We need to receive that with humility and say, okay, I maybe I don't see it, but if if you're seeing something there, Lord help me. Lord examine my own heart. I want you to be humble in this situation. So uh I don't know all of what's going on in all of you all of your lives. I don't know if there's any uh simmering pot of bitterness in your soul at this very moment. on this day, uh but uh consider it ask the Lord uh to help you recognize that and put it off So the next line there, bitterness is a root, which, if not dealt with biblically, will go fruit, will grow fruit. And what kind of fruit? Well this is just a sample list of different kinds of fruit, impatience with others. So it's not just impatience with the person who has sin against you, it's just general impatience. Because once I've been sinned against, once I've been violated, or someone has gotten in my way, now everyone else is a threat. Everyone else might get in my way or has the potential to sin against me, and so I'm just going to be impatient toward everyone. Uh ir irritability toward others, kind of the same idea of impatience that uh because I just have this settled pot that if anything in my life turns up the heat at all, it's gonna boil over. Explosive anger at any time, same way the other. Malice toward the other person. So specifically at the person that has sinned against you or has is that cross-purposes with you, desiring evil in their life. I want them to get what's coming to 'em. You know, I I'm grateful when I he see them suffering because they deserve it. You know, if they experience consequences for their sin, good. I'm glad. They need to feel pain. Or I need to make sure that they understand how much they've hurt me, so I need to bring pain into their life. That's malice in the heart toward the other person. Uh it could be disrespect, just general low-level disrespect. So, you know, we might think, well, I'm not I'm not exploding up in anger. Uh I'm I'm not uh you know, doing all kinds of uh um um vengeance and and r retribution, but we just have a a low level of disrespect where you know we're short Uh we we don't uh talk with them as much as we ought. We we don't treat them the way that we should. We're just disrespectful toward them. Or jealousy toward others, right? We see someone who has sinned against us and we see the Lord blessing them or bringing good things into their life, and we get jealous. Uh why why is their life going well when I'm hurting and I'm angry? Uh they shouldn't be experiencing any blessing. Depression and self pity just going in on myself and because I've been synagogent I just start to think about life through the lens of of darkness and hopelessness and You know, poor me. Uh rebellion against the Lord. So turning to sin to uh alleviate my uh desire for happiness, wanting to escape uh my struggles and so I I turn to sin, uh all kinds of sin for that, whether it's alcohol or drugs or sexual immorality or any any other kind of sin Shopping excessively. Uh suspicion toward others Right. So now again I I have this attitude of I've been sinned against and now I I need to be careful and I need to suspect. And so if anybody says something that might might seem like they they're against me, then I I'm gonna suspect motives. and intentions. And that's the idea of assuming the worst about others. So these are all, again, just a sampling of of kinds of ways that we might be manifesting bitterness in our own heart. And it it may be toward limited toward the person uh that we that has sin against us, but most likely because it's it's growing fruit, it's it's manifesting to other lives as well. Yeah, Lily. Uh uh sorry, going back to the um your your initial statement that bitterness is something that we must cut off. Yeah. And kind of bring in my mind a train of thought of the principle of feast is a putting off and putting on uh when it comes to uh certain things. Are there any general things that when it comes to putting off bitterness that we should put on to replace that that issue of of General things that we could put on to kind of keep that thing put off. Yeah, well I think the six principles uh to kill the root of bitterness will essentially answer that, but we could add to that. I was just quickly looking to see uh to remind myself if this was included. Um thankfulness, gratitude. Um You know, because we we can go through the process of reconciliation where the a person confesses their sin, they ask for forgiveness, and You know, whether genuinely or out of obligation, we grant forgiveness and we can still struggle with bitterness. You know, every time we see them uh you know remembering how they sinned against us, we're not practicing the promises of forgiveness And so one of the things we can put on is a heart of gratitude. Lord, thank you for how you've worked in their life to bring them to repentance. Thank you for the reconciliation we've been able to experience. Thank you you know, for saving me, you know, and and how we'll talk about the gospel today, God's work in our hearts, in our lives. So I think a heart of gratitude would probably be a a core put on uh and just finding all kinds of things to be grateful for uh rather than bitterness. Um and um As we'll talk about later in the class, um like in the uh last session uh which Doug Doug Baldridge is gonna uh teach on how what do you do if someone doesn't seek your forgiveness? You know they don't want to pursue reconciliation. One of the things that he'll uh talk about out of Romans 12 is uh doing good to those uh who have sinned against us. You know, as Paul says In Romans twelve they are to love our enemies, uh to uh bless them, not to curse them, to rejoice with those who rejoice, weep with those who weep um and to uh meet their needs to the degree that we can. So one of the things we can also be putting on is an attitude of Lord help me to love this person the way that you have loved me. Help me to serve this person uh to show the kindness of Christ to this person. Uh so I think those kinds of of thoughts, attitudes and actions will really kill uh the root of bitterness. Um one thing that continues to help me are it it's a discipline, I guess you would call it is just taking a memory verse that a verse that is pertinent to the situation and just memorize it and Sometimes I I'll say it begrudgingly, but the more I reflect on it, it's putting on the the right response that it should have. So I find that Finding the memory bursts also helps. Yeah, good. Good. Well, look at these examples. We'll just take a moment to think about each of these. Jonah. Why was he bitter in Jonah 4? What was he bitter about? God's mercy. Okay, God's mercy? Yeah. Uh explain that more. Like yeah, it's God's mercy, but he just felt they deserved God's judgment because of the of how they treated the Jews. He but he knew God was compassionate and could forgive them in if they repented. them to repent. So if you didn't want them to be forgiven. Yeah. Yeah, so again we can have that attitude towards another person. Yeah. I don't want God's grace to be poured out in their life. Okay, what else was Jonah bitter about? Yeah, so talk about that. What how is that a so God gave a uh gave him a physical illustration of his petulance by by causing a plant to grow up and give them shade and then causing a worm to eat the plant. And uh he said I'm better off dead the the fruit of bitters was obviously there when he lashed out at God for causing currently the plan, uh say I've better off dead, better off never having been born, and God used it as an illustration of uh why does he care about this plan when there's a hundred thousand souls Yeah. Yeah. And again, just Jonah, there is an example of how we can even get angry and gooder at God. uh even though, you know, because circumstances didn't work out the way we wanted. He had an expectation of how he thought things should be. God didn't turn out that way, so he got bitter at God and that led to uh any any little thing Um you know, so a co worker crosses you at the office and you come home and kick the dog because the dog got in your way. Um bitterness uh spreads out like that. Okay. Uh any other thoughts about Jonah? I th I I think that pretty well covers that unless someone else has it Good insight. What about Ruth? What is she bitter about? Who wants to just talk about that a little bit? No one her life circumstances. I mean her husband died, her son's died, and it seems like you know God has taken everything from her. Yeah, I mean think about this, okay? So we we focus on that and that's that's right, that's totally right. But think uh about that in the context of why they were where they were, right? They left Israel for what reason? There was a famine. So hey, we want pr uh protection from the famine, protection from suffering, uh we want to experience you know blessing, we want to survive. And what happens? She loses her husband and then later on she loses her sons. And so the very thing they escaped Israel to experience salvation, uh physical salvation, is the very thing uh they sh she lost uh in in uh where where did they go? Mo Moab. That's right, the voabitus root. Um So again, her circumstances didn't work out the way she wanted to. There wasn't a personal sin that anybody had committed against her. It was just her circumstances. And this uh this reminds me I was listening to uh Steve Byers give an interview. Steve Byers is a pastor in Indiana where David Mora uh is Steve Iris is a senior pastor where David Moore is. And Steve Iris wrote a book called Bitterness. So if you want to study this more in depth, just bitterness in general, you can get his book, Bitterness. And in that interview as he was talking about the book, one of the things he highlighted was how when we think about bitterness, you know, we tend to focus on the attitudes that we have, which obviously is is right But we also have to start with a recognition that there is such a thing as bitter circumstances And that's really where Naomi found herself. She was in bitter circumstances, circumstances that were distasteful, that were unpleasant. Obviously grievous. And sh what the problem was is she allowed her bitter circumstances, what was going on around her to seep into her soul and do uh cause her to become bitter. That's the choice that she made instead of trusting in the Lord and turning to him. And so when we think about bitterness, we want to acknowledge uh that usually when a person becomes bitter, it's is often, not always, like Jonah, he didn't have bitter circumstances. Uh but uh it's it's often the case that someone has gone through some something very difficult. They've again they've been sinned against, gone through some tragedy, some trial, and so now they're bitter at another person or they're bitter at God as a result. Um and so what they need is to r to turn to the Lord more in faith and trust rather than in bitterness All right, what about Psalm in uh Psalm in First Samuel eighteen? Yeah, I think we can think of probably multiple examples. I'm turning there because I'm like which instance was Yeah. This would be phrase they more than phrase. Yeah. Yeah, what they say. Yeah. So he saw the success of one of his servants and he got bitter over that. Instead of saying, Hey, praise the Lord, we are defeating our enemies Uh he got jealous. And so that is a reflection of, you know, one of the other uh one of the fruits that that we mentioned earlier of jealousy That David did nothing wrong. And there were no bitter circumstances in Saul's life. It was everything was going great But he got jealous and bitter in that turn toward uh wanting to to kill David for the rest of his life. So gave that well verse ten that comes right after that is uh uh a disturbing verse. Now it came upon now it came about on the next day that an evil spirit from God came by upon Saul. So uh Can you say that Saul's bitterness opened him up to something like that? I think that would be an accurate statement that when we allow sin to reign in our soul, now granted he wasn't a believer, right? So he didn't have the indwelling Holy Spirit But when we allow sin to reign in our soul, we open the door, we give a foothold to the evil one. And we see that in uh Ephesians four, you know, the whole put off put on passage. You know, uh be angry and don't sin, don't let the sun go down on your anger so that the devil won't have a foothold. And so yeah, in his case that definitely opened him him up to demonic oppression at the very least. Um I don't know that we would say uh possession, but at the very least demonic oppression uh because of the fact that he was um harboring sin in his heart. And as believers we can't be possessed by a demon, but again we can give the devil a foothold in our in our lives. And uh and that's a very dangerous place to be spiritually because we can find ourselves in a position of self deception. And uh difficult to to get out of that, apart from God's grace. Alright, the Pharisees in John eleven. John eleven, forty seven. John eleven is of course the chapter where what happens? What's the what's the key ac uh event in John Eleven? Lazarus has been raised, alright? So it's a common passage that's uh preached at funerals or uh or times of of sorrow, memorial services So Lazarus is raised and the Pharisees become bitter. Why? They're talking more about Jesus and what he's done. They're losing their power. Yeah. Yeah, they're they're they're jealous and they're bitter because the people are going after Jesus. And uh It's uh it's so interesting um how it says, verse forty seven, what are we doing? For this man is performing many signs. If we let him go on like this, all men will believe in him And the Romans will come and take away both our place and our nation. That is a manifestation of a hard heart. A heart that looks at a man who raises the dead, who heals the lame and the blind and the deaf and all the rest, uh who has power over weather and who feeds you know tens of thousands of people, and be like Oh no, he's gonna he's gonna get more popular than we are. So they also self-deceive themselves by making it Well the the Romans will come and they'll overthrow us, so trying to justify their own bitterness. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. There there's no self-deception which leads to irration irrationality. Yeah, that's that's an excellent point So, you know, it's just uh an example of how we can see good things. We can see God working, and because of the hardness of our heart, we can become jealous and say, no, this isn't good. You know, one of the things I'm going to say in the message today is that we have to hold our ministry, whatever ministry you serve in, we have to hold that with an open hand. that if the Lord decides to take that away from us, uh, because either, you know, in his purposes that ministry is over Or there's somebody else who uh comes along who is more gifted than we are, and who would be a better uh fit for the for that ministry than we are? then we need to say, Lord, you know, whoever you want to use, that's fine with me. So I'll be faithful while I'm serving in this capacity. But if there's somebody else I'll I'll step aside and and let them serve. That's a mentality we should have, but when we don't have that mentality we're like, only only I should be you know in this and I don't want anybody else to to take what's mine Pastor Dave. Yes sir. Um is it is it accurate or fair if you were to um go black or white that the object of the bitterness or Jonah And the only would be that God. And the other two is that a person? Uh that would be accurate. Yeah, in terms of the circumstances. But uh at the same time, uh in the heart, uh even though we might not be consciously thinking I'm bitter toward God because of this other person, that's ultimately what's what's actually going on. Uh Paul Tripp in his book What Did You Expect, which I think is recalled Marriage Fifteen Truths or Realities. Anyway, Paul Tripp's book on marriage. Uh he talks in one of his introductory chapters about I think I've mentioned this Well, I I don't know if I mentioned this. The uh vertical war and the horizontal war. In that we tend to focus on the horizontal war. Me and my spouse, we have issues, we have conflicts, we have fights, and that's just where the problem is But he he notes that whenever whenever there is a horizontal war, uh it it is always existing. It's made possible by a more uh profound vertical war between us and God And again, this goes back to the heart of I've I want things, I have desires, I have expectations, and this person is in the way of that And so whether or not we're thinking of it consciously, God is allowing that to happen. And our response is either going to be honoring to the Lord, uh glorifying God, or it's going to be uh dishonoring to the Lord and it's sinful So, yes, in terms of the immediate circumstances, there's a that distinction, but whenever we are bitter toward another person Uh we have to recognize that God is sovereign over the situation, over that other person, and over us. And so uh you know it's like uh Adam said, you know, the woman you gave to me. So uh he was um blaming her, but ultimately he was blaming God. That's helpful, thank you. All right. Well, anybody want to give a testimony of ongoing bitterness in your no it's a Well let's talk about six principles to kill the root of bitterness. And really it's not uh it's really one principle that is meditate on truth, and then it's just six different truths to meditate uh on in order to kill bitterness in our soul. So we're just going to enjoy uh celebr uh and celebrate the gospel here now for the rest of our time together One of the things that we can meditate on and that we should meditate on when we're battling bitterness is the enormity of God's love displayed on the cross. The enormity of God's love displayed on the cross. And uh one I mean there's obviously many passages we could look to to to do that, but here's one example, Matthew eighteen, twenty-three to twenty-seven. For this reason the kingdom of heaven may be compared to a ma a king. who wished to settle accounts with his slaves. When he had begun to settle them, one who owed him ten thousand talents was brought to him, but since he did not have the means to repay His Lord commanded him to be sold, along with his wife and children, and all that he had, and repayment to be made. So the slave fell to the ground and prostrated himself before him, saying, Have patience with me, and I will repay you everything And the Lord of that slave felt compassion and released him and forgave him the debt. So they The parable here, I I I put it here to emphasize the aspect of the enormity of God's love, in the sense of the uh eternal and infinite debt that we owed to God uh the the wrath of God that was due to us that we had been building up uh as unbelievers in in light of our sin, but which God completely wiped away at the cross. And we didn't do this so much in this class when we talked about uh forgiveness, but if you were in the Gospel for Life class uh you you recall that we spent time just thinking about uh how significant our sin is. And the the uh terminology here of 10,000 talents That's around 200,000 years worth of uh wages for a day laborer. And so, you know, just imagine you get minimum wage and and uh you're told you have to work for two hundred thousand years to pay a debt. Or, you know, in the criminal system, we you know someone doesn't just get a life sentence They get ten life sentences. Uh what's two hundred thousand years of life sentences? Uh I don't know how many years lifetimes that is. Uh but we owed an unbelievable, incredible, unpayable debt. Uh we we have sinned against God from the the time we were conceived uh un until uh we well, until we go to heaven and um every sin earns us eternal wrath from God. We sin against God by sins of commission where we uh overtly violate God's law, we transgress the boundaries that He has laid before us He has told us his standard. He's written on our heart the law of God, right? We shall shall not uh murder, steal, commit adultery, all the rest, covet, lie. And we've you know, everybody knows you shouldn't do those things. But we've done all those things. Uh and of course the the first table of don't have any other gods before me and don't make any images of gods, we've we've done all of those things as well. And then as we come to awareness of God's standard in Scripture of how we are to love others as God has loved us and we're to sacrificially love Uh those around us, we don't we don't do that. You know, God says you need to love the Lord your God with all all of your heart and all of your soul and all of your mind and all your strength, and we can't do that for a second in our lives Uh and that's more the sins of omission, where we are incapable of perfectly following God's law. And so sin is just all around us. And by his grace obviously we can be growing, we can be sanctified and in loving God more, in uh exhibiting righteousness more, and exemplifying the character of Christ more and more But even as we grow, we still have sin in our life, sins of commission and sins of omission. We still fall far short of the glory of God. And all of that sin, all of the that lack of conformity to Christ Earns us eternal punishment in hell. But all of that is wiped away at the cross Without us having to lift a finger, without us having to ask God for forgiveness. He just wipes it away, he cleanses us and gives us eternal life. We've, I think, spent some time at Colossians 2, 13, 14. When you were dead in your transgressions and the uncircumcision of your flesh He made you alive together with him, having forgiven us all our transgressions, having cancelled out the certificate of debt, consisting of decrees against us, which was hostile to us, and he has taken it out of the way, having nailed it to the cross. It would be helpful for us when we are battling bitterness to contemplate the sin that we've committed in our lives. Just all sin. Today's sin, yesterday's sin, twenty years ago's sin. And all of that, if you were to to list it out was nailed at the cross. And that was what Christ was punished for. It's been taken away from us and laid upon Christ. And then of course the corollary passage, Ephesians 2. And you were dead in your trespasses and sins in which you formerly walked according to the course of this world. according to the prince of the power of the air, of the spirit that is now working in the sons of disobedience. Among them we too all formerly lived in the lust of our flesh, indulging in the desires of the flesh and of the mind and were by nature children of wrath, even as the rest. But God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which He loved us, even when we were dead in our transgressions, made us alive together with Christ. By grace you have been saved, and raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus. so that in the coming ages he might show the surpassing riches of his grace and kindness toward us in Christ. I mean so there you have not only the fact that he has taken away our sin, but he has transformed us, he's given us life out of the richness of his mercy, out of the greatness of his love. And he's even gone further, and he's raised us up with Christ to the heavenly places. What does that mean? I don't entirely know. But in some sense, you and I are seated with Christ in the heavenly places right now. At the very least, what we can say is that's how certain and guaranteed our eternal inheritance is That there's no question that if you have been raised with Christ, if you have been forgiven of your sin, you experience the blessings that come to you through Christ, and you are with Him, united to Him in glory Again, when you think about how much sin we have committed, how far short I fall of the glory of God. And not just that God has forgiven me, but He has drawn me near. He has blessed me with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. And he has made me one with Christ. And we could go on with other passages to say, He's given me the Holy Spirit, He's given me spiritual gifts. He's given me the body of Christ. Just God continues to abound in blessings to us, even though we didn't deserve a single thing. Even though we were hostile to him, even though we had sinned against him uh in infinite ways. So if God has loved us, When we had been extraordinarily hostile to him, how much more should we love those who have sinned against us? Those are that that's a path Or that or let me change the metaphor. That's a sea of thought that we need to swim in if we're battling bitterness. Another thought we can meditate on is your desperate need for forgiveness. Well this is really just saying the same thing, isn't it? But just with other passages. Uh Romans three, what then? Are we, that is Jews, better than Gentiles? Not at all. For we have already charged that both Jews and Greeks are all under sin, as it is written, There is none righteous, not even one. There is none who understands, there is none who seeks for God. All have turned aside Together they have become useless. There is none who does good, not even one. We might uh in our own flesh disagree with this evaluation of ourselves prior to being saved. But if we're g if we're believers and therefore we believe God, we have to believe that this is this was true about us prior to salvation. It's no longer true about us now. But this was true about us. And that we were completely deserving of God's wrath and in desperate need of His forgiveness You know, he goes on um from there to talk about you know their throat is an open grave, uh their tongues uh deceive, uh the poison of acid is on their lips Their feet are swift to shed blood. There's no fear of God before their eyes. Again, that was all true. It's easy for us to read it because it's written as a they. But we have to say this this was me. This was me And we have to put ourselves back in the position of the unbeliever of before we came to Christ, whether whether that was when you were fifty years old or twenty years old or five years old As far back as you can go when you were an unbeliever and say this was true about me and and I desperately needed God's forgiveness. Romans 3. 23, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. Meditating on the reality that that doesn't just apply to everyone else, but that applies to me. I have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. And because of that, I deserve death, as it says in Romans 6. 23. But God has given me a free gift, a gift that I don't deserve, a gift that I didn't work for, a gift that I'm not intelligent enough to receive. Uh where it's not because of my intelligence that I receive it. Uh it's a free gift that he gave Ezekiel 18 is a helpful passage. The person who sins will die. The son will not bear the punishment for the father's iniquity, nor the father bear the punishment for the son's iniquity. The righteousness of the righteous will be upon himself, and the wickedness of the wicked will be upon himself. This is particularly helpful for those who blame their sin on others Well my parents you know raised me a certain way and that's why I am the way I am. Or look at all the suffering I've experienced in my life. Uh that's why I was speaking to uh a mother one time who was telling me about her son who was struggling with certain sins and she as she told the story she drew out all of the suffering he had experienced which was tragic. I mean just tragic suffering uh that he experienced from you know abandonment and abuse from a father, uh rejection from extended family, just a a lot of a lot of Sin against him that that had come upon him. But she portrayed him himself as you know, he was like the perfect child And he was, you know, so good and so kind and so giving. And you know, even as a as a uh five year old kid, he would always be sharing and looking out for the needs of others. You know, this was Jesus that she was raising and and just the way that she told it. And Um and so as she described his what he's currently struggling with now, it's like it's all because of how people have treated him, right? And and I I get that there there can be a sense of that, that you know, in God's common grace that his personality was um was kind and and whatnot as a as a child But he chose to respond to his sin, to his suffering in a sinful way. And so uh If he were to ever say, I the reason I struggle is because of these people and it's their fault, this passage is there to say, no, no, no. Yes, you suffer But you are responsible for your own sin. And uh and we hear that um from uh many people that we talk to. I mean all of us hear that from time to time where someone blames their sin on others and we need to help them understand, Ezekiel eighteen twenty, that you are responsible for your own sin Colossians 121, although you were alienated, excuse me, although although you were formerly alienated and hostile in mind, engaged in evil deeds. The idea there is threefold. We were far away. We were in the kingdom of darkness. So we were aliens to the kingdom of God. So we were far away. Uh and we were hostile in mind. So it's not like we were at the fence, you know, at the great wall that divided the kingdom of darkness to the kingdom of light, like looking over, like, man, I wish I could get over there No, we're like, I well I want nothing to do with that place. I I want nothing to do with God. And we're hostile in mind and we demonstrated that hostility through our evil deeds. That's the the grammar there, at least in the Greek And so we were throwing rocks over the wall. You know, we were like, where is God? I wanna I wanna I wanna hit him with a rock. That's the condition we were in, and we were desperately needing his forgiveness. So we need to meditate on our sinfulness, on our depravity, on our need for God's forgiveness. And then we can meditate on our ultimate need for God's mercy. Lamentations 3, the Lord's loving kindnesses, or some translations say his mercies. It's his chesed. Indeed, never cease, for his compassions never fail. They are new every morning. Great is your faithfulness. Just to contemplate on the never ending flow of God's loving kindness. Scripture sometimes uses the metaphor of the storehouses of God's grace uh and how, you know, God just um has an endless storehouse. You know, it never never depletes, never runs out. It's like when Jesus was tearing the bread and the fish to feed, you know, the thousands upon thousands. So maybe someday we'll get, you know, God's eye view of of what that actually looked like, you know, when when he tore a piece, did it just reappear? Or you know, how did how in the world did that happen? I don't know. Uh because he obviously well and maybe not obviously, I don't know, but he had, you know, a couple loaves and a few fish, right? So did he go through all of those original ones? I mean w I don't know what what happened, but whatever happened, it just kept coming and coming and coming and coming, and that is exactly what God's mercy is like It it doesn't run down. He he doesn't make a um uh what's the opposite of a deposit? A a withdrawal. He doesn't make a withdrawal and all of a sudden the balance goes down. Like that just doesn't happen with God His loving kindnesses, his commitment for our good, and his compassions never fail. Every morning they are fresh. James 2. 13, for judgment will be merciless to the one who has shown no no mercy, but on the other hand, mercy triumphs over judgment. So even though we are are worthy of condemnation and judgment, God's mercy is far more powerful Professor Cool. Yeah. Uh there's uh sorry in the rough, but I think that you were just talking about the the breadth, the sort of Um I was just thinking about a conversation last week where people are asking how many times do we have to forstand Maybe it's been dumbbook. Um there's a hint of bitterness into this question. There is there is a hint of do I have to keep forgiving But when does it get the stuff? Because like especially because I've had enough. There's a tone of that in there. I'm not I don't want to describe too much there. those things that aren't said, but I I think of that as a concept of what we're talking about now where, well, Peter, who am I and who are you? Like who's constantly In terms of it's never ending for me and you will be made new and made so it would be never ending for you. And I think that that's context of Who is God and who's our identity with God? So it all flows from that. Because even every passage you referenced before is all is all patents. for you know all these the put offs and the put ons are because that's not who you are anymore. It's a new garlic you disappear. Uh I just thought that point about the that being connected to something so tangible like a bread that never ends. Mm-hmm. Yeah, and even in our transformation we're often asking the same question that Peter asked. How soon can I stop? And so that's why it's so important for us to have these meditations and these thoughts. Uh with the never-ending mercy of God. The tax collector there standing some distance away was even unwilling to lift up his eyes to heaven But was beating his breast, saying, God be merciful to me, a sinner. Have to imagine he did that because he knew God was merciful, God would have mercy, but Um the idea of or you know, the fact that he was unwilling to lift his eyes to heaven almost almost conveys a sense of um you know, I'm so undeserving and I I don't know, maybe got maybe God won't be merciful to me. Uh and I'm not saying he did anything wrong there. Obviously we don't have any evidence to to to say that. And it Jesus obviously um speaks positively of his example But we should get to the place in our own heart where we recognize I don't deserve God's mercy. I don't deserve God's grace. I am not in the position of lording it over somebody who has sinned against me because I don't deserve God's mercy and grace. So I I should not be withholding grace and mercy from anybody else because God has given it to me even though I am undeserving of it. So we need to cultivate that that mindset um of recognizing our sin. Uh we need to meditate. This is kind of moving to a new area of thought. Uh meditate on God's role and yours. James 4. 12, there is only one lawgiver and judge, the one who is able to save and to destroy. But who are you to judge your neighbor? Uh and we say, well, I know who I am. I'm the one who has sinned against. That's who I am. And so I do have the right to judge my neighbor. And James is saying, no, no, no. There's only one. There's only one lawgiver and judge, and you're not him. And so it's not our role to to judge. It's not our role to um assess the heart or or to judge the heart of the other person It's not our role to condemn the other person. You're going to hell because of what you've done to me. Uh to make that kind of a determination. That's that's God's role. That's God's position. And so we need to remember that that he is the one who is going to do that. He's going to deal with that person uh in his way and in his time As we've said before, no one ever gets away with their sin. Either God uh punishes them for their sin forever in hell, or he has punished Christ on on their behalf. But no one gets injustice, no sin goes unpunished, because God is the perfect lawgiver and judge, and we need to remember that. Same idea of Romans 14, 4. Who are you to judge the servant of another? To his own master he stands or falls, and he will stand, for the Lord is able to make him stand. There the example uh or the context is not personal sin that's committed, but different opinions on whether or not we should, you know, uh handle matters of Christian freedom, you know, eating meat sacrificed to idols, uh drinking wine or whatever else. And so how easy it is for us to to look at someone else and e even again, even though they haven't sinned against us, they're just doing something that we think is wrong. And so we judge them and we can be become bitter of I mean, I've I've seen this happen where uh one person in the church thinks another person in the church is not a Christian because of how they behave, matters of Christian freedom. And You know, the the uh people in the church treat that person as a believer and then this person gets bitter is like, well, no, I don't think they're a Christian. People shouldn't be treating them like a brother in Christ It's like, oh, come on, you know, just recognize that you you're not thinking rightly here. Uh and so we we can uh have wrong thoughts about others and and condemn them and judge them, not recognizing that the Lord is the judge. And then Genesis 50, Joseph, of course, saying, Don't be afraid for my for am I in God's place? I would that we would all get to that frame of mind where even when we've been sinned against sinned against egregiously and it has brought incredible s you know decades worth of suffering into our life That we can still look at the person who has sinned against us and say, Am I in God's place? No, the Lord's going to judge. He's obviously used this for his purposes, whether or not we can see what they are like Joseph could But we need to have that mindset that God is is the judge, not we ourselves. And then again, Romans 12, never take your own revenge, beloved, but leave room for the wrath of God. For it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. But if your enemy is hungry, feed him. If he is thirsty, give him a drink, for in so doing you will heap burning coals on his head. Verses here we not only see God's role as the one who will exact vengeance, but we see our role as the one who is to love, to serve, to meet the needs, to do good, to overcome evil with good, as it says in verse twenty one, which You don't have there, but so our role is not to judge, our role is to serve, to minister, and to love those toward whom we are bitter. We can also meditate on the dual nature of the offender's sin. Their sin is more against God than it is against you. As we have meditated on our own sin against God, that even when we sin toward others, we're really sinning against God, and that is what earns us eternal punishment. We tend to think of the other person's sin as solely against us. And we forget that now they are irrting God's wrath for the sin that they've committed. And that they are in a place of needing forgiveness. They're in a place of needing God's mercy. And apart from God's forgiveness and mercy, they are going to spend eternity in hell. And so our desire, if we're saved, if we've uh uh truly understood the forgiveness we have received, our desire should be for them to not spend eternity in hell. Right, I mean we is it on here? No. Uh when we think about hell and the eterna eternality of the lake of fire It's very easy for us in certain contexts to be repulsed by that in terms of knowing a family member who has died apart from Christ. And like, oh I just I can't think of that. I don't I don't like that thought. But when we think of someone I'll use a classical example, Hitler. It's like, oh I can see that. I can see how that could be a just thing. But the reality is, a as finite human beings, we can't comprehend God's justice the the way that um That the way that we ought. And we should look at a soul, at a person, who is deserving of God's wrath, you know, especially if they're an unbeliever. And say, I don't want them to experience eternal judgment. Like I might, in my heart, want them to feel at least a little bit of pain before what they've done to me. But I don't want them to experience that forever. Right? We shouldn't want that. And so we should desire for them to receive God's mercy and forgiveness because we are just like them in terms of sinners in need of God's grace. And if they're a believer, obviously they've been forgiven by God, and so we can recognize their sin against God, their need to become conformed to the image of Christ. Uh John eight thirty-four, Jesus answered them, Truly, truly I say to you, everyone who commits sin is a slave of sin. You know, if someone has sinned against us, because that's And we see that pattern, we should have compassion toward them, recognizing that that sin is going to breed suffering in their life, right? It's going to bring destruction. If they're continuing to sow See the flesh, if they're if they're sowing sin, they're gonna reap corruption, as it says in Galatians six. And so we should have compassion on them because while we might be hurt, they're going to be hurting a lot more in the future. Well, go on to the last one then. Meditate on your own fallibility. Proverbs 16:18, pride goes before destruction, and a haughty spirit before stumbling Right? The the one one of the problems with bitterness is it we see ourselves as more righteous, we see ourselves as in the right, and we see that other person as being the sinner And so we need to remember I am just as capable of any sin, especially the sin they've committed against me, as they are. And so I need to be humble And not act pridefully toward that other person. First Corinthians 10 12. Therefore let him who thinks he stands take heed lest he fall. We need to recognize that uh you know I I'm sure we've all had the experience where we've seen someone sin in some way and we've had that thought, Mm, you know, I can't believe they did that And then sometime later we recognize, Oh, I I've sinned in that way You know, I I I just did that myself. That should breathe humility in our souls. In the Galatians six, brethren, if anyone has caught any trespass, you who are spiritual, restore such a one in a spirit of gentleness, each one looking to yourself so that you too will not be tempted. Bear one another's burdens, and thereby fulfill the law of Christ. For if anyone thinks he is something when he is nothing, he deceives himself. We need to, by God's grace, have this attitude that I, again, I am capable of any sin I'm capable of any sin. I myself, your pastor, Gabe, I am capable of murder. Set up the right circumstances in the right situation. And I'm very capable of murder. And so are you Right, we are all capable of the most heinous sin. Um if we have that mindset We we that will give us um patience toward another person. That will prevent us from being prideful against them. It will give us compassion toward them. I don't I don't know if you've ever been in that position where you know there's what whatever sin might be, um murder, uh adultery, um cheating uh whatever it might be, where you've kind of started to go down the path toward that sin, and the and God it graciously opens your eyes and says Stop. You know, if you keep going, you're going to end up going all the way. Uh i if if that's happened to you, you you recognize, yeah, I am capable. I'm capable of self-deception. of twisting my thinking in a way that that makes sense for m where it makes sense for me. You know, why is it that some, obviously uh thankfully very few pastors run off with their secretaries Well, it's because they've gone down a path of sinful thinking where it made sense that that was something that they should do. Why is it that anybody commits adultery? Because nobody wakes up, you know, after a um after the honeymoon and says, hey, I'm going to commit adultery today. No, it's because they've gone down a path, a long path of compromises and sinful thinking and selfish orientation. Well all of a sudden this makes sense And so we're all capable of being deceived and of self-deception and just taking one step after another. And so we should Not treat the other person as if oh I would uh I would never do that. Uh we need to be humble and recognize our own fallibility And you know, as I don't remember who was the first one to say it, but as it's often been said, uh if not for the grace of God, there go I, right? That it's only God's grace that has prevented me from going down that path, or at least all the way down that path. And so what does that person need that I'm bitter toward? They need God's grace So these are these are some areas that we can meditate on and be intentional. If God is gracious enough to you to help you to see, you know what, I'm really bitter toward this person. Um I'm battling uh antagonistic or malicious or um negative thoughts, uh angry thoughts toward this person. Uh Then just take time and sit and journal and pray and read scripture and remember uh who you are, who God is and what He's done for you. Well any any other thoughts? We're we're gonna be done early unless Kirk uh extends our time. No, go ahead, Kirk. Yeah, I was I was thinking about the the advantage that we have uh just having the Bible in which you can examine the lives of like a like a Joseph and how he how God kept him from bitterness is going through like trial after trial and imprisonment and different temptations. And how he didn't his his faith somehow did not erode during that period of time or at least it's not supported that it it lessened because he was displaced from his the normal being around the people who could build him up. And same thing for Daniel being displaced off the land. And how how he could have maintained his his faith. We have like the scriptures, so we have no excuse we have sermons, we have small groups, we have church families. And then Naomi, Naomi and then Jonah. There they eventually something happened in there, either lack of meditation or was truth. And they where they were displaced and their faith just eroded and they let thoughts enter their minds that that shouldn't have been there and then the action So I I was just thinking about the the advantage that we have to to not go down the wrong road and yet yep we still do. David has Samson who hugging and corrected them. So it's more more of a comment. Thinking about the process of the whole idea of meditation, how like Julie Gossett said how Memorizing scripture and how you not let your mind go to where you know it's gonna naturally go to. Yeah. Yeah, I'm just writing down as you're talking, I I really appreciate that thought. Maybe one way to extend this lesson in the future is to talk about those who were in bitter circumstances but who responded by faith And you brought up multiple examples there. Um and uh with regard to the goodness of God and giving us his word, I think of Asaph. Who suffering, seeing the wicked prospering, starting to become bitter in his soul, but then he went to the house of God and he saw the end of the wicked because he was reminded of the truth of God. And so just to continue to reflect on on your comment. Put yourself I I don't know Let's see if we can figure out real quick who was who was saved the latest in life. Anybody uh in their sixties, fifties Forties. Okay. And then thirties. Alright, twenties. Alright, and then below that. So think back if you can. Maybe you had some light, maybe you had grew up in the church or whatever. Think back either to yourself or think about someone you know who's an unbeliever Think about what it would be like to go through difficult circumstances. Someone sins against you, you lose your job, financial collapse, natural disaster. uh physical suffering, cancer, whatever. Think about what it would be like to go through bitter circumstances and not have any light. Not have any truth. Not have any understanding of what in the world is going on and what is the meaning and purpose of all this. I mean that's why scripture uses darkness to describe the state of the unbeliever. I mean that would be awful. And it is for billions and billions of people. So what what a joy to reflect that and on that and recognize Lord, thank you for your word, for the light that you give. Um and then that should compel us to want to spread spread the light and shine it brightly and give hope and encouragement. So if anybody wants to join the counseling ministry Yeah, correct. A Christian I have some circumstance both before and after circumstance. But the situation prior to Becoming a Christian, I still sometimes remember those situations and have to dig out that word of bitterness and I again. Whereas after becoming a believer, when things happened to me, it was so it's just so much easier to not have this route that I have to fight against the forgiveness and letting everything go is just it's just such a difference between the two. Um And yes, now I'm a believer and I can recognize the truth, but it had opportunities to grow prior to me becoming a Christian. And so now every once in a while can still have Yeah, thank you for sharing. Let's go with Amy first and then Margo. Um so I'm thinking of dealing with say my children or if you're in conflict situation or something where you're one-on-one with somebody. These manifestations are they kind of a cry out for help like in a way like a manipulative kind of way like I want this like you can see because they got angry that this is what they want. Do you deal with that? Or do you deal with do you wait for the concern Do you know what I'm saying? Like if my kid is bitter towards the brother and so they throw this raging fit about something Because they want their iPod and blah blah blah blah blah. Do you see what the iPod situation or do you is that not do you don't understand what I'm saying? Yeah, I think so. Okay. Uh i uh the way you describe that, uh I think my answer would be likely deal with the situation uh in the moment. in order so that it will calm down. Um but then uh once things are calmed down and maybe the next day or I don't know whatever it might be given the circumstances So you know what? Can we think about that a little bit more and talk about why that was such a struggle for you and why you responded the way you did Uh because in the moment it's probably not going to be easy to process for them. Um but you know later on uh that that might be helpful. Helpful. That I had a friend who reminded me that support reaches the up to yourself. every day. Because I think at least when I felt it's easy to forget that it was things that we're capable of what's in here. We're saved, but we still must have things on this Yeah. Yeah. So I'd highly recommend Milton Vincent's Gospel Primer for Christians. as a helpful way to preach the gospel to ourselves every day. Okay, well let me pray. Uh did you have something But just to follow up on uh the Joseph story, you know, we said uh it was part of God's plan, and so It helps me thinking about whenever I'm having an interaction, especially with an unbeliever, that And so keeping that in mind, how should I respond to it best reflects on the lure. Not necessarily on me, but reflects on the Lord, so I think that should help drive certain interactions especially with unbelievers that we need to be lights for the Lord and put the uh the best reflection of the Lord out there and knowing that our interactions with every person, believer or unbeliever, is part of the Lord's plan. Okay, let me pray. Father T