All right. Well I have no idea if anybody is needing the uh recordings, if anyone's listening to those that are being posted, but uh in case you are, uh I I wasn't able to record last week. It got cut off about five minutes into it, so just be aware that that there is no recording for last week Uh so that's okay because we'll do uh a review and just continue on for today. So hopefully nothing significant will be missed. Um and obviously you guys are here, so you won't need that anyway. Um because of the expansion of of last week's lesson into today, I decided to go ahead and not do a session on conflict in large part because I had to teach a whole class on conflict and that'll be coming up probably not next quarter but Probably the quarter after that, I'm not exactly sure. So if you weren't in that class, and I know a number of you were in that class, but if you weren't uh be looking out for it. Um you found it helpful. It's my personal favorite class, not only to teach, but just to to think about, meditate on. It's so helpful, so important. And so we'll have a whole class on that. But having said that, we will next week Lord willing, uh, talk about forgiveness because of how critical forgiveness specifically is uh in relationships. So we'll we'll look at that next week. For today though, let's do some review on what we started last week with this concept of relationships and identity. Uh we identified or we described we defined that's the right word identity as how you define yourself What talents, qualities, experiences, achievements, goals, beliefs, relationships, and dreams you use to say this is who I am. This is who I am. And our identity matters because it is not only how we think about ourselves and therefore how we move and interact with others. But it's also how we want generally other people to think about us. So when we meet someone new, we talk about how we give them our name and that's our our kind of label for our identity. And the more we get to know someone, the more we begin to unpack and unfold who we really are and what is most important about us Uh when when you're the one who's um initiating that conversation, uh you're being upfront with here are the most important things about me or at least the things you're comfortable to share. Maybe maybe there are important things about you, your your past struggles, your past difficulties that you kind of wait until you can trust someone a little bit more. But in your own mind, you have things in your mind at the forefront of your mind that If you were to think this is the most important thing about me, this is this is what shapes me, this is what makes me who I am, that that is your identity. Uh and you think of that way about others as well. You know, when you're talking about someone else, um let's say you're talking with your spouse about someone else. Uh you might say, Oh yeah, so and so he's or she is the one who and you g uh give some kind of identifying information. And uh sometimes that information can be just, you know, physical features, this is what they look like. Sometimes it can be this is maybe what what they sound like, their accent. uh or it could be a whole number of things. You know, this is how you can know who I'm talking about. Sometimes it's based on behavior. Uh sometimes we'll talk about um someone's uh past, uh what they struggled with, what they've come through. And uh one of the things we did last week was we talked about the di different things that tend to make up our identity. We talked about our background. our our culture, where we grew up, geographically, our heritage, our language, those are all background issues that contribute to our identity. We talked about relationships, how who our parents are, who our kids are, who we're related to. You know, if you're if you're related to someone famous, you tend to bring that up with people or at least make sure that that people People know that w to one degree or another. Uh by the way, I'm related to Adam. I don't know if he knew that, but uh yeah, he uh he and I were in the same chain. Um Anyway, our friends, our social circles, those that we interact with, those that we're close to. Oh yeah, I know so and so. Um I was with someone recently and they're like, Oh yeah, you know, I had conversations with this person. I I sat under their teaching. I could just call them on the phone, these kind of big name individuals, and I'm not saying they were proud uh prideful in saying those things to me, but I almost got the impression of, uh, you've run in some, you know, significant circles and you wanted to make sure I knew that. So we we do that sometimes. We identify ourselves, we have an identity based on our social spheres, our relationships. Uh related to that are roles. You know, are you a husband, wife? Uh are you a parent? Are you a child? How you view yourself in relationship to another person is often how we identify ourselves. Our own self-perception is another area of our physical appearance. uh wha how we perceive ourselves to look. You know, do I perceive myself as this really beautiful person that I'm gonna I'm gonna uh think that way about others and I'm gonna want people to compliment me. I'm gonna want people to to to make comments on how I did my hair or h how I'm dressed or whatever. Uh or if maybe if we don't think of ourselves as a particularly attractive person, we might feel somewhat uh ashamed or or uh intimidated by other people that we perceive to be beautiful. Um things like that. Our intellect, uh whether again we perceive ourselves to be intelligent and really smart and know a lot of things, well we're gonna speak up a lot. We're we're gonna want other people to hear what we have to say because we think that we're really smart and we have something to contribute. Uh or if we don't think that and we think, uh, I don't really know anything, then we'll tend to be a little quieter quieter. We'll be more reserved. We won't wanna uh betray the fact that uh that we don't really know very much. You know, there's a comedian, Brian Regan, who's one of my favorite comedians, and he gives this bit about um uh being at parties And uh he was I don't know if this is true or not, this is just a bit, but uh walked up to a group of people and they're talking about art and of course he has no no idea about art. And he's like, oh do you like Monet? He's like, I love Monet. You know, it's like I don't know anything. So I'm I'm gonna step out of this situation. Our perceived strengths, weaknesses, our rights, you know, just again our self-perception about all of those things. Uh our accomplishments would be another area that we talked about. Our education. Uh you know, if if we've achieved, let's say, a doctoral level of education, do we want to make sure that everybody knows that? That hey you need to call me Dr. So and so. Uh or you know, there's there's people who just don't care that they've achieved the highest levels. They have their terminal degree as it's called. And you would never know it because they they don't put it on their name, they don't they don't mention it. Um so uh sometimes what what what our education is our achievement in athletics our achievements in business finances uh our accomplishments So our occupations would be another area, what we do, what we're good at. You know, I'm a plumber, I'm a baker, I'm a housewife, I'm a homeschool, uh, I'm a I'm a pastor, I'm an accountant. Um We we identify ourselves by those things. Our hobbies, things that we enjoy, things that we're passionate about. Um sports teams. And there's a couple others that I was reminded of this week in various ways. Um and and these tend to come out maybe a little bit more often. And those could be uh, if you will, psychological labels that we attach to ourselves, uh, most of which are self-diagnosed, if you will. Uh have you ever heard anybody say, I'm a perfectionist? And so the way that they relate with others and the way that they do uh i interact in life is uh well I'm a perfectionist and so therefore I'm gonna have a higher standard than everybody else. And if you don't meet my standard then I'm gonna I'm gonna try and you know meet my own standard uh and and uh get upset if other people aren't aren't doing that. Or have you heard people say, oh yeah, I'm O C D, right? Uh and so I'm I'm really paranoid. I everything has to be just in order, everything has to be organized, everything has to be clean. Or I'm ADHD. Uh I I can't keep attention. Uh I'm very energetic. I have a hard time focusing. Uh and so they somebody can a attach themselves attach their identity to that and excuse their behavior Or uh someone might say, I'm a cancer survivor, and that becomes their identity, but they've they've gone through that struggle and uh and they Now that's the most important thing about them. Or they might say, I'm an alcoholic, even though they haven't had a drink for ten years. But once an alcoholic, always an alcoholic, so that's my identity now. And w I said, remember that not all of these things are bad. I mean so some of these things are just reality. You know, you you have the culture that you grew up with. You speak the language that you speak. So just because you identify yourself with these things doesn't mean it's a bad thing. It's just helpful to be aware of what are the things That you attach to your own identity. But they can become a problem if we take these, and all of these things are temporary identities, they're temporary realities. And i i if we say if if this isn't true about me, or if someone denies this, or if I have to for some reason let go of this, or if I lose this, like if I lose my job or if I lose my spouse or, you know, lose one of these aspects of our identity, then I don't know who I am. And then we can go into a state of depression because all of a sudden life is has lost meaning and significance because now I don't know who I am. What what am I? What's my purpose in life? Um if my child rebels against me and no I'm no longer a good mother, then oh my goodness, what of how am I supposed to live? What am I supposed to do? I'm an utter failure. And so we have to acknowledge the reality that these are temporary identities and we have to consider what role they're playing in our attitudes. We also looked at Scripture uh to see examples of individuals in Scripture positively and negatively who uh behaved on the basis of their uh perceived identities, those who were kings, uh, those who were slaves, those who were servants of Christ. And uh and so we talked about a number of those. And then we started into the identities that God gives us. So this is where I want to spend most of our time this morning. We identified two of them. We looked at two of them. The fact that we are in Christ. I went ahead and listed them all out in your in your handout. We are in Christ, and we saw that from Romans chapter 6, that when God saves us, that no longer are we isolated in this world uh in eternity, but we are attached intimately to Christ, that in God's eyes we are enveloped in the person and work of Christ. So that when we think about Christ living And dying, being buried, and resurrected, that we are with him, we were buried with him, we were raised with him We are in Christ. So everything that is true about Christ in a spiritual sense is true about us. We are seated with him, Ephesians says, in the heavenly places. We are co heirs with Christ. We have everything that Christ has Though for us now it's it's not a reality. It's it's an under it's a spiritual reality, but it's not a physical reality. It will become a physical reality in eternity. We also look at the fact that we are justified, that even though we are all sinners, we've all rebelled against God, we've all been hostile to God, and we are deserving of the wrath of God, God, by the work of Christ has justified us, which is to say that he has declared us righteous in Christ. And this is huge because we often struggle so much with the sins of the past. Uh and What I mean is we struggle with guilt, we struggle with shame. We look back and and we can attach ourselves to our sin and this this is this is what I used to do, this is who I am. And we have to remember that in because we are in Christ, we are justified. We are made righteous. We are not just declared innocent. But we are declared righteous, that the righteousness of Christ belongs to us. We wear the robes of Christ's righteousness. We no longer wear the jersey, if you will, of our old sin. where we are on the the the team of sinners. We're now on Christ's team. We wear his jersey. We wear his clothes and because if I can use the analogy, he's won the championship, we too our champions. And so we shouldn't think of ourselves predominantly in the sense of who we are and what we've done in the past, the sins that we've struggled with, the the mistakes that we've made. We need to think of ourselves predominantly as justified, as those who are righteous in Christ, acknowledging, though, that we're not perfect in this life. But again, Christ is making us perfect in sanctification, and He will complete that work in glorification So the example, the ta passage we looked at was 1 Corinthians 6, 9 through 11, where Paul lists out a number of sins Among which is homosexuality, and the only reason I'm going to mention that one o out of the rest is because of the tendency that people have to make that their identity. To not just say I struggle with this, but to say I am this. I am gay. I am lesbian. I am a Christian, what a uh gay person, what whatever that might be. I am transgender. And and when the gospel comes to a person and they truly believe in Christ, they can no longer say, this is what I am They must say, I am in Christ, I am righteous in Christ. Yes, I must I might struggle with this, but that is not who I am. I am in Christ. I am a new person. So, justification is a critical doctrine to understand who we are. The next uh identity that we want to look at is the fact that we are adopted That we are adopted as God's children. Turn to Galatians chapter three, verse twenty-six. It's just a brief statement here that that Paul makes, but he's using an illustration of pi a picture that is that is really important. Galatians chapter three. Uh I'm gonna actually read verses twenty-three to twenty-nine. Paul writes But before faith came, we were kept in custody under the law, being shut up to the faith which was later to be revealed Therefore, the law has become our tutor to lead us to Christ, so that we may be justified by faith. But now that faith has come, we are no longer under a tutor For you are all sons of God through faith in Christ Jesus. That's the key verse there, verse 26. For you are all sons of God through faith. For all of you who were baptized into Christ Jesus have clothed yourselves with Christ. There's the idea of being in Christ. Verse twenty eight, for there is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free man, there is neither male nor female, for you are all one in Christ. And if you belong to Christ, then you are Abraham's descendants heirs according to promise. So you see a number of these things kind of all coming together in this one passage. In verse 28, he he identified, he lists out Typical identities that people have. I'm Jew. That's the most important thing about me. You're a Gentile. That's the most important thing about you. I'm male. I'm female. Uh or my my culture is uh oh he doesn't list cultures here. I'm thinking of uh uh when in other pair uh places where he lists Barbarian Scythian and whatnot. But uh slave. You know, I'm a slave. That that's my identity. Or no, I'm a free man. No no one can enslave me. Nobody can tell me what to do because I'm a free man. In the church, these might be realities. You might be a Jew and you might be a Gentile, you might be male, female, you might be a slave, you might be a free man. But that's not the most important thing about you. The most important thing about you Is that you are in Christ. And specifically for the moment, what I want to point out, again, is that we are all sons and daughters of God through faith in Christ. We are adopted into God's family. Another passage would be Romans chapter 8, verses 15 to 17, where Paul writes, For you have not received the spirit of slavery leading to fear again, but you have received a spirit of adoption as son. Sons by which we cry out Abba Father. The Spirit Himself testifies with our Spirit that we are children of God, and if children, heirs also Heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ. And if indeed we suffer with him, we that we may also be glorified with him. Oh, I I put an an their word. There shouldn't be. Let me read verse seventeen again. And if children, heirs also, heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, if indeed we suffer with him So that we may also be glorified with him. So we are children of God. We are sons and daughters of God. Do you think it makes a difference if you were to think of yourself as a son of, I'm just going to say John Doe, John and Jane Doe, just an anonymous person in the world. uh some uh parents who are nondescript, who don't stand out in any significant way, just two normal people in the world, versus today at least. Let me change who I was going to say. Um trying to think of someone who everyone would appreciate being a son or daughter of. Uh well, regardless of what you think of person Just think of the the the um status in life, okay? Regardless of what you think of the person. If you were a son or daughter of Donald Trump Okay? Again, forget forget him, forget the person. Just think, I'm the president's if you want to say Barack Obama, whatever, I'm the president's son or daughter. Do you think that makes a difference in how you live your life? And how you think about yourself? The privileges that you have, uh the wealth that you have, the opportunities that will go with you for the rest of your life. For the rest of your life, you will be known as President so-and-so's son or daughter. That makes a difference who we think our parents are. That that that the point here is not to say, you know, that your own parents and my own parents are insignificant. The point is to say if we think of ourselves as God's parents Children, that has an impact on how we think about ourselves. And specifically here, Paul, and he does this also in Galatians 3, he points out the fact that if we are children, that means we are heirs. The Psalms say that God owns the cattle on a thousand hills, right? The Psalms say that the earth is the Lord's and all it contains. Everything belongs to God because He created everything. And the scripture says that because we are in Christ, because we are God's sons and daughters. Everything belongs to us. Now it doesn't mean in actuality, there's still property rights. But in eternity we have an inheritance that cannot be taken away, that is infinite. Last forever. It it's beyond our wildest imaginations. It's not in terms of w what we would think today of, you know, Uncle Scrooge swimming and and gold coins in the tower. You can tell I have kids. Do you o do you all know that reference? DuckTales? Um but uh We have infinite resources because of the fact, not because of who you are. But because of who our father is, right? Can I ask a question? Yeah. So how do you come to an argument that says because we are sons of God, because we have access to all this inheritance, we are equal to God. No. Well, b just that's not true. In any parental relationship. Uh Jesus used the argument that he was God's son and and the and the Pharisees understood that by claiming to be God's son that he was equal with God, but not in the sense of of uh he was God, but that he was in the s of the same nature as God. True that I have someone in Spain that is a good thing. Did y uh you say new age? Yeah yeah. Yeah, um I think I would just say where does it say that in scripture? Uh I mean someone might say, well it says in first second Peter one of these are showing it was right. That we're what? Co-heirs with Christ. Right, co-heirs with Christ. Uh Second Peter one says that we participate in the divine nature. that we're partakers of the same divine nature. But scripture doesn't teach that we are gods, you know, that we have the the power of God, that we have the omniscience of God, the um I mean, there's just such an obvious difference. Even in eternity we're still like Jesus said, we're created we will be like angels at no point to become angels. Right. Right. Yeah, we we continue to be finite. Uh our lives will be everlasting, but only God is eternal. Everlasting is the sense of you have a starting point and you go on forever, but eternal is back and forth. you know, forward, backward, there there's no beginning, no end. Only God is the Alpha and Omega. So I I would just you know, point to that ca the aspects of God that we we will never share. The scripture never ever indicates that that w uh we we will become that way. Um got God's infiniteness, his his perfections, uh, his incommunicable attributes. if you will, uh and just say that God is always gonna be transcendent above and beyond us. We will always be creatures and he will always be the infinite, almighty creator. And hope that the Word of God uh helps them. So adopted. We are God's children. The next attribute is that we are a new creation, and perhaps I should have started with this one. Uh go l uh first uh sorry, second Corinthians five seventeen. Very familiar passage. Second Corinthians five seventeen. Therefore if anyone is in Christ okay, there's that word again, in Christ, he is in Christ. A new creature. The old things passed away. Behold, new things have come. Again, how do you think of yourself as a believer? Do you continue to identify who you are on the basis of who you were before Christ? On what you did before Christ. Are are your thoughts about yourself dominated by the past? Or do you see yourself as a new creature? As someone who has been made new. Sure, you still sin. Sure, you still struggle. You might even still struggle with the same things that you struggled with before you were a believer But you are fundamentally a new creature. God sees you that way, and you need to see yourself that way. That that doesn't mean that you have, again, some y you shouldn't think of yourself as more highly than you ought. But you need to recognize, again, as a new believer, because you are justified, because you've been set free from the penalty of sin because you've been set free from the power of sin, as a new creature you have new abilities. That is the ability to say no to sin. You have the ability to overcome whatever struggles you have struggled with in the past, that you can uh grow and change. Because you are a new creation, because of the work that God has done. He has He has taken out that heart of stone. He has given you a heart of flesh. Spirit. He has washed you clean and you are new. Right. Right. Yeah, and and so that that enables us to you know, it's kinda like Paul, how you know, he had he had his old life, his pharisaical life, where he persecuted the church. Once he was saved, he recognized I'm new, I'm different. And he could move forward. He could live in light of that reality and not be restrained or hindered by who he used to be. So we are a new creation. We are also next point there citizens of heaven. We are citizens of heaven. Philippians chapter three And we could there's a couple different passages we could look at, but Philippians chapter three, verse twenty. For our citizenship is in heaven From which also we eagerly wait for a Saviour, the Lord Jesus Christ Why is he saying this? Let's read it in context. Uh look look up at verse seventeen. Brethren, join in following my example and observe those who walk according to the pattern you have in us, for many walk of whom I often told you, and now tell you even weeping that they are enemies of the cross of Christ, whose end is destruction. Whose God is their appetite, whose glory is in their shame, who set their mind on earthly things. But for our citizenship is in heaven What what's the point that he's saying here? If your life if if the way you think about your life is focused on earthly things, on things of this earth, on things of this life now, if you're focused on the pleasures that you can have today Uh you will engage in all kinds of sin. This is what he's describing, those who are enemies of the cross of Christ, that their stomach governs their life. Uh they they are shameful in the way that they live and and they glory in that. They relish in shameful behavior. If if your life is characterized by seeking pleasure for this life, think I gotta get the most out of this life that I can. Then you're thinking of yourself as a citizen of earth. And and Paul is saying, no, we're citizens of heaven. We live by a different rule. We live not just with this life in mind, we live with eternity in mind. Knowing that whatever pleasure or whatever suffering we experience in this life is going to be just Temporary and it's gonna be really, really small. Again, both the heights of pleasure and the depths of pain and sorrow and suffering are not gonna be a drop in the bucket. when it comes to the glory that we will experience in heaven for eternity. And I should say on the on the new earth. Paul says in Colossians chapter 1, verse 13, for he rescued us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom. That means we follow different rules. We abide by different standards. Uh we we have a different law than what governs this world. Even if the government says Certain behaviors are legal, that doesn't mean it's okay for us because we're not govern we're not citizens or we're not primarily citizens of this government. We're primarily citizens of heaven. Yes, we obviously we are citizens of of this world and and we need to uh be faithful in fulfilling our responsibilities. But In terms of how we live our lives, the moral standards that we operate by, the things that are most important to us. Uh think of it this way. Um we're all familiar with riots and those who because of their desire to to see what they want in this world, to see the government do the things that they want, or because they get upset at what the government is doing, they will engage in all kinds of violent, wicked behavior to try and coerce the government to try and coerce leaders to do what they want. I don't know if it's ever worked. But people keep trying. Christians don't do that. We recognize that we live in a sin cursed world Where every human institution is cursed, where every human institution is um uh uh corrupted And we will never experience the the blessings of perfect leaders, you know, who are wise, who always make godly decisions, who promote good and suppress evil. Uh again you always want to think about the the first century and w where the apostles were writing from, what cultures, what governments they were under. These these were never uh governments, these were never cultures where godly principles were upheld. Immorality was rampant, it was in your face, it was on the street, you couldn't escape it, far more than than what it is today. Uh persecution was all over the place. You if you're a Christian, you're mocked and scorned, you're falsely accused, uh you you're ridiculed, you're rejected by your family, by society in many, in many cases And yet we are still called to be faithful as citizens of earth because of the fact that even when we suffer as citizens of We are more more than that citizens of heaven. And as Paul said there in Philippians three, we are waiting we are waiting for From heaven for a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. We're waiting not for the next president who's going to alleviate all of our problems, because they never will. We're waiting for a Savior. We're waiting for Christ to set up His kingdom on earth. Um I like to say my preferred form of government is a benevolent dictatorship. Because that's exactly what Christ will have. It's a theocracy. When Christ reigns on the w world he won't be voted in, there won't be elections. He will reign as a dictator. But he's a benevolent dictator. He's he's the best dictator you could ever want. Uh and and m even more than that. So we are citizens of heaven. And we don't need to to rebel, we don't need to to cry out and and cause riots and engage in sinful behavior. trying to make this kingdom our kingdom because we're waiting for our perfect kingdom when Christ comes back. So we're citizens of heaven. This is, you know, Jesus told Pilate when Pilate asked, Are you a king? And he says, I am a king. But not of this world. If I were of this world, my my followers would be fighting. But they're not And again, we should be thinking that way, that we don't fight to make Christ king in this earth. We don't fight to make our government authority submit to Christ today. We wait for Christ to defeat his enemies when he returns. Alright, the next identity is that we are saints. We are saints. And uh want to start with a passage that we already looked at, 1 Corinthians 6. 9, which I mentioned earlier, 1 Corinthians 6. 9, or do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? He lists And then verse eleven, such were some of you But you were washed, you were sanctified, you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and in the Spirit of God. So what I want to focus on there is the phrase you were sanctified. There's three senses of sanctification. There's three aspects of sanctification. There's past sanctification, which I'll come back to. There's present sanctification, which is the lifelong process of us becoming really what we are, becoming holy, growing in holiness, growing in righteousness. And then there's future sanctification, which is also glorification, where Christ will complete that work and perfect us completely when we see him face to face. Past sanctification is where God separates us from sin and unto himself, when he uh removes us from being pri predominantly identified by this world And makes us, if you will, citizens of his kingdom. Again, that idea of being transferred out of the kingdom of darkness and into the kingdom of his beloved son. So sanctification is being set apart. We often of course hear the word saint or we hear see churches that are named, you know, Saint Mary, Saint Augustine, Saint James, Saint John, whatever. And we understand kind of the how that works in the Catholic system. But biblically, every believer is a saint. Every believer is a saint. Every believer in God's eyes is sanctified. There there is past sanctification because we have all been separated from sin and we have all been separated unto Christ. This has already happened. Now just to show you how uh predominant this is I'm going to quickly flip through some passages. You can just write these down if you want. Or you almost don't even need to write it down. You can just flip through your own Bible whenever you want to look at it. Think about how As as I read these passages, think about how the the biblical authors, not just Paul, but also uh Peter and the author of Hebrews uh in others, how they identify their readers, okay, the people that they are writing to. And also remember that the people they are writing to most of the time have pretty serious problems. Uh the pretty pretty serious problems in the church. Theologically, practically, they these are not these are not perfect people. They're not receiving the scripture uh because they they know all things and they're perfectly holy. So think about that. And Paul says in Romans 1. 1, Paul, a bondservant of Christ Jesus, called to be an apostle, set apart for the gospel of God. which he promised beforehand to his prophets in the Holy Scriptures concerning his son. Where am I going with this? Let me skip down to verse seven. He gives a long introduction there. Verse seven To all who are beloved of God in Rome, Called as saints. Okay? So you are called, you are elected, you are set apart as saints. That's Romans one seven. It normally appears in the first verse or two. That's right. Called an apostle of by of Christ of Jesus Christ by the will of God and Sosthenes our brothers to the church of God which is at Corinth, to those who have been sanctified In Christ Jesus, saints by calling. Okay? Saints by calling. Second Corinthians, and if you know anything about the Corinthians, this was a church that had a lot of problems. 2 Corinthians chapter 1, verse 1. Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God and Timothy our brother to the church of God, which is at Corinth with all the saints who are throughout Achaia. Okay? So all the saints. Ephesians chapter one, verse one. Paul an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God to the saints who are at Ephesus and who are faithful in Christ Jesus. Philippians chapter one Verse 1. Paul and Timothy, bondservants of Christ Jesus, to all the saints in Christ Jesus who are at Philippi, including the overseers and deacons. Colossians chapter one, Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God and Timothy our brother to the saints and faithful brethren in Christ. who are at Colossae. And then Hebrews chapter thirteen, actually at the end of his epistle, chapter thirteen, verse twenty-four. Great your leaders and all the saints, those from Italy greet you Right? So over and over and over again, the believers are called saints. They're just identified. I'm writing this to all the saints. Hey, tell all the saints hello. We are saints. You don't have to do anything special. You don't have to perform any miracles to be identified as a saint. You are a saint in God's eyes. Again, what does that mean? That means you've been separated from sin, you've been reserved, you've been separated unto God, reserved for God to worship him, to live for him, to serve him. You are a saint. So don't ever be intimidated by those who in the world are identified as saints Because you are a real saint. And you don't have to die to become a saint. You are a saint. You are sanctified Alright, the last one I want to look at is slave. And I want to do the same thing here because this can can sometimes be uh one of the more difficult ones to um to think through. But Let me start with Second Timothy chapter two, verse twenty four. In your Bible, most of the time, that the Greek word, I'll write right in English here, of course, do loss. Dulos is the Greek word that is often translated, at least in the NAS, bondservant. 2 Timothy 2. 24 says, The Lord's bondservant must not be quarrelsome. But be kind to all, able to teach, patient when wronged, so on and so forth. So he's talking about what? Who is he talking about? Yeah, church leaders, elders, pastors. And he identifies them as bondservants, and it's the Greek word doulos. But the Greek word doulos means one and only one thing. It means slave. You can look up all the Greek dictionaries you want. Uh it means w only one thing. It's translated multiple things. It can be translated bond servant, it can be tra translated servant. Uh it's translated um what other translation do you have there? Um B S B the Lord's Servant. The Lord's Servant Um but in the original, uh when when that word is used, it means slave. It does not refer to someone who agrees to work for someone else. Um it does not refer to someone who um uh just chooses to you know they're they're just a servant in the in the church, they just kind of voluntarily serve. This is someone who is owned. Okay? This is someone who is owned. And of course we're looking, we're talking in the biblical context, not in the context of the African slave trade. So we have to understand the the significant differences there. But God Himself identifies His people excuse me as slaves. And the apostles were not at all So Romans chapter one, Paul, a bond servant of Christ Jesus. Okay, read that, a slave of Christ Jesus. First Peter two sixteen Act as free men, but do not use your freedom as a covering for evil, but use it as slaves of of gods. of God. James, who is, remember, the half-brother of our Lord He identifies himself as James, a slave of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ. Philippians Chapter 1, Paul and Timothy, slaves of Christ Jesus. Revelation, the Apostle John Chapter 1, verse 1. The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave him to show his slaves To show to his slaves the things which must soon take place. Okay, so Revelation was written for God's slaves, that is us. Over and over and over again in the New Testament, believers are identified as God's slaves. And again that that means that th we are owned. And whenever we say, when w whenever we Call Jesus Lord, what we're saying is, at the very same moment, what that means is that we are his slaves. Alright. John MacArthur's he's written and spoken on this a lot. His book, Slave, is excellent. But it's just all over the place. Every slave has a master. Okay? If y if you don't have a master, you're not a slave. You can't be a slave. And the word master in Greek Oops. Curios. Not curious. Is it curious? And that's what Lord is. That's that's what's translated Lord. So in Romans ten nine when it says Uh that if you confess with your mouth Jesus as Lord, and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. First Peter chapter 2, verse 15. Uh this is the famous apologetics uh chapter three verse fifteen, sorry, uh where where you know where it's uh it says, But sanctify Christ as Lord in your hearts, always being ready to make a defense for everyone who asks you to give an account for the hope that is in you. What is he saying here? He's saying when you face persecution, when people are telling you It you need to uh sorry y you need to uh submit to the government Or you will die. You need to submit to Caesar as Lord. You need to submit to the governor as Lord. You need to submit to the governing authorities as your master or die. What Peter is saying here is view yourself sanctify set up set yourself apart with Christ as your Lord Recognize that your Lord, your master is Jesus Christ. And it doesn't matter what they say or what they threaten you with Christ is your Lord. He has the demands on your life. He has ownership of your life. And it doesn't matter what anybody else does. Submit to Him and serve Him. And if you live that way, then there will be a reward. Then there is hope for you. Uh now obviously I mean because we've I've I've saved that one for us intentionally because that's not our only identity, right? We we are still in Christ, we're justified, we we are sons and daughters of God, we are citizens of heaven, we are saints. But the r the reason this is so important to understand is because we don't have a choice than to obey our master. We don't have a choice. When you read a command in the in the New Testament, when you read a truth that God says this is what you must believe You just don't have a choice. No one can say, well, I like the forgiveness stuff, I love the grace and the love. But and there's some things in there that I don't really agree with. That person does not have Christ as Lord in their life, and they are not saved. If you are not Christ's slave, you are not saved. Because that's what it means to be saved is to be Christ's slave, to to have him as Lord of your life. To recognize that he is Lord. We don't we don't make him Lord of our lives as if You know, he he's just some Lord out there and you can either submit to him or you can't. No, he is Lord. The question is, do you submit to him as Lord or do you rebel against him? And if you rebel against him now Then the day will come where your knee will be forced to bow before him. And you'll be forced on your knees and you will bow to him. But by that point it will be too late, and those who do not submit to him in this life will be judged. But we must think of ourselves as slaves because again we don't have a choice but to live for Christ. We don't have a choice but to obey Christ We don't have a choice but to do the things that he calls us to do. And isn't it wonderful that he is such a wonderful Patient, gracious, loving, benevolent Master He doesn't whip his slaves. He doesn't put his slaves in chains. He loved us to the uttermost. He gave up his life for us so that we might live for him. Let me read you this quote from uh Tripp Nepal Tripp and Tim Lane from their book, Relationships Who you tell yourself you are has a powerful impact on the way you deal with the big and small issues of life In the same way, where you find your identity will have everything to do with how you respond to the hard work of relationships with others Either I get my identity vertically out of my sense of who God is and who He has made me in Christ Or I will seek to get my identity horizontally out of my circumstances, relationships, and successes. They go on to say, only when I have sought my identity in the proper place in my relationship with God am I able to put you in the proper place as well. So think about some of these things. When it comes to identity and and you are thinking about maybe somebody you're in a relationship with, do you think of yourself as better than them or worse than them? Do you relate to them on the basis that you perceive them to be a worse sinner than you? Uh, or yourself to be a worse sinner than them? When you relate with others, do you perceive yourself to be more important than others? Or less important than others Do you when when people do things uh to to harm you, when they speak ill of you? When they uh lie to you and they don't feel their pro fulfill their promises, do you think I deserve better than this? I deserve more th I deserve that raise more than that person did Well here's a big one. Do you think in terms of what you need from other people? There's a common idea in the Christian world which is just adopted wholesale from the secular psych psychological world of love tank. that husbands need to continue to fill the love tank of their wives. And when a wife has her love tank f filled, then she can respond and she can enjoy the the relationship. She can, you know, respect him now and and she can enjoy, you know, this marital relationship. But If if my rug uh if my uh uh love tank runs dry, ooh you better watch out. I'm gonna sputter, I'm gonna start smoking, sparks are gonna fly. I just need my husband or I just need my wife to fill up my love tank. I need something from you before I can live out what I'm supposed to do. That's identifying yourself in a very different way than how God would have us identify ourselves. If you think of yourself as in Christ, As justified, as adopted, as a new creation, as a citizen of heaven, as a saint, as a slave, if those are the defining realities of your life. Not that nothing else matters, but that these are the defining realities of your life. These are the most important things about you or about me. Then that will have a dramatic impact on how you respond to harm, uh sinful words. To those who are unkind to you. It will have a dramatic impact on the freedom that you feel to love others. It will have a dramatic impact on how you respond when your children continue to disobey over and over and over again. You know, if you think of yourself more as a parent who's done everything right and I've taught them wrong and my goodness, they're just not they're not giving me what I deserve. I deserve obedient children. Then that's gonna change your your response is gonna be different than if you just think of yourself as both a sinner in the sense of you're just like them, but more than that you're a saint. You're adopted. You're Christ's slave. You're, I didn't use this word, but you're a steward of the children that God has given you. And God calls you as a parent to train your children, to love your children, to discipline them lovingly. That's gonna have a dramatic impact. If you think of yourself with these God given identities more than anything else You no longer have to strive to get others to um affirm your temporary identities. You no longer have to strive even to achieve those identities. To say, I gotta have this Or I'm not going to be happy. I need a spouse, or I need children to be happy, or I need a a good paying job to be happy. No, because you have within the God given identities you have everything you need. You have unlimited, infinite resources. As an heir and co-heir of Christ, as a child of God, your Father gives you everything you need. He cares for you perfectly. You never have to worry. About what you're going to eat, what you're going to wear, right? What Jesus said in Matthew 6. How can you follow Jesus' command there in Matthew 6 to trust God? when you don't know what's coming up in the road ahead, you don't know what's around the corner in life. Well you need to think about yourself as a son or daughter Of the Father who cares for you, who loves you, who will provide for you, who will guide you. If you have these identities uh predominant in your mind, You will no longer be bothered when other people think less of you Because it doesn't matter what anybody else thinks, what matters is what God thinks, right? And you know that even if your boss doesn't think that you're capable of accomplishing, you know, the the the position of of promotion or uh your your friends Think less of your abilities or whatever else. Uh it's okay. You can be humble. You can let go of this need to have other people think well of you because Of what is really true about you. That you have everything in Christ. That you are a saint, that you are a citizen of heaven. If you have these identities as predominant in your thinking, you will be okay to be wrong. Or to allow a person to think they're right even if you know they're wrong. Because you know it doesn't matter. I don't have to be known as right. Uh I might I might still think I'm right, but I don't have I don't have to have you affirm that I'm right. Because that's not the most important thing in my life. I've been forgiven of all my sin for goodness' sake. What else do I need? God knows that I'm imperfect. He's been infinitely patient with me, so I can be patient with you. I don't need anything from you. I can be humble because of who I am in Christ. I don't have to prove anything to anyone. Because God has already set me in the highest position. In James chapter one, James writes, Let the humble per this is a paraphrase, let the humble person glory in his position, and let the rich person What is he saying there? The humble person, the person who is already laid low whether they're poor or whether in just a lowly position, th they really can't go much lower. So they can just be grateful for for that. You know, life can't get much worse than this. Uh you can glory that in the midst of trials, and of course that's the context of James trial that you know this is this is about as bad as it's going to get for me because I it's I only have uh upward mobility from here in eternity Uh but the rich person, the one who who thinks that they're in control, the one who thinks they can buy their way into happiness, they need to recognize that it's okay if they lose everything. They need to glory, they need to be um they need to accept and embrace the humiliation, the the humbling that happens in their lives, especially in times of suffering. And that's okay because the what what they have, their their earthly possessions are aren't all that important. Why? Because of what is awaiting for them in eternity And so you you can lose your house, you can lose your relationships, your spouse, you can lose your children. And it doesn't mean that those things aren't uh aren't painful. Those can be painful realities. But as a believer you can, as pe as James says, consider it all joy because of the fact that you have everything that you need in Christ. So As you think about yourself, you need to ask yourself, What is the most important thing about me? What what are the identities that I attach to myself? Uh what are the things that I try to make sure that other people affirm about me, that they treat me on the basis of this particular identity. Is it my ethnicity, is it my uh social status? Is it my economic status? Is it my accomplishments, did do other people have to affirm these things about me? Or What are the things that I'm striving to achieve? What what are the identities that I desperately want to have? And how is that manifesting in my life uh in in how I respond to other people? And I would just encourage you as you go throughout, even just this next week, to think through these identities. And this is actually going to be the subject, some of these are going to be the subject of the men's retreat. But think through these identities and recognize that these things are true about you and these things are the most important thing about you. That really nothing else matters. These things are what ultimately matter. And when we think these ways, not only do we see ourselves in this way, but we need to see other believers in this way. And so we treat one another Not as you know, who who's trying to mi uh be the be the best in the room, you know, like the disciples are always fighting about who's the best disciple. Not as who who's going to be the s the spouse that's right in this argument, but we will treat one another as fellow saints Right? As fellow inheritors, as as fellow citizens of the kingdom of God. And that enables us to overcome all of the conflicts that we experience and will experience. Because we will see ourselves and the other person, the people around us, in a totally different way. Even when our spouse sins against us, and maybe they've sinned against us in a repeated way. If they're a believer, we should not think of them predominantly in light of their sin. We should think of them predominantly in light of who they are in Christ. That yes, they may struggle with particular sins, but in Christ they have the ability to change. And I can't say, well, this is who you are. You're just a liar. You're just a Whatever. But you are you are a new creation. We need to recognize God's work in their life just as much as God's work in our lives. Alright, well we're we're out of time, um and I'm out of notes. So it all works together. Any any thoughts or comments about any of that? What's that? But the across and poor pick a poor reaction. Yeah, we we can talk about that later. Uh by the way, another identity that Paul speaking of Ephesians five, Paul says, You are light in the Lord, walk as children of light. You're not in darkness anymore. Alright, let me pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for uh this time together. Lord, I know these things are I mean they're they're difficult for me even to um constantly have in my mind. And Lord, we need you to be able to do that. Y help, we need the help of the Holy Spirit to think of ourselves rightly, not not more highly than we ought to think, but rightly. I pray you would help us to cultivate these attitudes. of what is most important about us and what is most important about other believers around us so that we can honor you in Christ's name. Amen.