How to we look at how to how to think about conflict, how to address our Um and how to address our own contributions to conflict. Before we discuss confronting the other person in conflict, there are some preliminary issues we need to understand. First among those is the reality that in order to respond to conflict in a way that glorifies God, we must be the kind of person that glorifies God. We ought to be that person. So we're going to talk about the portrait of a peacemaker. Right? And we're going to use We're going to look at the attributes of peacemaking: compassion, kindness, humility, gentleness, patience, forbearing, forbearance Forgiving spirit and love. Hopefully we can get through all of those We will use two scriptures to help us paint this picture, this portrait of a peacemaker We will use Colossians three, twelve, through fourteen, which reads So as those who are then chosen of God, holy and beloved Put on a heart of compassion, kindness, humility, gentleness, and patience, bearing with one another and forgiving each other. Whoever has a complaint against anyone, just as the Lord forgave you, so also should you Beyond all these things, put on love, which is the perfect bond of unity And then in Ephesians 4:1, Paul writes, Therefore, I, the prisoner of the Lord, implore you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling. Which you have been called with all humility and gentleness, with patience, showing tolerance for one another in love, being diligent to preserve the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace So notice how Paul use begins both of these passages. In Colossians he says, so as to those who have been chosen of God, holy and beloved. And Ephesians he says, Therefore I implore you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling with which you have been called. Far too often Professing Christians have worked have a works righteousness theology and identity. While they say they are saved by grace They live and think as though they are saved by works. They work to obtain God's favor, forgiveness, or sense of adequacy. So they they may too many of us have this works right relationship or righteousness mentality. But that's not what Paul tells us in these two verses. Right? He says in Colossians 12, 3. 12, he says, he cites three, Paul cites three descriptors. That are foundational to who we are, our identity in Christ. In chap in in in verse twelve, first he says, You have been chosen. First, God chose us. Nothing should let me go back to that verse. Yeah There we go. So first Paul tells us that we have been chose by God. We have been chosen by God. Nothing should encourage us more or humble us more, knowing that we have been handpaked by God. God chose us in eternity past before the foundation of the world to be saved through faith in Jesus Christ. And this was not based on anything good in us, but solely for God's pleasure and from his unconditional grace toward us. So number one, we have been chosen by God And think of as this is our identity in Christ. Okay? How does this impact how we should handle conflict, knowing that you've been chosen by God? Well, Um does it matter in the grand scheme of things? If you are criticized by your family or co-workers, that does does it matter Why? Because God is favored. We've been chosen by God. God has favored us. Does it matter if my boss ignores me? Or doesn't promote me. In the grand scheme of things, right? In the grand scheme of things, Christ has promoted us from what? From death to life. It what happens in this world around us does not change who we are. So so we shouldn't spend all our time, all our energy trying to impress people Because God has chosen you. Second, God possesses us We have been sanctified, made holy, set apart. This means that God has made us His. Just kind of let that sink in. You are God's possession. He has made us his. He has set us apart as his possession. This is mine. They are mine. We belong to him. He doesn't just own us, right? But by his spirit, he controls us. How does this impact how we handle conflict? Knowing that we belong to God and we are filled with His with His Spirit We have the power, the power of the Holy Spirit to handle any adversity that comes our way. Anything that comes our way, we have the power of the Holy Spirit to handle all adversity. Third, God loves us. Paul says that we are the beloved. That means we are dearly loved. Through the death of Christ, we will experience God's everlasting love. God's love never ceases. It never lets us go. It never gives up. Even when we mess up, he loves us. God loves us even though He knows the very worst about us. He still loves us. He doesn't love us because we are good boys and girls Right? That's never been the case. He loves us simply because he wants to love us. It's not about me. He he he wants to love me. For reasons I don't understand. But when you look to the cross, you see the result of God's love Okay? So we see those three descriptures that Paul uses. And and and and knowing this, knowing who we are in Christ. Right? Paul says, walk in a manner, live your life worthy of who you are in Christ, worthy of this calling. Which you have been called, have been called. Okay? With all humility, all gentleness, with all patience Showing tolerance from one another in love. So knowing that we are God's possession, knowing that we have been chosen by God, He possesses us, He loves us We need to walk this out in our lives. This is who we are. So too often I think we we can and and I'm speaking of myself and you know when I teach, I'm always talking about me I can move away from that sometimes. There too often I can forget who I am in Christ. And when I went and when that happens, I can actually, you will notice how you walk that day, or how you handle a particular situation. When I allow the flesh to control me and not and forget who I am in Christ. Okay. So I said as Paul went through this, Paul begins both passages telling us who we are in Christ and how we are to live our lives. So here's how the Spirit would have us to think about ourselves. Okay? Here's how we should think of ourselves. Not as the world tells us how we ought to think about ourselves But here's how the Spirit of God tells us who we are. Okay? We have been rescued from Satan's kingdom. Now I don't know about you, but I I don't always think of myself in it I'm gonna leave this is gonna be a list, but this is awesome. We have been rescued from Satan's kingdom We were dead in our trespasses. We lived in darkness. Our minds had been blinded by the God of this world. But God Himself rescued us. He rescued us from darkness, and he placed us in the kingdom of his son. When I think of rescue, right, I I I remember when I was a boy scout and when I was going for my swimming marriage and uh You had to jump in the lake, it was a lake, and someone would, you know it's a life saving matter best, I'm sorry. jump jump in the lake and and then another scout would come in and he would you know you would you would be you would be the drowning person and he would jump in and and do the whatever the the It was too long ago guys. Get get in the right position and you know Bring you to shore, bring you so so, you know, save you. And I remember and I will never ever forget this. I remember that I jumped in and I had jeans on Right? So you jump in as a you're surrounding person. You jump in the lake, you don't jump in with your swimming trunks on, you know, and the weight of those jeans It was just like taking me under. And the other scouts wasn't really getting it that I'm I'm really I'm really going down, guys. You know, this this is I I was you know, this is this is not a joke. You know, the weight of those jeans was just pulling me down and I was, you know, going like this and my dad he jumped in because he was a scout master He jumped in and he saved me. Right? And I always get this picture when Paul says he rescued us from darkness. I could not save myself. Right? It's like the weight of my sin was was was pulling me down You know, and and and God jumped in and he saved me and he brought me into the kingdom of his son where we have redemption from our sins. Now I got a you know good scolding from my dad for doing such a thing, but you know he noticed he he noticed beyond anybody else that no my son is in trouble. Let let let me uh Uh go get him. So we have been rescued from Satan's kingdom. We have been redeemed from the penalty of sin We have been brought back. We have been set free from the penalty of sin. We are no longer slaves to sin. We have been redeemed. You know and I just want to impress upon ourselves that this is who we are. This is this is who we are. We have been we have been reconciled to God You know, reconciliation takes someone who is hostile towards someone else and changes that into a friendly relationship. We were hostile toward God. And Jesus placed us into a friendly relationship with God. We've been reconciled. We're no longer hostile toward God. We have, when we say we have a relationship with God, we truly have a relationship with God because of Christ. This is a good one. We have been recreated in holiness. Right? We are brand new people according to God in his likeness. We have a new heart We have been set apart as saints and holy as saints and holy in the holiness of Christ. If if this we have been recreated in holiness didn't Home in on me over this last year and a half with all that's been going on. I have had to tell myself so many times, you are different. Okay, you are different. Um we are not like that anymore. And Linda and I have had a lot of conversations, you know, race relationships, injustice, justice, all these kinds of things. Right? And I would say We are not like that anymore. How we think about these things has to be different. And what is the difference? It is what God says. It may rub us the wrong way, it may cause tension, but this is what this is who we are. Right? It is not like, but it also says we must come have compassion for others. But this is who we are. So we've been recreated. You have a new heart. We have been reserved for heaven. Right? We have an inheritance inheritance waiting for us, sealed by the Holy Spirit. And we have been recommissioned to serve Christ As believers, as a result of the work of the Holy Spirit, we are God's workmanship created to do good works. Whatever your spiritual gift is, whatever it is that you do. We are created to do good works, and those works are to glorify God. Right? That just kind of tells us we are different in all these categories. You're no longer the same. And I didn't have anything to do with it. Right. So God didn't save us So that I can live my life any kind of way. I did not put my son on the cross for you and die for your sins for you to live any kind of way you want. To live. That's not happening. I mean, think about it. You would not put your son not on the cross to die for my sins and say, Well, Mike, you just go on and live h however way you want to. That's not happening Okay. He commands us. He has authority over our lives according to our identity in Christ so that we may glorify us. He wants to the This is our purpose in life. It is to glorify him, right? It is to walk in a manner that's pleasing to him. It it doesn't mean that it won't be a struggle, right? It it seemed that it was much easier when I lived a uh uh a life of an unbeliever, a sinful life, it seemed it it seemed so much easier. It seems to be easier, but I I was I was in debt. I was I was headed straight for hell. But Our lives are to be lived to glorify him. And here's the thing. Um these are all accomplished, already been accomplished realities These are what is true about us that sets us apart for anything that we've done or doing or will do. All these are true about us, no matter what others have or can do to us. It is out of these realities that That um it is out of these realities that the following qualities can be exhibited in our in our lives. Compassion. So we're gonna Um jump down there to uh compassion. Yeah. So um Oh let me go back. Oh oh no it's in the notes. Uh yes. Um Even more specifically, you see verses 56 and 11, in God I have put my trust, I shall not be afraid. What can man do to me, knowing who we are in Christ? Uh in First Corinthians six seven. Actually then it is already a defeat for you that you have lawsuits with one another. Why would you rather why not rather be wrong? Why not rather be defrauded? Even more specifically, we are to exhibit the following characteristics not only because of what God has done for us, but because this is how God has treated us. So when we look at these characteristics compassion, kindness, humility, gentleness. This is not not only what God has done for us. This is this is how He treats us right now every day. So how God has treated us himself. So as we look at these characteristics, as I said, we should consider how God manifests these traits. Compassion. According to one theological dictionary, compassion is a display of concern over another's fortune, misfortune. Is that B Dag? Is that that lexicon for uh Greek? Greek lexicon. Something I don't use really, but you know. Gay does. Anyway, it is often translated, compassion is often translated, mercy or pity. Compassion is not just a feeling, it's a feeling that leads to action. Okay? There are three ingredients in compassion or to compassion. Compassion, a compassionate person, sees the suffering person. Two, feels tender compassion in response to that suffering. And a compassionate person acts to alleviate that suffering when all possible. Godly compassion fills the needs of others and seeks to help. Okay, Me and these uh slides are not having a good a good relationship. Uh So compassion feels the needs of others and seeks uh to help in Matthew 9, uh 13. But God But go and learn what this means. I desire compassion, not sacrifice, for I did not come to call the righteous but sinners. This is Jesus speaking to the Pharisees. This is when Jesus was having dinner with Matthew the tax collector. And other tax collectors to sinners. So the Pharisees didn't understand why would Jesus be having dinner with sinners He says, the Pharisees asked his disciples, why does your teacher eat with tax collectors and sinners? See, the Pharisees were more concerned about the law, which was really a man's law. But Jesus, as he often does, took them back to the Old Testament. Right? Where where God says, I desire mercy and not sacrifice. What Jesus was saying was that mercy or compassion was more important than strict adherence to any man's law. So that was his point. So he was he was really telling them, you go back and and find out what this means. In um Second Corinthians 1, 3, and 4, Paul says, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies. and God and the God of all comfort, who comforts us in all our affliction, so that we will be able to comfort those who are in any affliction with the comfort with which we ourselves are comforted By God. God is the Father of mercies and the God of all comfort, so we know now where mercy and comfort come from. It comes from God. He is the Father of all mercies and comfort. So Paul is talking about the comfort of God that supplies, that he supplies, that he should give to his suffering people. The comfort we as Christians receive flows through us to others We experience the comfort of God, so we know how to comfort one another So we can comfort those who are in trouble with the comfort that we have received from God when we were in trouble. And we glorify God by giving others a glimpse of how He comforts those who are in distress. These characteristics are so important when we express them that the world sees Christ. We know how to comfort one another. And Nehemiah 13, I don't think these are up here. You see that in your notes. Nehemiah 9, 31. Nevertheless, in your great compassion, you did not make an end of them or forsake them, for you are a gracious and compassionate God. Yeah, I think Nehemiah was kind of giving a a a a chronological history of all sins that Israel committed the we know the history of Israel, right? Constantly, constantly, constantly breaking God's law. Right? Like me. Constantly breaking God's law. Right? And he has always been a compassionate God. Matthew 14, 14, Jesus says, when he went ashore, he saw the current saw a large crowd and felt compassion. For them and heal the sick. Compassion moved Jesus to act on behalf of those who was suffering. You know when you growing in Christ certain things, you know, happen in in life. And and and and your view about those things are different. Right? Your view about those things are different And I said I wouldn't say that, but protesters, right? The protesters. Yeah, o okay. And and I'm talking about the ones who the violent protesters and and the ones who w we call them not insurrectionists or whatever whatever we call, right? D the bottom kind I I I saw the I saw the violent protesters as people without a shepherd. Right? And that's when I know that, boy, you you you you really, really changed You know. God has got a hold on your heart. Right? I didn't just say i it was wrong, but I I I looked at I I looked at people who did not have A shepherd. Right? And and and that that causes me to have more compassion N not not to um I don't know how to how to put it, but n what what they did is wrong Right? Not to not to cosine, I can't think of another word, that's sin, but but but it's something deeper going on in someone's heart Right? Right. And so I saw these people as without a shepherd, but I also might saw Mike Moody At one time was capable of doing the very same thing. Right? But I was rescued out of darkness and transferred into the kingdom. Of his son. Well, I now have redemption of his sin. And when you're able to see people in trouble like that, right? It i y you you have compassion, the feeling of compassion, but it it it should move us to share the gospel Right? Possible. What is remarkable about the compassion of God is that the sad condition of mankind did not come about um Did not come about because of circumstances outside their control No, our sorry state is the direct result of our own sin and rebellion against God. And despite the severe personal offense we committed against him, Uh God showed and continues to show compassion toward us. I have no idea where my slides are. Okay, I'm just leaving that because that's the next one we're gonna get to. Okay. So By and large, our suffering is a direct result of humanity's sin or our own personal sin. But God shows us compassion when we sin. Doesn't it? Therefore, we must show compassion toward others regardless of what they have done to us. It's difficult If they have sinned against God infinitely more than they have sinned against us, and He can show compassion on them, how can we not do the same? We can. Didn't say it was easy, but we can. If you've been in conflict with someone and they have hurt you or sinned against you and you know now you see them in a s in in in in in their suffering, how do you respond? Especially those who have hurt you. You know, that that was a time where I used to say what goes around comes around. Right? You hurt me, now you now you you being hurt good for you That is not how how God calls us to be. We should show compassion toward them because God has been and is compassionate toward us. It is not a matter of Can you do it, but it is a matter of will you do it? We should be compassionate people. Kindness Kindness is uprightness in one's relationship with others. The quality of being helpful or beneficial. Kindness is doing the right thing in the right way for the benefit of the other person. Kindness. In Luke six thirty-five it says, but But love your enemies, Christ says, but love your enemies and do good and lend expecting nothing in return. And your reward will be great, and you will be sons of the Most High, for he himself is kind to ungrateful and evil men. For he himself is kind to ungrateful and evil men. It is difficult at times to be kind to those who hurt us. to people who are ungrateful, people who are mean and evil, it's difficult to be kind. Kindness doesn't depend really on the other person's character or whether they even deserve it. Kindness we show kindness doesn't depend on the other person's character whether they deserve it. God doesn't call us to show other people kindness because w b because they deserve it, but because God deserves it And because he wants his sons and daughters, us, to be like him. He deserves us to show kindness, to be like him. And this is how we can present Christ to the world by what we do. Right? We have we as Christians in this day and time, and and always the church, we have an awesome responsibility. We are the salt and light to the world. Right. Okay, Ephesians 242, verses four through seven, Paul says, But God being rich in mercy, because of his great love, which which He loved us, made us alive together with Christ, and raised us up with him, and seated us with him, so that in the ages to come he might show the surpr surpassing riches of his grace and kindness toward us in Jesus' name. Paul doesn't say that the immeasurable riches of his grace But the immeasurable riches of his grace and kindness. God's sovereign work in our salvation reveals his kindness Toward those in Christ. God's work in salvation, causing us To believe. Rescuing us from darkness reveals his kindness toward us. This is amazing because Of the fact that I was an enemy of God. Right? I deserved his wrath. But it he caused us to believe, and it reveals how kind he is. Titus 3, 5. For we also once were foolish ourselves, don't forget, disobedient, deceived, enslaved to various lusts and pleasures, spending our life and malice and envy, hateful, hating one another, but when the kindness of God, our Saviour, and His love for mankind appeared, He saved us, not on the basis of deeds, Which we have done in righteousness, but according to his mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewing of the Holy Spirit. God extended his saving kindness to undeserving people like you and me, we were enemies of God. It is the kindness of God, that Paul says, that leads to repentance. All three of those passages explicitly say that God's kindness was expressed to sinful evil, wicked sinner. Scripture does say that God is the kind of is the kind is kind to those who are kind. You see that in uh Psalms 18, 25, but his kindness is displayed in all his glory toward those who don't deserve it. To say that God is kind is to say that God comes to those least deserving and meets their greatest need. If he has done that for us, should we not meet the needs of those around us, regardless of whether they deserve it? And you can find the little turn. The peacemaker is someone um Yeah, the peacemaker is someone who will who, like their father, is kind to those with whom they are um in conflict with and meets um And meets real and practical needs. I skipped over uh James 2, 14 and 15 and 1 John. 317 few following with with the notes. So the peacemaker is someone who, like the f like their father, Is kind to those with whom they are in conflict and meets real and practical needs. Romans 12, 2021 says, But if your enemy is hungry feed him, and if he is thirsty, give him drink, for in doing so you will heap burning coals on his head. Do not be overcome by evil, but but overcome evil with good. The idea is that your kindness toward your enemy, when we read wherefore in doing so you will reap uh burning coals on his head. That I I believe that's the idea that that that that your kindness will convict your enemy. Right. I I it it if you know you have hurt someone, right, and they show you kindness, think about what that does to you. Right? It i it causes you to think about How much you have how you have hurt them and how could they be so kind to you knowing what you have done to them. Since Jesus has met our greatest needs while we were his enemies, what needs could your personal enemy have that you could meet? Think about that. The person that you're in conflict right now with. What what needs could you meet for them? Are you willing to show kindness to a person you're in conflict with? It's the kindness of God that leads to repentance. Not out of obligation or manipulation, but because you have tasted the kindness of God. And gl God will be glorified in in in you showing kindness to someone else Humility. So to be humble literally means to be low. As we relate to God As we relate to God, to be humble means to think of ourselves rightly from God's perspective. We are made in God's image and thus have inherent dignity and worth. But we are sinners and thus there is no place for pride or haughtiness. God's grace demands a response, and that response is humility. St. Augustine says, has said, God gives what he demands. Right? So if he demands humility, he will give it Right. If we demand humility from others, we should give it. James 4, 6 says, um But he gives gr a greater grace, therefore it says, God is opposed to the proud, but gives grace to the humble. Humble yourselves in the presence of the Lord and He will exalt you. So we Excuse me. We're not to be prideful or act in pride or think privately, right? First Peter five six says, Therefore, humble yourselves under the mighty hand of God that he may exalt you at the proper time God dwells with the humble. He highly values the humble. He walks with the humble. He exalts the humble and gives them grace. As we relate to others, humility means to think of others as more important than ourselves, regardless of the position we may hold relative. to the other person. Sometimes in our positions of power and things of that nature, um Being in those positions can cause us to be prideful and not think of others more than than than than ourselves. Right? Um my my role as a as a husband. You know? I I I think there have been times when I have w when I have been prideful in in in in that role as Head of household, right? Kinda thing. You know. When all said and done, I get to make the last decision. That doesn't go well in my house. I'm just gonna say I just I just you know, it just doesn't go well So I said, as we relate to others, Philippians 2, 3. 8 says, Do nothing from selfish or empty conceit, but with humility of mind. Regard one another as more important than yourselves. Do not merely look out for your own personal interests. But also for the interest of others. Have this attitude in yourselves, which was also in Christ Jesus, who, although he existed in the form of God, did not regard equality with God. a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself, taking the form of a bond servant, and being made in the likeness of men, being found an appearance of a man, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even the death of um on the cross. Jesus did not humble himself because it was right or because it was necessary or because we deserved it Or for any other reasons than he chose to exemplify his gracious character It would have been right for him to judge us. It was necessary that he, but it was necessary for him to pour out his wrath on us. It was necessary that he pour out his wrath on us because we were sinners. We deserve infinite judgment But he chose to humble himself to reconcile us to himself. I think it's real important to know who we were. Prior to being born again. Right? I w when I re you know I I can't think of the scripture right now. When when when when when Paul says, you know, we were darkening in and and and my mind was dark. Right? I I did not understand until scripture told me how far away I was from Christ Right? I I I I did I didn't realize how deep in darkness I was. Um Since Jesus has done that for you, salvation reconciled you to himself through he he humbled himself and reconciled um himself to us. Jesus did not humble this. Like I said, since he done that, is there any level that you're unwilling to stoop? For the sake of a person you're in conflict right now? Is there any level that you're unwilling to stoop to for the sake of a person you're in conflict with? Humility involves an absolute trust in God that allows putting others before us. You must trust God, in a sense. It's this utter trust in God that will allow you to put others before yourself. It means knowing that God is in control. I don't have to be first. I don't have to be right or have the top spot. Because I know that God will provide for me. In his way and in his time. So I don't have to make all the different moves Because I know God will provide for me. Right? I have to be right in conflict. So sometimes in conflict we we we we have this sense of being right. And sometimes you you you you you can be right. But it but it's how you express that. It it how that comes to it. It is almost saying, I'm right and you're wrong. Right? And you get that across and you get that across and you you you you you walk away from the conflict and all you got is a hurt person Right? Because you wanted so much to express that you are right and they are wrong. Such pride. Okay. Gentleness. Gentleness in Scripture is exhibited by those with power, influence, and strength toward those Who are weak, poor, and vulnerable. The focus of gentleness or meekness is the attitude and manner in which we interact with others. We're seeing how all characteristics or relational or you know comes about in our relationship or exhibited in our relationships with others. If you how is he? How does he interact with with us? He is not harsh, mean, overbearing, crushing, or sharp. He's gentle. That's why we go to him, because we know he's gentle Isaiah four forty-two one says, Behold, my servant whom I uphold, my chosen one in which which uh my soul delights, I have put my spirit upon him. He will bring forth justice to the nations, he will not cry out or raise his voice, nor make his voice heard in a street. in the street, a bruised reed he will not break, and a dimbling burning wick he will not extinguish He will faithfully bring forth justice. He will not be dishearted or crushed until he has established justice in the earth. And the coastlines will wait Expectantly for his law. Matthew eleven twenty-nine says, I love this one. He says This is Jesus speaking. He says, Take my yoke upon you and learn from me. For I am gentle and humble in heart. And you will find rest for your souls. Just just marinate with that a minute, right? I mean, can you you can almost hear his voice speaking to us? when he says that. I mean it it's just such a um I I don't know, it's it's it's one of my favorites. Um He just beckons us to come to him. Right? This passage speaks to the heart of Christ. We never have to fear. Never have to be afraid. When you come to Christ with your burdens, your sorrows, your griefs. Your sin. He he will not be harsh toward you. Right? In any way. He always has time. Right. Because That's who he is. How do you pronounce this? Ortland. In his book, Gentle and Lowly, he says this. Christ about Christ. He is the most understanding person in the universe The posture most natural to him is not a pointed finger, but open arms. Right? Just think about that of Christ. He is the most understanding person in the universe. Isn't we go to people with our hurt, with our pain, because part of the the reason is we want you to understand Right? We want you to understand what's happening on the inside of us. You know, what's what's happening with our heart And and he says that Jesus is the most understanding person in the universe. I don't even have to get it right on how I explain my grief, my hurt, my pain. Right? He don't say I told you. He just says, Come, come, come here, man. Come come come here. Just just come here. Sit down. As those who've been gently ministered to by our Lord in that manner We ought to be gentle in our interactions with those who are in conflict with us. Right? And when we're in conflict, and if we have the mind of Christ, sometimes we we we can say, hmm Let me help them. Right. Let me let me diffuse this this this a little bit here. Right? Um Let me be gentle. Let me show some humility and kindness and compassion for this person I'm in conflict. So um That's how we can interact with those who are in conflict. First Thessalonians two seven Paul says, but we prove to be gentle among you as a nursing mother tenderly cares for her own children. Paul wasn't a weak man, and sometimes we get uh gentleness uh mixed up as a person who's being weak. But he described how he cared for and interacted with the Thessalonians Um Proverbs fifteen one says, a gentle action uh answer turns away wrath. And let's jump down to Ephesians 4. 29. Paul says, let no unwholesome word proceed from your mouth. But only such a word as good for edification according to the need of the moment, so that it will give grace to those Who here. Too often in conflict we respond as if we are being attacked. Words have meaning. The words we speak have meaning and they can cut to a person's heart. That's why we should be slow to speak. We should speak with a calm tone. We should be careful about our tone. The words we use should be words of grace and edification and understanding. So in in what ways do you personally um In what ways do you personally struggle with gentleness in the midst of conflict? Know that. When you're in conflict, think about these things. What do I struggle with in the midst of conflict? Identify those areas and then seek forgiveness and be intentional About reversing those habits. You have to examine your own self in conflict. When you step away from conflict And it hasn't been resolved. Begin to examine yourself. What was it I said? How did I say it? What was the tone of my voice? You know. Believe me, the the Holy Spirit will convict you and let you know Patience. Patience is the prolonged restraint of anger. I don't think we may not get through all of this. Um Romans 9, 22 says, What if God, although willing to demonstrate his wrath and to make his power known, endured with much patience Vessels of wrath prepared for destruction. 2 Peter 3:9 and 15 says, the Lord is not slow about his promise as some count slowness, but is patient toward you, not wishing for any of any to perish, but all to become repentance. Regard the patience of our Lord as salvation. Patience, you know, is a uh fruit fruit of the s spirit and um I I remember one time this guy told me, you know, you have patience You just have to use. You have patience. They took me, you know, it's it's the fruit of the Spirit. The Spirit lives in you. You have these things. You know? Why do you keep praying? God give me patience. God, you you have it. Right? Teach me how to use the patience that you have given me. Right? So that's what I do today. It's happened a long time ago. You know, teach me how to use what you have given me. These the the fruit Of your spirit that is within me. Teach me how to use them to glorify you and to help others. You know The world tells you you don't have patience. Yeah, you do. We do. You might not have patience, but we do Patience, as I said, William Barclay describes patience as the ability to bear with people, not to grow angry Or bitter or irritated or annoyed with them, even when they are foolish, or ungrateful, or even apparently hopeless. Patience is the ability. Serenely to take people as they are with all their faults and all their failings. and with all the ways in which they hurt and wound us and never stop caring for them and bearing with them Whew. That's like a tall order. Order you call me to God. Right? That that's a tall order. So what does it look like in the daily life of conflict? How do you show self-restraint toward people who provoke you? You know, people who are slow, boring people, messy people, thick headed people. How about people that it's on the highway? Cut you off. You know. You know, people that you people that get to the to the to the counter, right? And they're not ready. They're not ready to check out. You know, they're like, what do you what have you been doing? You you you just check out. You know, why now you and and and then you know you want to have a conversation. You know, now you gotta have a conversation So so, you know, be I I have to be patient with you know, those people God's patience toward us is seen in the fact that He does not rain down on us the just punishment of our sins the first time we sin. Or the second time, or the third time, or the fourth time, or the fifth time, or the hundredth time, thousandth time. He doesn't rain down his just punishment He is not um like earthly judges who can only hand down punishment when we are caught And only after we've gone through time consuming legal processes. God knows instantly instantly when we sin And knowing all the facts, there is no need to hold trial. Consider this. He would be right and just to immediately and without reservation allow us to experience His holy wrath, the moment we sin, the very first time that he doesn't, he is patient. Let's look at forbearance. And uh yeah, so we have about two minutes Yeah, I do. Okay. So forbearance. The idea encompasses a number of words as bearing with one another. This is a good one. Putting up with others, enduring and tolerating Right? And sometimes we want to bash because we tolerate people. Right. There's significant overlap between forbearance and patience. But the difference can be summed up as patients being more related to short-term and changeable situations where forbearance is more related to long-term and fixed situations. situations. Matthew 17, 1 says, Jesus answered and said, You unbelieving and perverted generation, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I put up with you? I I you got kids, I know you told that to your kids. Right? How long I gotta deal with you? Right? I don't know my wife has said that. How long do I have to deal with you Michael. I've been dealing with you for fifteen years. I should get a medal for that So, and he says, bring them to me. We should not read this the sinful anger or frustration of Jesus' word. From the beginning to the end. of his ministry. He knew the disciples lacked faith. They were um they f facilit f facilit vacillated and were easily swayed as believed as they were questioned. But Jesus graciously tolerated their weakness. And that's what we have to do. We have to tolerate one another weaknesses. Therefore we have to know that they're of their weaknesses. Right? As I said, you know, I know my s my my wife puts up with me in l in a in a lot of ways. Yeah, she just quietly goes about her business and and uh tolerates uh me, especially since we've been working ho from home together I have she was always working home and then now here I come. So I truded upon her space. Right. Okay. Um so maybe uh I'm gonna end there and uh we didn't get to Forgiving Spirit and um The other one. Love. So uh forgiving spirit, we we we can probably catch capture some of that next week in uh forgiveness. And uh maybe I can touch on love um next week. Um then there any questions or comments on this Okay, um let us let us pray