I am Mike Moody. I'm filling in for uh Gabe this morning. And uh our topic today will be on uh confession Okay. Um so uh last week I believe you guys Uh learn how it was taught how to get the log out of your eye. Right? How's that? Yeah. Oh man. Yeah. That's that's that's always a tough one, isn't it? Right. Um so um What drives us, right? What what's what's what's the what's the driver for us? Why do we do what we do Jesus says he has two the two greatest commandments to love God with all your heart your soul and your mind Love your neighbor as yourself. That's why we do what we do. That's why we must do what we do. Those are the drivers. It's about love. Those are our marching artists. But we live in a messy world. Filled with messy relationships. And the church exists in this messy world. So we're not immune to messy relationships. We have messy relationships within the church. How many disagreements, misunderstandings, feelings of bitterness Lack of forgiveness in the body of Christ would disappear if we only looked at our conflicts and our relationships in light of eternity. Guess what? We are beloved brothers and sisters. We are family. Even if you don't like me, I'm in your family. I am still your brother. And there is nothing you can do about it. Therefore, our relationships as brothers and sisters are greater, deeper Fuller and they will never end. You have me for life Because we are the body of Christ. We are different. It takes time to sink in. We don't do relationships like the world do. Matter of fact, we don't do anything like the world do. Right? And reconciliation in the body of Christ flows from our reconciling Savior. Jesus Christ. Christ reconciled us to himself and gave us the ministry of reconciliation. Reconciliation is vital and essential in the body of Christ. Christ says They, the world, will know you by your love for one another. Right? That's how essential our relationships are. Uh the world will know Us, him, we represent him by how we love one another, how we do relationships, among other things. So, this whole process, this whole ministry of reconciliation glorifies God. Clearly it's it's you know process is not easy. But it's commanded. That's what we must do. So I know last week uh You learn how to or you were taught about taking the log out of your eye and um We mentioned uh if you have the notes, I'll be reading some of the notes now. We also mentioned that if after following that process If you simply can't identify what you may have said or done to contribute to a conflict, the next step is to ask someone. So basically we're here in a you you're you're in a conflict or uh you're not sure if you have brought harm to someone. Right? You can sense sense the the tense I guess the relationship is tense. You ever been in a relationship where you know people just kind of shut down on you and you you really don't know what what what's going on? If you're married, you know the solid people, right? You know. Uh come to the kitchen, nobody says anything. Go upstairs, go down to the basement. You know, I'm down in the basement. So uh you know something's going on. You're not really sure um what's what have I done. So you ask them. You ask them. Uh You may ask a friend, okay, is it gonna be difficult to do two things at one time So you may ask a friend, you know, what's going on? You know. Um A trusted friend may be able to help. So in addition to the passages that you saw on this point last week, James 5, 14, 16, Thessalonians 5. 14, Galatians 6. 1. There is another passage that we should consider. Proverbs 27, 5. 6 And it reads, Better is one open rebuke than love that is concealed. Faithful are the wounds of a friend, but deceitful are the kisses of an enemy. So this proverb is about friendship. It's one one friend speaking truth in love to another. He who is rebuked should receive it with love, even if it hurts A friend's rebuke is meant to correct and not destroy. So um One of the ways our hearts deceive us is by causing us to think that I am not as as sinful or as bad as other people think I am. Alright? I know you don't suffer with that. The average John Doe walking down the street and the person on death row shared this common evaluation. You know, uh our pride can get in the way Not as not as not as bad as uh you say I am. Uh who me, I would never do anything like, right So we need that feedback from a trusted friend who may be able to see things more clearly than I can even because of my self-centered price. Right? And we are called or commanded to correct or to show sin when I am not able to see it. Okay? And sometimes we need that. We need that trusted friend to share with us our sins because we can't be blinded to our own sins by our own pride. Okay. Proverbs twenty-six twelve says, Do you see a man who is wise in his own eyes? There is more hope for food than for him. Romans twelve three says By the grace given to me, I say to everyone among you not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think, but to think with sober judgment each according to the measure of faith that God has given him. So we might uh open we might we so we so we might say we're open to feedback Yeah. We might say we're open to feedback, so I'm just just following me in the notes But often when we hear it, we find ways to justify ourselves or discount the accuracy of the feedback. And Proverbs 27, 5 reminds us that when people who love us tell us things that are hard for us to hear, we should listen and take it seriously. So we should ask someone. When we don't know, uh, if we're not sure whether we have hurt someone or sinned against someone, uh we should ask someone. And this can be risky, right? But if we've truly exhausted every avenue and we can't phantom what we could have possibly done, we should go to the person and humbly ask him To help us identify this log in our eye. Gabe wrote out this kind of script that you may want to say. I may say that I sense that our relationship is has has felt strange lately Perhaps I'm misreading the situation, but we've we've not been communicating well and I feel like you've been upset at me You know, you don't you don't go to the person who goes, yo, what's going on man? You haven't said anything to me in three in three days. Be humble and and loving and caring in your approach. Say I sought to examine myself and even ask our pastor or friend to help me think through What I may have said or done, but I just haven't been able to pinpoint anything. I'm sorry if It should be obvious, but it isn't. Can you help me understand how I have offended you? Because I really want to make things right between So basically you're going to the person and asking them, help me tell me how I have heard you or what I have done. That's that's as simple as it can be. But you're driven by love for one another, you're driven by love for Christ to glorify Him. You're driven by caring for others more than you care for yourself. All these things. So it's driven by love. And so you go and ask the person You know, what have you what what have I done? I don't know if you any of you been in a situation like that where you you you you've had to do that. No. Margo, you said I can't do that. I do have a question. What if what if the other person kind of put you off. Like it may not be that it may be that you sinned against some of them, it may be that they sinned against you. But you have to talk about it and they just they keep putting you off. That the tension is building and it's like Well you're trying and I have had that happen. Yeah, so uh what did you do? That you wanna know I No, I'll I'll tell you what I did. I did I just waited. It took about a year. Um, and then finally, you know, we were able to talk about it. But by then Um, it was hard for me because I had resentment but I didn't feel risks first. So Your resentment came from Being cut off, right? Being cut off. Yeah. Real life situation, right? Yeah Yeah. So I think you know, uh going back, asking uh a trusted friend, letting them know what happened Um and maybe you can get pointers as to how to approach that person again Your example is a great example because you want to guard your own heart from what what you begin to experience, right? uh the resentment because you've been put off. Right? And I think when we when we go to people in those situations, we're we are looking for something Right? We are looking for something. We're definitely not looking to be put off. And and and that is that is that can easily and does happened. And therefore we have to understand that if if if if I've done something because I don't even know yet, right, this is how they are reacting to that. And I still need to show love for that person, guard my heart that I don't get bitter, you know, talk to someone to help me through this situation. Okay. Yeah. So I think I think the uh what we what we should do is try again. As Christ says, go and reconcile. Make every attempt possible. But we also have to understand that, you know, we're dealing with another sinner. Okay. Margot, I it you brought back an an old memory of my and I remember when I realized I had sinned against someone I tried to call and make reconciliation. She wouldn't even answer the phone. Her husband for me and I said, I need to apologize and I don't want the sun to go down on this. And and that I think made her come to the phone. I I just kind of the using that scriptural don't let the sun go down on your anger. I mean it's that applied as much to her as it did to me, but um I I I just remember that it was I wanted to reconcile as soon as possible and she wasn't ready, but that may not have been right, but Yeah, that happens within the church and outside of the church. Uh where I was here So we see where Jesus says that um we should um lost my slide. Yes We shouldn't be happy. So Jesus said therefore if uh If you are presenting an offering at the altar and there and there remember that your brother has something against you, leave your offering before the offering and and and go. First be reconciled to your brother and then come and present your uh offering. Unlike the first scenario when you feel the tension in the relationship There is when you feel tension and relationship, here the idea is that conflict is not affecting your you personally But it is affecting someone else. The reason you don't remember could be for uh a number of uh reasons. That could be um So it's unlike the first scenario when you feel the tension in relationship. Hear the idea which you don't remember The idea is that the conflict is not affecting you personally, but it is affecting someone else. The reason you don't remember, it can uh be from various uh reasons for perhaps you don't see the person often and so you don't feel the tension in the relationship regularly. Perhaps the incident was for uh in the past that you don't think about it and it's still an issue. Perhaps you know you did something wrong but you didn't think it was that significant Or perhaps you weren't even aware that someone had something against you until someone told you. I'm not sure if you've ever um been in the situation Like that. But whatever the case, it doesn't matter. What matters is someone has something against you, and whenever someone has something against you Jesus calls us to go and be reconciled. So what do you do? You go to the person humbly, as we said, and graciously seek to understand how you have offended them, so you can move on to the next step, which is after you identify the logs in your IUPC and law. Okay. So let's get into the seven A's of confession. Margot has the definitive six. I don't have the definitive six. Oh that's a conflict over here. But these are these statements though about about confession. I understand what you're saying about about reconciliation, but these are about confession which you do do with an unbeliever. I mean Romans twelve eighteen tells us as far as it's confirmed you'd be at peace with all this. So if you since against somebody you do need to go and you need to confess and you do need to be try to be at peace with all with all people. Right. Um that doesn't mean you're gonna raise them as your best friend, but Yeah. At at a fundamental level, reconciliation is to settle a debt. So you if you have a debt of love or care or concern or peace, you can at least pay your side of the debt And the other person may not reconcile that to you, but that's between them and and God. And then Jesus gave the like the uh ultimate illustration of neighbor, who is my neighbor? So Caring for someone who's a Samaritan is um is going to great length to really show love even for someone who can't really repay back Okay. Uh seven A's of confession. We tend to be really bad at confessing sin. We'll say things like, I'm sorry I'm sorry you were hurt or offended. I'm sorry, but I don't know if you've ever used them. I try to stay away from I I'm sorry. Uh I try to ask for forgiveness. I'm making that a practice. Uh I didn't try to glit at it Linda, will you forgive me? Uh so I'm sorry, it doesn't it it it doesn't really convey the hurts that we might have caused You know, we it it can be just so loose and you know, it doesn't it's it's like you say it all the time No. We gotta be careful with that. I'm sorry you were hurt or offended. What does that mean? Right? In other words, I'm sorry by what I did But I'm not sorry that you were hurt by what I did. We can get it at. I'm sorry, but we can shift the blame or make an excuse. I've said I'm sorry because it's just so tense in here, right? And I just want things to to lighten up. So I'll apologize. No no thought about bringing harm to anyone or hurt to anyone. It's it's really all about I just want the atmosphere to be back. You know? And just I I can just say I'm I'm I'm sorry. So let's look at the um seven A's Address everyone involved. So this is when we're giving a confession. Our apologies tend to minimize our or minimize our contribution, but even shift blame. On the other person. The following principles will help you make biblical, thorough, and humble confessions uh assent. Address everyone involved. The extent of the confession should be as broad as those who were involved, and sometimes even those aware of the situation. So if you sinned against someone, if other people may have been involved. You know. Um, so you do want to ask forgiveness from those people you know, as well. Does that make sense? Okay. Avoid the words if, but, and maybe So these words tend to dilute your confession, tend to excuse the conduct, or even shift blame to others. I'm sorry, but please forgive me but please forgive me if this. You know, I wouldn't have done that if this, you know So it you start justifying why you did what you did. You make start making excuses. And when that begins to happen then I understand that you haven't thought about the pain or the or your sin that uh you have committed. Specifically, confess not only words or actions, but the heart behind them Use biblical language and categories to refer to your sin. Words like lie, verses fib. uh adultery versus cheating. Fornication other than the one night stand. You know, don't you know pride, you words like pride and and and selfishness and bitterness. Use those those those types of words. Do not behind these are do not hide behind uh vague admissions or general statements that minimize what you did You know, identify your sinful attitude and action just as the Bible would do it. Acknowledge the hurt. Affirm the effects your words or actions had on the person. Regardless of whether you think they are on par or not. For example, I know that my words hurt you deeply This shows that the person that you have given thought about how the sin may have affected the person See y you gotta give thought to it. What what you've done. Right? And it it speaks volumes when you ask for forgiveness to someone and you actually Um say um You've given thought to how your sin may have affected them. Right. I was trying to think of the uh most recent example. Um Without having to do that. Oh. Um so this person I know experiences anxiety Right. And um um they were telling me about it. Right. And I just blew it off Right. And um oh come on deal with it kind of thing. Right. And um I saw the look on a face, right, and immediately I said, Oh my goodness. And so I went back and I asked for forgiveness and I shared with her that uh I was so insensitive, what I said was so ins insensitive you know, to her and uh wasn't understanding about her emotions and um And uh how I needed to be more sensitive to her pain and what she was feeling. It was definitely wrong for me to not take her emotions and how she deals with those and how she reacts into consideration. And I was very selfish for how I uh did that, you know And um she it it really helped and she she understood. Now even after that, okay, uh I'm very much conscious you know, when she gets into the when when her anxiety level goes up Okay. Could you share if she's a believer or non-believer? Yeah, she is my wife. I think you set me up for that, right? If you think about it, scripture says, you know, that would be the more biblical response to it, but Yeah. Yeah. Uh yeah, yeah. And not only that, I think part of this lesson is, you know, how you practice, you know, moving forward. So really practice and being sensitive there. Right. Um yeah. Uh to ask you know, to answer the question, right. Uh Acknowledge the hurt. Like I said, you know, you would you would say something like, I know I hurt you deeply. So you you you have to think about what The other person. Except the consequences. Some offenses may require more formal restitution of justice. Some offenses may entail a loss of privilege. Some offenses require time and effort to regain trust. And unity. But some things we can do. The person is not may not forgive right away. Right? Um And there may be be consequences for the sins that we we commit. They may not be so ready to embrace you or or allow you into their lives like before. They can be guarded for a while. They don't want to risk being hurt or some of those kind of a things. Alter your behavior. If appropriate, explain what changes you need to make. I need to be more sensitive to your feelings of how you deal with pain. Right? Um they how I deal with it is is totally different from you. That is not an excuse for me. to not consider how you deal with anybody. Right? I don't I don't say I'm never gonna do that again. You know, so I want to make sure that um uh I put you first and understand what you're dealing with. Okay. So alter your behavior. You ask for forgiveness. And this is this is uh a big one, right? You ask for forgiveness. And what do we want? We want to be forgiven. And we have a hard time when we're not immediately forgiven. So in order for a transactional forgiveness to happen, you must give the person Um the other person an opportunity to response and you have to allow them time to forgive Um have you been in a situation where you asked for forgiveness and the person wasn't so readily willing to for to forgive you a at that point? A lot of times it it depends on who the person is and the offense. You know, how deeply you have hurt it. You know, trust can be involved. So a lot of things can happen. But we have to understand that we have we have sinned against someone Right? And allow that person to go through whatever they need to go through to uh come to that place of forgiveness But the word says they are to forgive, right? But we're gonna allow time. We're gonna be consensitive to and And hopefully they get to to that place. So we do ask for um So if the person don't forgive you right away, keep in mind the central goal of biblical reconciliation, which is to glorify God So question, what do you what do you normally do when you ask for forgiveness and it doesn't come right away? What w have you been in that situation? You guys deal with some great people. Okay, I've been in that and you you pray and you wait until they I mean there's there's nothing you can do and and for me idea to think back on I asked the Lord to help me see it from from the person's perspective. Um So that that helped me keep my heart right. Yeah, about the same I ask God to I pray for the person, right, that God puts off in their hearts and that um That it gives me patience and that I continue to show the person love and kindness, you know. And that's really all that I'm able to do is to continue to show the person love and care as if they have forgiven me. Don't go d don't don't have the expectation either now. It's just not to have the expectation. You know I have the hope, right? But if I put an expectation on it, I'm usually going to wind up in a bad place. Because they're not going to forgive in the time and the manner that I would want them to forgive. Because I place an expectation Um so um any other comments you guys have on that That might be our answer right there. The goal of biblical reconciliation is to glorify God. So in our behavior, specifically dealing with an unbeliever, our behavior And our action is to glorify God, not necessarily to reconcile with that unbeliever, but that if we've sinned against them, that we apologize, ask forgiveness They may not and probably won't forgive us and that that's that's that we pray for them, but like you said, we're not gonna invite them over for dinner, you know. And and what I heard from yours it didn't So reconcili you know you want to reconcile with them but you know I I don't know the details of what you're talking about but from what it sounds like it doesn't sound like you sinned against them Yeah. So if anybody needs to to come to somebody who's a reconciliation, it's not you going to them. You haven't done anything that would need reconciliation though. Right? Like you haven't sinned against them It's it's just what this is. How am I glorifying God? um to my family. You know what what does what what what does that look like, you know, to my brothers and my sisters Right. In conjunction with desiring to have the relationship. So yes, all that we do is to glorify Mike, I I wanted to add that um glorif if you if we have the objective of glorifying God, that really that's a very high standard that purifies our motives. Because I know for myself I don't I don't want to have any enemies, I want everyone to like me and etc. So that becomes my objective rather than glorifying God. So I'm not really looking to reconcile for the sake of God's glory. It's just for my own uh ease and uh wanting to get along with people and so forth. It's so selfish and prideful. Yeah yeah, yeah, exactly. At the core. At the core. It's it's all about you. Yeah, yeah. Yeah Yeah. I I I think I think you know when you really dig deep down it it's not about God. It it's it's it's it is about you and and only you. And I think when it becomes so much about us, it's difficult when we don't when when we ask for forgiveness and we don't get it in our time. Right? Um None of this would work if it was just all about me. You know. Uh if I'm driven by my own pride and what I look like You know, uh none of this is gonna work. Uh because this is driven by glorifying God, loving God, and loving others Yeah. So just just to clear up some confusion, Michael's gonna help me out because I'm waiting for me. But um You can't have complete reconciliation with somebody. Like in your case it's not that you said against them, they said against you. And you're showing them love and care And what I've been taught is that you're doing what you're supposed to be doing. But you can't have complete reconciliation until the person who sinned against you repents of their sin. Mm-hmm which in this case they're not going to be able to do because they're not believers. Um, so it's not that you can't have peace, it's not that you can't get along, it's not that you can't show love, but there isn't that complete reconciliation unless the other person repents So repentance with with w within the body of Christ. Right? Right. But I mean even in her case you can't have you can't have reconciliation using that term. if the other people never turn from what they're doing. Yeah. Yeah. I understand what you're saying. Yes, sir. Yes, forgiveness is very, very difficult. To forgive yes. I I can only imagine with a story like that And it takes the power of God to walk us through this and trust in Him in these kinds of situations. But this is what he called us to do. And he doesn't call us to do it on our own. It is by the power of the Holy Spirit working through his word that we are able to do these things. It is hard. Yes. Yes, easy to forget my own sins. Right? That would nail to the problem And I think these are the things that we have to remember. We we we we need to remember In times uh when we need to uh forgive and when we add for forgiveness. And then we sin against another person Okay, anything else? Yeah, you know, yeah. Well Mike, you should take this class from here to the end of the quarter and not invite the A's out. I don't know about that. Y y you know what you what you say was was so very important. And again, relying upon the Holy Spirit and looking to the cross Um understanding all my sin that I I commit and will forgive for. Any other comments or questions? About ten thirty, a few minutes early. All right. We'll close out uh gate. Kurt, will you uh close with in practice?