Right, I want to start with a couple introductory things I thought. Um just a reminder on the definitions that we talked about last week. That peace is a state of well-being, harmony, and love driven by unity and desires, goals, and purposes. So that would be the ultimate condition of peace, you know, where there's complete unity, there's like-mindedness, you know, that that uh term is used repeatedly in the New Testament, a being of one mind, being of the same mind uh and and therefore having a state of peace in the church. Um and when scripture talks about that it's uh in the si in the case of doctrine, of theology, of of uh our understanding of God, our understanding of the Christian life. Um, you know, we're gonna have our differences, we're gonna have our different preferences of the color on the walls or the color of the carpet or our favorite food or you know, all kinds of differences that are really irrelevant uh in in how uh we relate to one another. But when it comes to our thoughts about God, uh when it comes to our our living of the Christian life, that's where we need to be like-minded. Whatever God has revealed in His Word. His intention in revealing truth to us is that we would understand it. That we would believe it, that we would live it. And so uh in In things that are of gr of most importance, uh we ought to be striving for unity, and certainly that's what we see in Ephesians 4 with uh what is the purpose of the church to grow in the unity of the faith uh and in likeness to Christ. And then conflict is a state of impaired thinking and relationships driven by competing desires, goals. and purposes. And the key term here is impaired. Wherever there's a hindrance in our relationships, wherever there's a hindrance in our ability to accomplish a goal or a task uh a hindrance in our family um dynamics, that's where conflict is problematic. Again, we are gonna have differences and that's That's just natural. But the question is, is it hindering us? Is it causing a problem? Is it preventing us from accomplishing what God would desire of us? Is it preventing us even from um most of all glorifying God And so when we think about conflict, uh it's helpful to think in what way is this impairing me, is in what way is this hindering me from honoring the Lord or from us in a relationship from honoring the Lord. And so reconciliation, the goal of it all is the joyful state of thinking and reconciliation, excuse me, thinking and r relationships that have been reinforced by bonds of love. increasing personal and corporate usefulness for the glory of God. So as we love one another, as our relationships are strengthened and drawn closer together, as we walk through the the difficulties of life and come out the other side with a deeper sense of appreciation for one another, a deeper sense of the goodness of God in restoring our relationships uh we are then able to be more useful uh for uh God's purposes in this world, both individually and corporately. There's testimonies that can be given of God's faithfulness in helping us reconcile with one another. another. And so um we want that's what we want to pursue, that joyful state of thinking and relationships. Now, we're w there's a uh an outline called the four G's that Ken Sandy, who is the author of The Peacemaker um came up with and we're not gonna necessarily use this as a strict outline in the material of the class, but at various points we will I'll highlight these just because this is a helpful way to think about the process of reconciliation It's it's it kind of a step-by-step, but it's also just a way of thinking about conflict. And so you can see there, the first one is to glorify God. Yeah, I know this isn't in your notes, this is just introductory uh material. Uh but the first one is to glorify God. We're going to talk about this uh a a lot next week. Next week is uh keeping God at the center of conflict. As we think about the way in which we rub up against each other and we hurt each other, we sin against each other, uh, we we are sinned against by others Our highest desire and goal ought to be that we respond in a way that is glorifying to God. Our natural impulse, inclination is to respond in a selfish, sinful kind of way, but we ought to be thinking, how can I glorify God in the midst of this conflict? That's really the ultimate purpose of it all. And we get that from the ultimate purpose of the Christian life, 1 Corinthians 1013. So then whether you eat or you drink or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God. Or 2nd Corinthians 5. 9, whether we are at home or away, whether we're in heaven or on earth, we make it our aim to please Him So conflict is no uh situ it's not a situation where our goal to glorify God is set aside for our own purposes, but rather our primary goal is is brought to the center and if we're thinking about how to glorify God, that even that in itself is glorifying to God, and it will uh pave the path for how we can respond in The second G, get the log out of your own eye. That comes from Matthew seven, one through five, where Jesus says, Don't judge, or you two will be judged, for with measure to use, it will be measured to you. Uh how can you, who have a log in your own eye, say to your brother with a speck in his eye, you know, let me help you get that speck out of your eye. And so what Jesus is is teaching there, and I obviously just cut off the quote, but um what Jesus is teaching there is we need to deal with our own selves first. We need to recognize that There's things in ourselves that we need to address before we can address the sins of the other person. We need to examine ourselves, we need to humble ourselves, we need to acknowledge our own weaknesses, uh our own contribution to a conflict. And as we do that first, then we'll be in a better position to minister to the other person in confrontation and restoring them. Yeah, well we'll talk about it when when we get further in the class, but it's actually it is both. I mean certainly first and foremost is is uh have I contributed to this conflict and so I want to deal with that first. I want to confess my own sin. But it's also whether or not I've contributed just the recognition that I'm a sinner and uh just like this person is sinner is a sinner, and so I don't want to come to this conflict with a a sense of of I'm uh more righteous, I'm I'm better, uh and so I'm gonna look down on you and how could you possibly do that? I would never do that kind of thing. But rather, hey, brother, uh I I I understand what it's like to to be sinned against and to respond in a flexible way, I understand what it's like to sin in this way. Um and so we we when we um acknowledge our own weaknesses and and failures, whether or not it's related to a particular conflict, we're coming with a humble attitude. And that usually uh makes someone more willing to listen rather than when we come with a pompous attitude uh to to confront them. But the next step there is gently restored, and that's of course when we do confront, as Jesus said in Matthew 18, 15, if your brother sins against you, go and show him his fault. Or in Galatians 6. 1, if anyone is caught in a trespass, if anyone's trapped in sin, you who are spiritual restore such a one in a spirit of gentleness. And so we ought to be coming to one another to uh address the sins that we see, that we observe, uh, out of love, out of compassion, because Um as much as we don't want sin in our own lives, we don't want sin to remain in the lives of others. And so it's the loving thing to do to confront others and the sin in their life. But we have to do it in a God-glorifying way. And then finally, go and be reconciled, and that's the principle where we'll talk about forgiveness and also living out reconciliation. You know, it's one thing to resolve a conflict, but you also want to live out the reconciliation so that uh that there is a stronger relationship. It's not simply, well let's resolve the conflict and now I don't want anything to do with you anymore because of that conflict, but rather how can we live together in a reconciled state? How can we live out forgiveness And the promises of forgiveness, as we'll talk about. So th those are the four Gs. And I would encourage you uh if you're inclined and I would encourage you to incline yourself to do this uh to memorize those and and memorize the at least the the references and know kind of what the principle is so that as you uh experience conflict and you know you will, we all do, that these are in your mind, that you're able to think through what are what's How would God have you think about conflict? How would God have you address and work through the process of conflict? So those are the four Gs. Again, I'll point them out as we work through material that's related to each one, and I'll just encourage you to keep those on the forefront of your mind. Any questions about that? Alright, well for today we want to talk about what causes conflict, as common sources of conflict, and then how should I think about conflict? As you see, the title for this lesson is Rethinking. conflict and then uh just we'll close with some questions that we must ask during a conflict. So the reason this is important to to work through this material is because when we experience conflict Uh it you know it comes upon us, we're usually shocked, uh we're usually surprised what just happened. Did this person really say what they just said? Did this person really do what they just did And uh we just we get in the weeds of the conflict and we can't really see straight. We're we're just so narrowly focused uh in in a state of um you know discompopulation or whatever and We're you know off kilter and and we're not thinking clearly, we're not thinking intentionally, we're thinking really out of our feelings. You know, I've been hurt, I've been offended, I've been sinned against And so it's critical that if we're gonna glorify God, that we have to set our mind on things above. We have to think biblically. We have to take every thought captive to obedience to Christ so that then we can respond in a way that's glorifying to the Lord. So that's the goal for today is just to uh think about how we can think about conflict. So This might seem a little obvious, but just to work through some common sources or common reasons for conflict And the first is doctrinal differences. Doctrinal differences. We see this in Scripture. Acts 15. Some men came down from Judea and began teaching the brethren Unless you are circumcised according to the custom of Moses, you cannot be saved. Some people were teaching that you had to do works in order to be saved. And when Paul and Barnabas had great dissension and debate with them, the brethren determined that Paul and Barnabas and some others of them should go up to Jerusalem to the apostles and elders concerning this issue. And so doctrinal differences uh is not something that's the development of you know twentieth century Christianity where there is now, you know, many, many denominations and many differ different viewpoints. They started all the way at the beginning. Uh the the nature of the differences obviously were few in number. It was uh initially just the question of uh circumcision, maybe the question of whether or not to eat meet sacrificed to idols But then over time, even as we read in the epistles, there were uh more and more theological debates as there were more and more false teachers who were trying to uh insert their false doctrine into the church and the apostles were defending uh sound doctrine and trying to help churches navigate uh these issues. But this is obviously a a a very common reason for conflict, especially in the church Might maybe even in your own family. Maybe around uh Thanksgiving Day w the table or uh or uh Christmas table where there's doctrinal differences in your family. Um and so that's that's normal, uh, and so we have to think about, okay, how can I glorify God? How can I respond in a situation of doctrinal differences? Because that's going to happen. We also have conflict over competition over limited resources. We see this in Genesis 13. Now Lot, who went with Abraham, also had flocks and herds and tents. And the land could not sustain them while they while dwelling together, for their possessions were so great they were not able to remain together. And there was strife between the herdsmen of Abraham's livestock And the herdsmen of Lot's livestock. We see conflict happening in Acts six when uh the church was um Uh growing at a rapid pace. Now at the this time while the disciples were increasing in number, a complaint arose on the part of the Hellenistic Jews against the native Hebrews. because their widows were being overlooked in the daily serving of food. And then you see again Genesis 26. So competition over limited resource. Again, this is extremely common in all kinds of situations. It could be as simple as who gets the last cookie? Uh who gets the last uh swig of milk, you know, or uh something more significant than that? Um these are common sources for conflict And then the next one is really just obviously a huge category, differences in values, goals, gifts, priorities, expectations, interests, or opinions. And you have their First Corinthians chapter twelve, I won't read it, but you know the passage, it's it's where Paul is describing this this uh um uh issue that's going on in the Corinthian church of people perceiving the relative need of one another. And that was causing conflict in the exercise of their spiritual gifts. Uh some people were exercising their gifts thinking I d I I should be the one always exercising my gift because I don't need the the gifts of these other people. Uh and then other people were backing off because of well I guess the church doesn't need me And there was uh just a a difference of sense of value of one another that was uh causing conflict. Uh there can be conflict over preferences of teachers, 1 Corinthians 1. Now I mean this, that each one of you is saying, I am of Paul, I am of Apollos, I am of Cephas, I am of Christ And we have that again today. We have our you know MacArthurites, we have our sprawl lights, we have um all kinds of different teachers and authors and pastors and and leaders that we have preferences. We have our favorite political leaders, we have our favorite historical figures, and we can get in arguments and fights uh over those things And then finally, sinful attitudes and desires that lead to sinful words and actions. James 4 there. We'll talk about James 4 much more in a few weeks. What is the source of quarrels and conflicts among you is not the source your pleasures that wage war in your members. You lust, you have a strong, compelling desire, and you do not have. So you commit murder. You are envious and cannot obtain, so you fight and quarrel. So we have these internal desires for all kinds of things, expectations. Um That uh that lead us to respond in a sinful way. Uh 1 Corinthians 6 is an example of believers taking each other to court and Paul exhorting them not to do that. But the reason they were doing that is because they were experiencing wrongs. They were having uh sin committed against each other in various ways, and they were r responding to that by taking each other to the court And Paul says, don't do that. You need to deal with these issues within the church. And so sinful attitudes, this uh sense of rights and entitlements was was leading believers to take each other to court. So you could probably think in your own life where a number of these things have have taken place if you've spent any time on social media, uh like me in my past years. Uh you know the debates that you've had, the conflicts that you've had. Um and so it's helpful to be aware of why why am I arguing, why am I fighting, what's this conflict really about? Well, how should I think about conflict? Again, this is really the core of what we want to address today. How should I think about conflict? We often think about conflict as an intrusion, as something that uh is undesirable, uh something that we wish wouldn't happen And to some degree those things are true, right? Of course we wish they didn't happen. Of course uh we wish that uh uh that our uh plans and and whatnot wouldn't get obstructed by conflict. But we have to realize that conflicts are inevitable They're inevitable. They're going to happen. There is no way in this syncurse world that you can avoid conflicts. And so we should expect them. Uh I wanna jump to point three there where it says expecting conflicts doesn't mean we should assume the worst in others. Like when someone does something, you know, off and and we find ourselves in a conflict where we should say, Yeah, I knew that was gonna happen because you're such No, not at all. But we just assume, hey, I'm a sinner. That the reason I have conflicts is more because I'm a sinner than it is because somebody else is a sinner Um or maybe m another way to say it is the reason I struggle with conflict is because I'm a sinner. And you know We've point out at various times that Jesus himself had conflict all the time. He had conflict with the Pharisees, he had conflict with Sadducees, Jewish leaders, and others. Uh but he himself didn't struggle with it. He didn't sin in the midst of those conflicts because he is perfect. He is righteous and holy. And so um the the the greater issue is our own response That final subpoint there, the mere existence of a conflict should not anger or frustrate us. It should motivate us to action. You know, we should, again, we should not be surprised. We should not be taken aback by the reality of conflict. Yes, it is undesirable. It is unpleasant. But it's it's natural it's going to happen, and so we just need to uh to embrace the opportunity, as we'll talk about in a few minutes, the opportunities that conflicts present to us We also have to realize that conflicts are sinful, therefore we should resolve them. Conflicts are sinful. Therefore we should resolve them. Again, not all conflicts or disagreements, excuse me, not all disagreements are conflicts And thus not necessarily sinful. You could say you love Chick-fil-A, I could say I love in and out, and that's not a conflict unless we punch each other over the over who's right and who's wrong. Uh but we can disagree about all kinds of things. Uh I was talking with a an old friend uh this week at uh Shepherd's Conference and uh He's recently planted a church and uh we were best friends in seminary and neighbors and our families kind of grew up together and uh Um you know, after seminary went our separate ways. And just as we were talking this week, catching up, talking about life and ministry and family, I was realizing, yeah, we've we think differently about some things And we probably couldn't serve together as fellow pastors because different philosophy of different things. Um and you know, that's okay. Uh it's okay to have those differences. That's that's not a conflict Um and so uh th those are not the issues that need to be resolved Uh but conflicts again are defined by impaired thinking and relationships, which means that God is not being honored in our thoughts and our relationships. Don't think about sin exclusively in terms of I committed an action or a transgression against you or you committed an action or transgression against me. That's certainly the act of sin being carried out. But in the sin-cursed world, just the fact that there is a lack of unity, of love, where there is impairment, even if we haven't necessarily sinned against each other. That's that's a the result of sin. And so we want to, as as much as we can, as far as it depends on us, uh, overcome those situations so that we're not impaired in our relationships. While we may not have overtly sinned, there are likely ways we could have handled the situation differently. Uh speak in a gentle tone. We we can address things calmly and uh we could be just seeking to love the person as best we can and Uh and somehow it just doesn't go well. You know, they just respond in in a way that uh we're like, oh man, I I thought I did everything right. How did this blow up in my face Um and sometimes we just need to recognize, okay, um either, yeah, I did everything the way in a way that was honoring to the Lord and it's just this person's heart, you know, they're they're they're not there, that they're sinning against the Lord, but it's it's not my responsibility. But also there are times when we can recognize, you know Again, even though Jesus had conflict and he's perfect and sinless, we're not Jesus, right? So maybe there is something I could have done differently. Um there was one night many, many years ago when Rachel and I were uh talking late at night and that's always a a a sign of you know not a not a good time to talk when it's late at night, you know, well past eleven and you're talking about something, it's probably not going to go well. Um and Uh she was just expressing concern about a situation and uh I thought, okay, well let me give her my opinions. Let me get share my thoughts. Let me give her my counsel And uh, you know, I tried to just speak words of wisdom into this situation and it didn't go well. Uh the response wasn't what I was hoping And I was trying to think, oh man, what what did I do? I thought I was trying to honor the Lord in this, I was trying trying to give good counsel. And I finally came to the conclusion, you know what, my timing wasn't very good Yeah, this wasn't the right time to speak uh into that situation. Uh and she wasn't in a place where she was ready To hear, I wasn't being sensitive uh to where her heart was at. And so there's something I could ask her forgiveness for. Was it intentional? No. Was I trying to hurt her? No But I had to recognize I'm not Jesus and Jesus had not only the the uh sinless motives, but he had perfect tact. Uh he had he just knew exactly what to say and when to say it, and I'm not Jesus, so I can acknowledge where there are issues. Um And and we need to be humble to recognize that, yeah. Yeah. And and that's where uh you know the exception Jesus being the exception. Uh you almost have to set him aside uh because uh you know we're the no one's gonna ever gonna be in that situation. But uh It is true to say, and only the Lord knows how these things actually bear out, that there are different levels of responsibility. You know, they're they're it's not usually 50-50 and it's extremely, and I don't know what the number is, extremely, extremely, extremely rare that it's like 100 zero responsibility Uh and it's not our responsibility to figure out what that balance is. Um but uh our responsibility just with with ourselves before the Lord is Lord how could I have done this differently? Uh is is there oh w you even if I said spoke truth in love, even if I was as as tactful as as I f uh um know how to be. Is there anything that I could have done differently? Now we might come to the conclusion in my own conscience before the Lord, I I don't think I I did anything wrong. I I don't think that there's any other way I could have handled this. Uh and so we can have a clear conscience about that. Uh but I think it's always good to be humble because even as we examine ourselves and we can come to our own clean conscience We have to be open to the possibility that let's say the other person might uh reveal to us a way that we could have done it differently and had it go better. Uh I can't tell you how many times I thought I did everything right. And then Rachel opens her mouth and I realized, oh, I didn't do that right. I I miss that one. That or that aspect. So So we have to just be humble to recognize, okay, either I didn't do anything wrong or how could I have handled this differently? And uh where wherever we can acknowledge sin uh or um weakness, I think is good. Just to humble ourselves in that way. But at the same time, we don't have to take responsibility for things that aren't our responsibility. So you have the bullet point there. Sin is any lack of conformity to Jesus. Jesus was in constant conflicts, but he always handled them perfectly. Since we are not yet like Christ, we must acknowledge where we could or should have acted or responded differently. Again, there might be a situation where Even the other person would say, No, there's nothing different you could have done, you know. Um Then they might come back to you later after they've calmed down and say, No, no, you were right, you know, you you were very gentle and It was just me. I was just, you know, not in the right place in my heart. And and so th that might be the case. And that's what we should strive for, to to honor the Lord as as much as we can But that next point there, sometimes our role in conflict is passivity. Like Adam, sometimes we ourselves, we find ourselves in a conflict because of what we didn't do. Whether we played an active or a passive role in conflict, the presence of a conflict means that sin is present in one or both parties, and it's usually both. Uh I just again generally think that it's usually going to be both, in one way or another. Uh there might be times where that's not in both. Where, you know, you're you're just you're you're living life and uh And and the other person, you know, just responds or interprets things just totally off and and so it's not at all uh there's no responsibility on your part. But that's usually rare, especially for the conflicts that are actually hindering, for the things that actually break a relationship or hinder a relationship. So wherever sin is recognized, thought, word, or action, or inaction, it must be repented of. Alright, now this is where the thinking really gets helpful. Realize that conflicts are opportunities. Conflicts are opportunities. Therefore, seize them. I really think that if you if we can all get this in our minds that when we find ourselves in a strained relationship, whether it's our marriage, whether it's a church relationship, no matter what the dynamics are, if we can get in our minds, this conflict is an opportunity. That will dramatically shift our approach to how we respond. So however long it takes to work through these points. I hope that you will just set it in your heart to embrace this and think about this and even memorize these three opportunities The first one, of course, is that conflicts are an opportunity to know trust and glorify God. To know trust and and glorify God. Psalm 9 says, The Lord also will be a stronghold for the oppressed, a stronghold in times of trouble, and those who know your name will put their trust in you, for you, O Lord, have not forsaken those who seek you. And you have Psalm 155, Psalm 140. There's so many psalms that you could turn to to recognize that even if you're the innocent party, uh you've done nothing wrong and somebody else has sinned against you and therefore there's there's this conflict between the two of you One of the opportunities you have is to know God in a unique way, to know who God is for the oppressed, to know God's love and care for those who have been sinned against. We're we're so often uh we internalize our thoughts and our emotions over our hurt. Uh we rehearse the the pain and the conflict in our minds, and we're not at all thinking about God Uh but conflict is an opportunity, especially when when we we consider ourselves to be not the offender. I don't want to use the word victim, but uh w where we are the ones who've been sinned against It's an opportunity to to know God. Psalm 140, I know that the Lord will maintain the cause of the afflicted and justice for the poor. You know, in the class Gospel for Life, which many of you, some of you were in last quarter, we talked about how Jesus in 1 Peter 2 entrusted himself to him who judges righteously or justly. And so when we are sinned against, it's an opportunity for us to turn to the Lord and say, Oh Lord, I have been sinned against. I will trust in you for the justice of this situation. That even if this person doesn't repent, even if they don't acknowledge their sin and the hurt that they've brought into my life, I want to turn to you and recognize that you, in your way and in your time, you will exact vengeance and justice uh in this situation, that you will uh defend my cause, you will vindicate me, uh, and I will trust in you. So knowing and trusting, and then of course glorifying God in the more of the active sense of how we respond. John 14, 15. If you love me, you will keep my commandments. So meaning if if we find ourselves in a conflict, uh and if we love Christ, we'll respond in a way that are that is in keeping with Christ's commandments. That is in keeping with Ephesians 4 of the diligent pursuit of peace in our relationships. And so the the greatest opportunity that that conflict brings to us is to know, trust, and glorify God, or just simplify that to glorify God. And so we find ourselves in a stressful situation, we find ourselves at odds with another person, or or we perceive that another person is at odds with us, the very first thing that should come to our minds is, Lord, how can I glorify you? How can I trust you? How can I know who you are in my life? Know you as my tower, my refuge, my fortress, my rock. How can I love you and trust in you and glorify you in this situation? Lord, help me to do that. Help me to glorify you. A second opportunity that conflict brings is the opportunity to become like Christ. to become like Christ. This is really how we glorify God in our response. And so we see Ephesians 5, 1 through 3, therefore be imitators of God. As beloved children, and walk in love, just as Christ also loved you and gave himself up for us, an offering and a sacrifice to God as an aroma as a fragrant aroma. But immorality or any impurity or greed must not even be named among you as is proper among saints. We could even probably back up even just one verse uh back up into chapter four. where uh he says, be kind to one another, tender hearted, forgiving each other, just as God in Christ also has forgiven you. Therefore, be imitators of God. And then even thirty-one of chapter four, let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and slander be put away from you along with all malice. So how should we respond in conflict? Well, he says verse thirty-one Put away all the bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and slander, all the things that we tend to do in our flesh in conflict. Put on, being kind and tender-hearted and forgiving, just as God has forgiven us. And then he states the principle in its most general sense, be imitators of God. However God has treated you in a In your conflict with him, in your hostility toward him, however he has manifested his character toward you, his character of compassion and grace and kindness and tenderness and forgiveness then you exhibit that to others. Even if it means sacrificing yourself like Christ did. And frankly that that's always what it means. We have to die to our flesh, we have to die to our desires, we have to sacrifice ourselves as a as a an act of worship, which is what he means by saying a sacrifice to God is a fragrant aroma And we need to love the other person the way that God has loved us. So when we respond in those ways, we're becoming more like Christ. We're imitating the one who gave his life to save us. And as a result of that, we're glorifying God. So conflict It's an opportunity to become like Christ, and specifically it reminds us of our need for Christ. Our need for Christmas 2 Corinthians 12, Paul says, Because of the surpassing greatness of the revelations, uh you know, revelations of uh heaven that he had received For this reason, to keep me from exalting myself, there was given to uh given me a thorn in the flesh, a messenger of Satan, to torment me, to keep me from exalting myself. Therefore, I am well content with weaknesses, with insults. with distresses, with persecutions, with difficulties, for Christ's sake. For when I am weak, then I am strong Paul is saying that uh in light of the the incredible blessings that he's received as an apostle to have revelations of of heaven, eternal glory, things that he himself was not allowed to to speak or or to write. um the Lord brought difficulties, conflicts, insults, distresses into his life uh and reminded him consistently of his need for Christ. So that he never looked to the blessings to say, Well, I don't need Christ because I have all these other good things in my life. But no rather I am weak. Uh and these these experiences, these conflicts, these difficulties in my life elevate and highlight my weakness to to remind me that I need Christ day by day. Conflicts help us see our uh blind spots in our attitudes and in our habits. Psalm 119, 67, before I was afflicted, I went astray, but now I keep your word. And then verse 71, it is good for me that I was afflicted that I might that I may learn your statutes. We all know that uh in uh the good times of life, in in the easy, uh peaceful times of life, we're we're just kind of cruising along. Uh we're we're happy, we're we're not really thinking too much about the the way in which we can glorify God in the in the challenges because there are no challenges. And so what the author is saying here is it's good for us to experience trouble. It's good to experience difficulty because that's the context in which we can see ourselves rightly and learn how to obey the Lord. You know, when when we get into the eternal state, even the millennium, when we are glorified, uh or when we die right now and go to be with Christ, uh we will not at all be thinking about how to obey God, right? Why? Because we will naturally obey God. We won't even have to think about it. That will be our instinct. We won't have the fleshly impulse to to disobey or to uh to elevate our pride or defend ourselves or whatever. We'll we'll just have the natural impulse to uh to to honor the Lord. But it's in conflict now in this sincursed world and in sin cursed bodies that uh the difficulties uh remind us and and point us point out things that uh that are in us that we might not otherwise know. For a while I've said But uh um I thought I was a pretty spiritually mature person. Uh and then I got married. And then I realized how selfish I was And then I thought, okay, I I think, you know, I'm pretty um you know, godly and you know, got this down and then I had kids And now I don't I don't want to change that diaper. I don't want to get up at you know some ungodly hour. I don't wanna uh uh go outside of my plan and schedule because of the needs of uh this little child who has no consideration for me. Right? We we we just those difficulties point out things that uh that we don't otherwise uh think about or are aware of. And so in that sense, conflicts can be good. And so again, we can say, um, this is an opportunity. Well Lord, help me to see uh what uh what is in my life that I can grow in. Kirk. Kirk. Yeah, no, that's that's a great point. It's when when we're being sinned against. I mean so much of the Distresses and difficulties, insults, even as Paul referred to them, are religious persecution that the early church that Paul and the Apostles experienced. And you know, I think about First Peter and the admonitions there on how Christians should respond in a hostile world and um yeah, it's it's really not uh conflicts within the church, it's conflicts that are coming upon the church and and upon the individual. individuals and yeah, I mean what a what a great opportunity to um imitate Christ Well, the you know the key one one of the key um principles is in First Peter three fifteen. Uh but uh sanctify Christ as Lord in your hearts, always being ready to give uh uh an answer, give a defense to anyone who asks you to about the hope that that is within you. And what he means by that is set apart set Christ apart. Set in your mind that Jesus is Lord. Think about Christ as Lord is what Peter says And put it in your mind that no matter what is a going on around you, no matter you know what what Caesar is trying to get you to do or what these soldiers or what your community or what your family is trying to get you to do in terms of turning away from Christ. Now, set Christ as Lord in your uh of your life and respond then however Christ would have you to respond And it's just before that, just a few, well, one chapter in our Bibles where he says, follow in the footsteps of Christ. And uh and so there's there's um Just a wonderful opportunity for those in those situations to reflect the character of Christ. And and that's what uh creates the question in the minds of persecutors Why are you responding that way? Why are you not lashing out? Why are you praying for me? Why are you still trusting in the Lord? And what what hope do you have? And so that that's a powerful, powerful testimony. But even bringing it back to per interpersonal uh interaction, whether it's with a believer or an unbeliever The way that Christ would have us respond in conflict is so utterly counter-flesh, counter-cultural, uh, counter what everybody else does. Um that it's I guess the same kind of thing. It's a testimony and it uh often brings personal conviction into those who aren't responding that way. uh it it uh it can have the effect of uh humbling them and helping them to realize ooh especially if they're a believer what they're responding the way I should be responding and And so it helps minister to them and yeah, anyway, there's there's uh so much good that comes uh from imitating Christ, uh regal regardless of the kind of conflict uh that we find ourselves in. Uh uh no, this is where uh fur uh Romans fourteen nineteen would say, as far as it depends on you, be at peace with all men. And and so if if a person is an unbeliever, whether they're a persecutor or a coworker or whatever, and they refuse to reconcile, to acknowledge their sin, then yeah, you can't uh ultimately reconcile. I mean s some would even say because an unbeliever hasn't fundamentally repented and trusted in Christ that they can't truly in the truest sense repent even of a particular sin against you and therefore you can't in the truest sense forgive but that's almost uh kind of an academic question because I th I do think it's a it is possible for an unbeliever to acknowledge their wrong and for you to say, Hey, I I forgive you and you know to work through that But it's not always going to be possible to reconcile with unbelievers. Yeah. Which when we talk about forgiveness, we'll talk about the difference between transactional forgiveness and attitudinal forgiveness, which is between us and the Lord. And so, um, yeah, there there's an attitude we should have even when the other person doesn't pursue reconciliation or isn't willing to. Yeah, wrong. Yeah, and that's why it's so helpful to have glorifying God as your primary goal because when when that is your goal, you'll be thinking in in in ways that we just wouldn't normally think. And so to say, man, I could be a testimony. In fact this is the next major opportunity. We I didn't mention self denial yet, but um to minister to others. Um And uh just to have the and I guess it goes along with th helps us practice self denial. Conflicts help help us practice self denial. It's just that reality that Again, we tend to to uh respond in a way that we we want what we want and we we want to be proven right. We want this person to acknowledge their wrong. Uh we we want to uh our way to be to be preferred, uh but conflicts help us practice self-denial in the sense that uh it gives us an opportunity to die to ourselves To die to our uh feelings, to die to our our hurts, our rights, our our sense of entitlement, um, and just uh put it in the Lord's hands. uh to seek his purposes above my own. First Timothy four seven says, but have nothing to do with worldly fables fit only for old women. Paul said that, not mean yet. On the other hand, discipline yourself for the purpose of godliness Uh so it takes discipline to deny ourselves. Uh it takes intentionality and and even practice uh to deny ourselves for the purpose of taking advantage of these opportunities. So again, the final opportunity is to minister to others. Conflicts are opportunities to minister to others, to those in conflict with us, and to those observing the conflict. Galatians 6. 1. Brethren, if even if anyone's caught, they're trapped in a trespass. It's the language of someone, a fish caught in a net. You who are spiritual, restore such a one in a spirit of gentleness. Each one look into yourself so that you too will not be tempted. Bear one another's burdens and therefore fulfill the law of Christ. What's the law of Christ? Well, first and foremost, love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. And number two, love your neighbor as yourself So rather than thinking about how we've been offended, how we've been sinned against, we should think about conflict in terms of how can I minister to this person who's sinning against me How how can I love them? How can I show the compassion of Christ? How can I exhibit gentleness to them? How can I restore them to a place of of usefulness to the Lord and and uh wholeness and relationships if at all possible. How can I contribute to God's work of sanctification in their life? How can I be a blessing to them? As Paul says in Romans 12, bless and do not curse. Again, Matthew seven, which the the major emphasis is on getting the log out of your own eye, but once you do that Jesus does say, and then once you get the log out of your eye, you will see clearly to take the speck out of your brother's eye So in saying at the very beginning, don't judge so that you will not be judged, he's not saying, don't judge, period, don't acknowledge the other person's sin, don't talk about their sin, only focus on yourself Uh, never say anything about what the other person uh did. He is not saying that. He's saying, first deal with yourself so that when you do get to the place where you minister to them uh that you'll be uh better positioned to do that effectively. And so we do want to think about the person Uh and how we can minister to them and be a a source of God's blessing and grace in their life. It's Paul says in Ephesians 4 29, let no unwholesome word come out of your mouth, but only such as is good for edification according to the need of the moment, so that it will give grace to those who hear Even the way we speak should be aimed at. How can I how can I be uh a vessel, a conduit of God's grace in this person's life. Now, you know, I I know what it's like to be a sinner. I have forty years of experience of being a sinner. So we all know this is not easy. This is not an easy way to think in the midst of conflict. But If we can put on the mind of Christ, if we can by the help of the Holy Spirit develop this way of thinking about conflict uh it will dramatically uh impact how we respond. Um again I I mentioned there 1 Peter 3. 15, I won't mention that again 1 Timothy 4:12, Paul says to Timothy, let no one look down on your youthfulness. Rather, in speech, conduct, faith, love, and purity, show yourself an example to those who believe. Again, because of how God has instructed us to respond to conflict in a Christ-like way, because that is so incredibly rare. We have an opportunity to minister to be a light to those who are not a party to the conflict But who are observers of the conflict in some way, whether it's your children who are seeing mom and dad argue and okay, now how do they respond to their argument? How do they um reconcile after this discussion? agreement or whether it's uh extended family uh or whether it's uh people in the church, uh you know whether it's brokenness in in a marriage, whether it's just uh broken relationships that uh exists in a small group and small group has as uh some uh observation of the of the situation. Uh there's always going to be people who are observing. You may not realize it, but there will almost always be people who know about the conflict and so how you respond can be a testimony and a blessing to those who see both the the conflict itself and then how it is handled and responded to So these are the three opportunities to glorify God, to become like Christ, and to minister to others. Again I say, if if we can just get these in our minds and say, God has given me an opportunity uh in this situation. This this very painful, this this uh unpleasant. You know, I love this person, I don't like being at odds with this person. Um you know, we have to work together, have to face this every day. It's You know, yeah, it's not fun, but this is an opportunity. And if we embrace it uh and we ask for God's help in responding to it in light of the opportunities before us I think the Lord will bless us with wisdom and grace to respond in a Christ-like way. So, with such responsibility, or excuse me, with significant opportunities comes responsibility, and with responsibility comes Stewardship. So think of it this way: the conflicts in your life and in my life are sent from God for you to be a steward of them. Again, just a different way to think than we would naturally think. God allows, you could even say, God causes and God sends conflicts. To see how we will steward them, or to give us the opportunity to be stewards. And so if we're thinking as a steward, Stewards view conflicts not as intrusions, but as, there's a typo there, as an opportunity to worship. Again, Romans twelve. It's interesting when you think about all what does Paul say in the first uh flow of thought as a result of the gospel of Romans 1 through 11. Therefore, I urge you, brethren, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies as a living and holy sacrifice acceptable to God, which is your spiritual service of worship. And what does that worship look like? Well, among other things, never pay back evil for evil to anyone. Respect what is right in the sight of all men. If possible, so far as it depends on you, be at peace with all men Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. So those are just ways in which we worship God in response to conflict. And then also stewards view conflicts not in terms of personal offenses, but in terms of divine priorities. Divine priorities. Psalm 699, for zeal for your house has consumed me, and the reproaches of those who reproach you have fallen on me. You probably know that this was on the lips of Jesus. Uh that when he was offended, he was When when people sin against him, he was less concerned with his own offense and he was more concerned with God's priorities And so if we can kind of step back from conflict and and and move outside of the personal offense and think, again, what does God want me to do in this situation? What would God deem to be most important. Is it is it more important that they've offended me and I need to let them know that they've offended me uh in a way that conveys uh the hurt and the pain, or is it more important that I glorify God in this situation? We want to view conflicts in terms of divine priorities. Sewards also trust in God's sovereign purposes. God's sovereign purposes. Romans 8. 28. For we know that God calls us all things to work together for good, to those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. And then verse 29 tells us what that purpose is, that he called us to be conformed to the image of Christ. So again, it's God's given opportunity to us to be conformed to the image of Christ. And you never know how he might use your response that's like Christ to bring the other person to Christ or to convict them of their sin, to help them to grow in their sanctification. Um I think I mentioned in the in the Gospel for Life class a situation when I was in high school where I had um slandered uh and uh mocked and scorned one of my friends. Tells you how good of a friend I was to that person. Uh but then they confronted me uh over it and uh and the Lord used their th this gal's response, her her loving me by uh gently confronting me to sanctify me, you know, to convict me and help me to realize, wow, that was really awful. Uh and so she was a blessing. She stewarded that that very painful sin that I'd committed against her, uh, in a way that uh God used that in my life. And so he can do that through you as well Stewards know that God is for them, not against them. Romans 8:31. What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who is against us? God is not punishing you in the conflicts that you experience. He is not out to get you. He is not being mean to you. But rather he is seeking your good even in a difficult situation. Now stewards don't focus on results, they focus on faithfulness. Matthew 25, 21, his master said to him, Well done, good and faithful slave. You are faithful in a few things. I will put you in charge of many things, enter into the joy of your master. So again, we can't control how the other person responds, but we can control our own response by the help of the Holy Spirit. And so we should be seeking not necessarily uh for the perfect outcome and and trying to manipulate that and and control that with how we uh approach things, but rather how can I be faithful? How can I glorify God? Speak the truth in love, love this person like Christ, for the sake of Christ, and then leave the results to God I think the hardest thing in con one of the hardest things, there's a lot of hard things, everything's hard in conflict, is this thought of We know how they're going to respond and so we hesitate to do what we know is right because we don't think it's going to work. Or we think, oh, this is going to make them mad if I tell them the truth about the situation. And so we kinda well I can't I can't do this because they'll respond that way, and I can't do that because they'll respond the other way. It's like, no, no, don't worry about their response. You do what's right before the Lord. You you love like Christ And let the Lord do what he wants to do in their life and in their heart. And so finally, remember the ABCs of conflict. Adversity builds character. Adversity builds character. Consider it all joy, my brethren, when you encounter various trials, knowing that the testing of your faith produces endurance. And let endurance have its perfect result, so that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing. We will become more like Christ as we respond to conflicts, as we think about conflicts in a way that's honoring to the Lord, as we take advantage of the opportunities that He has brought before us. That will over time build our character so that as we get older and older and more experienced in conflicts and responding in a way that honors the Lord, God will mature and shape our character to be like Christ. So that's what we should be praying for in the midst of conflict. Lord, build my character. Give me endurance. Help me to grow in glorifying God through this situation. So what are some questions we can ask in conflict? Well just fundamentally we'll walk through these things in more detail in the future, but have how have I contributed to this conflict by wrong thinking, speaking, acting, or not acting? Again, we tend to focus on what the other person has done. What they've said, what they've done, what they haven't done, their facial expressions, they looked at me funny, you know, their tone. We're all focused on the other person We need to start by asking, how have I contributed to this conflict? What have I done that has exacerbated or ca or caused even this situation? We need to start with that question. Um and then how can I please and honor the Lord in this conflict? What can I do that will reflect the the character of God And then finally, how can I be a witness of what Christ has done for me? Because the conflict that we have with one another is just a a a shadow, it's just a a fraction of the conflict that we've ha that we had with God, that God Himself uh reconciled us uh through that he has sent his son to uh overcome the sin that was uh uh separating us from him We can use this opportunity to be a witness of what God has done. We can glorify God by imitating Christ as a testimony in the overflow of what God has done for us. And not just in our actions, but also in our words, and even express that. Because of what Christ has done for me, this is why I am forgiving. you because God Himself reached down to rescue me and my sin. This is why I want to talk to you about your sin. We can be explicit in how we address conflict as a reflection of What God has done for us. One way to say it is the gospel is both the motivation and the model for how to resolve conflict. It's the motivation and the model. And we can both be motivated by it, but we can also explicitly declare and explain that motivation. And we can also follow the model, but we can also explain why we're doing what we're doing as a reflection of the gospel. And when we're doing those things, we will glorify God, we we will grow to be like Christ, and we will minister to others. All right, any we have a few minutes left over. Any run? Yeah, if if that's what it takes. I mean if something goes unresolved, uh first thing we should do is make every effort to resolve it. But if for whatever reason the other person doesn't respond in a way that that's possible Then yeah, we we need to always be ready. Is is there anything else that I can do? Uh should I redouble my efforts? I w we'll talk about this more in the future, but when someone doesn't respond to our efforts at at making peace We uh we need to examine ourselves. Did I do everything I could have done? Is there anything I should have done differently? Uh should I just try again, kind of start over? Uh or do I need to just give it time, entrust them to the Lord, you know, be right in myself uh with the Lord so that I'm not growing in bitterness. And then see maybe down the road the Lord will uh soften their heart and uh make it more possible. So yeah, th and these are questions that we just work through in our own minds uh at any point when we have unresolved conflict. And then of course if the other person dies and we don't have the opportunity to resolve it, then these are just questions that really give us the opportunity to um confess before the Lord and uh um repent of our own sin. Um and perhaps the only ministry we'll have toward others is how we can um uh minister to others who are in conflict and we wanna tell them you want to resolve this before because you don't know how long you know they're gonna live. And uh and so there there's opportunities there as well. Okay, well let me pray