Okay, so um this morning, um you remember the four Gs? Glorify God, get the log out, gently restore, go and be reconciled. Last month, Gabe taught us about glorifying God. Um was the first gene Uh today we're going to talk about getting the log out and uh the feature Scripture will be Matthew 7:1 through 5. We're going to cover some key truths about this passage We all come also will look at how to confess our own sins, at least the beginning of that. So last week we concluded With the reality that if false worship is the problem, true worship is the solution Now we will look at the first step in moving from false worship to true worship Namely, repentance. So if you have your Bibles with you, you may want to turn to Matthew 7, 1 through 5. And it reads, Do not judge so that you will not be judged For in the way you judge, you will be judged. And by your standard of measure, it will be measured to you Why do you look at the speck that is in your brother's eye, but do not notice the log that is in your own eye? Or how can you say to your brother, let me take the speck out of your eye, and behold, the law is in your own eye. You hypocrite. First, take the log out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to take the speck out of your brother's eye. This passage comes from what we know as the Sermon on the Mount. Uh you have what chapters five through seven is known as the Sermon of the Mount of the Mount And some say this is the most famous sermon Jesus ever gave. I found out, read that St. Augustine gave it the name Sermon on the Mount. And that's the title. That title has stuck to this day. When you read the Sermon on the Mount, you will see that it's a wonderful exposition of what it means. to be part of the kingdom of God. So Jesus is teaching us, as he taught his disciples then, the people of God How we should live through the power of the Holy Spirit in regards to our character and our conduct. You know, we live in a society or a culture today where it's been built on us against them type of mentality. And this mentality mentality breeds conflict. I I think we can all agree that there has been so much conflict. In our country over the last couple of years. But what's most discouraging at times is that this same kind of thinking shows up in the church as well. And we need to be reminded just how important being the body of Christ is. In the Gospel of John, chapter 13, verses 14 34 and 35. When Jesus knew that his time had come, he gave his disciples a new commandment. Including us. He says, I'm giving you a new commandment that you love one another just as I have loved you. That you And by this, all people will know that you are my disciples if you have loved one another. So Jesus challenges us by calling us to be a different kind of people, not like the people of the world. With a different kind of purpose, with different kinds of values. Why? To show forth God's transforming and transcendent love for this world. We are to do that. Jesus calls us as his people to make an impact on the world. Otherwise, the witness that he wants us to bear, the light that he calls us to be to this dark world, will be greatly compromised. So, therefore, whether we find ourselves in conflict with the world or with one another, we must remember who we are and what our ultimate purpose is. And that is to glorify God in all that we do. So let's look at some truths. In Matthew seven verses one through five In these verses, Jesus is teaching us about judging. In this passage, Jesus gives us one commandment Found in verse 1. And he says the command, that command is clear and quite simple. Maybe not simple, but he says what? Stop judging. Don't judge. Now, from this passage, many assume that Jesus is condemning all judging You know, John 3. 16 used to be the best known passage of scripture. You you would you you would see it everywhere, especially in the sports. You know, you would see it hanging in the sports uh arenas and stuff like that But today, I think Matthew 7. 1 is the sinners or even sometimes Christians most favorite verse But it doesn't mean what people often think it means. In context, it is not judging that is condemned. But hypocritical judgment, that's the issue. Jesus is not commanding us to suspend our critical features or faculties, I'm sorry to make judgments in relationship in relation to other people. He's not commanding us to turn a blind eye to their faults. He's not commanding us to refuse to discern between truth and error, goodness and evil. That's not what he's teaching. That's not what the Bible teaches. Jesus is speaking about being judgmental, having a hypocritical spirit that is judging a person's uh when we try to judge a person's motive or heart, which is something only God can do. Christ is not permitting us to avoid hard decisions or Taking difficult stands. He's warning us not to have a bitter, hypocritical, fault-finding spirit Jesus is forbidding judging that is for the purpose of putting down others to exalt oneself. Jesus only requires that our judgment be completely fair and that we only judge by only judge others by a standard We would also like to be judged. So in this context, as I said, it is not judging that is condemned, but it's the hypocritical judgment that is the issue. There are other scriptures that make it clear that it is right to make judgments. And that we are to judge. Paul wrote to the believers in Corinth, he says, I speak to you, I speak to wise men You judge what I say. So in 1 Corinthians 10, 15. So in context, Paul is saying that he is confident That the Corinthians had the wisdom to understand the correctness of what he was about to tell them, and that they could make correct judgments about what they should do. We are also instructed to judge one another with regard to overt acts of sin. Paul again writing to the Corinthians, he says, For what have I to do with judging those outside? Is it not those who are inside that you are to judge? God will judge those outside Drive out the wicked person from among you. Paul is referring to the ministry of other believers in judging sin which took place within uh the church. The Apostle John commands us to not believe every spirit, but to test the spirits, to see whether they are from God. Because many false prophets have come, have gone out into the world. The apostle is speaking about discerning or to discern or judge doctrinal truth. In verse 6 of this very chapter, chapter 7, Jesus commands us to avoid giving what is holy to dogs or pearls To pigs. Once again, we have to make a judgment. And in Matthew 7, verses 15 and 16, Jesus is teaching us to examine the fruit. Of a person's life to determine whether there are false prophets. And we can judge the fruit of a man But we but we can rarely judge a person's motive with any kind of accuracy. So in verse five you see the word plank uh a log So Jesus uses this word, refers to the sinful nature or the sinful behavior Words and thoughts in this situation as well in general life. Sin can be defined as any lack of conformity to God It's falling short of God's holiness, which does not necessarily imply intentionality. The Bible alone, the Bible alone, the Bible alone, nothing more or nothing less defines what sin is. The Bible is the bar. We cannot claim ignorance as an excuse. In other words, you know, I didn't know it was sinful. Not knowing it was sinful doesn't mean that it was not sinful. Nor can we sit back and wait for God to convict us of sin, even though the Bible clearly tells us it's sin. sin. You can't wait for this or use this excuses, you know, I I'm not convicted of my sin yet by the Holy Spirit. No, you you you you read it in the Bible. It's you know a lie is a lie. You you don't need to be convicted. God's word is the final standard, not our conscience or subjective feelings. We manifest sins in three areas: thought, speech, and actions. Our thoughts include our beliefs, attitudes, motivations, and Desires. We can send by commission Thinking, speaking, and acting in ways that violates God's standards. 1 John 3:4 says, Anyone who practices sin practices lawlessness. Sin is lawlessness. A sin of commission is a sin we take action to commit, whether in thought, word, or deed. Humanity's first sin was a sin of commission. God forbade the eating from the tree of knowledge of good and evil. And Adam and Eve knew God's command and disobeyed it anyway. King David's sins of adultery and murder were sins of commission. Paul even gives us a list of sins of commission in 1 Corinthians 6, verses 9 and 10. He lists things like sexual immorality, idolaters. Those who commit adultery, those who practice homosexuality, thieves, greedy. Those who are greedy, the addicts, the slanderous, and on and on. These are sins of commission. We also sin by Omission, not thinking, speaking, and acting in ways that God requires. Often when we feel as though we have not sinned in a situation We should consider if we have not done something that we could or should have done. A center omission is a more passive It's more passive in nature than a sin of commission. It means we know the right thing to do in a situation and ignore the prodding of the Holy Spirit to do it. For example, like failing to pray on a regular basis, failing to fellowship with other Christians or attend some type of Christian fellowship on a regular basis Felling to help another person when they have both the capacity, or when we have both the capacity to help that person. I was just thinking about my own life right now, center of co-mission. I have a friend and the Holy Spirit has been nudging me in a sense Well, not in a sense. The Holy Spirit has been nudging me to share the gospel. Can you imagine? And I haven't. There's a young man that um I've befriended, I think that's the word. He's in prison And um I have yet to write him a letter or send him a track. Something of that nature. Um so just writing this uh a alone just convicted me so strongly. As a matter of fact, i i it's like I I have the the the the the the letter to send to the guy in prison and it's just sitting on my desk. Sins of commission Omission. Nevertheless, regardless of whether it's a sin of commission or a sin of omission Sin is sin, and the wages of sin is death. Romans 6. 23. Paul's warning makes no distinction between types of sin. He simply states that sin not repented and not sought forgiveness for leads to eternal death. I think that's the right Maybe so. Yeah. You see in your um handout, I believe you should see Romans uh 3, 9 through 18. In this illustration, Paul points out that all of us are sinners because it's our nature to sin, and none of us are righteous. We don't lose our sin nature once we receive Christ. Sin remains in us. And we will struggle with our old nature or that sin nature As long as we live in this world, we have to understand that there's a war that's going on inside of us between the desires of the flesh and the desires of the Spirit. They oppose one another, Paul teaches us in Galatians 5, 16 and 17. Paul himself even lamented about his own personal struggle with these two natures in Romans 7. Verses 15 through 25. Paul writes, For I do not understand my own actions. For I do not do what I want, but I do everything I hate. He says, For I know that nothing dwells in me that is in my flesh. Or rather, he says, I know that nothing good dwells in me, that is my flesh. For I have the desire to do what is right, but not the ability to carry it out. He goes on to say, now if I do what I do not want to do, it is no longer I who do it. But sin that dwells in me. Paul recognized there's a war being waged between him within him between the law of God and the law of sin. The war was so fierce within Paul that he cried out in verse 25. He says, Wretched man that I am, who will deliver me from this body of death? The answer is found in verse 25. Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord. Paul says, so then I myself serve the law of God with my mind. But my f but with my flesh the law of sin. We will all commit sins of either omission or commission. And there is not one of us who is righteous enough before a holy God to earn his own salvation. So Jesus presents the proper order. You must start first. When it comes to biblical reconciliation, picture In conflict, and you kind of step back from the conflict. Jesus says the order to start biblical re reconciliation, it starts with you In verse 5, Jesus uses a very strong word. He uses that word hypocrite. He says, you hypocrite, first take the log out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to take the speck out of your brother's eye. So Jesus presents the proper order we must start when judging others. And so you must start with you. The Bible calls hypocrisy a sin. There are two forms of that hypocrisy can take. One is that professing a belief in something and then acting in a manner contrary to that belief. Professing a belief in something and then acting totally contrary to that belief. Another way hypocrisy can take place And this is probably more to what Jesus is talking about here is, and is looking down on others when we ourselves are flawed. That's a type of hypocrisy. In Isaiah 29, 13, the prophet Isaiah condemned the hypocrisy of his day He says, the Lord says, these people come near to me with their mouth and honor me with their lips. But their hearts are far from me. Their worship of me is made up only of rules taught by men. Jesus called hypocrites. Listen to this. Jesus called hypocrites and words have meaning. You know This is what these words kind of make me think about what Peter called false prophets, right? Jesus called hypocrites wolves and sheep's clothing. He calls them whitewash tombs, snakes. And brood vipers. Those are very strong words. I don't think Jesus particularly cared about hypocrites. Paul said that our love must be without hypocrisy. Now I want I want to be clear about this. Hypocrisy is not the same as taking a stand against sin. For example, it is not hypocritical or hypocrisy to teach that drunkenness is a sin. Unless the one teaching against drunkenness still gets drunk every day. That's hypocrisy. As children of God, we are called to strive for holiness. We are to hate what is evil and cling to what is good. We should never imply an acceptance of sin, especially in our own lives. All we do, all we do, should do, is be consistent with what we believe and who we are in Christ. We must be consistent And what we believe, what God says in God's word, that's what we will believe, and who we are in Christ. We need to be consistent about that. That is what the world needs to see from us. This type of consistency, what we believe, and who we are in Christ. And that starts with ourselves So starting with ourselves, reorient us around God's purpose. We focus first on what God's expect of us versus what we expect of others. When we can acknowledge our own sin, it breeds empathy, compassion, and patience for others. It helps us realize we are just like those who. Sin against us. So Jesus assigns a greater weight to your sins than to the other person's sins By calling ours or yours uh planks and his specs. That doesn't mean That the other person's sin is less severe. That doesn't mean that. His sins may be more severe What Jesus is teaching us is that we should always view our sins as the more serious sin than the other person. Whenever we're in conflict, when we step back and we look at ourselves, we should always consider our sins, what we contributed to the conflict, more serious than the other person. Whatever you can see in that person's life, their words or their actions, you can't fully see their heart. Only God can fully see a person's heart. We can't do that. We might think we can, and we've probably tried, that's part of judging, but we can't see that person's heart It's like an iceberg. You can only see what sticks above the surface in their life, but you can't know what lies under the surface. of your own life. You can know what lies under surface of your own life, but not another person. So humbly dealing with our sins first puts us in a better position to minister to other to the other person and help them deal with their sin. And when we're able to do that, Jesus says, and then you will see clearly to take the speck out of your brother's eye, because you've dealt with your sins. And notice that Jesus doesn't deny that the other person has sinned. And that needs to be dealt with. But it's only after you have dealt with your sin that you are able to help the other person or take the spect out of the other person's eye. We see in Galatians 1, 6, verses 1 and 2, Paul teaches us that we that when we see another brother or sister caught in a transgression, He says, you who are spiritual should restore him in a spirit of gentleness. And he also says, he says, keep watch on yourself least you too be tempted. He says in verse 2, bear one another's burden, so that so fulfill the law of God. When we bear one another's burden, we can fulfill the law of God. And you think about that scripture. And you think about the church as a whole, of brothers and sisters in Christ, right? I mean We are no good for one another if we're unable or unwilling to help each other deal with our sin. I mean Ross is not, it's no good to me when he sees sin in me and he's not willing to help me deal with my sin. Right? He must do that. He's called to do that. Paul calls for a spiritual person in this verse. The reason only spiritual people should restore sinners is that only spiritual people can. The world can't restore us. Only you, a spiritual person, can restore me. We can restore the world because we are spiritual But vice versa, what do they have to give? Gentleness is part of the fruit of the Spirit. Galatians 5. 23. Therefore, only a spiritual person has true spiritual gentleness We know gentleness because it's in us to be gentle. It is part of the fruit of the Spirit. It's in us. We don't have to pray to be gentle. Or God give me gentleness. I used to always pray. God give me patience. And follow that this read, you have patience. I need to act on the patience that I already have. So gentleness is part of the uh uh fruit of the spirit. Paul also says, when we do this, we will fulfill the law of God. Well what is the law of God? Paul tells us in the previous chapter, verse 14. He says, the whole law is fulfilled in one word. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. So when we reach out to one another That spiritual person, and help one another in our sins or whatever we may be going through. Sin, suffering. That only we can do. That only we as spiritual people, people of God, that can love as Christ does, be gentle as Christ is. We fulfill the law of God. And when the world sees that, it has an impact on the world. But when the world sees us looking too much like them, what do you think They say. They say the same thing I used to say. You hypocrites. How you gonna tell me And I see you doing the same thing. And they are looking. They are watching. And when we think about these last couple of years, all the strife, all the conflict that's been in our world today, how have we represented Christ? How have I represented Christ? How many conversations I've gotten into judging people, not knowing all this kind of stuff. It's just amazing Okay. Let's look at uh finding the log. Okay? There's a law there. You have sin in conflict, and you have sin in conflict. And it's difficult to find the laws, right? So in many cases, some of your contribution to the conflict, your sin will be fairly obvious. You will usually be able to identify sinful attitudes, thoughts, words, and actions that contribute to the conflict, but you can't stop there Too often we, I know I have, addressed the what, the what I did, but not the why I did it. And I found out every time I try to address the what, the what keeps coming back in every conflict. I never get to the why I did what I did. Does that make sense? You know, why did you say these mean things to your wife? Not what did I say, but why I said those things. So remember, conflict doesn't start when we just uh open our mouth or move our body, it begins in the heart So finding the log in our heart can be very difficult. One, because um Our heart is deceitful. Jeremiah 17, 9 says, the heart is more deceitful than all else. And it's desperately sick. These words these writers use are just amazing to me. It really hit home. Desperately sick. Mike, your heart is not just sick. It's desperately sick. Right? And it should it makes me give Paul. And who can understand it? Mark 7, verses 22 and 23, he says, For from within, out of the heart of man, come evil thoughts. Sexual immorality, theft, murder, adultery, coveting, and on and on. And all these evil things come from within, and this is what defiles a person. These two verses should alone tell us we need to have a biblical understanding of our heart. We must understand what's happening in our heart. The heart is the control center of life. Proverbs 4. 23. Proverbs 27, 19 says, as in water, faith reflects face. So the heart of man reflects the man. The heart represents the essence of who a person is. It includes our emotions, comes from our hearts, our feelings, our moods, our passions. Volition, the heart represents the idea of will, of human choice and conscience. Understanding, the heart functions as the source of thought and reflection. Too often We understand sin only as the act or the internal external action. Right? We see the sin And so we address the action. But sin starts operating internally first in our heart. Our heart motivates our thinking, our affections. and choices prior to the sin. It starts here So as believers, you have a new heart and we need to remember that. Just as much we need to know that we have a war between our sin nature and and and and our spirits. We have to remember that as believers you have a new heart. That we are a new creation But the flesh that remains can sometimes obscure our vision. We can also lack The necessary understanding of God's word that would otherwise help us identify what is going on in our hearts. And that is why the Lord encouraged us to cry out for help. And we see in Psalms 139, David cries, Search me, O God, and know my heart. Try me and know my anxious thoughts and see if there's any hurtful way in me and lead me in everlasting However, our propensity to self-deception is why God has given us others in the body of Christ whom we can help. That is very, very important. I have a slogan that I live by, right? That I try to practice Left alone to myself, I will self-destruct. I told you earlier I have people like like I I know that I I need Ross I need Ross so I won't deceive myself. Right? I need another brother in Christ to help me. Maneuver through all the stuff that goes on that I that that that can deceive me. That's one reason why we need one another And believe me, there are people I know that I can go to that will say will sugarcoat it as I will say. But a Roth will say, nah, Mike, that's And I'm going to help you get through that. But that's that's that's sin. And that's what I need Right. We are more often than not or more prone to deceive ourselves about our own sin, at least I am. I'm one of those Proverbs 21-2 guys. Every man's way is right in his own eyes, but the Lord weighs his heart. Ecclesiastes 4, 9, and 10 tells us, two are better than one, because they have a good reward for their toil. For if they fall, one will lift up his fellow. But woe to him who is alone when he falls and has no one to lift him up. Proverbs 27:6 says, Faithful wounds of a friend, but deceitful are the kisses of an enemy Ross may tell me the truth, but it would hurt, right? It may hurt. But it is what will heal me. Sometimes we need our brothers and sisters in Christ to tell us the truth, even when it hurts. Christ is the head of this church. And we need to be willing to help each other change. Why? So that this body of believers. Matches the head of the church. We don't need to be a church that looks totally different from the head of the church. You understand what I'm saying? Christ is one way, but the church looks a totally different way from the head. How can we be that community of believers, that light to the world, when all the members of the church is acting worldly And it doesn't match the head. We have to help one another and make sure that we, that this church matches the head of the church. We see in James four, I think I may uh go there I think I'm just go through those scriptures. You see them there. 1 Thessalonians 5. 14. We urge you, brothers. We urge you, brethren, to admonish the unruly, encourage the faint-hearted, help the weak, be patient with every everyone. We talked about Galatians 6, where 6. 1, where we see anyone caught in a trespass. Okay. So after this process, so if after the following process you struggle to identify, in other words, if you still struggle to identify the issues behind your words and actions. Seek the Lord in prayer and reach out to someone who can walk with you and help with you. But first you can consider this. I think we have a checklist here. So to find the log in your eye, you can work backwards. According to uh we can work backwards from what we can see so that so to so that we So from what we you can see to what you can't see, excuse me. So in other words, we want to we can use these questions. We can ask ourselves these questions, this checklist And we can work backwards from what you can see to what you can't see I can see the sinful words that I've just spoken to my wife. I I I I hear those, I I see those. You know that that that's Okay, so I need to use these to help me see what I can't see. Right? And these will help And I'm a testament to that. In what ways were my speech Your words tone, timing, unwholesome, and unedifying. What was I trying to accomplish? By speaking that way. The conflict, you've you've had the conflict, you you you you're hot, you're mad, you you know, this is me, I'm out in the garage I can't believe she said this to me. I can't believe she spoke to me that way. Ha! Some submissive wife she is. And on and on and on and on and on. Wait, wait, wait, Mike. In what ways were your words unwholesome and unedifying? What was I trying to accomplish? Right? So you you you you you ask yourself. Ephesians 4 29 says, Let no unho unwholesome word proceed from your mouth, but only such a word as is good for edification. according to the need of the moment, so they will give grace to those who hear. Were my words in that conflict? I need to examine that. Did they give grace Nope, they didn't. In what ways did my speech attack the other person? What desire or expectation of mine did they not meet? You have desires and expectations and and and conflict. You want that person to do something or you're not getting what you think you What's due to you in a sense? Right? So in what ways did my speech attack the other person And these can be real subtle, but we really have to think about them. Right? Matthew 5:22 says, But I say to you that everyone who is angry with his brother shall be guilty before the court, and whoever's says to his brother, you good for nothing, shall be guilty before the Supreme Court, and whoever says you fool, shall be guilty enough To go into wow the fiery hell. But Jesus uses some strong words, right? Question number three In what ways did my speech deny the image of God in the other person? What does such speech reflect about my thinking about them? With the tongue, we bless our Lord and Father, and with it we curse men who have been made in the likeness of God. In what ways did my speech seek to manipulate? Oh, that's a good one. To manipulate the other person. How did I attempt to control them? We look at Judges 16, verses 15 and 16. Number five, in what ways were my words and actions of the flesh? And thus at war with the Spirit. What desires of the Spirit did I rebel against? Paul says, now the d the deeds of the flesh are evident, which are immorality and purity uh sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, and on and on. And he says things like these, of which I forewarn you Just as I have forewarned you that those who practice such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. In what ways were my words and actions of the flesh And thus at war with the Spirit. What desires of the Spirit did I rebel against? These questions call for some honest reflection In what ways did I manifest, did I not manifest the fruit of the Spirit? All of Most times for me is all love. You know. But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness. Goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. Against such things, there is no law. You can go through these, right? Oh Uh love. I love my wife. Man, it wasn't joy, but it's not my fault. She just sucked all the peace out of the house. Right? Lord, you know I keep praying for patience, but when are you gonna give it to me? Self-control is the reason why I blew off. Had she not done that, I wouldn't have done this. Right? The next question is even better. I don't know who came up with these questions. Gabe, did you come up with these? What lie was I believing about the situation? What lie was I believing about the situation? Romans 1. 25 says, for they exchanged the truth of God for a lie. And worship and serve the creature rather than the creator who is blessed forever. And then we can look at Number eight. In what ways were my desires disordered or unmeasured? What did I desire? So strongly that I was willing to sin to obtain, or sin because I couldn't have it. What did I want so bad that I was willing To hurt my wife, my friend. What was it that I would be willing to Say something mean to the woman I love. To the man you love, to your friend. I mean that whatever that is has such a hold on you that you will be willing to sin and hurt another person. That's pretty strong. I didn't know this when I was living in the world. I did not have a friend that could lead me or help me walk me through something like this until I became a believer. And I'll be honest with you, prior to coming to hope and having the word poured into my life I still had too many fair weather Christians friends that wouldn't help me get to my heart. And that's because of the word. You asking these questions is one thing, right? But you have to Combine the word of God because that's what's going to change you. All those Go through all those questions, and you will see that you have sinned. But we must remember that our sin is first against God first. So We've had some conflict and you've had conflict because we've been living in tight quarters lately. Right? Right? You know, I didn't realize how much I cherished those eight hours going to work. Right? And and I know Linda cherish those eight hours me being out of the home Right? But when we are when we have conflict, it is such a blessing to know what we can do And that I do not have to go through this alone because I need you, and I know I have brothers and sisters who can help me walk through these kinds of things. We just have to be open and honest, you know, with one another. So once you've identified your heart attitudes, thoughts, and actions that were sinful and contributed to the conflict, you must remember that sin first and foremost is against God. Biblical reconciliation is always about God. It's always glorifying God. He has to be the center of what we're what what what we're doing and why we do it. Right? Ooh. Um so you have some scriptures there um that you can uh We can look at Genesis 26. Then the Lord said to him in a dream, yes, I know that In the integrity of your heart you have done this and I s and I also kept you from sinning against me, therefore I did not let you touch her. This is about uh Abimelech, I think it was, the king, and uh he stopped him from um lying with Sarah, right? And you know, good old Abraham said that that's not my wife, that's my sister, and you know, uh he almost but God stopped him Right? So that he wouldn't sin. And the key is that Abimelech wouldn't sin against God. This is showing that all our sins are first and foremost against God. In Genesis 39, 9, where we see there is no greater, there's no one greater in this house. This is Joseph. There's no one greater in this house than I, and he has withheld nothing from me except you, because you are his wife. Joseph talking about Potiphar. He says, how then could I do this great evil and sin against God? First and foremost, our sins against God. This is Joseph being tempted by Potiphar, his master's wife. But Joseph had the utmost respect, one for his master, but he led a life of holiness. And he knew that his sin would be against God because the life of holiness he was leading. We also See uh Psalms what's that 51 against you and only you uh have I sinned and we see here this this this is a prayer of repentance Right, David's prayer, understanding that his sin, while yes he did sin against uh uh what's her name? Bathsheba and killed her husband, but his sin first and foremost was against God. And we have to remember that. We have to keep that in the forefront of our minds. So all our sin is judicially forgiven and we cannot undo God's work of regeneration in our lives, it is still imperative to confess our sins to the Lord and receive his relational forgiveness. And we must not minimize that. Right? Knowing that we have his forgiveness, but not carrying out confession and knowing that our sin has been first and foremost. With him, against him. Psalm thirty-two says, I acknowledge my sin to you And my iniquity I did not hide. I said, I will confess my transgressions to the Lord, and you forgave the guilt of my sins. When such confession is made, God will show himself merciful and gracious to us. The peace that follows from a true confession of guilt before God proves that God has been merciful in forgiving of that sin. We must confess our sins. Proverbs 28, 13 says, he who conceals his transgression will not prosper. But he who confesses and forsakes them will find compassion. And if we confess our sins, he is faithful and righteous to forgive our sins. And to cleanse us from all unrighteous. So um this is the starting point of biblical reconciliation. Well the starting point is knowing that we must glorify God. The next step is looking at oneself, examining oneself, identifying the law that is in our own sins. Before we can move toward the other person. Right? And when we can't, when we have trouble with that, we have the body of Christ to help I can come to other men. And that's why I believe it is so, so very important to have men and women in your life a few men and women from this church in your life or or another Christian brother or sister that you can go to and share your heart out. And they Will give you truth of God's word. You know, there are men in this church that I just have kept my eye on for the 10, 11 years that I have been here. Because I know that left alone, I will self-destruct. And this walk of Christ, what Christ calls us to do, is not an easy walk. I am prone to deception. I am prone to do what I want to do when I want to do it. And I can tell myself that I have done the right thing. So I need you guys to keep me living a life that you know God would want me to live, that life that God has called me to live. So, first take the log out by asking God to show you your own sins. For until we have done this bit of spiritual surgery You know, the speck in our brother's eye will look like a log to us, and we won't be able to see the log that's in our own eyes, so we can't help one another So the person who has judged himself rightly will display when we are able to judge ourselves rightly, we will be humbled by it. There will be godly s sorrow for the sins that we have committed in conflict. And we can move toward the other person with humility and gentleness. And once we're able to do that, then we're able to help the brother. or sister in Christ. So this is very, very important is being able to look at ourselves so that we can help one another. Okay, so uh I think we're pretty much out of time. Uh I don't know if there's any questions. A comment uh if not I will uh close in prayer. Yes. You know, one thing that we all are possible uh you know trying to help our brother sisters that may have a long in their eyes. Can you think um speak of some encouragement of those people who are uncomfortable doing that? So the question is some of us are uncomfortable right of helping others, right? And what would be the what are the blessings that that that come from that. Right? I think Let's go back to that where where Paul says you who are spiritual. Right? And I can remember thinking that I needed to have a lot of theology in me Right. So so so I I I think one of the first things is is you don't, you have to be a good listener. You have to have some of the same traits that that that that that that God has given us, compassion, understanding. right, being a good listener, praying for one another, you know, that that that's one one one area. I don't know if I'm I'm I'm saying this this correctly. But but y you don't have to be one that's you know fill with scripture because a lot of times what we're looking for is first a person to understand Right? And we have to have that that be be a good listener and understand, even though I have sinned, you know, in this conflict, I do understand where you are Right? So we want to give love the same the same as Christ you know does for us and there is great blessing uh in it. Um how how can I I'm I'm trying to think of a uh uh situation for for for myself when I have helped someone. I think the greatest blessing that I get out of it is seeing the Holy Spirit work in that person's life. That is the greatest blessing. It just, it just, it, it, it, it says to me, yes. He's true. He's proven it every time. And I'm seeing the the work of the word in that person's life. And that's the blessing that I get. Seeing the Holy Spirit actually at work in a person's life And I used to say, like, you know, when when some think of someone come to you, they they they are hurting In whatever condition that they come in, confused, angry, whatever it be. And when you're able to feed the Word of God, feed Christ to that person. And you watch them little by little stand up on their own. Stand up and trust God That is the uh a great blessing that I'm able to see. And it just gives me so much enthusiasm to go out and help another. And it also tells me, gives me confidence that when I get caught up, that same word Will help me as well. So that's kind of the you know the the blessing that I get. And I think, you know, when you disciple people or counsel people, you know, and we're all counselors We get to see that. We get to see people come in hurting, right? And then Feed them Christ and they're able to stand on their own and trust God and move in those directions Um I have not seen it. I used to think that being a part of the 12 step group was just, you know, you you see people come in and and you know they stop using. The difference is The change of heart. It's a change of heart. It's something that no one else can give that I've been able to experience. that comes from the Word of God that we can give one another and to the world. And that is Christ. So Okay. Any other? So we're pretty much out of time. I'll uh close in prayer