Today we are looking, as you can see, uh at the one another's of Unity. And if you didn't get uh notes, just raise your hand and Pam will bring them to you. The one anothers of unity. Um so there is some overlap. I mean with all the one another's there's overlap. To some degree you could say that all all of the one another's fall under the umbrella of love, the one another's of love. But at the same time you could also say that all the one anothers fall under the umbrella of unity. Uh the the one anothers of peace, pursuing peace. maintaining peace, preserving peace. And so there will be as we look at um the the various one another's in this category, uh there there's definitely going to be some overlap with them, some repetition. So I want to start with a more extended uh look at the call to peace and then look at some of the specific one another's of how that is uh maintained. So Let's just look at some brief passages that give us the the repeated reminder that we need to be pursuing peace. So we'll start in Mark 9. Mark 9, verse 50. Mark nine verse fifty. And obviously this is the one of the gospels. So this is Jesus speaking. This is not in the epistles. This is before he has died and rose again. This is but before the church itself has been created. And yet even now at this preliminary stage Jesus is calling his disciples to be at peace. And he says in Mark nine, verse fifty, Salt is good, but if the salt becomes unsalty, with what will you make it salty again? Have salt in yourselves and be at peace with one another. be at peace with one another. Another passage we could look at is 2 Corinthians chapter 13. And I'm not I'm not At this stage providing much commentary here, just wanting to show the repeated calls here. Second Corinthians chapter thirteen, verse eleven Paul writes, finally, brethren, this is the last, this is the very end of his epistle, finally, brethren, rejoice, be made complete, be comforted, be Like-minded live in peace, and the God of love and peace will be with you If you remember the the letters that Paul wrote to the Corinthian church, they they were in need of peace. There was divisions of various kinds, uh which we'll look at uh first Corinthians one later on w where they were divided because of their favorite preachers and and apostles and leaders. They were divided because of differing theological views. They were divided because of different practical views on you know should we eat meat sacrificed to idols? Should we get married? Should we not get married? Mary, there's all kinds of reasons that they were divided. And then in 2 Corinthians, one of the major sources of division was just false teachers, that some were following uh so-called superapostles, those who were seeking to um undermine Paul's ministry. And so there was a lot of division in the church. And so he ends right there, that second epistle, with be like-minded, live in peace, and the God of love and peace will be with you. In First Thessalonians, Paul says to this other church, First Thessalonians chapter 5, again at the end of the epistle, verse 13. Let me start in verse twelve where the sentence starts. But we request of you, brethren, that you appreciate those who diligently labor among you and have charge over you. So initially, that first command sermon verse twelve about talking about their attitudes toward their leaders, but then generally live in peace with one another there in the church. And then just one more for for the moment. Hebrews chapter twelve, verse fourteen. That's not the right passage. I mean there's twelve fourteen. No, that's not it either. But verse uh verse sixteen of Hebrew sorry? It is Hebrews twelve. Hebrews twelve fourteen? Yeah. I think so. Or should be I'm in Hebrews chapter twelve. Oh, I was looking at verse twelve. See the reason I like this Bible is because it makes it really easy to look at for the verses you're looking for. As long as you're looking at the right verse. So yeah, verse 14, silly me. Pursue peace with all men. And the sanctification without which no one will see the Lord. My mind just went blank. Uh no, right in front of you. Oh my goodness, this is horrible. Yes. I can't remember who's either. Steve. Steve! I had Kirby in my mind for some reason. We were in a In the elders' prayer time earlier and anyway, Steve was right in front of me and I was thinking of Kirby who was also there. But anyway, uh Kir uh Steve mentioned Romans twelve where you have the same thing and in Romans 14, 19, where you have again the call to peace. So there's these repeated calls to peace, and we'll just we'll keep seeing more as we move forward. But a as we think about these calls to peace, it tells us us that this is important. Right? That God wants us as the church to be at peace. Right, Steve? I've got to keep saying that, otherwise I'm going to call you Kirby. So why why is this so important? Well partially it's important because um Those who were saved, especially those who were saved out of the Greek culture, so those would be Gentiles, uh they had a very different way of thinking about relationships and peace. In Greek thinking uh the idea of peace was simply the absence of war. Uh it was just the absence of hostile feelings, one comment or one uh dictionary writes. The absence of hostile feelings, it was more that the So people could say, yeah, we're at peace with one another, which simply means we're not at war. You know, we're not actively fighting against one another. But that is not the kind of peace that God calls us to. God doesn't want us to just be content with uh well I don't have any enemies in the church, but don't have any friends either. Uh that that is not the kind of peace God wants us. Biblically, peace begins with man's relationship with God. Peace begins with man's relationship with God. We were, Scripture says, enemies of God, hostile to God. We were at war with God. We hated God. And yet he reconciled us to himself. He gave the greatest gift he could ever give, his son, the Lord Jesus Christ, to pay the penalty that we deserve so that we might be reconciled to him. And it is on the basis of that infinite war which has been done away with, that we can now have peace with one another. And again, not the absence of war, but that we can be reconciled with one another. That we can treat one another with love and care and kindness and goodness and compassion. That we can love one another. In ways that the world cannot, because there has been removed the greatest barrier to that kind of relationship. Peace with God not only makes peace with others possible, it demands it. It demands it Uh in our world today, you know, I think we w w generally when you think about peace, it is that idea of absence of war. And why can't the world be at peace? Why can't government leaders get along? Why can't nations just leave uh live and let live. Uh why can't different ethnic groups just stop being racist toward each other? Uh why can't families experience harmony? Why Why do kids in school always have to be uh bullying each other? There there's endless circumstances and spheres and and types of war. And we would desire that that not be there. And that's good. That would be wonderful, wouldn't it? For they're not to be War. And that new kind of relationship was instituted by Christ. Turn to John chapter 17. Just a reminder of how important this was to Jesus. So John chapter 17 is Jesus' high priestly prayer. Whereas he uh had his eyes set on the cross, as it was about to happen to him in in a matter of hours, he prayed this prayer to the Lord, which The Spirit brought to mind to the Apostle John so that we might know what Jesus prayed in his final hours. In verse 11, Jesus prays, I am no longer in the world, and yet they themselves, speaking of the disciples, are in the world, and I come to you. Holy Father, keep them in your name, the name which you have given me That they may be one even as we are. So God is asking the Father to bring about oneness among the disciples, and not just among themselves, but between them and God as well And then in verses 21 to 23, he says that they well let me start in verse 20, I do not ask on behalf of these, that is, the present disciples that were with him in the moment. I do not ask on behalf of these alone, but for those also who would believe in me through their word. So now he's including us in this prayer. That, verse twenty-one, they may all be one, even as you, Father, are in me, and I in you That they also may be in us, so that the world may believe that you sent me. Verse 22, The glory which you have given me I have given to them, that they may be one just as we are one. I in them and you in me, that they may be perfected in unity, so that the world may know that you sent me and loved them even as you have loved me. So Jesus is praying for the unity of his people, not just the disciples who were in his presence, but the disciples who would come to be all throughout the world. and throughout history. And this is often a passage that's used to call Christians to unity. Hey, let's just Let go of our hostilities to one another, you know, different denominations, different churches, maybe factions within a particular church Christ prayed for our unity, and so we need to unit unify ourselves so that the world might know that we are Christians, right? They will know that we are Christians by our love. And yet what Jesus is saying here is not necessarily that he's calling us to create a kind of unity. He's not calling us to establish unity among ourselves. What he's praying is something that God himself has already accomplished. Uh we'll we'll look at that uh in the next few passages, that Christ already accomplished the unity of his people. And so all of the calls to peace that come after this are not calls to peace To create peace, but calls to preserve peace. So to see this, turn over to Ephesians chapter 2. Ephesians chapter 2, Paul is talking about the peace that Christ created on the cross. Ephesians chapter two, starting verse eleven. Therefore, remember that formerly you, the Gentiles in the flesh, who are called uncircumcision, by the so-called circumcision which is performed in the flesh by human hands, remember that you were at that time separated from Christ, excluded from the commonwealth of Israel, and strangers to the covenants of promise having no hope and without God in the world. So that was the situation before Christ, that we who are Gentiles, which is most of us, were separated from God. We were separated from this people. We were aliens and strangers. We had nothing to do with God. We had nothing that could reconcile us We were, as he says, without hope and without God in the world. Verse 13. But now, in Christ Jesus, you who formerly were far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ. For he himself is our peace, who made both groups, that is Jews and Gentiles, into one, and broke down the barrier of the dividing wall, by abolishing in his flesh the enmity which is the law of commandments contained in ordinances, so that in himself he might make the two into one new man thus establishing peace, and might reconcile them both in one body to God through the cross by it having put to death the enmity. In other words, there were multiple levels of disunity prior to Christ. There was the the conflict, the war between God and man, and there was the conflict between Man and man, Jew and Gentile. Those two groups of people. The people of God, the the chosen people of God, the nation of Israel, and everyone else, Gentiles. And what he's saying is that at the cross, God reconciled us to himself. He brought peace between God and man. And he brought brought peace between Jew and Gentile. So there's no more war for those who are in Christ. And by saying the one new man, he's, just as a side note, saying, it's not that Gentiles become Jews, that the ch that the church is Israel, but there's a new man. So we distinguish, if you will, the the people of God of the nation of Israel from the people of God in the church. There's God's chosen people, Israel, and then there's the people of God, which includes both Israel and Gentiles, or I should say, believing Jews and Gentiles. And so Christ Himself at the cross created peace. He goes on to say in verse 17, and he came and preached peace to you who are far away, and peace to those who were near. For through him we both have access in one spirit to the Father. So then, you are no longer aliens and strangers, but you are fellow citizens with the saints, and are of God's household, having been built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus Himself, being the cornerstone, in whom the whole building being fitted Together is growing into a holy temple in the Lord, in whom you also are being built together into a dwelling of God in the Spirit. So Once that peace has been created through the cross, there is now one spirit, there is one foundation, there is one cornerstone, there is one building There is one dwelling of God by the Spirit. And he repeats that if you flip over to chapter 4 When he says in uh just our three, being diligent to preserve the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace, there is one body and one spirit, just as you were called to the one hope of your calling. One Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is over all and through all, and in all So there is a complete unity among the people of God. There is no division From God's perspective, within the people of God. There is no basis upon which the people of God can divide themselves into subgroups. There are no subgroups in the people of God. To highlight this, think about this from Colossians chapter 3, verses 9 to 11. Paul Rise, do not lie to one another, since you've laid aside the old self with its evil practices and have put on the new self. which is being renewed to the true knowledge according to the image of the one who created him. A renewal in which there is no distinction between Greek and Jew, circumcised and uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythians, slave and free. But Christ is all and in all. What is he saying there? Before Christ, we were in the flesh. Before Christ, we were sin, we had the sinful nature that was all of who we are. We were dead in our trespasses and sins. But because of Christ, we have now laid off the old self and we have put on the new self and we are becoming a new person. We have obtained a new identity And all of the identities that we have held so dearly to in the past, our ethnic identity, our socioeconomic identity, our religious identity, our geographical. Geographic identity, our occupational identity, all of these things that have defined us in the past no longer define us. Because now each one of us, no matter what part of the world you're in, no matter what language you speak, no matter what your culture is, no matter what your your socioeconomic status is, no matter what job you have, We are all being conformed into one image. We have one identity that we are all being conformed to, and that is the image of Christ. We're all sons and daughters of God, we're all adopted into his family. There is one identity. So there are no subgroups. There's no uh Greek Greek Christians and Jewish Christians. There's no circumcised Christians and uncircircumcised Christians. There's no barbarian Christians, no slave Christians. Just no type of subgroups in God's kingdom. They don't exist. And so for us to treat one another as if they do exist, we are essentially denying the unity that Christ has bought. We're we're denying the the new identity that that God has given us in Christ. A similar passage in Galatians chapter 3, verse 28 Therefore, there is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free man, there is neither male nor female, for you are all one in Christ. And if you belong to Christ, then you are Abraham's descendants errs according to the promise. So when we Come to Christ, when God saves us, when He makes us part of a the body of Christ, and then as a reflection of that, part of a local body of Christ. There is no division. There is no distinction among us. It doesn't matter how old you are, doesn't matter what gender you are, it doesn't matter if you're single, if you're married, if you're a parent, if you're not a parent. Nothing matters in terms of unity. Now there are obvious differences. There's no denying that. So we don't you know, we're we're not gonna capitulate and say, Yeah, there's no such thing as male or female anymore. Um there's no differences in roles, there's you know No, th that's not the point. The point is what binds us together is not those characteristics that are that are time-bound, that are natural, that are fleshly, if you will. What binds us together, what unifies us, is Christ and His work. And that is an eternal binding. That is an eternal bond that nothing should supersede. And so Paul writes in Philippians chapter two Therefore, if there is any encouragement in Christ, this is verse one, if there is any consolation of love, if there is any fellowship of the Spirit, if any affection and compassion Make my joy by being of the same mind, maintaining the same love, united in spirit, intent on one purpose. If I can just summarize that. If you're Christians, be of the same mind. If you're seeking to follow Christ, be united in one purpose. Because you are. We don't have to create unity. We are unified We just have to recognize it. We have to acknowledge it. We have to live like that's true. We have to not allow the world that defines the differences among us. and uses those differences to divide us, not allow the world to to to do that to us. Because we're not of the world. We're still in the world, but we're not of the world. We are in Christ. We have an eternal body. An eternal unity that Christ has created in us. And therefore, we need to work hard, and it is hard work, and I know you would all agree with that, we need to work hard to pursue peace with one another. another. Sometimes in the church it can be easy to create new kinds of divisions that the world doesn't really know about. Uh like who your favorite preacher is. That's what Paul uh is chastising the Corinthians for in 1 Corinthians chapter 1 when he s says uh in verse 10, Now I exhort you brethren by the name of the Our Lord Jesus Christ, that you all agree, and that there would be no divisions among you, but that you be made complete in the same mind and in the same judgment. For I have been informed concerning you, my brethren, that Chloe's people, uh by Chloe's people, that there are quarrels among you. Now this I uh now I mean this That each one of you is saying, I am of Paul, and I am of Apollos, and I am of Cephas, and I am of Christ. Has Christ been divided Paul wasn't crucified for you, was he? Or were you baptized in the name of Paul? And then he goes on from there. So sometimes even though we know about our essential unity, we'll still create new divisions. Well, I like this kind of music. No, I like that kind of music. I like this preacher. No, I like that preacher. I like this. I like that. You know, I'm passionate about this ministry. No, I'm passionate about that ministry. And we divide each other and subgroup each other on the basis of all of those things. And obviously again there's there's natural differences. You know, you do have your musical preferences. You do tend to uh relate to some preachers more than others, teachers and leaders more than others. But if we divide each other in that way, then that's That is where the problem comes. We are to pursue peace with one another This is so important that Paul strongly admonishes church leaders to deal with divisive people. Now t uh usually this tends to be uh people who are dividing the church on the basis of uh theology for doctrinal uh reasons. In Titus 3. 10, Paul says, reject a factious man after the And he does the same thing at the end of Romans. You know, don't allow yourselves to be divided saying, well, you know, I'm a premillennialist, no a millennialist, I'm a you know, whatever, and allow people to promote their particular esoteric theology, and I'm not saying that those things are esoteric because they're not, but sometimes within the church, you know, you get people who are very focused on particular things and they can they can lead to divisions in the church. And it's serious enough that Paul says, don't let that happen. Reject that person, turn away from that person. Don't welcome them. Don't allow them to continue their work of division. Peace is important to God. It's important to him because he created it. He gave his son, who gave his life, that we might be at peace. It's sin to divide over anything that God says is not worth dividing over. Uh it's sin to think of ourselves as more important than others. Uh it's sin to treat one another as if I'm more righteous than you because of I have higher standards than you do. It's it's sin to uh to treat one another in ways that are Um let go against what God's Word says. So with all of that said, how do we pursue peace? What are the one another's of unity? We've already looked at the general umbrella of just pursue peace that God God has called us to pursue peace. What are some specific ways that we do that? You see in your outline, then the next one another is Don't slander. Don't slander. Uh Colossians chapter three Verse eight. Paul says, but now you also put them all aside anger, wrath, malice, slander, and and abusive speech from your mouth. So there's a lot of a lot of words there put together and I I've just picked out slander Uh Paul says, or sorry, Peter says the same thing in 1 Peter 2 verse 1, where he writes, Therefore putting aside all malice and all deceit and hypocrisy and envy and all slander. What's slander? Anybody? So from here on out I'm gonna start being more interactive. I know I preachy, but what's slander? Telling lies about someone. Yeah, telling lies about someone? Telling the truth in In your own way, is that what you said? In the wrong way. Okay. Any other thoughts? Yeah Slander is evil speech. Words that have evil intent. Words that intend to defame someone. There are actually multiple Greek words that are translated as slander, and one of them is the same word that is also translated blasphemy. We think certainly that it is awful and even damning for someone to blaspheme Christ, to blaspheme God. But God says this is the same thing with one another. Don't blaspheme one another. Don't speak that which is false about one another That's the word that's used in Ephesians 4. 31, and actually here in Colossians 3. 8 as well. So slander is speaking wrongly about others, telling others true things with the intent of damaging a person's reputation, so that could be more gossip perhaps. It's assuming the worst about someone without seeking understanding and spreading that viewpoint. that that we slander one another. We speak evil of one another. Another one-another that we need to avoid is complaining. That's the next point there. Don't complain. This is uh there's there's a couple ways that this is phrased. Uh in uh in scripture here. So James chapter four, verse eleven. Do not speak against one another, brethren. He who speaks Against the brother or judges his brother speaks against the law and judges the law. But if you should if you judge the law, you are not a doer of the law but a judge of it. And then in chapter 5, verse 9 of James he says, Do not complain, brethren, one against another or against one another, so that you yourselves may not be judged. Behold, the the judge is standing right at the door. And he says the same thing in Romans chapter 14. uh verse ten. So complaining against each other, speaking against each other. W what what does that mean? What what does that look like? What does it mean to speak against someone? What does it look like? The wrong example would be if you've been hurt one by somebody, instead of going to that person and working out that concept with them, you go to your best friend Do you believe what you did and and you tell it in your own way? So that's sort of how it can play out sometimes. Okay. Good. I heard something okay. satisfaction with stuff with something or something and you do more. Tearing down instead of building up Yeah, I mean don't y you can't really define this without really uh going in other categories like gossip and and and slander and other things. Uh but but those are all things it's it's similar to slander, it's based on a personal judgment. That's w what the context is in these passages of James and and Romans. Uh I have a personal standard, and because you don't meet my standard, I'm going to speak against you. I'm going to I'm I'm going to complain against you. I'm going to judge you. I'm gonna say that, you know, you're not a good Christian or maybe you're not even a Christian at all. Because based on my perception, uh you're not meeting my standard. It's almost a sense of your it's kind of announcing that you're suffering by somebody else's actions towards you even if you're not you're suffering because of someone else's actions even if you're not okay. Yeah. That that it affects me when really it it doesn't need to or or it doesn't Even I think sometimes stems from um envy of other people. Sometimes when you see people as having more or being a scene in others' eyes, you know Yeah, that can certainly happen where you see someone being successful and you're like, well People knew what I knew about them, you know, and then you try and let other people know what you know about them. That's that's awful. how it's being said, meaning you could be talking about someone's an area of weakness with a with a charitable attitude of how can we help them, how can we pray for them. Um or you can just be complaining, you know, like why can't they beat more? Right Well that that does bring a good point because there are uh those times when uh I mean we're all weak, we all have weaknesses, we all have blind spots and If I perceive a blind spot about someone, but I don't really know how to help them, and I don't really have a relationship with them, then it might be an okay thing to go to someone who does have a relationship with them and say something like, you know, here's something I've perceived, you know, how do you think I should handle this? You know, something like that. As opposed to going and saying, Hey, can you believe what so and so did? Yeah. Th think about what James four eleven is saying though. Again, let me read it again. Do not speak against one another, brethren. He who speaks against the brother or judges his brother speaks against the law. And judges the law. But if you judge the law, you are not a doer of the law, but a judge of it. So if you correlate this with Romans chapter fourteen, where the context at length is d um uh being divided over uh different views in that context of whether or not we should eat meat sacrificed to idols. So different views of Christian freedom. You know, should Christians be able to listen to this music or that music, or should they be be able to go to this dining establishment or or not. Uh w those areas of that scripture is is less clear because there is Christian freedom. You know, is it is it appropriate to drink alcohol to not drink alcohol? What he's saying here, well let me ask, what is he saying here? What is the significance of speaking against someone else? As it relates to the law. Victor. When you're complaining about something, they're not there to give their point. Okay. Sure that's true? I don't uh When he said the law, he means No, I think he means the just the law of God. Not necessarily even the Mosaic Law, but the law of God. Say again, Musty, sorry. Okay. Okay, so let's let's go with that. So you're judging their convictions where there is physical freedom What what is that act of judging someone else's convictions where there is biblical freedom? What is that what what are you doing in terms of your relationship with the law? Legalism. Yeah. W it's in some ways it's legalism. Yeah, you're you're putting yourself above the law. If if God has said this is not sin, or he hasn't said this is sin, and you say, No, that is sin You're saying God's law is not good enough. I have a better law. I have a better standard. And if you kind of correlate this with complaining, sometimes we look at others. And we see their weaknesses, which may be real, because we're all fallen And w by complaining, what we're effectively saying is, if I was God, I wouldn't put that person in that position. Um or I you know would do things better or differently. We we put ourselves above uh God's law, we put ourselves above God's wisdom, and that's why it's it's so wrong because we we are effectively So question. Pharisees made up laws. Right. How does that relate to complaining? Well, s so there there's how does that relate to complaining? Um so when the Pharisees were imposing their man-made laws that in many cases actually violated God's laws, and they then, if you will, complained or they judged the people f uh when they didn't keep those laws. then then they themselves were in violation of God's law. So we had to be dissatisfied with God's law. Right. Right. Right. Expressing superiority over God's law. It's judging God Himself. Um So it's it's a very serious sin of the heart. It's saying, I know better than God knows. Um But what if you'd have a conviction about that, hey, with no contradiction? You're not going to change your mind, like they're just gonna be the way they're gonna be. But when I was in the Bible time, this girl, you couldn't touch her, she wore dresses all the time. And I I was I was used I was used to Christian faith, I was because But I figured, why couldn't you know this condition? And she told me why she was growing up, she did certain things in her mind Wearing not wearing a dress with Sim on I I can understand but that's what she said, so it says also Romans twelve eighteen, if it is all possible, that's where it depends on you, you'll know with and be at peace with everyone. Right. So there is a and we and if there is a leeway network, I don't have a problem here. But don't get political Yeah. So you're asking how do you deal with someone who has higher standards and conviction that those things are moral in terms of um righteous versus sinful. Well I think Paul gives us the that instruction in Romans fourteen that as, if you will, the weaker in that scenario, though we may not see ourselves as weaker. uh we would say, you know what, I'm not gonna judge you on the basis that you have this standard. Um I mean maybe Maybe for us it's not uh you know it's a sin to not wear a dress. Maybe for us it's you know it's a sin to celebrate Christmas. It's a sin to uh celebrate Halloween. It's a s sin to participate in certain kinds of activities, to go to certain kinds of parties. I mean it's a sin to watch certain kinds of movies. Um I mean there's certain certain standards that I have that I think I think everybody should have these standards. But we all have those standards. We all we all have our own standards that we think, you know, if everybody had my standards, with this world would be a better place, Christians would be more mature, you know, all of those kinds of things. And so We uh we all can relate to that, what whatever that is for you. So the the issue is how do you view other people? Do you view them as sinning, I need to enact church discipline, I need to confront them? Or do you recognize that as, you know what, they don't see that as sin, or they do see what I'm doing as sin, but they're not my judge. God is my judge. And so if I'm convinced that Scripture gives me freedom to do this, whatever it is uh and we should examine to make sure that that we're right about that, that we're not self-deceived, uh, then we should allow ourselves to not be uh controlled by other people's standards in those things. Just to say, I'm sorry you feel that way, but I I just I don't see that standard in scripture. Um and you know perhaps You know, the Lord will help you see things differently in the future, but I want to be at peace with you and you know hope hopefully you can s we can still be friends. Um idea that wasn't brought up today is all also likely include some hypocrisy in there in that we may you know point out something but some other issue someone would want to point out towards us. Uh so there's probably some Prophecy in place, I think, in the complaining. Not in all cases, but I think sometimes. Yeah That's why Jesus said in Matthew 7, you know, don't judge, because you too will be judged. With the measure you use, it will be measured to you. Uh why do you look at your brother and his log when you have a speck in your own eye? Uh so in those areas where we see the sin of other people or at least what we perceive to be their sin, we have to recognize that we will be judged ourselves. that there are specks in our eyes that we can't see. And so we need to be very careful before bringing judgments that are not as clear. I mean obviously if if someone commits adultery, that's clear. Uh but if someone goes, you know, and does something that you're like, uh I don't know that a Christian should do that kind of thing, then we need to be more careful, Brandon? No. Uh I was just noticing that uh so core to this uh this judgmentalism is the foundational sin of of pride, which is be in God's place. Right. Me I can do God's job better than we don't realize what Yeah. For the sake of time, let me let me move on to the next one. Don't bite, d devour, and consume one another. Again, these are all related, so while we're moving on. So Galatians 5 15, Paul says, But if you div if you bite and devour one another, take care that you are not consumed by one another. Now what's the issue here? He's again one of those issues that uh the church was debating. Do Christians need to get circumcised or do they not? Do Gentile Christians need to get circumcised? And the church was being divided over that issue. And he says, stop dividing yourselves because you're gonna you're biting each other, you're gonna devour each other and consume each other. If you if you look at the Greek word to bite, you know what it means? To bite. Like an animal biting your arm? Like, you know, you biting Your your food, it just means to bite. It it is to attack another person for the purpose of harming them. That's that's what he means. That's why animals bite uh other animals or or people. It is to attack them for the purpose of harming them. And then devouring has is really just the idea of continuous Biting just time after time, and then consuming is the end result. That if you keep biting, you're you're devouring your your um just attacking and attacking more and more and then ultimately The word consume uh is used in other contexts other than eating. James and John, remember when uh Jesus and the disciples were traveling through Samaria, one of the cities didn't welcome them. And James and John says, Lord, you want us to call fire down from heaven, consume the city. It's just the idea of wiping wiping something out. We in the church can do that, can't we? We we can nip at each other, we can we can say things to each other, we can do things to each other, we can harm one another. Just over and over and over. Uh you know, something can happen and they become two groups of people that are just biting one another over and over. That they're gossiping, they're talking, they're slandering, they're they're just constantly going after each other until all of a sudden the church is It's a very subtle thing because a lot of times we go into We go into church or we go into s we're in circumstances where somebody does something and the first thing that comes to mind is, well, I wouldn't have done it that way. Right. Or they responded they uh they didn't say hi to me this morning in church, or they didn't uh greet me properly, or they didn't say the right word. word or or they said something I'm slightly offended at. It's very insidious to start, but it grows into people actually leaving a church because um Uh you know, they s they take offense at the smallest little thing and it grows into a big wildfire. If I can uh Bring some conviction in the room to myself as well. How often do we leave the church on a Sunday morning, go to our homes or restaurants or wherever? And while we're in the car, if we're with our spouse or someone else, one of the first things we talk about is, hey, did you see so and so? Did you hear what the pastor said? Uh what do you think of that song? And you're you're thinking negatively and you just want to see, hey, do they agree with me that that was a bad song? Yeah, we we we think about negative things. Uh we talk to each other, maybe in our in in the privacy of our cars or our homes about, oh I can't believe this happened. I can't believe they did this, I can't believe that Sunday school teacher did that. Uh why c why can't this happen differently? Why can't they, you know, run this program that way? Uh and that creates in our hearts I think this is what you're saying, uh just an attitude of uh of complaining, of speaking against, uh that ultimately leads to more vocal uh attacks. Um Or we would just walk away because in our hearth we become so embittered uh toward toward the church, toward people in the church So what do we do? Well, let's move on to some positive ones. So how how do we preserve the unity of the church? Well, first of all, we don't do those things. We don't slander, don't complain, don't bite and devour. I didn't put this on your on your list, but it's on my list. First of all, we forgive. Uh we're not going to talk about forgiveness in this context because we spent a whole session on it. So if you aren't here you can go online to uh Sermon audio and listen to that session. But we have to forgive each other because we will sin against each other. Just like you will sin against the people in your home, we will sin against each other in the church. And so we have to forgive each other. Uh Ephesians four thirty two there. For again in that same context of verse thirty one let all bitterness, wrath, anger, clamor, slander be put away from you, along with all malice. Be kind to one another, tender hearted, forgiving each other, just as God in Christ also has forgiven you. So forgiveness is what enables us to continue and persevere in our relationships. In addition to forgiving sins, we also need to bear with one another. Right? So that should be your next one. In Colossians chapter 3. Verse thirteen, again another list. Paul says bearing with one another and forgiving each other Whoever has complaint against anyone, just as the Lord forgave you, so also should you. Bearing with one another. Last week we talked about tolerating one another, and this certainly overlaps with that. What what does this mean though? Well, Paul in 2 Corinthians chapter 11, I won't turn there, but he asks the the Corinthian believers to bear with him. Why? Because he's having to defend himself against the attacks of the the the false teachers, the so called super apostles. He's having to defend himself because they were claiming that he was weak, they were c not just physically weak, but his persona was weak, that he was too gentle, that he didn't have the authority that an apostle should have, uh, and uh he was physically weak weak to go along with that. And so he asks them, bear with me while I defend myself. So this is if if we can make a distinction between tolerating, as we talked about it last time, and bearing, bearing is more of a temporary type situation where uh you know someone makes a mistake and you're like, you know what? I'm just gonna bear with that. I'm not I'm not gonna say anything about that. Um you know it's common I don't know that I've ever heard Pastor League do this, but I often say the wrong thing. Uh you know The wrong word comes out of my mouth. May maybe you've heard me. Uh I know my wife has told me that I've done it. Uh you know, y you're talking about a n a narrative and you say the wrong name of a person uh or whatever. And you know what It was a slip of the tongue. That's all it is. It's not a big deal. We bear with the immaturity of others. Because we know that they will grow. How do we know that they will grow? Well, if they're a believer, they have the Holy Spirit within them and they will grow. So we bear with one another's immaturity. So someone says something that is uh immature, whether it's um um mature immature in life. Uh they act like a uh a a child or a teenager in something that they said, or maybe they say something wrong. Biblically, but you know like uh in the context of this conversation I'm not I'm not gonna um I'm not gonna correct them, I'm not gonna you know make them feel bad about that because They're immature. They they still need to learn. They need to grow. I do that all the time in counseling. You know, sometimes when uh I'm counseling folks, they're sometimes they are immature believers and so I just I don't necessarily correct everything that that other people say and some sometimes we do that. Obviously we want to help people grow, but there are times when we just bear with with that immaturity. We bear with people's mistakes, knowing that there are isolated errors. I already mentioned that. We bear with miscommunication, knowing that we don't always express things well. I mean if if we d if we bore with one another on this issue alone, I think we would we would reduce the the m significant amount of conflicts that we have. So often things are are mis said, uh they they come out in the wrong way. uh maybe with a wrong tone or um you know we just aren't as as gentle as we could be in saying something and so other people get offended. And and it's not that I'm intending to hurt you, but there was just miscommunication. Sometimes sometimes we need to need to bear with one another. That's where the the aspect of love of uh believing all things, believing the best about each other. Maybe they didn't mean to say that. Or or someone who didn't fulfill their promise, you know, it was just a mistake. They forgot. They're they're busy. We need to bear with one another. It's miscommunication. Because that happens all the time. The next one is do good for one another. Do good for one another. Since I'm in my Bible, I'm here, First Thessalonians, I'll read that one first. First Thessalonians 5 15, see to it. See that no one repays another evil for evil But always seek after that which is good for one another and for all people. And that's exactly what Paul says there in Romans twelve, verse seventeen, never pay back evil for evil. To anyone, respect what is right in the sight of all men, as far as it if possible, so far as it depends on you, be at peace with all men I'll skip down to verse 21. Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. So we are to do Oh right. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, as he transitions from the first eleven chapters, he gets right into a whole list of how we ought to interact with one another. So what does it mean to be to do good for one another? What does that mean? consider someone that is more important than you just kind of look at after their needs as how the officer people normally react, you know, for our own needs. I consider somebody else first. Okay. Good. Considering others first. What else does it mean to do good for others? Be generous and give. Help. Um just thinking about God's goodness and generosity towards us and saving that towards others. Yeah. Would it be different for each person though? Yeah. I get a bigger on function, but I don't feel the same one thing. Okay. All right. Yeah. Mm-hmm. And just you know, whatever they need or Yeah, so I don't know if those in the back could hear, but uh Suzanne was saying to love others unconditionally, to meet their needs. Uh to be good to them. Yeah, goodness, I mean I think if you were to look at any particular situation you would understand what a good thing to do would be, what would be c kind. It it's just That similar idea of of kindness that we talked about last week. But the reason that it's in the context of Romans twelve and um 1 Thessalonians five, the context is the contrast of repaying evil for evil. Okay? So goodness Yes, it can happen anytime, and we ought to be good toward others anytime, but specifically when others have been sinful toward us when others have sinned against us. That's the prime time to be good, to do good. And that's the hard time, right, exactly. And uh skip verse 20 of Romans 12, but that's where Paul says, if your enemy is hungry, feed him. If he's thirsty, give him a drink. For in so doing you will heap burning coals on his head, so that speaks to meeting needs, Bill. Yeah. Right. You're doing well or you're in a typical situation when you handle it very well, or you're Yeah. I mean it sometimes goes Yeah. So blessing, speaking words of encouragement, up uplifting. Yes, you may. Um uh I have a friend that I've known for a long time and I've been helping her out but recently I've started the suspect the sincerity, you know, a first salvation. And you know what shocked me is how my feelings towards her have changed. You know, I was I was like, well, you don't need to do all this for her. But it's really just the opposite. But it was surprising to me how I you know, uh I felt towards her when I knew thought she was a believer, you know, believed she was a believer, and now that I'm questioning I mean she may be My feelings have changed and I was just divided with that because I say that before. Now are are you saying in a negative way that they sh changed in a negative way or w in what way have they changed, if you don't mind sharing? Maybe I'm not as willing to serve her than when I thought she was and I've never been in that situation because I had to examine myself, well, no, you know, still Yeah. Yeah. Appreciate you being vulnerable about that. I I think that's true for all of us, that that's a a natural tendency to pull away from others at W that aren't treating us the way we would like them to treat us, right? Right. She was managing her life at all. Yeah. Yeah. So whether it's an enemy or whether it's someone who's, you know, choosing to dishonor the Lord in their life, um We h just have a tendency to pull away from each other. Uh i if if things aren't um i if our relationship isn't growing because of mutual interest, because uh serving together. Uh thing when when something bad happens, when sin happens, whether it's toward one another or just someone is choosing the path of sin Don't would you agree we have that tendency to pull away? To to say, you know what, maybe they're not the person I wanna spend my time with or I know they have these needs, but now their needs are Uh I'm seeing the needs in a different light and so I'm gonna pull away. Yeah, I think that's where Paul is saying, no, we need to still press forward. Isn't that the way that If we become most like God really, that in that when we were still enemies with God and sin, Christ died for us, isn't that what we're supposed to imitate? Right. Yeah, absolutely. We we mentioned that last week with kindness, that God is kind to to us, that the kindness of God appeared in Christ to save his enemies. One last passage on that one, Hebrews 10, 24. You know, let us consider how to stimulate one another to love and good deeds. You know, that acknowledges that it's not always natural, that we have to work at it, that we have to stimulate one another, we have to encourage Uh we have to give each other ideas, like the mystery dinner. I I haven't asked Morag if more people signed up after last Sunday morning, but you don't have to you don't have to say. They did. Alright, praise the Lord. But we need to encourage one another to do good deeds, to to serve, to meet one another's needs. Alright, next, confess your sins to one another. Confess your sins to one another. But Jim James chapter five, we'll run through these last three. James chapter five, therefore confess your sins to one another and pray for one another so that you may be healed. The effective prayer of a righteous man can affect much. Obviously by starting that verse with the word therefore, he's concluding a previous section where he talks about someone who is sick calling the elders. But there is a general principle there that we do need to be open with one another with within appropriate bounds to acknowledge our weaknesses to one another. The more we hide our sin, the more we hide our struggles, and we don't let anybody know what's going on, the more that struggle will grow in our lives. In Galatians chapter six, it si it says In a slightly different context, it doesn't say confess your sins to one another, but the implication is there. What Paul says there is, brethren, if anyone is caught In any trespass, you who are spiritual, restore such a one in a spirit of gentleness, each one looking to yourself so that you too will not be tempted. The idea there is not that someone is caught in their sin, that somebody caught them red-handed, you know, walked in on them while they were engaged in some sinful behavior. The idea is that they're caught in a net. And I think there's an implication there. It's not a necessary exclusive implication, but but to some degree that someone has called out for help. That someone has said, Hey, I'm stuck. And they're asking for help. And he says, if someone, if you hear someone crying out for help, restore them. So we need to be open with one another so that we can help each other overcome our sins. Uh next is clothe yourselves in humility. Clothe yourselves in humility. So this um goes to what Brandon was saying earlier about Pride. So much of slander and fighting and devouring and speaking against one another is out of pride. Peter writes, You younger men likewise, be subject to your elders, and all of you clothe yourselves with humility toward one another, for God is opposed to the proud. But gives grace to the humble. The idea of clothing yourselves with humility is the idea of tying on uh an apron, like a a servant would do, like Jesus did when he served when he washed the disciples' feet. He took out his outer garment, tied around uh a towel around himself. It's that idea that we need to be intentional to view ourselves as humble servants of one another Uh and that's really what enables us to pursue peace. That we need to acknowledge our own sins, our own, our own weaknesses. And that we are not better than everybody else. I'm not better than you, uh, so I can't think of you in prideful terms because I am a sinner in need of God's grace. And I need you to bear with me just as much as I need to bear with you I need you to forgive me just as much as I need to forgive you. I need you to do good to me as much as I need to do good to you. We are all uh beggars, we're all clay pots. We're just humble servants of the King. We're all in the same boat. You know, me being a pastor, being a deacon, being a leader, being a Bible study leader, none of that makes us anybody better than any anyone else We're all sinners saved by grace. And then finally, be of the same mind. Be of the same mind. This refers to our our thinking and our attitude. That we should think the same things. There's aspects, there's commands of being harmonious, which implies differences, that just you know as as a choir sings in harmony, so there are differences among us, but we need to work together. This is different. This is we have to think the same way. We have to have the same opinions. We have to have the same viewpoints. On what? Well, on God's interests Mark 8. 33, Jesus tells Peter, you know, you don't have your mind set on God's interests. You have your mindset on man's interests. We have to have the same mind on the Spirit, Romans 8. 5. All believers have their minds, should have their minds set on the spirit, not on the things of the flesh. Colossians, we should have all of our minds set on things above. Where Christ is. We should have the same views of heaven. We should have the same views of eternity And the priorities of eternity over the temporary. We should all have the same mind when it comes to humility. We should share a humble viewpoint. Philippians two, Romans twelve, three. We should all have the same mind in terms of mature thinking. We should all have the same mind in terms of pursuing Christ. We should all have the same goal. That we're not all living for different things, we're all living for Christ And that will look differently in each of our lives, but we all have the same goal. So there are some things that we need to be the same. And those are the we need to be the same in God's interests, have the same mind in God's uh focus on the spirit. Things above, humility, mature thinking, and pursuing Christ. Doesn't happen automatically, that's something we need to cultivate, all of these things. So we need to pray for God's help. Let's do that. Heavenly Father, we thank you for uh this uh reminder, brief as as it is, as we just Fly through these commands that you've given us. Lord, we're we are grateful that you have made us one new people of God, that you are conforming each one of us into the image of Christ. That we don't have to divide ourselves through temporary, fleshly, uh inadequate ways, but that we are united in Christ. And yet, Lord, we acknowledge our struggle to maintain that unity. And Lord, I ask for Hope Bible Church. That you would help us to pursue peace with one another, to preserve peace with one another, to be humble toward one another. Lord, that we would bear with one another, that you would cause us to grow in love and unity so that we can glorify you and mature as the body of Christ into the fullness of the statue of Christ In Jesus name, Amen