Okay, uh so just to kind of work through a couple of introductory things, the way this class is going to be laid out as far as the 12, 13 weeks or so. is that in the month of March, I'm going to be uh teaching the material. In the May in the month of April Mike Moody's going to be teaching the material, and then I'll finish out the last uh month uh of the of the class. So just so you know Mike's kind of my, if you will, backup teacher, assistant teacher, or co-teacher, however you want to call it. He'll be using his gifts with us in the month of April. I've already talked about the note packet. The book that largely shaped how this class is structured is called Pursuing Peace. There's a variety of books on the on the matter of biblical conflict resolution, and I'll walk through a couple of them in a moment. But uh uh the book that that I felt was the most helpful in terms of condensing the the content into a 13, 12, 13 week class was the book Pursuing Peace. We do have a number of copies here at the church that we had purchased a couple years ago. And so if you're interested in getting a copy, just let me know. I think they'd be $10. I think that's what we offered them for a couple years ago. So if you're interested in that, we we have some here in the church. Just let us know. We'd love to get one of those into your hand. And then also, I didn't bring them this morning, but starting next week, I'll have here in the classroom little pamphlets uh from Peacemaker Ministries which just provide some of the really core concepts uh of biblical reconciliation that you know in the pamphlet form that you can stick in your Bible, carry with you, and be reminded when when needed, it includes things like uh the the four promises of forgiveness, the s uh seven A's of confession, um the uh uh w what's called the uh uh slippery slope diagram which looks at uh big overview of the various ways of responding to conflict. uh the four G's of reconciliation, uh which we'll talk about as we move through the class. Anyway, it's just a very condensed little pamphlet that has some of those things. So We'll have those here. And if you're online and you want to grab one when you come for the service or any other time, just look at Let me know and I mean they'll be here in the classroom hopefully throughout the rest of the class. So just be aware that that's available to you and that that's free for you. Now, who is this class for? See, I think I have a slide here. Yeah, who is this class aimed at? Who will benefit from this class? Well, as we think about conflict and reconciliation, there are really two groups of people who need to understand what God's Word has to say on these issues The first group, and let's see if there's a, I only have a handful of you here in the room, but if you're online, you can uh Raise your hand for for yourself and the Lord to see. The first group would be sinners. Are there any sinners here in this room or online? Okay. Mike Mike didn't raise his hand. Okay, there he is, Mike. I put in the uh advertisement for the class that we are sandpaper people. And what I mean by that is as sinners we are prickly and we just naturally, because of our sin, sometimes unintentionally, many times unintentionally And sometimes intentionally we uh we bump up against people and we ourselves cause harm, we create conflict uh by the actions we do, by the words we say, and and you know, in a whole host of ways We ourselves are people who produce conflict. Conflict flows out of our actions. And so we need to understand what God's Word has to say. so that we can reduce those uh those prickly parts of us and grow as peacemakers as those who um uh are reducing conflict in our own lives uh in our relationships with others. So it's critical for us as sinners to walk through this this content. The other group of people that I think are are most help uh by uh this material are people who know sinners. Does anybody know a sinner? All right, Mike was faster on that one. So obviously we all know sinners, right? And and again, not only are we sandpaper people, but Everybody around us is a sandpaper person. And so we need to know, okay, when someone else is causing conflict, when either when when it's with me or when I observe someone uh in their life acting, behaving, speaking, relating in ways that uh that are producing conflict, I want to know as an ambassador of Christ how I can uh respond to them, how I can interact with them, how I can minister to them, encourage them, maybe even confront them if needed. And and we all have these folks in our lives, right? We we have these folks in our homes, our family members. We have these folks uh at work, uh school, uh in our neighborhood, just e everyone around us uh is a sinner and in need of God's truth. And so we have the privilege and the opportunity, as we grow in our understanding of the Word of God, to be God's ambassadors in ministering his truth to others. So this class is for everyone. There is no one who is exempt or excuse me, who does not need to grow in wisdom. That's why This is the third time that I've taught this class because I plan to teach it every year until every person in the church has taken it. Obviously, I'm not in control of that, but You know, as the Lord blesses the church and as the church grows, there's always going to be more and more people who who haven't uh walked through this material. And so I want our church to grow as A people who are full of grace and truth and love and kindness and gentleness, people who are peacemakers, who know how to handle conflict. The goal is not to never be in conflict, because that's not a possible goal. That's never going to happen. The goal is to learn how to respond to and handle conflict, especially when it involves me. ourselves. And so as we grow as a church spiritually and mature in maturity and unity and love, Lord willing, we will be a place where when conflict happens, we respond to it in a way that's honoring to the Lord. I think one of the primary reasons that people leave churches is because of conflict. You know, they rub shoulders with someone the wrong way, they have uh uh uh uh an offense that they have uh perceived and they say, well I don't want anything to do with that Or I don't want to have to deal with that. I don't want to be in a church where people act like that. You know, all kinds of responses someone might have, and so they they leave, they walk away. When what we should be doing is moving toward each other in our conflict so that we can reconcile in a way that pleases the Lord. This is how Christ treats us. He doesn't move away from us when we uh produce conflict when we rebel against him he moves toward us and so that's what what we should be doing with each other. We should always be moving toward those uh with whom we're in conflict So how should you use this course? Well, you know, basically hinted at it already, but uh there's two primary ways I want you to be digesting and applying the material of this course. The first is I want you to really take in the principles as you think about your own heart and not be thinking about someone else as, hey, It would be really great if this person was here, if this person was listening to this class. You know, for those of you who are married, no, no, no elbowing your spouse, saying, are you listening to this? You need to be, you know, living out this way No, think about it in very personal terms. Ask yourselves, pray to the Lord to help you take the truths and apply them to your own heart. to digest them to the degree that you are able to not only apply them, but even teach them to others, for those of you especially who are parents. These are principles that are so critical to teach our children in how to deal with conflict, especially if you have multiple children where conflict is such a regular occurrence We need to understand so that we can be doers of the word and not hearers only. And then in the doing of it that we are teaching and if you will making disciples of this content. So start first with your own personal growth, examining your own heart, maybe even thinking about the conflicts in your own life And thinking, okay, Lord, how can I apply this in this conflict that I am in? Or even if you're not presently in a in a difficult uh situation, think back to a previous one. Okay, if I would have applied this principle in that situation in the past, how should I have responded differently than I did? Again, just think very personally, apply it to your own heart first and foremost. And then the second aspect is use it as a as an opportunity to learn how you can be an ambassador for Christ toward others Uh you know, the Scripture is full of admonitions to us as believers of how we are to take the truth of God And if we see a speck in our brother's eye, first we've got to take the log out of our own eye, but then we need to take the speck, help him take the speck out of his own eye or her own eye. And so By learning, we can then minister to others and help others grow and resolve the conflicts in their life. So again, my goal in in teaching this class this year as well as the previous years is that my prayer is that God will develop and cultivate an environment, a culture in our church of reconciliation, a culture of grace and love. where when we prick one another in minor and in insignificant ways, that we show the love of Christ to each other and reconcile ourselves uh as Christ has reconciled us to him. With regard to asking questions in this course, I want you to know that you are free to interrupt me and Mike when he teaches. You just raise your hand, speak up. For those of you who are online, because of the screen sharing, I can't see all of you. So if you have your video on and you raise your hand, I may not see you Of course many of you don't have video on, so I definitely won't see you raise your hand. But feel free to just you know pipe in, interrupt if you have a question. Um you're you're very free to do that. If you if you know know me and my teaching style, I tend to just kind of run forward and and you know don't take uh too many breaks. So I I'm gonna try to be mindful of that and pause at different uh places to to ask for comments or questions, but but if you want to interrupt, you're free to do that. You're not going to offend me. You're not going to cause any problems. So please do that Having said that, I want to encourage you to think about the questions that you do ask, because obviously the nature of the class breeds questions that are very, very practical. And you might be wondering, okay, how can I apply this material in light of a conflict that I'm currently in? And so sometimes those questions need to have a story that's told uh to provide the background so that you know I can uh give an answer that's applicable to the situation. And sometimes you can do that in a way that's that's appropriate in a group context where you're not uh gossiping, you're not betraying confidence. Uh you can just you know kind of provide some quick background and then okay, here's the question. Other times there's details that are really needed that would be inappropriate to share in a group context And so for those kinds of questions, I would encourage you to ask me or Mike personally, either before or after class, or if you want to email me or talk on the phone. We can talk about those very personal direct specific applications privately so that we're not sharing information publicly that doesn't need to be shared publicly. However, if you can craft your question in a way that kind of looks at it from a principle perspective as opposed to a very specific situational perspective. More than likely, there will be others who will have a similar question or who will have similar enough situations where asking about the principle will be helpful. Now, of course, whatever Mike or I might say in response to that will be kind of a higher level principle. So you might get an answer and be like, okay, that doesn't quite fit the particulars of my situation. And that's fine. Again, just ask us privately on that basis. But anyway, just keep those things in mind. I really hope that in saying those things, I don't discourage questions. So please ask, and especially if you're really wrestling with how to apply these things in your own life with particular situations. Please don't hesitate to reach out and we would love to work through those things with you. So some key resources. I already mentioned the book Pursuing Peace, which this class follows the flow of that book. But pursuing peace itself is kind of a uh built on the foundation of the Peacemaker, which is really the seminal book in this area of biblical reconciliation, of course, scripture is the ultimate source, but the Peacemaker was kind of like the the initial book in in recent times that encapsulated the biblical principles of how to reconcile in a very helpful way. So as we move through this material, there's a lot that's also taken from the Peacemaker. And the author of Pursuing Peace, Robert Jones, he he borrows a lot from the Peacemaker as well. So those would be some two primary resources in terms of a broad stroke of understanding biblical reconciliation. The area of reconciliation that tends to be the hardest to deal with is the issue of forgiveness. And so I have a couple resources, and by the way, there's a recommended resource list at the very end of your note packet So these are all listed there. There's a couple books that I think are particularly helpful, John MacArthur's The Freedom and Power of Forgiveness and Unpacking Forgiveness by Chris Brauns. I haven't updated the PowerPoint since I read this book, but in the back of your notebook is included the book Choosing Forgiveness by Nancy Lee Damas. Which is also helpful. It's kind of less on the biblically intense, you know, really mining the scripture. uh aspect like unpacking forgiveness in in John MacArthur's book would be. But it's very, very helpful nonetheless, and and and biblical, of course. So those would be some primary resources. I list here some websites and some sermon series that you can look up. uh if you want to uh have more in-depth study on those issues. Okay, that's all that I have for introductory comments. Any particular questions at this point? Okay. So let's dive then into the material for today, Hope in Conflict on page three. It's really helpful when you're studying a new area that you understand definitions. What are we talking about? What are the meaning of the words that we're using? And because This is an area where Scripture speaks extensively. And there's also a lot of concepts and material in a secular context. It's helpful to understand and confirm what it is that we're talking about from a biblical perspective. So let's just walk through some of these definitions. So peace, you know, we're we're aiming to arrive at a situation of peace. We would love to live in peace. What do we mean by peace? Well, it's a state of well-being, harmony, and love driven by unity in desires, goals, and purposes Okay, a state of well-being, harmony and love, driven by unity in desires, goals, and purposes A key word there would be the word harmony, that even when we speak about unity in desires, goals, and purposes, we're not necessarily uh aiming for 100% uniformity, where we all have the same thoughts and there's no differences among us. There ought to be differences because God has made us as different creatures. We're all made in the image of God and that is reflected in a whole host of differences among us. But those differences should be harmonious such that the differences are not in competition with each other. uh or in conflict with each other, but that they are aiming at the same purpose, at the same goal of glorifying God uh and living as His people on this earth So we're aiming at a for a state of harmony and love, of course, love from a biblical perspective, that kind of love that is a self-sacrificial, others-oriented, how can I serve you and meet your needs? um uh uh what's the right word? How how can I lift you up? How can I put you before myself? How can I sacrifice myself for the sake of caring for you and loving you and putting you first? That's the biblical kind of love, which as we interact with one another in the in the context of relationships and various kinds of relationships. uh we're gonna have many opportunities to do that. Uh because we're in the context of our differences, we uh we might have our own uh intentions and purposes, but sometimes we have to set those aside out of love for the benefit of others. And so we want to learn how to love each other well according to God's will. You know, with goals and purposes, God has given us in his word what we are to be about, what we're to be aiming for, what we ought to be spending our time and energy and resources seeking to accomplish. especially as a collective body of the church, but also as individuals, what are we seeking to do in in our various roles as a husband or a wife or a parent or a child or a co-worker or or neighbor. God has given us an aim something to aim at with all of those things, all of those relationship purposes. And at the the head of all of that is the goal of glorifying God. The goal of reflecting God's uh character, the goal of praising God, showing Him to be worthy of praise and honor and glory on this earth. And so all that we do should be unified in that primary goal, which is then fulfilled in the kind of sub-level goals, even as we see in the two great commandments, right? The greatest one is to love the Lord our God with all of our heart, soul, mind, and strength. And the second one is to love our neighbor as ourself. And then even within that of loving our neighbor, there's a whole host of goals that we ought to be seeking to accomplish. So that's peace. Peace is aimed at a life of harmony and love where we are unified in our desires, goals. and purposes. Paul contrasts peace with disorder and confusion. In 1 Corinthians 14, 33, he says, God is not a God of confusion, but of peace. And the context there, if you remember 1 Corinthians 12-14, is really the spiritual gifts. How should we as believers conduct ourselves in the body of Christ. What does it look like for us to use those unique gifts that the Spirit distributes to His people, but to use them in a harmonious way? And Paul lays out principles of, you know, especially there in chapter 14, how many prophets should be should speak, uh, how many people in tongues should speak, w in what situations should should they speak, and should they not speak. He provides guidelines for an orderly service. And so he contrasts that orderliness, which he defines as peace, with confusion. Uh we want to be a people who are ordered rightly and and not living uh in a confused way. David contrasts peace with anxiety. In Psalm 4. 8, he says, In peace I will both lie down and sleep, for you alone, O Lord, make me to dwell in safety. Right? So many of David's Psalms, especially early on, are about his running from his enemies, them seeking to attack him. And in that situation, you can imagine that anxiety was a significant struggle that he would have, and yet he would recognize here that God himself is able to enable him to dwell in safety. That he doesn't have to be anxious. He doesn't have to be fearful of his circumstances or of the people who are seeking to attack him. He can instead be at peace. He can have tranquility in his heart rather than being on edge. Jesus contrasts peace with fear He says in John 14, 27, Peace I leave with you, my peace I give to you. Not as the world gives do I give it to you. Do not let your heart be troubled, nor let it be fearful. In that context, he's talking about how he's going to be leaving and sending the Holy Spirit And of course, if you've been walking around with Jesus for three years, if if you've been hearing him teach and seeing him heal and even raise the dead and and feed people, thousands of people with virtually nothing The idea of him going away, it's like, what are we gonna do? We already left our businesses, we left our homes, we left all our possessions and our family. If he goes away, how are we going to live? Where are we going to go? What are we going to do? How are we going to provide for ourselves? All kinds of fearful, anxious thoughts that they would have at this thought of Jesus leaving. And he says, you don't have to be fearful. I'm going to give you peace. I'm not leaving you alone. I'm leaving you with peace. Paul contrasts peace with disunity in 2 Corinthians 13, 11. He says, Finally, brethren, rejoice and be made complete, be comforted, be like-minded, live in peace. And the God of love and peace will be with you. The idea of like-minded there is to have the same line of thinking, to think the same kinds of thoughts. And when we are cultivating in ourselves the mind of Christ, when we're learning more and more how to think as God would have us to think, then that brings all of our thoughts together. We are united in purpose, united in mind, united in our understanding of God's truth and revelation in the world. And that naturally breeds unity. Simeon, who saw the Lord Jesus, contrasts peace with incompleteness. He said in Luke 2. 29, now Lord, you are releasing your bondservant to depart in peace according to your word. This was a man who had been waiting in the temple for the coming of the Messiah, and apparently somehow the Lord revealed to him that he would not die until he saw the Messiah. And so he was living his life incomplete. There was a sense in him that I can't die yet because there's something that hasn't happened yet. I haven't experienced something. I've I'm missing something in my life. And that of course he knew was I haven't seen the Messiah. So it was a pretty definitive thing he was looking for. And so once he did, once Joseph and Mary brought Jesus into the temple to s circumcise him and do their offerings. The Lord said to Simeon, This is the Messiah, this is the one you've been waiting for. And now that sense of completeness filled his soul. And he says, I'm ready, Lord. I'm now complete. And then finally, Jesus contrasts peace with being unwell. In Mark 5. 34, he said to her, daughter, your faith has made you well. Go and peace and be healed of your affliction. This particular woman is the woman who had had the issue of blood for so many years and who had not found any help. but who had struggled in her life to live a normal life because if she was following the law, uh she would have had uh she would have been perpetually unclean, which would have made a whole uh all of the relationships in her life uh difficult if not impossible to maintain. She would have been an outcast in in many ways because she couldn't go into the temple, she couldn't worship uh because she was just perpetually ceremonially unclean. She was sick. And so in addition to her social the social problems, the the the implications of her sickness uh the religious implications of her sickness, just her own physical sense of her body and the challenges that she had to deal with. And now Jesus heals her and he says, go in peace. Your your life now no longer is filled with sickness and all of these other issues. He brought a peace into her life. So these would all be just kind of opposites of peace, disorder, confusion, anxiety, fear, disunity, incompleteness, sickness. Where those things happen, there is not the fullness of peace that God would desire us to have. And so again, peace is a state of well-being, harmony, and love driven by unity in desires, goals, and purposes. Imagine living a life where you have none of these experiences of confusion, fear, anxiety, disunity, sickness. We will have to wait, of course, until the Lord comes back or until we we die and see him to experience that. But these are normal experiences that we all have on a regular basis. And so we really don't know what it's like to be at peace in the truest sense. We might have times of our life when we feel I I I think I'm I'm good with people. I don't think I have any conflicts right now. Uh you know, maybe uh maybe it's it's the honeymoon where it's like, okay, w w there's no arguments happening right now, everything's good. Um But uh the very few times where we feel that sense of peace, but even in that best moment, that's still not the fullness of peace uh that uh that is possible. All right, let's talk about conflict a little bit. Conflict, according to Ken Sandy, who wrote The Peacemaker, is a difference of opinion or purposes or purpose that frustrates someone's goals or desires. A difference of opinion or purpose that frustrates someone's goal or desires. So it's not just the bare difference of opinion or the difference of purpose, right? Again, we can have differences among us within the context of the church, for example. I have my own purposes of the ministries that the Lord has given to me, the counseling ministry, overseeing small groups and other ministries. And so I have those those things in my mind, and I have desires and purposes for what the Lord might do in the church with uh regard to those ministries. But there's other people who have other ministries. There's women's ministry, there's men's ministry, there's college ministry, you know, the focus, there's so many other ministries that other people have different thoughts, different desires, different purposes They're different than the thoughts that I have, but they're not in competition with each other. So the fact that there's a difference is not a problem. The problem comes when our differences of opinion or purpose frustrate our goals or desires. When we are now impeded in accomplishing what we're desiring because someone else has kind of gotten in the way. Yeah, Daniel. So kind of in that definition for talking. Talking about um for example, I can be in conflict. Um and the conflict is for me personally, even if the person who is causing my conflict is not at conflict with me within themselves. Does that make sense? Yeah, so uh d Daniel Br uh asked a good question. uh conflict can happen in our own heart when someone uh someone else's purposes or goals in a sense frustrate our desires, but they themselves are not in conflict with us. Like they don't feel the conflict. Absolutely. Absolutely. As soon as we bump up against that road where someone is standing in the way, they may not realize they're standing in the way. But you know, we see them and and we start to feel that tension of, oh my goodness, they're they're in my way. They're frustrating what I'm seeking to accomplish And so what happens from there will determine will this conflict become a two-way conflict? Or am I going to just deal with this in my own heart? Uh or am I gonna certainly interact with them but in a way that promotes peace. You know, if uh if someone's standing at the door and I'm wanting to get out You know, they might be chatting and after church, they're just not paying attention to the fact that they're blocking the door. Well, they're kind of conflicting my desire to to move or to get out of the room, but they're not aware of that So I can either go over to them and push them and create a much more significant conflict Or I can tap them on the shoulder and say, excuse me, can I can I get out? And hey, no more conflict. Or I could go through the other door and they would never be uh aware of the fact that there was a conflict. So there are ways to respond. You know, there usually is that one side of, okay, I sense there's a conflict. They probably don't realize there's a conflict. So I need to decide how am I going to deal with this. So that would definitely fall into the definition of a conflict. Again, at that level, it's just the seed form. And then How it progresses depends on our response. But then, of course, there's those situations where the other person is very well aware of their role in the conflict, and intentionally so. Of course, you know the easiest example is politics, where you have two parties with different goals, different desires, different standards, and they are all well aware of those things. And so whether it in our own lives, if it's somebody that sins against us, or someone that knowing our stance, knowing our purposes and our desires and our opinions intentionally gets or stays in our way, you know, that would definitely be a two-sided uh conflict. So again, the idea of a conflict is not that there is a difference, but that that difference frustrates to one degree or another someone's goals or desires. You know, sometimes we can get in that situation like what Daniel raised, and we can blow up the significance of this potential conflict. You know, we're in a meeting with someone, and they state an opinion or perspective that is very different than ours, and all of a sudden we feel the temperature rising in our own uh heart and and even physically in our body because we realize, oh my goodness, I don't think the way they think. In fact I disagree with them. And we're anticipating that there's going to be a conflict. Sometimes we assume the worst about people that, okay, once I'm aware of a difference, they may not be aware of it, but I'm aware of it. We tend to assume the worst that if I say something or do something that that manifests the difference, that all of a sudden there's going to be a conflict And that's not good, you know, because Scripture calls us, 1 Corinthians 13, to to love one another. Love believes the best. We ought to think the best of others. Now sometimes we know someone well enough, or we just know that's how they tend to respond in a in a unbiblical way, but but we want to think the best and and and so uh what our desire, what our what our motivation should be is as soon as we're aware of a conflict uh of interest, a conflict of purpose, uh, we should seek to respond in a way that is uh promoting unity and uh love and gentleness And uh pray that it doesn't get any worse from there. Now another definition you see there is kind of uh taking the definition of peace and turning that on its head. So instead of a state of well-being, harmony and love, driven by unity, desires Goals and purposes, conflict could be defined as a state of impaired thinking and relationships driven by competing desires, goals, and purposes. Okay? Impaired thinking and relationships. So again, sometimes the conflict is just in our own mind, in the sense of we're aware of something, or we we think we're aware of a a difference of opinion. And so we we do we're not thinking freely, we're not thinking uh clearly, uh, and then that wrong thinking often leads to wrong actions, which then breaks relationships. And so conflict usually is manifested in a broken relationship of some kind, and whether that's a momentary, you know, for a few hours. or whether it's long-standing brokenness of a relationship. But that impaired thinking and relationship is driven by, again, competing, conflicting desires, goals, and purposes. where instead of seeking to be cooperative and and harmonious, all of a sudden our our conflicts, our desires, our goals uh are butting up against each other and and we're not seeking to compromise or come to a unified way of thought. Some biblical examples would include Yodia and Sintiki, who had a broken relationship due to some kind of disunity of mind. The solution was to live in harmony. uh which literally translates to be of the same mind. You see that in Philippians 4, 1 through 3. We don't know the situation, we don't know the circumstances that that caused them to be in conflict, but it was significant enough that Paul under the inspiration of the Spirit wrote to say, hey, you know, my my brother helped these two women to to be reconciled, help them to live in harmony, uh to be of the same mind, whatever their difference of opinion is, uh whatever is bringing the the disunity, the conflict, whatever different uh goals and purposes that they have help them come to a place of harmony and unity because their relationship is broken and that is hindering the progress of the gospel. Paul and Barnabas had different perspectives on Mark's trustworthiness, which caused them to separate and minister apart from each other, right? Acts 15 Barnabas wanted to take John called Mark along with him also, but Paul kept insisting that they should not take him along, who had deserted them in Pamphylia and had not gone with them to the work. So Paul looked back at Mark's unfaithfulness, at the fact that he wasn't trustworthy, that he had left them in the middle of a mission, and he says, I don't want to take a guy who's a flake. He's not going to be helpful. He's going to cause more problems than than than he's going to help. And Barnabas, the encourager, wanted to give him a second chance. By that point, did Mark prove something to Barnabas? Did he show that there was a growth in his life that that made him more trustworthy? We don't know. But Barnabas wanted to to still take him along and and Paul did not. It wasn't until at the end of his life that Paul acknowledged the faithfulness and the usefulness of John Mark But they had their different perspectives. Paul said, he's not trustworthy. I don't want to take him. Barnabas said, I think we need to give him another chance. Again, we don't know why Barnabas felt that way, but but perhaps there was some clear evidence. You know, you wonder if Barnabas ever said to Paul You know, Paul, I took a chance on you at the beginning of your ministry when nobody wanted to talk to you, nobody was willing to meet with you. I took a chance on you. Come on, let's give this guy another chance. It'd be fascinating to know what those conversations were. But they had different perspectives. Paul confronted Peter. about his hypocrisy when Peter uh he was initially eating with Gentiles, but then when the circumcision came when the party of the circumcision came from Jerusalem. Peter didn't want to be seen with the Gentiles. He didn't want to bring offense. You know, it's again we don't know exactly is it that he didn't want to bring offense? Is it that he wanted to protect some reputation But he he removed himself from the Gentiles and Paul confronted him and said, Paul, Peter, that's not right. That is a misrepresentation of gospel truth. If you are going to remove yourself from the Gentiles, you're contradicting the message of the gospel that God has brought us all together. Galatians 2, 11-14, but when Cephas came to Antioch, I opposed him to his face because he stood condemned. For prior to the coming of certain men from James he used to eat with the Gentiles, but when they came, he began to withdraw and hold himself aloof, fearing the party of the circumcision. So That indicates that there's a that fear of man, the desire for a certain reputation that he didn't want to uh want didn't want to cross. So they had a difference in desires. Peter was motivated by selfish desires, sinful fear, and Paul was motivated by the desire to represent the gospel accurately. So again, conflict, a difference of opinion or purpose that frustrates someone's goals or desires. Now, just with that, we have a sense here that we have to be very thoughtful in our conflicts, because sometimes we think of our conflicts really at a superficial level. You said this, you did this, and it it's a it's a situational, you know, what was said, what was done level. Whereas the the true source of conflict, and of course we'll get in a whole lot more depth uh in the future is much, much deeper. It's in the purposes of the heart. And one of the things we should ask ourselves is what am I wanting right now? What am I desiring as opposed to what they are desiring? What's my goal versus their goal? And while we do need to deal, if there's been sin, if there's been sinful speech that's that's been used, if there's been sinful actions that have been committed, we do need to deal with that. We need to repent. seek each other's forgiveness for those things. But the conflict's not going to be resolved. There's not going to be harmony until it goes down to the depth of our goals and desires. So right there we have a hint that uh that the extent of a conflict is much deeper than we tend to to give credit So let's talk about the kind of the process of reconciliation. I don't know if that's the best uh best term. But what what are we really seeking to accomplish in when we think about reconciliation? Poyer uh who wrote the peacemaking pastor defines reconciliation, the process of reconciliation this way. A work of the triune God in union with us, the sons of God. Who through that union labor to bring about that great day of peace by rectifying wrongs and setting relationships right, all under the Lordship of God. One of the biggest problems that we have as Christians is that we often think of our conflicts as a purely horizontal, one-on-one, me-and-you situation. And we in the course of if we even try to reconcile, we try to deal with it at that level When what Alfred is saying here, and I think he's reflecting biblical truth, is that reconciliation, the process of reconciliation, needs to be God-centered. That primarily it is the work of the triune God, who is working in us and through us. As Paul says in Philippians 2, he is working in us the desire, the will, the ability. to confess our sins, to reconcile, to move closer to those that we're in conflict with. And then we need to take what he is working in and exercise it. We need to be obedient to what God is calling us to do. So reconciliation, the process of reconciliation is a theological endeavor. It's a divine endeavor in that we're seeking to cooperate with God's work. Ian, as he says, bringing about the great day of peace by rectifying wrongs and setting relationships right. Why do we do what we do? Why do we take the steps that we take? It's because we're seeking to submit ourselves to the Lordship of Christ. Again, we're seeking to glorify him above all, which means that we obey what he commands. Everything that we do is an act of glorifying God. So we need to humble ourselves under his lordship. and follow his principles. God himself has reconciled himself and individuals Right? 2 Corinthians 5, 18 and 19, God reconciled us to Himself through Christ and gave us the ministry of reconciliation. Everything that we do in the process of reconciliation is motivated by and modeled after God's reconciliation of us If God had not reconciled himself to us, we would be in the same place as the world is trying to figure out, you know, why should we even moti why should we even pursue reconciliation? What's the significance of it? Why should it matter? Why shouldn't I just cut people out of my life? Well, we don't do that. Instead, we pursue reconciliation because God has reconciled himself to us and us to himself. And so because we have sinned against him more than anybody could ever sin against us, we ought to then aim at reconciling ourselves. Because God has reconciled us to himself. God has reconciled himself and his people corporately Uniting Jews and Gentiles into the people of God. Ephesians 2, 11 to 15. For he himself is our peace who made both groups, Jew and Gentile, into one and broke down the barrier of the dividing wall. In salvation, yes, God saved individuals, but by saving individuals from every tribe and nation and people and tongue, he brought groups of people together So that you know when we think about you know what's the big topics of today, uh racial reconciliation, uh the way that we accomplish that is by cooperating with the fact that God has already accomplished that in Christ. So that when we see each other, we might be of different ethnicities, we might be of different cultures, we might speak different languages. But God has brought us together in Christ. We are already reconciled with each other. Christ at the cross accomplished re racial reconciliation in the truest way. Now obviously the world doesn't see it that way. He hasn't reconciled the world in that way. But within the body of Christ he has. So within the body, corporately, the corporate body of Christ, there ought not to be such distinctions among us. And if there are, we are living in sin. Because God has already reconciled us to each other. If our sin against each other is on the basis, or excuse me, if our disunity with each other is on the basis of culture, skin color, ethnicity, language Then we are denying what Christ has already accomplished. Because God has already reconciled his people corporately to each other. And so in light of the reconciliation God has accomplished, we must work to preserve the reconciliation among men. Ephesians 4, 1 through 6, I implore you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling with which you have been called, being diligent to preserve the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. Both here and in Colossians and other passages, the clear, the clearest, the almost the first implication of what it means to be a Christian. What it means to be saved, what it means to be a child of God, is that we live a life of pursuing reconciliation, that we're seeking to preserve the reconciliation that Christ has already accomplished. And so whenever we see disunity, whenever we see conflict That we need to uh address those things and not run away, not allow them to be perpetuated. Yeah, Raymond. Uh it it is one through I mean what I quoted there is from one through three, but the the fuller passage would be one through six. There's just more. More saying because after verse three there w where he says being diligent to preserve the unity of the Spirit, he goes on to say, you know, there's one Lord, one faith, one God and Father of all. You know, we've all been baptized into one Spirit, so he emphasizes the unity that we have. But just for the sake of the notes, I just included that particular quote. So again, reconciliation has already been accomplished. Our job is to preserve it. Yes, to preserve. We're not seeking to accomplish something as if it's never happened. We're seeking to preserve what God has already done. Now to contrast the kind of the process of reconciliation, here's something that's not in your notes, so you can look at the screen. Consider the state of reconciliation. What does it feel like? What does it look like to live a reconciled life? Well it's a joyful state of thinking and relationships that have been reinforced. by bonds of love, increasing personal and corporate usefulness for the glory of God. So in the same way that when we get a cut uh that needs stitches or or or something, uh a bone is broken in our body and when it heals it's uh to some degree stronger than it r originally was. The body knows to to strengthen that that injury so that there's a reduced risk of re-breaking it or re-injuring it. So it is that when we have been in conflict with someone, especially a brother or sister in Christ, And then we are reconciled, we pursue biblical reconciliation, and God blesses that effort and brings about reconciliation. There's a reinforcement of the bonds of love. that that relationship can be stronger than it was before. Because we've worked through the difficulties of uh of loving each other well even in the in response to our sin. And so by having that stronger bond of love, there is increased personal and corporate usefulness for the glory of God. We can work closer and harder together to glorify God in our lives. And you know, of course, depending on the situation and the relationship, that that's going to look uh different and and whatnot. But the point is that there is now a testimony, at the very least, a testimony of God's goodness in bringing about reconciliation, which brings glory to God. But when we're reconciled, we don't have to come to church, you know, kind of ducking our heads, hoping not to see that one person, hoping we don't have to say hello. No, there's a state of joy and anticipation in seeing each other and greeting each other and affirming each other in ministering side by side for the sake of Christ. So at the end of that main section in Ephesians 4, Paul says, But speaking of the truth in love, we are to grow up in all aspects into him who is the head, even Christ. from whom the whole body, being fitted and held together by what every joint supplies, according to the proper working of each individual part, causes the growth of the body for the building up of itself in love In other words, there's just this concept that in the same way that all the parts of our body are actively working to produce the functioning Uh you know, they're they're listening to the commands that come from the brain so that every everything is working in harmony for the growth of the body and the preservation and the health of the body. So it is in the body of Christ we ought to be actively working together to grow in the grace and knowledge of Christ so that we can become more and more like Christ. And then Philippians 2, Paul says, Therefore, if there is any encouragement in Christ, if there is any consolation of love, if there is any fellowship of the Spirit, if any affection and compassion, Make my joy complete by being united of the same mind, or by being of the same mind, maintaining the same love, united in spirit, intent on one purpose. This is the kind of dynamic we need to have. There was conflict in Philippians. It's often considered to be the book of joy because of how much Paul talks about joy and rejoicing. But if you read carefully, I mean that's I'm I'm not denying that, but if you read carefully, there's a whole lot of conflict. In chapter one, there's the conflict of those who are preaching uh out of uh um contempt for Paul. Uh in chapter two he commands them to live humbly, to humble themselves. Why? Because there was pride uh in in their church In chapter 3, he talks about those who uh were false teachers, you know, who uh who were whose God was their belly, and I don't remember all what he says, but he he talks about the importance of pursuing being like Christ. Then in chapter 4, you have Yodia and Sintiki in that situation. So there's conflict in every portion of the book of Philippians, and he's bringing truth to bear on those conflicts. And so he says the goal is to be of the same love, the same mind, united in spirit, intent on one purpose. Okay, let me pause there before we move on to the next section and see if there are any comments or questions. Okay. So we're gonna walk through no man. We're going to walk through this next section somewhat quickly. I think it's helpful just to get an overview of uh this idea, the history of the world through the lens of War and Peace. Of course, not the book War and Peace, but just the the realities of war and peace. When God created everything, we know that everything was perfect. Everything was very good. There was no sin. There was no conflict. Genesis 1. 31 tells us that God looked upon everything he had made, and it was very good. So what does that include? Among other things, we find hints that life in this created world was defined by peace. Again, the scripture doesn't say it was defined by peace, but we see that uh represented in these various relationships. There was peace. between animals, right? God gave the animals uh the the uh the the produce of the ground the the the green uh plants to eat there was no there were no carnivores at creation So animals were not in fear of each other. There was peace between mankind and creation. You know, Adam and Eve were tasked to work in the garden, but that garden was not working against them. In a sense, it was working for them. It was growing, it was productive. They were to um to trim the garden, you know, and and and take care of it. But it's not like later when the the the the creation was uh working against uh Adam's efforts. There was peace between Adam and the animals, right? They weren't afraid of him. He wasn't going to eat them. name them they they walked across the uh the stage as it were as he named them and and there was no uh no fear. You know we can ask well how in the world uh is it that Eve would talk to a serpent. You know, wouldn't wouldn't we just kind of run and and and and scream if an animal started talking to us? Well, obviously we don't know if that was normal, if if animals talked in the normal course of life, but at the very least it indicates to us that there was no fear, that she was not afraid of the animals uh and even a talking animal. And then there was peace between Adam and Eve. They were perfectly harmonious. You know, it occurred to me the other day As I was talking to someone, that Adam and Eve are the only two people, the only couple, the only married couple that will ever experience marriage without sin. Right? Because when we go to heaven, we won't be married to our spouse. Marriage ends at death. And so they were the only ones to experience That relationship. You know, it kind of makes you wonder what would that be like to not have sin in the context of our relationship? Um makes our spouse wonder that. Um but s there it is, that they had harmony And then there was peace between mankind and God. God fellowship with them. He interacted with them. They weren't afraid of him. They weren't destroyed by his presence. There was perfect harmony. That's what it was before sin into the world. Perfect unity, peace, love, trust um among all. But then sin entered the world and creation then became defined by conflict. There's conflict between animals, where now animals will eat each other. There will now be animals that prey on others There's conflict between mankind and creation, again, where God cursed the ground and said, by the sweat of your brow, you will eat of the fruit of the ground. There's conflict between mankind and animals. Not only did God use an animal to uh to kill that animal and make skin coverings for Adam and Eve. But now animals would be afraid of mankind. That's reiterated after the flood as well. There's conflict between Adam and Eve and among mankind. Part of the curse was that Eve would desire to rule over her husband, but that he would continue to rule over her. And then we see that conflict explode in the very next chapter in chapter four with Cain and Abel. And it just goes downhill from there. And then there's conflict between mankind and God. The reason that God did not want Adam and Eve to remain in the garden was so that they wouldn't have access to the tree of life. so that their conflict with him wouldn't be perpetuated, but that it would end at their death. God no longer would strive with mankind forever, it says in chapter six. And so he limited the the years of man's life. And then ultimately he brought the flood because they were living in such rebellion against him. And so it is today. We live in a world at war. It shouldn't surprise us that conflict happens. We should never be shocked, whether it's personal conflict, whether it's national conflict, whether it's international conflict This is what defines the world. This is normal. It should be expected. But it's not always going to be this way. There will be a new world of peace. The millennium and the eternal state will be defined by peace once again. There will be again peace between animals, right? The lion and the lamb will will dw uh lay down together. There will be peace between mankind and creation. There will be peace between mankind and animals. You know the child will lay or will play at the den of an adder There will be peace between mankind, where we will not sin against one another anymore. And then best of all, there will be peace between mankind and God. Where God will dwell with us, we will dwell with him, he will be our God, we will be his people. And everything will be in perfect harmony. So all that we experience today, the normalcy of life, is going to be over It's gonna end uh in the next age, in the millennium and the eternal state Even though our sin-cursed world is defined by conflict, the gospel is the good news that not only has God made peace possible in the future, but He is making peace in the world today. and calling those reconciled to him to be peacemakers. So yes, we long for that day when we will experience the fullness of peace from God's perspective and in every aspect, in every rel Excuse me, in every relationship. But we can be pursuing that peace even now. We can experience a measure of that peace even now. And the more we apply biblical principles to reconciliation, the more we can experience peace today. And that's possible because of who God is. While this world will be defined by conflict until Jesus sits on his throne in the New Jerusalem. There is hope that we can experience peace because our God, our Creator, our Savior, our Redeemer, is a peacemaking God. You know, I'm not going to read all of them for the sake of time, but you can see here a list of passages in your notes that identify God as a God of peace. Isaiah 9. 6, who speaks of the Messiah. He's considered the prince of peace. Multiple passages, Romans 33 and others, referred to God as a God of peace. 2 Corinthians 13, 11, which we read earlier, identifies God as a God of love and peace. He is a God of peace. He's not a war-mongering God. He's not a God who delights in anger and disunity and confusion and corruption. No, he's a God of unity and harmony and love and peace. And so as we are his children, as we are imitators of him, we will be a people of peace. Peace is possible because of who God is. So what kind of peace can you have today? Well you can have saving peace with God. This is a vertical peace that only God can produce, but we are called to pursue it by faith and repentance, as well as to call others to be at peace with God. The most significant conflict in your life, in my life, is our conflict with God until that day when He saves us. So if you have been saved, if you have been reconciled to God, Then the greatest conflict that you will ever experience has already been done away with. Romans 5, 1 through 2. Therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace with God. Through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom also we have obtained our introduction by faith into this grace in which we stand. And we exalt in hope of the glory of God. 2 Corinthians 5, 18 to 20. Now all these things are from God who reconciled us to himself. through Christ and gave us the ministry of reconciliation. Therefore, we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God were making an appeal through us. We beg you on behalf of Christ be reconciled to God. So again, we have peace with God. We are reconciled to God when He saves us as we believe and as we repent and trust in Him. And then He calls us to call others and plead others to be reconciled to God to God. So peace with God, saving peace with God, is one, is the most significant aspect of peace we can experience today. We can also experience inner peace Enjoyed with a God of peace. Inner peace enjoyed with a God of peace. When we enjoy peace with God, the most significant conflict in our life is resolved. That frees us to experience internal peace. But it usually doesn't happen by accident we are called to pursue it. You see Philippians 4 there, be anxious for nothing. But in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your request be made known to God, and the peace of God, which surpasses all comprehension, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. In other words, yes, we can be anxious in our lives, but the way we deal with anxiety, the way we we are able to wash away the anxiety in our lives is by pursuing God Himself, pursuing A relationship with God, communicating with God, communing with God, and then living in obedience to Him. And it says at the end of that passage, practice these things, and the God of peace will be with you. So once we've been reconciled to God, we can experience internal peace as we both commune with God and imitate God. Isaiah 26, 3. The steadfast of mind you will keep in perfect peace because he trusts in you. If there's turmoil in our life, if there's anxiety and fear, that can melt away, that will melt away as we draw near to God. We can also experience relational peace with others. Once the vertical peace with God is established, we experience and we experience inner peace, we are called to pursue horizontal peace with others. That includes we are called to pursue peace with unbelievers, as it says in Romans 18, if possible, as far as it depends on you, be at peace with all men. Or Titus 3. 2, malign no one, be peaceable, gentle, showing every consideration for all men. Even those in 1 Corinthians 7 that God uh excuse me that that don't want to live with us, an unbelieving spouse, called calls us to peace with them. He says, Yet if the unbelieving one leaves, let him leave The brother or the sister is not under bondage in such cases, but God has called us to peace. Instead of forcing ourselves upon an unbeliever who doesn't want to live with us, remain married to us. He says, let them go because God has called us to peace. Then of course we're called to be, to pursue peace with believers. Romans 14, 19, pursue the things which make for peace and the building up of one another. 2 Timothy 2, 22 to 23. Now flee from youthful lust and pursue righteousness, faith, love, and peace with those who call on the Lord from a pure heart. 1 Thessalonians 5, 13, live in peace with one another. So this is our calling. This is what it means to be a Christian. If we're going to claim to be a follower of Christ, if we're going to claim that he is our Lord, our life should be defined by the pursuit of peace. Our life should be defined by the experience of inner peace because we have been reconciled to God. Again, that doesn't mean that the difficulties of life never trouble us, but it means that when we experience difficulties, when we experience conflicts, we respond to them in a way that's honoring to the Lord, and we can experience that inner peace. And uh if God is gracious, our efforts at pursuing peace will produce reconciliation with others Now in closing, I know we're out of time here. Peace is not just a possibility in this life, it is a calling, a commandment. God commands us to have peace among others, but He uh but he does that having granted us peace with himself. offering us peace in ourselves. Therefore, we are to have an attitude of peace and take action in peace making. The attitude of peace Is defined by Colossians 3. 15. Let the peace of Christ rule in your heart. The idea of ruling is to act as a judge or an arbiter. So like an umpire who decides what happens next, peace should be the ruling guide by which you act and respond toward others. So what we should be thinking about in the in a conflict is not what do I want, how can I get what I want, but rather What would be the right response that would be aimed at peace? How can I work toward peace in this situation? How can I Accomplish what God desires rather than what I desire, because God desires us to be at peace with others. So we have to have that attitude of what God desires is more important than what I desire. I want to be pursuing peace. And then the action of peacemaking, Matthew 5. 9, blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God. Our lives should be defined by uh actions that promote peace and reconciliation. We are to work in the family business, as it were, of peacemaking. That's why he says they shall be called sons of God, because the sons of God do the things that God does. Jesus said in John 8. 44 that the Pharisees were of their father the devil, and he said that on the basis of how they were behaving. They were liars and murderers And they were imitating their father the devil, who was a liar and murderer as well. And so if we want to be called, identified as sons of our heavenly Father, we will act in ways that pursue peace. So that's what this class is all about. It's to help us develop and cultivate the attitude of peace and learn how to take actions. uh that pursue peace. All to the end that God will be glorified. Alright, any and we're five minutes over, but any particular comments or or questions before I close?