Heavenly Father, thank you for another opportunity when we can gather together as one spiritual family, a family that is really closer than for some of us, even our blood relatives. We're thankful that this is a family that was founded by what Jesus did for us in our place on the cross. Um and his victory over death and the giving of the Holy Spirit that lives within each of us. God, we're thankful that this common Holy Spirit binds us together as one. We pray that everything that we do here this morning at Hope Bible Church would be done according to the power of the Spirit. It would be done to glorify your Son. That nothing that we do here would be according to the flesh. We pray that as we continue to learn about the one-another's, about what it means, the implications of being a Christian in our day-to-day relationships. that this time would be blessed by you, God. We know that without the Holy Spirit, uh, the things of the Bible would not apply to our lives. We need your help For us to truly, at a heart level, understand these truths and have it conform us to Christ likeness Lord, without uh you empowering this teaching time and this learning time, everything we'd be we would be doing here this morning would just be merely academic. It would just be theoretical and It would do us uh no profit. So we ask for your help, Lord. We pray that anything that I speak today, um in the course of my preparations, uh it would be according to your word And if there is anything that I teach that is uh errant, God, that is an error, I pray that you would bring uh loving brothers and sisters to correct anything I teach that is erroneous. And Lord, we pray for every single one of us here that you would give us hearts and minds that are ready to accept the words of the Lord and instead of rebelling against it, God. Particularly those things, Lord, that convict us, that prick our hearts, perhaps uh things that speak to some sins that we are harboring right now. We pray that we would not uh buck against these truths, but we would accept them for being the Word of God and allow God, your Spirit, to do its work of sanctification. We want to pray specifically for our sister Teresa, who will be leaving for Togo. First and foremost, we're so thankful that you've given her a heart that is very passionate for evangelism. and evangelism, particularly in terms of uh missions to a foreign country. We pray that you would prosper her journey, that you would keep her safe during her flight. Please uh bring to fulfillment the desire of her heart to see the entire world evangelized, all peoples, Lord. And whatever your will is for um Teresa on this trip, um you got you gotta know uh the struggles that she's having with what uh you want her to do in terms of ministry and her future. I pray that things will become clearer and clearer day by day she spends in Togo. Please bring her back safely and uh please bring her back uh with even more spiritual equipment that she can use to share with the body back here, back home. We continue to pray for our brother Pastor Leek who continues to be in much pain. And there are many temptations still to discouragement for Tom. We pray that you would continue to bring brothers and sisters here at Hope to encourage them, particularly with our Ross's initiative to send these video messages. We pray that you would raise up a lot of people here at Hope to uh really take up that call to encourage our pastor and our dear friend and brother. And we pray that your will will be done Um, I don't know really what else we can pray for, God. You know what our desires are. But above all, we pray that your will would be done in Tom Leek's life, whatever that is. But we do pray that you would heal him if you if that is part of your will. In your son's name we pray. Amen. Okay, good morning everybody. For those of you who don't know me, my name is Elias, and I will be substituting once again for Pastor Gabe. And uh first and foremost, what is the purpose of this class? We're learning about relationships, living life together for God's glory and our good. So we know uh that's a typo. For God glory in our God. Well that's that's true as well, but I think that last word's supposed to say good. And we know that after we get saved we have a promise and guarantee of eternity in heaven with with our Lord, right? But by God's design We continue to remain on this earth for a while. And unfortunately this earth is full of uh diseases like we just prayed about and pains and struggles and disappointments And also other sinful people, right? Like us. Other Christians that still have this remaining unredeemed part of themselves called the flesh. And because of that sinful, continuing sinful influence, sometimes we rub each other the wrong way or say something dumb to each other or accidentally offend each other, purposefully offend each other. And we have to learn what is God's design for how we relate to other believers and other people in general. And that's what this class is designed to help us understand. So we're talking about the one another commands at the moment, and we're going to continue with a new set of one another commands this morning. However, before we dive into the new material Can anybody please remind the class what we covered uh last week? Anything at all that you remember? Okay. Stimulating one another to love and good deeds. Good. So that was one of the Anyone remember the general category that Pastor Gabe labeled last week's set of one another's Strengthening. Strengthening, yeah. One another's for strengthening. And that really had to do more with the corporate reality of the church, right? It has to do more with uh how we can strengthen the corporate, the entire church body as a whole. Now those one another's obviously does also apply to individuals But uh that was kind of the general category that Pastor Gabe organized last week's list into. The one another's we do in order to strengthen the church as a whole. So we had stimulate one another to love and good deeds. What's another one another we covered last week? Encouraging and building up, good. Pray for one another. That's a big one. That's that's one of the important one anothers that really distinguish us from the rest of the world, I think. Because uh the world because they don't believe in God, just because they can't see him, right? Their entire reality is based on their five senses. You know, that's what the Bible calls a sensual man, someone who's just living by sight and smell and taste and all that. Or their goddess, their stomach is another way the Bible qualifies um people like w w what we used to be before we came to Christ. And uh the world often makes fun of this idea of praying for one another because you think I can't see the immediate effect it's having, therefore it must be having no effect, right? But we as Christians who see not just by our eyes but by faith, we understand that there is an actual God out there that listens to our prayers and the Bible promises when we pray, things actually change. Maybe not or always according to the way you envision it, but there is an actual impact by all the prayers you're lifting up for Pastor Leek, for instance, one another. the prayers you were in concurrence with me when I was praying this morning. Those kind of prayers actually have some effect. It actually changes things. Okay, so we should pray for one another. That strengthens the church. That strengthens other people. What else should we do? Bear one another's burdens. Good. I'm sorry? Assemble together. Assemble together, yes. Don't forsake the assembling, as Hebrews 10 says. Come to church. Go to church functions. We also have teach and admonish, speak in psalms and hymns, and spiritual songs. And those are some of the verses that we use. Can everyone see this by the way in the back, Carrie? Okay, good. I hopefully made all the font big enough. Uh but a lot of the lesson today will be kind of discussion-based anyway. And um I'll call out the scripture passages we're discussing so you can you turn to it in your own bible if you can't if you're having trouble seeing. Okay, good, good, good. Um now the Bible teaches, by the way, let's back it up for a second. Let's go one level up Where did these one-anothers come from? Well the Bible teaches that the two highest moral principles is what? What does Jesus say is the greatest commandment? Most important. Love God, basically, right? I'll simplify. Love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, might, and strength. Love God. That's number one. And what's the closely a connected second principle that comes out of that first principle of loving God. Love others. So those two things are connected, right? Uh if you want, you can turn to Matthew twenty-two and see for yourself in verses thirty-six to forty. In fact, why don't we do that? Can someone, whoever turns to Matthew 22 If you have a loud, confident voice, please go ahead and just read verses thirty-six to forty for the entire class. Thirty-six to four you say? Yes, please. Teacher, which is the great commandment in the law? And he said to them You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind. This is the great and foremost commandment The second is like it, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. On these two commandments depend the whole law and the prophets. So once again, um just I just want to point out That verse 37 in Jesus' mind is closely connected to and must lead to verse 39. If you truly love God, right? If you're truly a believer that claims to love God, what has to naturally happen in your life as a result? You have to love others. You have to love fellow believers. You have to love other people. You have to love other people made in the image of God. Right? And by loving other people, what are we doing? With the right heart motive, if we love other people. We love God, right? So we can see it from both angles. So that is where these so-called one-another commands that are rife throughout the New Testament comes comes from. It comes from this principle Okay, we continue with a new set of one another's this morning, and we are getting to a very intimate and as Pastor Gabe said, a very face-to-face level of one another in. And it's going to be a set that Pastor Gabe wants to label as the one-anothers of serving. Okay? One another's of serving. So we just looked at the one-anothers of strengthening last week which kind of deal more with the corporate church as a whole, how you build up the whole church. Now we're going to look up how do you build up the individual believers that you are connected with, uh the friends that you have at Hope Bible Church, your best friends, the people you hang out with or people you don't know very well, but you have over for dinner and you're being hospitable to them. How can you one another them? How can you build them up and love them? So these are the one-anothers of serving However, I just want to plant on one particular question. Why does God command intimacy in serving other people? Why can't we just serve people from far away? So Pastor Gabe kind of addressed last week, right? That uh a lot of people want to just fulfill these one another commands over social media or internet. You know, I said something, you know, praying for you on Facebook or, you know, prayer corner on our uh Hope Book uh email threads. And that's good to do. A pastor Gabe explained that's good to do. It's not a bad thing. We should do that. Social media is a neutral force that could be used for good or evil. But God really envisions in the Bible this face-to-face intimate setting, you know, being with someone in person. Why do you think that's God's design? Let's just plant on that thought and think about it a little bit Yes. I like that answer. Mm-hmm. That's great. That's what God does. That's really the ultimate reason. Any other practical reasons why serving should be done in the intimate face-to-face setting? I think common can take it out of sight, out of mind. We don't really see them in top things. Yeah. That's a great point too. Yes. I think that um Five service based to face. You also need um uploading model to the service. And so then it's little uh we've just got the whole kind of thing. Yeah, what does Paul say Jesus said on earth? Not recorded in the Gospels, but Paul s says Jesus taught it's more blessed to what To give and to receive. Yeah. Good. Yeah, you cut up cut yourself off from that blessing when you're not intimately serving. That's good. I had just another thought too. This this wasn't there's no like real right or wrong answer. Just wanted us to kind of think about why we're talking about the one another's. But I also kind of thought it's easy to love people in a sense, right? But it's difficult when you have to love persons, individual persons. Because if you think about it, there are even non-believing humanitarians out there that claim to love people You know, Elon Musk wants to save the human race. Bill and Melinda Gates, they're not believers. They do they do a lot of things for people as a whole. But really the harder thing to do is those individual what we perceive as annoying or difficult to love people, or persons really, uh especially when they consider us an enemy, when they don't like us The one person in the office you tried to evangelize to and now they you know try to backstab you every chance they get. You know, those individual people, individuals can be the ones that are very difficult to reach out to. But in a sense if you think of people as a co abstract, you know, concept, it can be very easy. But uh You know that's where the supernatural transforming work of God in our hearts becomes most apparent is in our love for individual persons. So you guys remember in John 13, 35 At the Last Supper, Jesus said, we Christians, people will be able to identify us as believers according to our what? What quality. Our love for one another, he makes it individual. Not our love for people in general or the world in general by our love for one another, by individual persons in our life, that is how the world is going to be able to identify that ah, that person's different. That person's uh Christian. Christ is living in his heart. That's the hope. Individual person. Okay. Alright, let's go to the first one another we're going to cover today. A lot of this, like I said, I'll give a little some brief commentary on each of these key passages. But I'd really like to hear from you guys. So the design here is we talked a lot of theory the first half of class. Now it's your turn to think about how do I apply this theory, how do I apply this doctrine. Who are the individual persons in my life? What are the situations in my life where I can act out this love in relationships? So comfort one another. 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, 13 to 14 states the following. I will be reading from the ESV translation. But we do not want you to be uninformed, brothers. By the way, who's speaking here? Apostle Paul, and he's speaking to believers at the church at Thessalonica. We do not want you to be uninformed, brothers, about those who are asleep. Asleep is the Pauline lingo for what state? Physical death. Dead. Physical death. Not true death. That's why they're asleep. Right? He says, I want to talk about those believers you have in your congregation that died, that you may not grieve as others do who have no hope. Verse 14. For since we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so, through Jesus, God will bring with him those who have fallen asleep. I'm going to jump down to verse 18 now. Therefore encourage one another with these words. So first and foremost, for the theologians in the room or those of you who are studying 1 Thessalonians, what's the context here? What is Paul addressing? What issue at Thessalonica? Mm-hmm. Yep, it has to do with Jesus' second coming. It has to do with resurrection. Look at that first verse we read, verse 13. We do not want you to be uninformed. So there's a problem here. Some Thessalonians were uninformed. They were ignorant of some fact. And by context, what is that fact, do you think? Yeah, yeah. But even more specifically, what happened to those Thessalonian believers who died before Jesus came back? So that's the concern here. The concern here is some Thessalonians were grieving because they thought that if you died before Jesus came back What's gonna happen to your soul? You missed out. You know? Are you are you not going to end up in heaven? And a lot of them were so concerned because uh y y you can see from uh this passage uh this generation of believers they were expecting Jesus' imminent return. In fact every generation of believers by God's design should be continually expecting Jesus can come back at any moment. We're supposed to live in that imminent expectation that perhaps will come back in my lifetime. But the Thessalonians were r realizing Jesus was tarrying for a while and a lot of them were getting old and dying one by one, and they were thinking, Are they going to get resurrected? What's going to happen to them? Now what is Paul's answer to these worrying Thessalonians, these Christians? What happens to those believers that died before Jesus came back? They're gonna be in purgatory. I'm sorry? They will be raised. And when Jesus comes back, they are going to be resurrected. So that's the answer Paul gives to comfort the Thessalonians. Are you guys all tracking so far? Helping you understand the passage? Okay. So Paul explains in comfort, he comforts one another. He comforts these Christians by giving them what? Spiritual instruction by giving them the Bible, scripture. You guys see that? So I think this passage does a good job addressing maybe two types of Christians I'm going to generalize here a little bit. And I'm going to put one category, the Ivory Tower theologians that know the Bible very well, but they're nerds with no social skills. Right? So that's one category. I'm generalizing. And then you have the other category. You have the social butterflies that has never read a book in his life. Okay? And this passage addresses both of those types of people, because what does Paul teach here? First of all, if you're a theologian, you love studying the Bible, you're very passionate about it That's an example for all of us, by the way. Everyone should uh strive to be the best theologian you possibly can be. I'm not saying we're all equally at the same level of intelligence or we don't all have the gift of knowledge in great measure. But we should all strive to be personal theologians that can express the gospel and biblical teaching. But what are you supposed to do with that theology after you have it? What does Paul do with this theology of the resurrection? Share it and specifically in this passage to the purpose what purpose? To encourage. To encourage. There is no greater encouragement you can give someone. than from the encouragement that comes from sound doctrine. Okay, how about the social butterflies, right? You love encouraging people. You love hanging out with people. You're such an encourager. You always have the right word to say to make someone feel better. But what should be the basis of your encouragement? Scripture. Scripture. Scripture. Right? I want you to think about the difference that you hear. Uh this kind of counsel that I would give to someone, maybe an unemployed brother who's struggling financially and he's worried about the future. How about uh A, you say to them, ah, it'll work out. Don't worry about it. Turn up, man, right? That could be good. That could be loving. However, hear the force of giving scripture to this brother in this very specific situation. And say, hey, I want to show you this passage from Psalm 37, 25. And this is when David says, I have been young and now I'm old, yet I have not seen the righteous forsaken, or his children begging for bread. You should be encouraged because the Bible actually promises that if you're a child of God, barring some unusual temporary circumstance God promises you will not be begging for bread. You're not going to starve to death. God is going to provide for you your daily bread. Do you hear how much more encouraging and how much more confidence you can have from hearing the latter? versus the former, just be happy, chin up, you know. That is uh a nice thing to say, but there's so much more power to our encouraging others when we bring scripture into the picture Okay. So I want to open up to you guys now. How has someone comforted you well, particularly with scripture? Can you guys think of um a situation that uh you thought someone fulfilled this one another in a particularly godly fashion so we can learn from that example This is actually a little bit backwards, but it just says um my grandfather passed away because I'm not death He was a Christian, but he had struggled with Alzheimer's for a long time. But what was encouraging was his favorite song was Victory in Jesus. And as we sang that his funeral. You know, it's a song that's catchy and you don't really think of the words, but as we looked at the words it was so encouraging that there was a future with Christ and so it's not necessarily a person that encouraged me with the truth. Although indirectly it isn't but it was just God's words about the truth of the resurrection. And that also touches on what Pastor Gabe taught last week as well, why it's so important to have those spiritual songs that are based on Scripture. You're really just singing Scripture back to God, and that's where the really the power of the words come from. Alright, this is also like a uh I'll say a reverse flip or whatever. It's uh to show the the the the non-Christian aspect of it, because my uncle uh I mentioned last week that my uncle passed away, so It'll be about three weeks now, so I gotta call up various things. Okay, he passed away on the thirtieth and and people say, Oh, I'm so sorry. I said, There's no need to be sorry, he's walking with the Lord now, so uh uh don't worry about it. And usually You can tell by their the reaction with the some of it scripted they generally have to say, Hey, my condolences are I'm sorry, but they're usually Definitely saying from a non-Christian perspective and I can get a attune to that, you know, and I usually try to throw a little bit in the gospel. He's walking with the Lord now, you know, and um and and leave it at that. So there's the Not being a Christian, you don't know how to comfort others. Yeah. Yeah. You're kinda at a loss. Or or at the same time If that particular person, they had someone pass away and they know that person wasn't a Christian, or they themselves are not a Christian, they don't need to deal with they don't know how to deal with it and they need some comfort. That's good. Good. Okay. So comfort one another, number one. And should be based on scripture. And by the way, that's why and for many reasons it's so important that we know scripture, right? It's it y a lot of these moments where you need to encourage someone happens on the spur of the moment and you need to be you can't say can you hold on for a second let me Google something on you know Bible Gateway. It it's good to have that right then and there, right? Dory, I think you wanted to show you yeah I just like the example that you gave since it was such a specific And I think that so many of us, myself included, don't know scripture that well and some will just say things that are true but are easier and Yeah. And we know he will, and that's encouraging, but when you're that specific and you share, you know, this is what the Lord presented, and you know, it just it takes Yeah. That triggers another thought. Even worse is sharing scripture and it's like used wrong. It's a cataconta. You can do all things to the Lord who gives you strength. You'll get that dunk one day, yeah. So we gotta know scripture and we gotta know it properly in its proper context. Good. Okay, why don't we move on to the second one another we're going to cover today, which is serve one another. So 1 Peter chapter 4 will be our key passage for this one, verses 10 to 11. And it says the following: As each has received a gift, use it to serve one another as good stewards of God's varied grace. Whoever speaks as one who speaks oracles of God, whoever serves, as one who serves by the strength that God supplies, in order that in everything God may be glorified through Jesus Christ. In him belong glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. Okay, take a moment to familiarize yourself with this passage And what does Peter teach? What do we serve people with? Our gifts. Our gifts. Our gifts. So these gifts, they come from who? God. Okay? So we're not just talking about natural talent or ability here, by the way, which also comes from God. Well uh Peter is talking about uh deeper ability, which is a spiritual ability, known as a spiritual gift that comes from God. So notice first and foremost that God never commands us believers to do something without also promising to equip us with what we need to accomplish. So that's a great promise that whenever you see something in the Bible that God calls us to do and it seems particularly difficult, know that if you rely on the Lord and ask of Him, He will give it to you in order to fulfill that command. Chances are he's already given it to you and you just need to unlock it by being filled with the Holy Spirit. Alright, so what are some of the gifts in this passage that Peter lists that we should be using to care for one another? You guys can just call it out. Speaking, you could say preaching, yep. What else do we see? Serving. Good Well also it says uh God's very grace indicating you know there's very spiritual grace and you know a hand is not a flip and the flick's not a Yep. Is this list comprehensive by the way? No. On that note. No, right? How do we know that? How do we know that these individual lists in the Bible that list spiritual gifts are not comprehensive? Kind of a difficult question. Yes, yeah. So we know these lists are not comprehensive because each list of giftings is a little bit varied. So you get the sense that the authors are just spitting out l list you know um gifts off the top of their head saying, use your gifts. For example this one or this one or this one. I might be missing some you can say in kind of in parentheses So we know that it's not comprehensive because there are slight variances in each of the gift lists in the New Testament. The New Testament author's point, Peter's point here is whatever your gift is, all kinds of gifts, we are to use them all to serve. I want to just uh Explain a couple things on the topic of gifts. Number one, the Bible teaches that not everyone has an equal amount of gifts. Right? So in Matthew chapter 25, we have a very famous parable of the talents. And in the parable of the talents, you notice that each servant is given a different amount of talents. So that's just by God's design. We don't know why God disperses gifts unevenly, but some people are given just that one talent, some people will give them three, some people will give them five, etc. , etc. But uh there are different amounts of gifts. Uh number two, not everyone has the same level of obviousness to their gift. Okay? So if we see 1 Corinthians chapter 12, verse 23, so I think uh someone in the room was talking about uh alluding to this passage where Paul compares the entire church to like a human body that's composed of different body parts. So some people are a finger, some people are just the fingernail, some people are the eyeballs, some people are whatever But Paul also talks about what are known as the unpresentable parts in the body. So there are some parts of a body that you can't see visibly. Uh that could be like the internal organs or something. So not every gifting has the same level of obviousness. Now what are some of the really obvious gifts that you would see at Pope Bible Church? The singers or I would say the pastor really is the most obvious I would think, right? You see the pastor at the pulpit preaching and go, yeah, he's the guy with the gift of teaching. Pretty obvious, right? But there are some of us in here that your gifting maybe is a little bit harder to discern. However, the Bible teaches that every believer has a gift. And in order to use your gift most effectively, you do need to know what your gift is. You need to have that sense So I'm going to just list real quick some practical ways to help you identify what your gift is. If you are in the room right now, it's very common to struggle with knowing what am I good at spiritually? What has God given me to do at this church? Well, first of all, you should ask yourself the question, are you being filled with the Spirit? In other words, are you walking with Christ or are you in sin? Because if you are in sin, you're holding on to some sin habit. You are defying the Word of God. You are quenching the power of the Holy Spirit in your life, and you will probably not be able to operate your gift effectively. So that's the first thing you got to take care of. What does your personal walk look like? Number two, are you putting yourself in opportunities to talk to and be around other believers? Because these gifts really only come out in relation to how you're using it to other people. If you're isolating yourself, if you're one of the people that just come to church for service and then you dip out real quick and nobody knows who you are Chances are you're not going to be able to figure out what your gift is because you're not going to have any opportunity to even use it and have it manifest. So are you putting yourself in opportunities where you're around other Christians? Number three, that being said, let's say you are not in sin, you're walking with the Lord, we're not looking for perfection, we're looking for a life of repentance. Are you continually repenting? You fall down. You yelled at your kids to say sorry, okay? That's what we're talking. We're not talking about perfection. We're talking about repentance. And you are around believers. You're in a small group. You have people over all the time. You talk with people after church You interact with people um, you know, based on what they posted on Prayer Corner. What do you like to do at church? Very simple question. Just ask yourself, what do I like to do? What ministries appeal to me? That's a big hint of what your spiritual gift might be. On the flip side, what do you not like doing at church? What ministries have you tried out and you're like, oh I hate this, this is so terrible, I'm so bad at it, right? Now sometimes God stretches us and calls us to step up and fill a need that needs to be done, even when it doesn't fit with our gifting. There are temporary times when that needs to happen. Ask any of the founding families at this church, um especially at a church plant, when a church is small, everybody has to wear every hat and you just gotta kinda suck it up for a while. But what you don't like doing at church could indicate what you're not good at. And another important litmus test is what do other believers say you excel at? What do you get encouragement over? Not to just inflate your ego, but what do people identify as this is a gift that God has given you? So those are just some five little factors that I kind of thought off off the top of my head to help us identify what those gifts are. But every believer has a gift. You have one. And uh if you don't know what it is, um God wants you to know what it is. So pray to him and ask him because he wants you to use it. Okay, any other thoughts on identifying spiritual gifts, by the way? Any other useful ways? Like I have someone who can remember who amazing people. Um but I don't think she'd walk around and say that. Um It's almost it so much feels like humility the minute you say, Oh why you humble, you know. Yeah. So you're not they're not people to be actually coming for That's a great point, yeah. You just do it, right? You don't have to trumpet it. Yeah, carry? I think sometimes um i you talk about the evening the user stewards of the price. I mean obviously got Is that like, oh, I've got this gift and I'm gonna take it out and you kind of mention it set yourself in situations and Or G to be a witness by it kind of goes with one another. Sometimes we will touch people graceful sometimes and more than sometimes it being present. Sometimes it's not even being present, not even speaking So again, since students are opportunities, and like you know, just be there in humble You know, right, Lord, you need to be an instrument. Yeah. Yeah, I think that's a really important insight. Sometimes it's kinda automatic, right? It's not even an act of thought, just being obedient and loving people. Yeah, you'll just kinda automatically start using your gift in your own specific way. That's that's a very important insight. Yes, please. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Yep. That's when you rely on God the most, right? Good. Any practical thoughts on serving? How to serve? What are some very effective ways of serving you have discovered in your walks? Well, some of it has to be on the receiving side of making yourself vulnerable or available. Hey, I have a a need, so then you present an opportunity for someone someone to maybe actualize a gift or realize a gift. So some of it is on the uh the receiving side of being vulnerable and open to uh receiving There's a false humility in pretending like you never need never need to bother anyone for help, right? It's that attitude of self-sufficiency, yeah. Because you're you're denying that particular person a An opportunity, right? For blessings. Yeah, some of the most mature saints I know, that that's what kind of struck me as I was kind of coming along in faith, was how they would allow people to serve them Instead of feeling all self-conscious, like, oh I'm a bother, it's it's just like you said, giving that opportunity to be blessed by God by using their gifts. Yeah, just give it. She's honoring her mother right there. As you're serving, make sure that what you're doing really honors the Lord and actually helps the person that If that's your idea, it's not necessarily what needs to happen. So that means you have to know them well. No, I was gonna say just the tag on their course. How can I help you? Let the person say this is what I need. Not You you help an old lady across the street and she said, No, I needed to go across the street, you know. Yeah. That's good. Like one one person in the church helped me through algebra white elsewhere too. Um is not is not my strong my strong point and it is hers. Um it's just encouraging to be um built up by Someone else in the church just by helping me get through school subject. Yeah. That's good. Okay, here's a interesting question I want to pose. What do you identify as a particularly needed gift at Hope Bible Church? Have you guys ever thought of that? Anyone have any insight on a particular gift that we need more of? Mm-hmm. Yeah. Just thought that might be an interesting question to think through. Children's ministry Everyone's gonna say their own particular ministry that you're part of. How about in general categories though? I can think of one. I I I know this is straight from Pastor Leek, he's told me We need more administrators, people with a organized mind and administrative gift. The logistical people, you know, the people in the background that never get any credit but they're really the skeleton of every ministry. We need more people that can think in an organized way, good with emails, know how to connect resources together, people together. I think that's one gift we should pray for and think about more. Gifts of administration. Anything else you guys see? I'm gonna say we're seeing a content people in our church don't care about women that I've seen that but I think that there are some kind of fall by the wayside if they're really, really taken somewhere or at something that's continuous. Or just need someone sit and talk to them for a little while. Yeah. I think especially in a bigger church it could be easy. Yeah. Yeah and my intent isn't for us to just rip on our church. I'm but I'm saying we can improve in every area really. That's the answer. But I want us all to be aware that every church has a particular flavor and it's good to think about As individuals, how can I slot into, you know, address some some area we can grow in as a church? Think about that. You know, we're all part of a whole and They'll have a role to play. Okay, good. Let's move on to the another one then. Caring for one another. Uh this is coming from 1 Corinthians 12. And I'm sorry I didn't list that. But this is 1 Corinthians 12, verses uh 21 to 26. And the Word of God says the following. Uh let's for those of you who want to flip to it, I'll give you a moment. Okay, 1 Corinthians 12, verse 21. The eye cannot say to the hand, I have no need of you, nor again the head to the feet, I have no need of you. On the contrary, the parts of the body that seem to be weaker are indispensable. And on those parts of the body that we think less honorable, we bes bestow the greater honor. And our unpresentable parts, we just talked about that, are treated with greater modesty, which our more presentable parts do not require. But God has so composed the body, giving greater honor to the parts that lacked it, that there may be no division in the body, but that the members may have the same care for one another. If one member suffers, all suffer together. If one member is honored, all rejoice together. So what is this passage teaching? You guys repeat it back to me in your own words. Everyone has something to offer. Yep. Um everyone is required to make a whole body. Mm-hmm. Everyone is required, no indispensable part. Yep. Every single person at Hope Bible Church is essential, required, and very important for their own little task. Mm-hmm. Can you elaborate on that a little bit, Kerry? I hate to say how I'm going to be saying that some of you can recognize that in the universe might be involved with them. Uh it's gonna require a lot of time. What happens if we neglect that needy person? What does Paul teach in this passage is going to happen to the whole body? Everybody suffers, right? Everybody suffers. So it's important for us to care for even the most difficult believer, right? Someone with the most issues, the most health problems, need to be taken for rides everywhere. Because if that person is neglected, we all suffer. It directly affects you. Not that our motives should be selfish thinking, I gotta help this person or else my life is gonna be messed up. But we should have that zeal for Christ's body that we can't let just even the tiny fingernail on our body suffer. We want the entire body to be healthy. Now, I want to zoom in a little bit. When the Bible says here that we are to care for one another, you as an individual body part, who are you to care for? Let's re-emphasize the point. Other body parts I don't know why iTunes is uh sorry, something pop up here. Other body parts, right? Now That being said, will those other body parts always resemble you as a body part? No. Right? By definition, in this passage, we're going to encounter diverse body parts. And I want us to think about that. That's the amazing part of the church. The church, unlike any other worldly organization, is not bound together by any common interest or any common superficial feature. We're simply bound together by Jesus Christ's blood, right? Superficially, we are so I I'm looking at the room right now, how unlike we are from one another. We have an entire range of ages. It's demographic, interests, way we talk, regions, and yet we're all supposed to be one family, and more than one family, we're actually supposed to be one unified body So uh for me one of the reasons why I find uh the strategy of small groups in a church so powerful is because more likely than not you pick a small group by distance to your house And therefore, they probably will not just be filled with your friends and your buddies. It won't be filled with just people that you're like, typically Often, small groups force you to care for people that don't look like you, that don't act like you, don't eat the same kinds of food you like to eat, that don't like the same hobbies you do, etc. And yet it's important for us as a unique body part to care for other diverse body parts. Okay? Alright, by the way, note that in verse 26, let me just read it here again. If one member suffers, all suffer together. If one member is honored, all rejoice together. So the caring for one another is not just the negatives. It's not just uh mourning for other people when they're mourning and uh helping them when they're in trouble. What's the positive spin of verse 26? How else can we care for people in a happy sense? Rejoicing for when something good happens to them, babies born, promotion at work, etc. Yeah, being genuinely happy for one another, celebrating with them when someone is honored or they're blessed in their life. So that's also caring for one another, by the way. Okay. Is there a ministry or uh demographic at this church that you have a particular heart for that um you guys hear as individual Christians? You really feel like it's important to care for. How do you guys like to express this one another Or if you don't want to talk about yourself, how do you see other people? We try to hear from one another small thing about the making of the coffee or something important. But further, we try to Make sure that what we do is make sure that we operate in a safe um environment the way we handle trees, the way we handle different things. that nobody in in the body is sick or gets ill. Um and so that's one way that we um Yeah, that's great. Anyone here have been affected or blessed by the hospitality ministry? Yeah, it's a lot of people. Guys are doing great work. You guys enjoy the coffee and the donuts in the morning, you know that comes from the I got yelled at once 'cause I put my coat on a table where they're preparing food, so they really keep a very high standard. I appreciate that. I think they have to disinfect the whole thing actually. I remember when I was in college, I had three roommates, there were four of us in a house. Any offer box to my uh um to my house? Do my roommates were still a meeting in the house church and love them, including me, um for them and sending the world. That's great. Great evangelistic opportunity too. Yeah. Fantastic Okay. Any other thoughts before I move on to the next one another here? Good. Okay. Be hospitable to one another. Peter teaches us in his first epistle, verse 9, show hospitality to one another without grumbling. Okay? Show hospitality without grumbling. So what does Peter identify as a common temptation when you're showing hospitality? Grumbling. Another word for grumbling is what? Complaining. Why on earth would we complain while we're hosting people? Why do you guys think? It's work. Yeah. What kind of work goes into hospitality, Ninji? I mean you're very hospitable, you probably know. I have to s sacrifice my time cleaning up because it's very well. My time yeah I could better to relax and just you know unwind a little bit button give me what my time is Yeah. Your guest kids didn't have a good nap that day, so they're doing some property damage. They have they're allergic to everything under the sun, so you have to buy the organic stuff and it's expensive. Hospitality's hard, right? Hospitality is hard. Who here has been blessed by the hospitality of someone at Hope Bible Church? Yeah, my hand is up as well. You know for me, every newcomer I've met that have stuck around and have been really effective servants at that church at at this church You know, there's always a pattern. They always tell me they came here for the teaching. That's what brought them in. But they stayed because of the hospitality. And people are always amazed at the my first Sunday here people invited me over to dinner or to lunch or my second Sunday here people were They remembered my name and things like that. Hospitality is really what retains people at a church that preaches the Word of God well. I think I saw a hand, was it you, Minji? Yeah. Please. Please share as many as you want. Doug's great at that invited us to dinner. Mm-hmm. And today actually um so Bill recently changed his job. So that this gentleman who took over Bill's old job, he just happens to visit our church today. He's he is here. And then so I saw a dog introduced himself to before you he is to the connection, the the gentleman's connection to Bill. Tom, I saw a dog talking to him and Yeah, yeah. And the Baldridges are great models of hospitality you can all imitate. Yes. That complaining sometimes comes with hospitality because I lose focus of the fact that I'm supposed to be hospitable and I'm thinking about how Well, who's gonna take more the superficial the active reason. Creating a good experience. Yeah. Yeah, that's a really important point. I don't remember any of the foods you guys have cooked for me, to be frank. But I remember the conversation. I remember the love that you guys showed me. Yeah. Absolutely. Keep keep that central thing center Good. Any tips for those of you who like hosting? Any tips on uh how to host well, how to be hospitable? It doesn't have to be at your house, by the way, right? Being hosp hospitable is bigger than that But anyone have any tips they'd like to share on how to be hospitable effectively? Yes, please. Um this is something I would apologize. Nobody ever thought it would be but I learned, you know, because I was kind of um just the situation before the first um will try to do better the next time. So I learned that as much preparation as I could do would be setting the table, uh, having the food ready to go either in the oven or whatever Appetizers, uh since uh they shouldn't be in a company. Um just preparation. That really facilitates that time of fellowship. Tremendously helps you to realize which that's helpful to create something. That's good. Um address Diane's point. I was that way too and I've learned to let that completely go. And I just said, You can come over if my house is messy, it's messy, we live here. Like it's just as is. It's just as is. I might just Yeah. So just starting to kinda let that go. Absolutely. And just being Absolutely. Yeah. That's good. Yeah, Mike. helped me to get out of here. That means to serve someone else. And um not to kind of come out of my own comfort zone You know, um it it involves opening myself up. You know, being hostility to someone house um and it's kind of uh just not allowing I don't I don't see it as just allowing someone into my home. But it's your life. Mm. So it's it's easy to have a bunch of people over and I'm just offering a bunch of services. I mean that's a good start, right? But it needs to go on early. learn the things about uh one another is we have to get to know one another. You know, on an infinite basis where we have real relationships. So going back to that ministry that we talked about or what was um the kind of one-on-one face-to-face type management where we actually want to know uh well w really want to know about you. And that's specificate that you can know about it. Give and take, yeah. That's good. I remember uh one sister at a church expressed her philosophy when she had us over for dinner and she said, you know, I don't think you really know someone until you shared a meal together. And I like that, yeah. It's not from scripture, but I I like that kind of attitude. Yeah. Sean? So um I don't think anybody has had anybody over shown hospitality where everything was perfect. And I think as much as being real We're trying to draw the other person out and and show them how well and possible you are. It's also an awesome opportunity to rest in the work. And show how we gracefully handle things when they don't go exactly right, when things do fail, something burns, something breaks, something isn't exactly the way that we thought And it doesn't work out that way. And we also show how real we are and how we respond to the units that we're going to do Um this is not meant to be as big but it goes on what you were saying is when I first started coming here the church was still at Atleton and other than the welcome committee at the front door I don't remember anyone sort of shaking my hand or saying anything to me before or after church. Oh I'm sorry. And well, no, no, no. It it's also an has to come from me too. But That being said, I've made it, and I've brought it up in this class, I've made it a habit of myself that I generally sit in the same area in front of the babies But if I haven't seen your face before, I think I've met you. You could have been a minimum for twenty years, but you could have come the first day and then I see you next week. Hey, hey, how's it going John? Nice to see you again or whatever. And so like you said, that builds that hospitality. And the other thing, here's a piece of advice that I think uh If I see someone get a welcome card and they're you know I make sure I say something to you before you be even get hey, don't forget there's a welcome center, but if you have any questions, uh What if you don't firm, let me you know I try to get started I'm not part of the welcome committee, but I try to do what I can before I have the the five minutes where I gotta go pick up. That's great. Look for those people, I guess that's right. That's a great idea. Don't forget there's that opportunity. If there's a face that you haven't seen, they could be there for the first time, they could have been there for twenty years. Either way you should And you saying hi might be the reason they stay, yeah. Or get saved if they're an unbeliever. Yeah. We'll have two more comments before we move on. Um from other churches that I've visited and try to be hospitable at. Um I think It has a lot to do with how much confidence you have in the teaching, uh in in the vision of learning. So I've been in touch with I wasn't comfortable with what the team talk is every time I was hospitable it felt like oh this could graduate in it. Um so things on you. But I think the c they came for the team The confidences in the teaching is that frees you up to be hospitals because this is a good thing you want to share. If it's not a good thing, you really can't see for Yeah. Yeah, that's good. I think I believe that there are three calls as well to reach outside of our comfort zone Um reaching into other people's lives that we can go to nothing on the buttons. Different age groups, different seasons Because I feel that sometimes in the moment that can be very hot worse for people who have nothing to personally find the greatest one That's true. Stretching yourself. Wash one another's feet. Jesus, I think this is John Jesus, knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands, and that he had come from God and was going back to God, rose from supper. He laid aside his outer garments and taking a towel tied it around his waist. Then he poured water into a basin and began to wash the disciples' feet and wipe them with the towel that was wrapped around him I'm sorry I forgot to write down the verse reference. If someone can find it in John, I believe, uh ple please let us. Nineteen, someone? Thirteen, thank you. John thirteen. John thirteen. Okay, uh so what's happening here? Jesus, as the disciples rabbi, what does he stoop down to do for the disciples? A servant's job, a slave's job, really. Right? And I think we talked about it in this class, but uh according to rabbinical code Um the apprentice of a rabbi had to do everything a slave or a servant had to do except for the washing of the feet because that was considered too humiliating to demeaning. Can we think of how do we apply this principle? Right? So Jesus said, there is really no act of needful service that is too humiliating for you to do. Okay, there's nothing that is beneath your station, your socioeconomic status, that if it needs to be done, you can't do it. Can we think of some things that we as modern day American Christians might consider to be demeaning service? That cleaning the toilets, yeah. Yeah. I'm sorry, what do you say, Dorothy? I said it was through our cleaning ministry. Many of us have cleaned Yeah, yeah, yeah. Touching waist, right? Yeah. That's a good one. Anything else? I thought of teaching the kids too. I think a lot of people, maybe some of us that are gifted at teaching, we might think, uh, I I wanna teach the adults, you know? Like I don't wanna teach a bunch of little runs that won't goes in in one year and out out another. I wanna I just wanna teach, you know, the men and the women and equip the leaders of the world. But uh we have a new member um during the membership interview, she expressed that she got saved at uh eight years old elementary school. Because of some Sunday school teaching she was given. And she said as an eight-year-old she was frustrated because she wasn't getting enough doctrine, so she had to wait till high school. So they understand more than you think. Some of them are very precocious. I think I saw a hand somewhere here. No? Yeah. How else can we apply this idea of washing one another's feet in the church today? That kind of intimate level of service. Yes, please. You're doing it for the first time and two months, but we can come back the eighth time. Mm-hmm. Good, yes, please. Yeah, there's hundreds of little things that go into running our Sunday service that you d we don't see against the other. question. Is this um imperative? No, I know that they're they will be watching each other's week or whatever, but um no is this also um a leadership example as opposed to just a one another obviously we should all be doing the lower task, but Is this also instructive in the way that leaders should interact with clocks? That's a great question. What do you what do you guys think before I give my answer? I see a lot of nodding heads, yeah. Yeah, I think that's a great insight. Yeah, I mean Jesus is a leader, right? Using I set you an example and specifically who's Jesus' audience here? The future church leaders. Saying this is what leadership ought to look like, that service kind of leadership, yeah. the things that aren't seen. Hey, there's a little piece of garbage I pick it up, throw it in the garbage. No one's gonna see it, only I know I picked it up and threw it away. But it needs to get picked up and thrown away. Yeah. So I I don't know that it's exactly this application of it, but I think we're in the same small field. Yeah, absolutely Absolutely. You can take that as an application. May not be the interpretation, but you can certainly take it take that as an application, yeah? And God sees it with if you do it with the right heart attitude. You can glorify God by picking up trash. One little piece of candy wrapper. That's great Okay, last five minutes, let's go to Oh yes, please. Also it's additive to notion that's really worth it. And these easy I think that we've talked about before it's easy to look at things I I'm open. And they it really can be fun in the long period so it can it's a fact of of being humble enough to s or being humble enough not to give that Maybe even a crane that is you can do that. Excellent. Okay, our last one another here is consider one another more important And the Lord says through Apostle Paul once again in Philippians two three, do nothing from selfish ambition or conceit. But in humility, on the topic of humility, as Rachel is saying, count others more significant than yourselves. So what are the what is what the negative? What should we not do? What does Paul command us not to do? Don't be selfishly ambitious. Don't be conceited. Right? Pretty clear. And what are we to do? What's the positive command here? Consider pretend like other people. No, don't pretend, but consider. Actually consider other people as more important, more significant than yourself. And in what attitude should you be doing this consideration? I think I heard it. Humility, right? So according to this passage, we actually have a great definition of humility. What is humility according to this passage? Putting others above yourself. I would rephrase it other centeredness. That is the true biblical definition of humility. Humility is not the asceticism of a false religion. So Colossians two twenty-three talks about that, you know, we have those monks and people that only eat vegetables and they dress in these like humble looking garb, and that is something that Paul says only has an appearance of wisdom. These humble wise men, right? the Buddha or whatever. But that is not true biblical humility. Humility is also not just being down on yourself all the time, making fun of yourself. That's not humility. True humility, in fact, that can oftentimes be a disguised uh self-centeredness because you're just thinking about yourself all the time. You're talking about yourself. You're talking about bad things, but you're still just thinking about yourself, just me, me, me. So humility is really just yourself disappearing. You don't think about yourself. You're so focused on other people. Um it reminds me of the Agnew Joy. Hm. In that order? Is that the idea? Yeah, that's great. I'll remember that. I also want to point out in this passage it says that you have to count or some translations consider others more significant than yourselves. There's many implications that come out of the way Paul phrased that. So if you think of counting in like a mathematical sense, right, what does it require? It requires mental effort. You gotta think about it. You have to intentionally put in the energy to do this task, right? So thinking about others as more important than yourself is something that is not natural to us as human beings, as fallen human beings, even as redeemed Christians, because we still have this sinful influence called the flesh Paul teaches us, God teaches us, it is not a nat, it's a counterintuitive thing to consider other people more significant than yourself. And in that sense, it's something that needs to be exercised. Humility is exercised. Humility is intentionally done by your will. I feel like I'm the most important person in the room. I feel like I'm the smartest, funniest. most magnetic person, everybody loves me. That's what I'm tempted to feel. I need to squash that thought, replace it with scripture, and realize that person God says, I should consider actually more important than myself. So that's an exercise you continually do throughout your day for the rest of your life and we get better at it. It's something that is developed So in the last 30 seconds here, let's have a couple people chime in and express how we can develop humility. What are some practical ways you can practice thinking of others more than yourself? Prayer. Good. Yeah, asking God. That's huge. Yeah. You're not always gonna be right. You're not God. Admitting you're wrong, that's great. But one more. What's going on in my life? Keep your plans loose. Yeah. Accommodate others. Good. In conclusion, all of these one another we will fail over and over again in our life. Let's remember that though God calls us to participate In the act of becoming more Christ-like, that's what sanctification means, we don't contribute to our sanctification. Do you guys see that difference God says you are to participate in your sanctification, we don't contribute to it. Sanctification is totally by God's hand. It is a gracious thing that God does for us and to us. And we just passively accept it and uh that is how we participate. So we don't make ourselves more like Christ. Let's depend on the Lord, let's continue praying that we excel more and more in these one-anothers. Okay, let's go before the Lord and let's go to service. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word, which is so clear and so practical. And specifically in this class, we are so thankful that we're learning how we can practically uh um fulfill these one another's better. How we can love each other in a way that you love us. You've already modeled for us um this kind of love. You are our ultimate example and uh as the uh the passage about washing your disciples' feet shows us You're not just our example, you're our Lord and Master, and you command these things. And if you set the example and you already did it, well as our Master God, we don't have an excuse not to do the same. So give us hearts of conviction for whatever specific area in each of our lives we are lacking in these one another commands. Help us to think of specific people, God, that we know are needy. And even if they're difficult, give us a heart of love for them, knowing that we were the most difficult people before you, before we came to Christ. And we continue to cause a lot of grief to the Holy Spirit, Lord, and yet you continue to love us. You continue to sacrifice for us. You don't consider us an inconvenience to your time or your resources. So help us to think of other people that way as well. And in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.