Alright, good morning everyone. Good morning. We'll go ahead and uh get started. So while folks are still getting settled down, if uh you didn't get a physical copy of notes or if you prefer a digital copy of notes in the hopebook group for this class, which I suppose you'd have to be a part of to be able to see. But I have uploaded the full notes for the whole class. So it's all done every week's worth. And those are available for you. And we would encourage you to print out your own copy It's kind of like what Alex has in front of him, uh, to have like a a a folder that you put them in so that you're not bringing loose leaves every time but you have a a packet Because uh I think that this is the kind of material that uh is uh something you want to keep to come back to um in the future. Uh because You're probably like me, and uh you have conflicts in your life, uh, and you will continue to have conflicts in your life, and so it's always helpful to go back and review and and uh remind yourself of what are the biblical principles that you can apply uh in conflict. I use uh certain of the sessions from this class uh in counseling just in terms of having people listen to things and and whatnot and so It's just very helpful material that you want to have on hand and and be able to come back to. So I just encourage you to print that off for yourself and we will have extra copies of each week's notes But uh it'd be best if you had your own uh full copy and then we had those copies just for uh folks who are coming in and out or if somebody forgot theirs that day or you know whatever. So Just be aware of that. And then if you didn't pre-register for the class, which if you did pre-register, you should be in the Hope Book Group already. If you didn't pre-register, no problem. Having signed in, then Sarah will add you to the Hopebook group if you have a Hopebook account If you don't have a Hopebook account, they're free. So you can go on our website. There's up at the top, there's a a link. I I wasn't prepared to explain how that works. So you can call the office if you're not sure how to how to get a hopebook account. But y anybody can have one. You don't have to be a member And that'll give you access to the Hope Book group where you can get the notes. Perhaps I'll send out messages if I want to recommend resources or something. But it's just a helpful communication tool as you uh kind of participate in the life of the church. So just be aware of that with regard to the notes. Let me let me pray and then we'll have some more introductory comments. Father, I thank you for this morning. Thank you for the life that you give and the strength, and that we have now come together by your grace to fellowship In the truth, I pray that this morning that as we kind of open up this class and open up our minds to this uh concept uh of biblical reconciliation, that you would help us to think biblically, and that you would even excite our hearts for what is to come. Uh we all know that we are sinners and that we live among sinners and uh that we need help and how to respond to uh the conflicts that we have in our life, both the minor conflicts and especially the major conflicts. So Lord help us uh in our marriages, in our homes uh in our workplaces, in every sphere of society, especially in the life of the church, to learn how to glorify you even in the midst of conflict. I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. So as as you've probably seen, if you looked at the notes, uh there's a lot of fill in the blanks. I have obviously the PowerPoint here for that. I will speak the blanks so if you can't see the PowerPoint Um you should be able to get it. And of course if you miss a blank or whatever, just let ra raise your hand, let me know, uh or come and talk to me afterward and I'll give you what the blank is. But that's just uh a small way of helping you, I guess, stay engaged. Uh I I'll be honest, I personally don't like fill in the blank uh notes myself 'Cause I feel like all I'm interested in is what's the blank? What's the blank? And so I prefer either freeform notes or just give it to me so I don't have to write anything in. But There you have it. That's what I did for this class. So hope that's helpful. So who is this class aimed at and who will benefit from it? Well Uh well let me ask this question to see who I have in the room here. Is anybody in this room a sinner? Okay, alright. I'm not sure if I saw every hand hook go up, so that's okay. That's all right. Well, let's see if if this applies to you. Does anybody in this room know a sinner Okay, I think I think that was everybody. Alright, good. Well if that's the case, this class is for you. As I you know mentioned in in my prayer, I mean we're all sinners, right? I I I like the description, if I might say so myself, of this class uh where I said, we're sandpaper people in a sandpaper world. Uh friction is inevitable. It's just the way life is in a sink cursed world And uh there are many times where we, you know, put up with each other's uh weaknesses with minor sins, minor infractions that we commit against each other. Uh you know, your your spouse or your kid has a bad attitude and you know you work through it, it's no big deal and you get over it and that those kinds of things happen all the time. Situations at work, situations at school, situations at church But there are also many times which are incredibly painful and difficult to work through. Conflicts that break relationships and even make coming home from work difficult or coming into church difficult. And uh and so uh this class has really helped uh aim to help all of us think about what can we do in those situations where I just it's beyond kind of the normal run-of-the-mill day-to-day sins that are easy to deal with. How can I think about conflict? Just what what's the the the categories I should be thinking in? Um and then how do I respond? You know, both when I sin as well as when someone sins against me So obviously we're going to take 13 weeks to to walk through this and it'll be somewhat slow in that respect of really walking through it carefully and some of it will seem more uh higher level theory And some of it will be very concrete and very practical. But all of it taken together will be very helpful. I promise you it will because uh you know, I I deal with a lot of conflict um in counseling as well as in my own life. And, you know, in my own life God has helped me to grow, I'm not perfect, but to grow in practicing not only the the way of thinking that we ought to think biblically, but also how we ought to respond uh with regard to our sin and the sins of others. And then also in counseling applying these principles. And I have seen it be helpful and beneficial and uh glorifying to God and restoring of relationships time and time and time again. So I trust this will be helpful for every one of us, no matter what situation we're in. How should you use this course? Well, hopefully you're coming to this course because you're taking part in the Growing Disciples Hour, as we call it. And what you're interested in is how to grow as a disciple of Christ. You're interested in your own personal growth. This is the the fourth year that I've taught this. I teach it every uh what is this, the spring quarter of of Growing Disciples and uh so far I haven't had an empty room. So apparently everyone seems to recognize uh that this is a a helpful area that we all need to grow. And so I would really encourage you just to have that mindset of as we're walking through material on how to think about conflict, how to deal with conflict, that you're applying it to your own heart That you're thinking about your own tendencies and your own weaknesses and how you can grow in these particular areas But there's also a r uh the sense of how can I apply this immediately and directly into my life and relationships and conflicts that I have today Or tomorrow or this week. Uh and so aside from just personal growth in terms of kind of a theoretical understanding of things, my hope is that you will Learn in such a way that you will be able to apply these truths right away in your life, in your family, and in your relationships. And then finally, I hope that you will take this material and use it to disciple others Maybe it will be for those of you with younger kids or kids in the home, helping them learn how to deal with conflict. Maybe it will be talking to a fellow believer who tells you about a conflict that they're in that you can encourage them with the principles that we talked through in this class. Whatever the situation is, as a growing disciple, part of that growth is demonstrated in our ability to make and grow other disciples. So I want you to be consciously thinking of, okay, I want to learn this not only for my own benefit, but so that I can be a blessing and a help to others. Uh conflict is just so common and inevitable in the church. And it it is the reality that it often isn't dealt with well. And uh many people just simply haven't learned, and just general same about any any church you might be in. And even though we've had a lot of people in this church take this class Um, that doesn't mean that we're all, you know, perfect and you know, you've taken the class so you know how to do it and and you actually do it. So we need to remind each other and help each other in the application of these principles. So I hope you have those things in mind as we walk through the course. Now with regard to asking questions, if if you have sat in on any of my classes, you know that I'm not very good at interactive teaching. Uh Pastor Leek, I mean I remember sitting in on some of his classes and he was just the master at interaction and just Man, it was it was incredible. Uh I I that's my that's a weakness for me. I'm just letting you know up front. It's not that I don't want to do it. It's not that I you know don't like it, it's just I'm not very good at it So you're gonna have to interrupt me because I just I have my notes and I'm trucking through and uh and so if you have a a question Just you know, raise your hand and I'll I'll finish my sentence or or finish what I'm saying and and I'll get to you. Uh and and please do that. I uh there's not very many times where I have questions that I'm gonna throw out for open discussion. So you can you can just interrupt me as as you desire. Now w when we think about a class like this There's a couple different kinds of questions that come up as we're walking through the material. One kind of question is just a general principle question for clarity and understanding of principle. But a lot of the times, because this is such a a rubber meets the road kind of class, You know, you're thinking about the very conflicts that you're dealing with right now or maybe have dealt with in the past, and you're like, okay, how does how do I take this principle and apply it in this particular situation Well, in the context of a class like this, those questions have to be very carefully handled, especially if the person that you're in conflict with is sitting next to you. Or there's someone that, you know, you're that that people know and is in the church or whatever. So I would encourage you to think about those kinds of questions in this way. Consider how you can formulate the question In a way that is broader, that doesn't reveal personal identifiable details uh so that it can be a benefit to everyone because uh no doubt the kind of question you're having in terms of how to actually apply the principles will be questions that other people have and will be beneficial. Now the the only challenge with that is when you have more of a general question I can o I can g give only a general answer, right? And so if that's not satisfactory to you, uh and you you really need help thinking through how to apply these principles then that's more of a private conversation uh issue. All right? And so please, whether it's you know after class or getting together during the week or something, uh please feel free to reach out if if you want to talk through how to apply these principles in your life to restore relationships. So be be mindful of those things. And then also in in some of my answers I might kick the can down the road because of course I know kind of what's what's coming up and you know it's normal for questions to come up that will uh be answered by future lessons And so I would just ask for your patience if I say, that's a great question, but we're going to talk about that next week or five weeks from now or whatever it is. And uh i if you need a quick answer or if you need an immediate answer, maybe we can talk uh privately. But just for the sake of time I might at some point just choose to kick the can down the road and address things later. Now in terms of some key resources, understanding that these are things that That do sometimes require some good thinking. This class, in terms of the layout of the class, is primarily based on Robert Jones's book, Pursuing Peace. It's 13 chapters, so it just perfectly worked well with the structure of Growing Disciples. So I've used his overall outline of themes and topics. And in some cases the substructure of each lesson, but the the content, you know, is certainly uh material that I've put together using borrowing from him, borrowing from Ken Sandy. Ken Sandy's book, The Peacemaker, is like the book on conflict resolution from a Christian perspective. Robert Jones quotes Ken Sandy all the time. There's a lot of principles that are are just Ken Sandy's ideas. Ken Sandy is a lawyer. He's a an excellent thinker and organizer. Uh and he's put things in helpful ways, uh in acronyms and and different things. And so there's just a lot that a lot of people have borrowed from Ken Sandy. So those two resources there are really helpful. So if you want to go more in-depth or just take the time to hear another voice in addressing these topics, those two books are particularly helpful. And then when we think about reconciliation and conflict resolution, one of the hardest aspects in handling significant sin is the issue of forgiveness. So we'll talk about forgiveness, but we probably won't talk about it as much as you want or need if that's a particular struggle for you. So I would recommend these two books, John MacArthur's book, The Freedom and Power of Forgiveness, and then Chris Bronz's book, Unpacking forgiveness. Those are uh there's a number of good books out there, but those are two uh particularly helpful ones uh that I can uh readily recommend. So just be aware of those as resources that might be helpful. Well, we want to start the class by talking about definitions. Uh when we're thinking about conflict, there's there's words like peace, uh conflict, uh reconciliation. And so I just want to start by setting the stage in understanding what it is that we're talking about. What is the sphere of life? What what are the issues that that we're dealing with? And so we'll start with peace. And you have there in your notes the a definition. I think this comes from Ken Sandy. A state of well-being Harmony and love driven by unity in desires, goals, and purposes. Okay? A state of well-being, harmony, and love driven by Unity in desires, goals, and purposes. You might be familiar with uh the Hebrew term shalom, which is the word peace. and that it just it it doesn't simply mean uh freedom from conflict, but there's kind of a a wholeness to it, a whole life. perspective of of health and and tranquility and harmony. And so we're that's that's what we're talking about, but it not just in terms of one's personal um soul and their experience of life, but particularly in regard to relationships with one another. So our relationships are are well, they're healthy. Our relationships are harmonious. Our relationships are defined by love. And that is all driven by unity in desires, goals, and purposes. Now you can have unity in desires, goals, and purposes and be very dishonoring to God. You can have the the unified desire to kill Jews, right? And that would be what you know the the leadership in in Germany had and that was very dishonoring to God. They were unified in in that sense, but that was uh uh wicked and wretched. So Even when we define it this way, we should probably add unity in desires, goals, and purposes that are consistent with God's Desires, goals, and purposes. That's the full expression of peace that we will certainly experience in eternity When we will be free from sin and free from conflict, because we will all be like Christ and share without variance his desires, goals, and purposes. But but think about how scripture talks about peace in a variety variety of ways. I think you have all the all the blanks there filled in. Paul contrasts peace with disorder and confusion. 1 Corinthians 14, 33, God is not a God of confusion, but of peace. If you remember the context there, he's talking about spiritual gifts, especially the gift of prophecy. And he's saying how i if you're gonna exhib exhibit and practice these gifts, it has to be done in an orderly way because what was happening was there's a lot of chaos And people wanting to go up front and speak in tongues and give prophecies and you know, there's just a crowd and a mess and it was chaotic and there was just massive confusion. And so Paul is instructing them in how they can exercise the gifts in a beneficial way for the body of the church and in an orderly way. And he says, the reason we should do it in an orderly way is because God is not a God of confusion. He's not a God of disorder, is actually what the word literally means. But rather, he is a God of peace. So peace is contrasted with confusion or disorderliness. Or David contrasts peace with anxiety. In Psalm 4. 8, he says, In peace I will both lie down and sleep. For you, O Lord, make me to dwell in safety. In that psalm, as he does in many psalms, he's reflecting on the the fearful circumstances that are around him. Enemies who are wanting to attack him and and get after him. And anyone in that situation you know, apart from the peace that God can provide, would be anxious. Uh they would not sleep very well. They would be thinking about the potential dangers that could come upon them if they uh are off their guard. And so David says, Because of the Lord I can dwell in safety, which means that I have peace in my heart. I'm not anxious about what will happen to me. Jesus contrasts peace with fear. John 14, 27, as he's speaking to the disciples at the uh in the upper room right before his crucifixion. He says, peace I leave with you. My peace I give to you. Not as the world gives, do I give to you. Do not let your heart be troubled, nor let it be fearful. He knew that they were about to enter a situation where they were going to be without Jesus. And that means they were going to be without the one who could heal, without the one who could raise the dead, without the one who could uh combat the the arguments of the Pharisees and the Sadducees without the one who who taught them things that blew their minds. And that would be a troubling thought of what am I going to do without Jesus? He has been my life uh my sustenance. He's even physically provided food out of virtually nothing uh for me and so now he's gonna be gone and and they would be entering into a fearful situation Uh and even more so not not knowing y at that moment, but the fact that they would be experiencing persecution. And so how do they handle that? Well, they handle that by experiencing the peace that the Lord uh provides. So peace is contrasted with fear, and then Paul contrasts peace with disunity. In 2 Corinthians 13, 11, he uh he says, Finally, brethren, rejoice, be made complete, be comforted, be like-minded, live in peace And the God of love and peace will be with you. So in the situation there in Second Corinthians where the Corinthian church was being divided because they were false apostles who were trying to get the people to uh move away from Paul and and come under their influence. Uh there was division and Paul is trying to get them to come together under the banner of of Christ in God's word and the true apostleship that that he had. And he says, you need to be like-minded. You need to have unity. You need to live in peace together. So when we have peace, there is unity. Simeon contrasts peace with incompleteness. Luke 2. 29 says, Oh Lord, you are releasing your bondservant to depart in peace according to your word. This is a man who was elderly, I don't think we know exactly how old he was, but He had uh lived in the temple, and somehow the Lord had communicated to him that he would not die until he had seen the Messiah. And so he was living his life with this recognition of incompleteness, with this sense of my life is not complete, right? And so finally he sees baby Jesus as they come to dedicate him in the temple And he says, now my life is complete. And now I can depart in peace. Th there's no angst in my soul of something that I haven't experienced. I mean perhaps he was feeling anxious because he's like, Lord, I'm getting up there. Like uh this is I'm not gonna last much longer here and and he was feeling that incompleteness. but he was able to depart in peace because now he was complete. Jesus contrasts peace with being unwell, uh un unhealthy, sick, ill. And Mark 5. 34 is when Jesus is uh when Jesus heals the woman who had the issue of blood for twelve years, you know, who touched the hem of his garment. And he said to her after he interacted with her, Daughter, your faith has made you well. Go in peace and be healed of your affliction. That's a great question. Um well th this is interesting because my answer would seem to Show that Simeon was kind of wrong in his thinking, but that's not necessarily my intention. Because of our fallen condition uh we long for things in life, right? We we long for relationships, we long for possessions, we long for um for health, we we long for um uh uh prosperity, for success. And what God calls us to is to recognize that if we have Him in our life, we have everything we need So we can look at passages like Psalm 73 where he says, Whom have I in heaven but you? But I I have no one or whom have I in heaven but you? I desire nothing on the earth. My flesh and my heart may fail, but God is my strength. and my portion. God has the strength of my heart and my portion. And uh he is reflecting this even though I'm suffering in the previous context of the psalm. And I'm trying to honor the Lord and there's difficulty and I'm confused about why my enemies are prospering. My my life is not all that I want it to be. But he came to the recognition it's all that I need it to be. I'm complete. I I don't need anything else added to my life in order to be content in order to be joyful in order to in order to have peace, because I have Christ. We see Jeremiah reflecting the same thing in Lamentation. 3 that despite all of the loss, all of the suffering that he endured, he reflected on the goodness of God and the loving-kindness of God and the hope that he had in God. And so when it comes to our lives today, you know, whether it's a single person who's wanting to be married, Or a married person who's wanting harmony in their marriage, or a parent who's struggling with their t kids, or a a a person who's quote unquote underemployed and they you know they need a better job or they lack the satisfaction that they have in their job and there's all kinds of situations where we feel incomplete Um I mean when I was in California working at Grace TU uh I wanted to do more counseling and so I would tell the church where where I was, hey, you know, is there anybody who needs counseling? I'd love to do counseling. And part of what the Lord used to move me into vocational ministry again is uh just that desire of I I'm not getting enough opportunity to do what I love, to serve the Lord in this particular way So there can be, I would see that if uh in my own conscience as a positive sense of Lord, I I want to serve you more than than what what I'm doing now. Now I had to learn contentment for sure, but you can have contentment while still aspiring, you know, to something uh beyond where where you're at. So, I feel like I'm starting to meander here. In terms of completeness, we need to first and foremost find our completeness in Christ. Because we are complete in Christ. And then we need to recognize that any anything that we desire uh beyond that, anything that is uh that we're dissatisfied with in life We need to put that before the Lord and say, Lord, this is a desire that I have. And you know, I I would ask that you would grant that to me, but I will trust you with that. I will be content with where I'm at and I will rejoice if you know if you fulfill that request. So there can be a sense of completeness while still having a sense of incompleteness. But the issue is where how are we how are we handling that? How are we responding to that? Are we griping and complaining? Are we bitter about our sense of incompleteness? Or are we just trusting the Lord with Does that help you? Yeah, and thinking back to the definition here that uh you know well being, harmony and love are driven by unity and desires, goals and purposes. Which should be defined by God's desires and goals and purposes. If we can honestly say, you know, my desire is a God-driven desire, it's a God-oriented desire. th then that's a good thing. I mean God doesn't always give us even those desires. But uh but that's a a good thing. And we just need to keep it within the realm of, okay, God has chosen not to give that to to me yet, so I'm just gonna trust him as opposed to have a sinful attitude because they can't have that voice. So as you think about all of these different um elements here that you see on the list, I mean just imagine. what your life would be like if all of these things were true of you in terms of the the peace aspect of it, where there was no disorder or confusion in your life. There was no anxiety, there was no fear, there was no disunity with anyone in your in your relationships Uh you sensed that completeness uh in your walk with the Lord and in your life, that even your body itself uh was was healthy. I mean y that would be a state of of pleasant harmony and uh peace and that would be a blessed state to be in, wouldn't it? And so uh wherever these things aren't in our life We have an opportunity then to see, okay, what is going on in my soul, how am I thinking about my life, how am I responding to these challenges, and how can I grow in experiencing peace Alright, conflict. Conflict is a difference of opinion or purpose that frustrates someone's goals or desires. So this one definitely is from Ken Sandy. I think the definition for peace I just made as a contrast to this one. A difference of opinion or purpose that frustrates someone's goals or desires. Now notice that he doesn't, this definition does not assume that sin is involved Right? There is the possibility where two people could have different goals and different purposes, which are in and of themselves good, but they are just at cross purposes. There's there's a a conflict of interest, if you will, not just in terms not in the way we typically think of that, but our interests are competing. There's there's a competition uh in the sense that You have one desire and I have another desire. Or we have different goals, which can be good and godly goals, but they're just different. And so the the the reality of conflict is not just that there's sin in the world, but that we're all individual people, we all have inj individual thoughts and and opinions and goals and desires. And so sometimes we just kind of run and rub up against each other with those differences in a way that doesn't really involve sin at all. The problem though is that we tend to then respond to those conflicts and then sin in our response. And so sometimes what we need to do is step back We'll talk about this further down, but step back and say, what is the issue here? What's the actual conflict? Is there actually a sin at the root Or is it just that we observe the difference and we sinned in response to our differences? And so that there can be conflict without there being sin involved. Um I mean just for example, uh you know in the history of of Protestantism, you know, the the the flowchart of denominations from you know, Martin Luther and those who launched the Reformation and then all the denomination that sprinkled out from that. I mean there's just a massive uh root system, if you will, or I don't know what whatever you want to call it, uh of you know s supposedly thousands of denominations. Why is that? Well, in some cases it's because uh believers uh sinned toward each other, separated, and that caused strife and division But honestly, in many, many cases, it was that believers just recognized, listen, I love you in Christ. I just think it would be healthier if you worshiped with the people that uh you agree with and I worship with the people that I agree with so that we don't actually get in conflict with each other I mean I think one of the best modern examples that's just public and out there is uh John MacArthur and R. C. Sproul, who of course is now the Lord. But the these are two men who love each other deeply, who agree on a host of issues, but who also have very significant disagreements. Right? R. C. Sproul uh was uh infant baptist, Pedobaptist I think right now he's changed his mind. Um John MacArthur, obviously uh holding to believers baptism. Uh different views on eschatology, different views on the relationship between Israel and the church. And so there's a variety of areas where they disagreed. But they they loved each other And they served together in various ways. But they couldn't, and they they've said this publicly, they couldn't be members at each other's churches because they just fundamentally disagreed. And so throughout the history of the church, there have been differences and separations that were actually born out of love for one another, saying, listen, I don't want to fight with you. I don't want to constantly be butting heads with you, so let's Let's just uh separate and and you know worship in a different context. Now that's a situation where you could do that legitimately. Uh you can't do that in marriage. You can't say, Oh, you w you want the three bedroom house, I want the five bedroom house. We're gonna have to call it quits because this just isn't gonna work. I mean that you know That that's not how marriage works. There are some relationships where you have to press through and work through the challenges and the conflicts Because that's what it means to stay uh married, to honor Christ, to fulfill the covenant of marriage, and to work through things. and pursue unity. So again, sometimes you can have conflict and separate out of love, and sometimes you can you you have to work through and and stick together. So you see the kind of the second statement there, which is just a reflection or a contrast to peace, a state of impaired thinking and relationships driven by competing goals. and purposes. So what are some examples of conflict that we see in Scripture? Well, Yodyan Siddhiki had a broken relationship. This is in Philippians. They were in the city of Philippi. And uh it we don't know really any details other than there was some kind of disunity of mind They disagreed about something. And so the solution was to live in harmony, which literally could be translated be of the same mind. And again, this is incredibly common in the life of the church where just as we're serving the Lord together, as we're you know in a small group or serving in ministries, that we just have different opinions about things And that can lead to actual conflict and division. And what we need to do is strive to be of the same mind. And even if we can't come to agree on a you know very narrow issue, we can at least agree on how we're going to honor the Lord in the in the existence of our differences. But this was such a significant issue that Paul put it in scripture, inspired by the Holy Spirit, for all Christians throughout all time to to read that there are these two women who had a difference. They were disunified in their thinking and perhaps in their ministry. And he called on the recipient of the letter to pursue peace with them. Uh Paul and Barnabas had different perspectives on Mark's trustworthiness. Uh uh you might recall there in Acts that uh well before this this particular quote in Acts, uh Paul and Barnett Viz had taken John, uh, in a previous missionary journey, but uh at one point he departed, he left them. And the implication by what we read here in Acts 15 is that he didn't leave them on good terms Like he didn't say, Hey guys, this is great, let me you know, let me serve the Lord in this way. No, it seems as though he abandoned the work and and probably for sinful purposes, selfish purposes. We don't know the scripture doesn't entirely tell us other than what it says there in Acts fifteen, that Paul kept insisting that they should not take him along, who had deserted them in Pamphylia and had not gone with them. to the work. So it would seem logical, if we're thinking the best about Paul, that he would be angry about that if uh there was a a sinful reason or an ungodly reason that that Mark left. But what happened was, as you see, uh Paul and Barnabas disagreed with how they wanted to treat Mark in light of his desertion. Barnabas, the son of encouragement, wanted to give him another chance, wanted to say, hey, he's changed, he repented, he's grown, you know, this is going to be different now. And he's like, let's take him along. And Paul said, no. And uh I appreciate the honesty of scripture because we often lift Paul up as, man, he must have been Perfect. He must have been sinless. And you know, we we won't know until we get to heaven. But this looks like a situation where Paul wasn't thinking like Christ. He may not have been exhibiting the grace and the compassion uh of Christ. And so that led to a division between the first uh great missionary partnership, uh, which is which was tragic So they had different perspectives. And then Paul and Peter had a conflict about Peter's hypocrisy. There was a difference in desires that they had. Peter wanted to please certain Jews, and Paul wanted to give a right testimony to the Gentiles. And so the solution was to align their desires. Now you could say the difference was not a difference of desire, but a difference of you know gospel attitudes. And and that would be true. But I think if you even go back from that, that what what I say here is is perhaps even more true that what led to Peter's compromise of de uh separating from the Gentiles for the sake of not offending the Jews was uh bad thinking. Was he wasn't thinking in a gospel way. He was thinking in a in a very um um Man-centered fear of man kind of way. He was afraid of what the Jews would say if they saw him eating with Gentiles. As it says there at the end of Galatians 2. 14, he was fearing the parting the party of the gent of the circumcision. So his actions were driven by fear because he wanted to make sure that he was accepted by the Jews. And Paul had to confront confront him and saying, Brother, that's not that's not right. Yeah, Christopher Absolutely yeah absolutely. I mean you think about We won't really talk about church discipline in this class, but Matthew 18, where Jesus says in verse 15, if your brother sins against you, go and show him his fault. And sometimes that creates conflict. So yeah, there are definitely times when it is right to emphasize and bring to light a difference or an issue that leads to conflict. And I don't remember the reference off the top of my head, but Paul says in one of his letters, it's good that this conflict is happening because the true believers are are being shown here And so sometimes conflict can have a good purpose uh when the gospel is at stake. So those are just some uh ways to think about conflict and peace terms of our relationships with one another. Now what about the process of reconciliation? Just from a very high-level picture, uh what's what's the process of reconciliation? Well Uh Alfred, uh I don't know exactly how to say his last name. Is it Poi Poirier or did anybody know? See that is that like a French name or something? I don't know. Um Alfred. Alfred, that's right. Uh he wrote the peacemaking pastor, which uh is is very much like the peacemaker, but it's just much more uh exegetically intense. But he said a work uh that the reconciliation process is a work of the triune God in union with us, the sons of God, who through that union labor to bring about that great day of peace. by rectifying wrongs and setting relationships right all under the Lordship of God. I really appreciate this definition because it's very God-centered And in fact, it's it's a Trinitarian uh concept conception of of reconciliation. We know that We are relational beings because we're made in the image of the triune God. So we're made to live in love and harmony with one another, in cooperation and productivity with one another. And so it's only sin that has brought about that disunity and disharmony in us. And so those of us who have been brought into the family of God by this triune God, who have been saved by Him, reconciled to Him, It's not just that we're on our end supposed to go throughout this life pursuing reconciliation, but rather we are to pursue unity in union with the triune God. That we are to to seek his help and involve him and make him the center of our reconciliation efforts. And those reconciliation efforts are defined by rectifying wrongs and setting relationships right all under the Lordship So we we'll get into this a little bit more here in in a in a few minutes, but uh biblical reconciliation must be God centered. If we're not thinking at all about God in any particular way Uh we're not doing biblical reconciliation. I mean the world has their methods of reconciliation, which can be helpful, uh but God has given us a way to pursue reconciliation that is centered around Him and His purposes. And so, as you see there, we start with a recognition that God has reconciled Himself and individuals. Obviously many passages we could choose, but 2 Corinthians 5. 18 It says God reconciled us to himself through Christ and gave us the ministry of reconciliation. So we as individuals were hostile to God. We were alienated from God. We were separated from God. But God has brought us near. God has reconciled us to Himself individually. those who have put their faith in Christ. But there's also a corporate reconciliation that God has reconciled himself and his people corporately uniting Jews and Gentiles into the people of God. And we see that in Ephesians 2. That for he himself is our peace who made both groups into one and broke down the barrier of the dividing wall. So whereas before Christ there was a strong division between Jew and Gentile And the Jews were the people of God, those who believed in God and followed God. And if you wanted to be part of the people of God, there was a mechanism for that. You had to become a Jew. You had to become a proselyte and and adopt the the God of the Jews and in a sense uh reject your gentile uh life uh and identity But now with Christ, you no longer have to become a Jew to become the people of God. Jew and Gentile alike come to the Father through Christ and are united as the one people of God. And so God has you uh reconciled us to himself corporately. And then in light of the reconciliation God has accomplished, we must work to uh pursue reconciliation and to preserve that reconciliation among men. Ephesians four At the end says being diligent to preserve the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace. Now when Jesus prayed In High Priestly Prayer, John 17, I pray that they might be one, just as you and I are one. That prayer was fulfilled when he died on the cross and he said, It is finished. And he paid for the sins of all those who had believed. Now all of the people of God, Jew and Gentile, were one. You and I are already one with all of the people of God. We just need to preserve that unity. And wherever there is division, we need to pursue reconciliation and restoration of that unity. Doesn't mean we all have to be part of the same church, doesn't mean we all have to be part of the the the same denomination, um, but it does mean that we can't uh allow conflict to be the reason for uh sinful conflict for the reason for our s our separation and disunity So that's the the process of definition. I don't think I have this in your notes. I don't have it in my notes, but here would be the the state of reconciliation So you've walked through reconciliation. There's now a new condition, a new state that we find ourselves in And that is the joyful state of thinking and relationships that have been reinforced by bonds of love, increasing personal and corporate usefulness for the glory of God. So in the same way that when we get a a a major cut on our body and it gets healed uh there's uh a scar, right? And that scar i is not just a reminder that there was an injury, but it's actually a strengthening of the original site so that uh the body will avoid if it can uh re-injury. And in a similar way, when we experience conflict with one another, but then we pursue unity and experience reconciliation, our relationship with each other can be stronger than it was before Because now we've we've walked through the difficulty and the challenge of of loving one another through our sin, forgiving each other, and now we have a stronger relationship. And so in the case of of a marriage, for example, uh whether however the marriage starts, if it walks into a season of of conflict If you're able to work through that, you will experience a level of relationship, a depth of unity and love that you've never experienced before because you hadn't walked through all the difficulty. The covenant that we make with our spouse at the wedding, which, you know, many of course use the traditional uh vows, but w whatever vows you made, there there's that commitment of I'm going to be with you until death to us part, no matter what comes along the way. Well, of course, it's nice to say that, but um that that needs to get tested. And when it does get tested and it gets proven, then there's a strength to that relationship that didn't exist the first day of marriage I mean I I I remember as a uh both a single and I guess a young married man, you know, hearing couples in who had been married for twenty, thirty more years uh say, you know, we're more in love than we've ever been before. And of course in my naivety, I thought, well, how is that even possible? You know, you don't look like you did when you were in your twenties. Well, I I've only been married for eighteen years. This is our nineteenth year of marriage But I I'm I sense that reality, then dy that dynamic work because now we've we've lived life. We've walked through challenges. Now not the same as everybody else, but But we we've experienced the the way in which a marriage can be enriched, a relationship can be strengthened when you walk through trials, whether it's external trials or whether it's internal conflicts with each other. And so there there's just a joyful state that of strengthening, which then results in the corporate usefulness uh for the glory of God. That we can actually serve in a in a greater way together than we could have otherwise. And so you see some some passages there. I'm not going to take the time to read that because time is getting away from us. Alright. Now with this next section here, a history of the world through the lens of war and peace. I just thought it'd be helpful to kind of look at time from beginning of creation until eternity through this lens of conflict and peace and reconciliation. And again for the sake of time we're not going to look at all the specific passages. I think you'll you'll get the picture here. But we know that when God made the world in six days, on the seventh day he declared, or on the at the end of the sixth day, he declared that it was very good. You know, there were there was no sin in the world, there was no pain in the world, there was no conflict in the world. Everything was harmonious. There was, as you see, peace among animals. Let me catch up here There was peace among animals. There were no carnivores at the beginning of creation. There was no fear among the animals from predators at the beginning of creation uh they lived in harmony. There was peace between mankind and creation. You know, Adam and Eve could work in the garden and even though it was growing and they had to till it and work it, uh it wasn't working against them. It wasn't hard w labor. uh they were able to be productive and fruitful in their efforts. Uh there was peace between Adam and the animals, where Adam could have all of the animals pass in front of him as the Lord brought them to him to be named And he was not afraid of h them and they were not afraid of him. There was just uh an ability for them to interact in a way that that was harmonious and peaceful. There was peace between Adam and Eve, that they lived and worked together and enjoyed each other without any conflict, without any arguments Uh they they uh you know you they never said to one another, uh, you know, let me show you how to do this. Why why do you keep doing it the wrong way, you know Um see I told you that was the right way to do it. No, they had perfect harmony and love for one another. And then of course there was peace between God and mankind. We we learned in chapter three that they were used to God coming and walking in the garden and fellowshipping with them. And so life in the garden was harmonious. It was unified. It was joyful. It was full of love. And uh it was delightful. But Then war came. As soon as sin entered the world, excuse me, uh the creation was now defined by conflict. There is conflict between animals, where animals eat animals. And in uh Genesis chapter six where it talks about the corruption in the world that caused God to to bring the flood, included the corruption of the animals and their violence. There was conflict between mankind and creation, where now, as a result of the curse of sin, the creation was working against Adam and his ability to bring forth from the ground food to eat. Uh there's conflict between mankind and animals, where uh both animals could attack mankind and mankind would attack and kill animals and and eat them And there's there's now conflict between Adam and Eve and among mankind. I mean you we can just imagine the conversations that happened as they were walking away from the garden. Uh, you know, where the Lord had put the flaming sword so they they wouldn't enter in. Uh and then just in the subsequent years, as they reflected back, man, wasn't it so wonderful when we were in the garden and you had to go off and eat that Well, you were right there. You didn't say anything, you know. Who knows what what they would talk about. And then of course with uh with their sons and the tragedy of murder so early on in the history of mankind. And then of course there's conflict between God and mankind. No longer did they experience the fellowship of God as they lived on the earth, but now there was a separation between them and God. Well, uh Point well taken. I don't disagree with what you're saying. Uh part of I'm and I'm writing myself a note to make an edit on on this. But part of that though is Um th there's a natural th there's two um applications of that curse. W one is, okay, the serpent, which You know, w was it just this innocent serpent that uh you know got overtaken by the evil one? You know, we don't know exactly. But uh but the end result of that is now b now we have snakes where they didn't have them before And uh unless you're the kind of person who likes to hold snakes and have snakes, most of us, you know, would be very glad to stomp on 'em or just run away. Uh so there's that would fall under the category of mankind and creation. But you're absolutely right that the spiritual dimension of um uh the devil and his angels and the conflict that they brought in As a result of their conflict with God. So thank you for that, for adding that. And so it's been this way since then, right? Nothing's changed. The conflict that experien that they experienced as a result of sin uh escalated uh without abatement up to the flood Uh and that's why God had to bring the flood. I mean, you know, some who would oppose the concept of wor worldwide flood would say, well, why would God have to uh kill everybody on the planet and kill every uh breathing animal on the planet other than those that were on the ark. I mean that that seems over the top Well, it's not over the top if the entire creation had corrupted itself in such a way that there was no salvaging it uh in in the in in any meaningful way. And it's fascinating And and a demonstration of the grace of God that even though God says, I'm going to flood the earth, because every thought of the heart of man is evil from his youth After the flood, as as Noah and his family come out of the ark and the Lord makes the new way a covenant, he says, I'm not going to flood the earth, even though every thought of man is evil from his youth. And so nothing had changed in terms of the corruption of man in the heart. It was the manifestation and the escalation of of that corruption that uh God uh reversed or or took back in time, if you will. But since then Because of his relationship with mankind, with his uh choosing Abraham, creating the people of Israel, ultimately sending the Messiah and everything, uh the corruption of mankind has been mitigated to some degree. uh where there's been an influence of righteousness on the earth that apparently wasn't there before uh the flood. But all that being the case Uh there is still uh life is is defined by all of these aspects of conflicts. That's why we have the difficulties that we have every day of our lives. But there will be a day that will be defined by peace again, the the new world of peace. And I'm just going to throw in The millennium and the eternal state together here as being defined by peace. And you can look at these passages and see uh that there will be peace between animals and mankind in creation and mankind in animals and and mankind among themselves and then of course between mankind and God And so we will one day experience the kind of peace that Adam and Eve experienced in the garden, but even to a greater degree, because we will have gone through the state of sin and conflict that we've experienced. And so we'll have even a greater joy uh in our experience of peace because we will know about what God has done to reconcile us to himself and to one another. So that's the big picture of the history of the world. And so the question comes: well, can I have peace in my life? Can I have peace in my life? Do I have to wait for the millennium or the eternal state to experience peace? And the answer is, no, you don't have to wait. Yes, you can experience peace. Even though our sin in our our sin-cursed world is defined by conflict, the gospel is the good news that not only has God made peace possible in the future, but he is making peace in the world today. in calling those reconciled to him to be peacemakers. So we can have peace today. Well Why can we have peace today? We can have peace today because of who God is Again, while this world is defined by conflict until Jesus sits on his throne, there is hope we can experience peace because our God, Creator, Savior, and Redeemer is a peace-making God. I mean just you have all these passages listed here. It's just amazing to see how frequently the scripture calls God the God of peace. Isaiah 9 6, reflecting on the Messiah. He is the prince of the peace. of peace. And his benediction in Romans 15, 33. Now may the God of peace be with you all. Philippians 4. 9, speaking to those who have experienced anxiety That if you the things you've learned and received and heard and seen in me, practice these things, and the God of peace will be with you. 2 Corinthians 13, 11. Again, speaking to those in conflict, he says the God of love and peace will be with you. To the from the author of Hebrews. Now the God of peace in his benediction who brought us up from the dead. The great shepherd of the sheep, through the blood of the eternal covenant, even Jesus our Lord, equip you in every good thing to do his will. He is the God of peace. So, because he is the God of peace, there are various aspects of peace that we can experience today. First, we can experience saving peace with God. The fundamental conflict in every single one of our lives when we are born into this world is the fact that we are in conflict with God. We are hostile to God. Scripture just uses uh a variety of of terms and expressions to say we hate God, we want nothing to do with God, we we live according to our our own desires, we we don't want to uh hear from God, we're hard-hearted, we're callous. We hate God. And that experience of hostility is what defines then the rest of our life. Because we're hostile to God, that's why we have hostility toward others. And so what we need, more than anything, is to have saving peace with God. That's why in the biblical counseling ministry when we talk about the opportunity that there is to minister to unbelievers even though they don't have uh yet the the the saving experience of being able to have the Holy Spirit who empowers them in understanding of Scripture to live out the truth It's an opportunity to say, listen, there is a greater conflict than what you think you have right now. You think you just have a bad marriage. You think you're just having difficulties in this area. The the bigger problem is that you are in conflict with God And peace with God is possible, and let me tell you about how you can have peace with God, which will then change everything else about your life. But because Of the gospel, we we can have peace with God. This is a vertical peace that only God can produce. We are called to pursue it by faith and repentance as well as call others to be at peace with God. Romans 5. Therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. through whom also we have obtained our introduction by faith into this grace in which we stand. And we exalt in the hope of the glory of God. I mean just to think about those two statements there at the end. Because of the peace with God, we are able to stand in the grace of God. That is our standing. Wherever we walk, whatever we're doing, we are in the grace of God. We are never outside of the grace of God. And because we stand in his grace, we also have hope. for the future. And so it doesn't matter what's going on in my life, doesn't matter what conflicts or what difficulties I'm experiencing, I can have hope for the future. I can be encouraged because of the grace that I've received. I can be empowered by that grace. to pursue peace with others because of the peace that I have with God Let me just move on to the next point here. A second experience of peace that we can enjoy now is inner peace enjoyed with the God of peace. We can have inner peace enjoyed with the God of peace. There is the objective relationship now that is reconciled to God if we have put our faith in Christ. And that reconciled relationship produces in us an internal peace in our soul, a tranquility, a recognition that I am no longer in turmoil in my relationship with God. When we enjoy peace with God, the most significant conflict in our life is resolved. And this frees us to experience internal peace. But it doesn't happen by accident. We're called to pursue it. And many people struggle. They're they have uncertainty. They question their salvation. They're they're not sure of uh if if they really have been forgiven by God. And what Scripture calls us to do is first make sure that we are believing the gospel and and placing our faith not in ourselves, but in Christ who has finished the work and reconciled us to himself. But secondly, that we're pursuing peace by strengthening our relationship with the Lord. And so we see that in Philippians 4, 6 to 9. Be anxious for nothing But in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your request be made known to God. So we're pursuing a relationship with God. We're bringing our anxieties, we're bringing our difficulties to Him And when we do that, the peace of God, which surpasses comprehension, will guard our hearts and our minds. So we can experience peace even when our circumstances don't make sense of the peace that we experience. We can have peace in the storm, if you will. Or Isaiah 26 verse 3, the steadfast of mind you will keep in perfect peace Because he trusts in you. A huge issue in life is not the circumstances around me, but what is my mindset? Where am I putting my faith and my trust and my hope Am I trying to control my circumstances? Am I trying to get everything uh to work out the way I want it to work out, or am I putting my hope in the Lord and focusing on his purposes? Yeah, Kirk. Yeah. Now I suspect you asked that question in a leading way because I think you know the answer to that, but it's a great question Okay, alright, well, I was assuming the best. But it's a great question. No. If if we're trying to experience peace by hoping that the difficulties will end In this life, in a temporary kind of way, uh, we will soon realize that's probably not true. At least in many cases, it won't be true Um if we're hoping if our hope is in the eternal future, in the coming of Christ uh where all will be set right, then that is certainly a great place to put our hope and what can encourage us and give us peace. And that's where a passage like Romans uh eight eighteen where Paul says That the trials of this present life are not worth comparing to the glories that will be revealed. So as we're experiencing the difficulties and the challenges of life, we can be saying, Come, Lord Jesus Come, Lord Jesus, I want you to come so that all my difficulties will go away. Because I know in that day that I will experience glory in no more difficulty. So that's one place we can put our hope, knowing that I might experience my difficulties till the day I die. term resolution. Right. I mean uh whether it's a uh terminal diagnosis, uh whether it's uh you know just a a perpetual struggle to provide uh uh uh for my family, whether it's, you know, just a situation where you have no you know, you're in prison for Christ and there's no hope of you getting out except by some miracle. And there's there's a variety of situations where we we can come to recognize this probably isn't going to get better in my life. And if I'm putting my hope in it getting better, it's going to be a false hope because I I I don't have control over that. So I will put my hope in the eternal future where everything But we can also put our hope in the character of God as demonstrated by his work in the past. So This is both a combination of past and present in the sense that uh we look to God's faithfulness of the p in the past. We can you know set our minds on how God has has been faithful to his people uh throughout history, biblical history, uh post-biblical history. You know, we can recall uh you know the suffering saints throughout time, like in Hebrews chapter 11, the witnesses, the cloud of witnesses that surround us And we can just say, God was faithful to Samson, even though he was a wretched sinner. God was faithful to David, even though he was an adulterer and a murderer. God was you know, we just kind of think about how God demonstrated his faithfulness, how God uh showed himself up for his people to rescue them from their difficulties. But the reason that he did those things, and the greater thing to recognize, is who God is in his character and what God is doing in his purposes. And so when we recognize and and put our hope in the fact that God is sovereign, that He is in control of all things, that nothing is outside of His control, that He is loving, that He does all things for my good uh and he is only s seeking my good through these difficulties and and of course his glory as well. Uh that that he is uh kind and gr generous and gracious and compassionate and he is with me uh wherever I am. that he has all the power that he needs to accomplish his will and purposes. So it's not like he's he's good and he's loving, but he's just powerless to exert that. No, he's has all the power he needs to accomplish his good, loving purposes. We can remember what he is seeking to accomplish, that he's proclaiming his glory in the world through our circumstances, and he's conforming us to the image of Christ. Uh and so rather than focusing in on the difficulties and the hardships of of today and and maybe the strife in this relationship or or the pain of of my of my uh suffering We can redirect our mind, which is what Paul says to do in Philippians 4. 8, to set our minds on things above, where Christ is, as he says in Colossians 3. 1. to focus on the character and the goodness of God and the purposes of God. And that kind of gives us direction in how we are to respond. We'll talk about this next time. Uh as far as how how does putting God at the center of my difficulties, how does that actually give me an indication of the steps that I need to take. So we'll talk about that next week. But but our our hope is not just in the it is not in the temporary alleviation of suffering. Uh it is both in the hope of eternal glory as well as in The eternal God who is with us now and is faithful. So we can have inner peace enjoyed with the God of peace, and we can do that by doing the things that we were just talking about. And then also, once we have peace with God relationally, objectively, and we experience the inner peace of God, we can have relational peace with others. We can pursue that. We are called to pursue not just peace with uh those who are Um, you know, fellow believers are in our family, but we're called to per pursue peace with unbelievers. Romans 12, 18. If possible, so far as it depends on you, be at peace with all men. And he goes on to talk about there in the context of our enemies. Or Hebrews 12. 14, pursue peace with all men and the sanctification without which no one will see the Lord. Well, I'll be preaching from Titus 3:1 and 2 today. So we'll we'll talk about that briefly. Then uh 1 Corinthians 7, 15, yet if the unbelieving one lay leaves, let him leave. The brother or sister is not under bondage under su in such cases, but God has called us to peace. And so we need to recognize that there are times when um it's actually a peace promoting thing to do, to separate from an unbeliever w married whether it's a marriage or some other situation where they just want nothing to do with us. Instead of instead of, you know, running after them, no, we gotta be reconciled Sometimes we're called to peace and just let the unbeliever leave. But of course we're also and especially called to pursue peace with believers. Romans 14. So then we pursue the things which make for peace and the building up of one another. I already mentioned Ephesians 4. I mean that passage is so uh central. It's it's the center uh passage in the book of Ephesians. And we are called to preserve the unity of the Spirit and the bond of peace and live in peace with one another. So just in closing here, um Peace is not just a possibility in this life. It's a calling. It's a commandment. It's a commandment. God commands us to have peace among others. But he does that having granted us peace with him and offering us peace in ourselves So whatever conflicts you have in your life, God commands you, it is God's will for you that you pursue peace, that you pursue reconciliation. As far as it depends on you. It's it doesn't always depend on you. Sometimes you you put forth every effort before the Lord that He would it that He would uh uh expect and command of you and the other person doesn't respond and there is no ultimate reconciliation. But as far as your part is concerned God calls us to pursue peace. And so we must have an attitude of peace, an attitude that desires to pursue peace, and then take action in peace making. In Colossians 3. 15 there it says, let the peace of Christ rule in your heart. And to rule means to be a judge, an arbiter, an umpire. And so the pursuit of peace should be what determines, it should be the ruling guide, is the blank there, the ruling guide by which you act and respond toward others. This is just huge. When I'm in conflict, typically I am ruled by my desires. I am ruled by my feelings and emotions. I am ruled by my hurt and my pain. And yet we're told here in Colossians 3. 15, no, no, no, the peace of Christ should rule you, should govern you, should determine your actions. And when we do that, when we pursue peace, we are peacemakers. And that is why we can be called sons of God Blessed are the peacemakers, Jesus said in Matthew 5 9, for they shall be called sons of God. As those who have been reconciled to God and adopted into his family, we are to work in the family business of peacemaking. Or to put it another way, when we pursue peace, we demonstrate that we are sons of our heavenly Father, not sons of our former father the devil. Because he is a murderer from the beginning and uh and so when we engage in war and conflict and pursue conflict We are acting like him. But when we pursue peace, we are acting like our Heavenly Father, and therefore can be called sons of God. Alright, let me pray. And uh forgive me for going a few minutes over here