So once again, my name is Elias, for those of you I do not know yet, and I am subbing for Pastor Gabe, who normally runs this class. And we are on session four. Now before we go into session four, and before Before I give you the answers and the review for session three, can any of you astute students please remind the class uh what we learned last week? Anything of note that really struck you? Anyone? Yeah. Steve? Right. Just uh I guess throughout your life you have a spouse, you have co-workers, and just kind of how we handle these different sorts of relationships. Absolutely. So we talked about different categories. Do you remember what those categories were by any chance? You touched on a couple of them. What else did we talk about last week? Okay. So the tricky part is, right? I think kinda where we touched upon and we kinda left off was when some of those relationship categories overlap, right? You have uh family member who's also a church member uh or a coworker who's also a church member or some other mix of those three categories. So we talked about the fact that when you become a Christian Does that mean existing pre existing authority structures of God made completely disappear? There's no more male or female. Husband, wife, function doesn't matter. Do you guys understand what I'm asking? So what happens even after we become a Christian? God still honors and he designed certain authority structures to remain in place, right? Do you guys kinda remember that? Okay. Let's continue with our review. So first and foremost, can someone turn to Matthew chapter ten? Verse thirty five. That was a very key passage that Pastor Gabe touched on. And whoever gets there first, if you have a nice, loud, confident voice, if you can just read it for the entire class. It's a big room, so put lots of air into it. Can anyone everyone read this fine, by the way? All the way in the back? You can kind of read it, Carrie? Sorta? No? Kinda small. Let's see if we can do this. I think if we move these two tables. We pull this back. That's bigger. That's better? All right. Uh yes. Yes, thank you so much. Appreciate it. Okay, better? Everyone see that? Sorry about that. Okay, anyone have uh Matthew chapter ten, verse thirty-five? Please. For I came to set a man against his father and a daughter against her mother, and a father So who is the speaking? By the way. The Lord Jesus, right? Maybe we should read the rest of the passage to get on contact. You look at it. So do you mind reading a little bit around that? See? Thank you. Oh sure. You can just kind of read all around that just to give us some context. He who loves his father or mother more than me is worthy of me, and he who loves his son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me. And he who does not take his cross and follow after me is not worthy of me. He who has found his life will Yeah, absolutely. So, what is Jesus teaching here? So, Jesus is teaching, as Pastor Gabe taught last week, that we have a governing primary relationship that is most important. important in among all of our earthly relationships. So this class is about relationships, right? That's the title of the course. So we want to you're obviously in this class because you want some instruction on what is God's design for how we're supposed to relate to fellow human beings. Whether believers or not Right? We're going to touch on both aspects. But before we launch into specific details on how we are to relate to others in a manner that pleases God, we need to understand that there is one primary relationship that We have to see all of our relationships through. It's the filter we through we see everyone else. And that is how do you relate to Jesus Christ? And Jesus says in this passage that anyone that makes another human being another relationship higher than the relationship with Christ, you are not worthy of um uh being called a disciple of Christ, right? Genuine Christian prioritizes the relationship we have to God. That is the number one priority. That is the number one person we ought to be seeking to please. And by the way, God is a person, right? Capital P person. He's not a human being, but he is a person, personality, he has a will. And that As such, following that point, our goal in relationships is to glorify Christ. So our primary governing relationship is our relationship with Christ, and then our goal in every relationship as such is does this relationship glorify Christ? Christ? Am I conducting myself in a manner with my spouse, with my friend, with my coworkers, etcetera, in a manner that Christ is magnified, Christ is made great, that people know that I'm a Christian and they see, wow. look at the fact that God is alive in this person's heart. This is what a Christian looks like. Christ is so great. So are we glorifying Christ? That is the primary goal in everything that we do. And Pastor Gay taught last week, remember if you ever have some kind of relationship conflict, ultimately the answer is one or both parties are not glorifying Christ properly. That is the essence of all conflicts in the world. Okay? Make sense so far? Everyone tracking so far? Sounds familiar? And as Steve touched upon, we discussed that there are three general categories of human relationships relationships within the church. And in the church, uh we sh ought to be seeking unity through Through a spirit of humility. There are some sub relationships in the church. Um, how do we relate to our elders? What does the word of God tell us we should do in relation to our elders? We should rebel against them and Make their office super hard and make them regret ever being a pastor. We should submit, we should love them, right? We should imitate them. That's an important point, right? Now why do we imitate fellow human beings that are also sinners and And you know, they're not perfect themselves. But why does Scripture tell us to imitate elders? What's the qualification of an elder? Men above reproach. Govern their household well. Yes, govern their household well. Consistency. That's the key. Able to teach the word. Yep, we can go through all of them. We can turn to t uh we don't have to, just for the sake of time. But consistency. Presidency is uh the key word that Pastor Gabe touched upon. Pastors are men, and deacons as well, in terms of their character, right? Pastors and deacons are leaders in our church, are men that are fallible, they make mistakes, right? They are sinners, they syndicate. just like all of us. However, they are men that are characterized by consistency. If you look at the pattern of their lives, they mimic Christlikeness in a very in a very, you know, faint way in this life, right? But all of a sudden saying they are meant for us as a grace, they're meant for us as a gift where we can look at someone tangible and see them as a model of Christ's likeness. So we have to submit and we have to imitate our elders. If you're an older saint, how are you to treat the younger you know younger saints in the church. What are you to regard them as? I think Morag uh had an answer. Saints are to treat younger saints as uh like their children. Like their children. Right. Like their children. And younger saints, if you look at an older saint, you are to treat them like what? Parents. Parents. So we are literally family. We are more of a real family for some of you guys who have unbelieving blood relation, right, as I do, as I I bet most of maybe everyone here does. We are more of a family than some of your blood relation, you know, in all likelihood. And you know, we just like family by the way we sometimes rub each other the wrong way and we say dumb things to each other. But just like family, can't get rid of them and we gotta reconcile. And just like family, you know if you have a younger sibling that says something dumb to you, you don't just go out and gossip about them. hate them endlessly. I mean family shows grace to each other, right? You stick you stick next to each other. You don't just up and leave the church because someone says something dumb. Even if it's a church leader, right? Family works work things out. Family know that we're stuck together. So we gotta make this relationship work. We gotta reconcile it. We gotta forgive one another. So we might all look different, right? Uh we don't have the benefit of blood relation where we just you just superficially look the same. So you just have that natural affection for each other. But we have that superficial supernatural affection for each other and we realize we're genuinely mothers and fathers, brothers and sisters, sons and daughters, and that's the way we ought to regard each other. Now the second category of relationships in this life are blood relation, family, family, right? And that includes husband and wives. So for the sake of time I'll run through this quickly. Husbands are primarily a primary commandment, love your wives, right? Wives are to also love their husbands, submit to their husbands. Parents are to rear up young children. in the way of the Lord, young ch and not exasperate your children, by the way, either not annoy them to death, uh say the exact same lecture over and over and over again. Um children in turn are supposed to submit to their parents and And uh Pastor Gabe also touched on parents and adult children, how adult children have obligations to their parents even after they leave the home, right? One day your parents will grow very old and frail, that is uh such is the reality of this fallen world. Children are not supposed to just abandon their parents and say, I'll just let the government or I'll let the church take care of them. You're not to burden the church. If uh you if if adult children are present, they have a primary responsibility to care for their parents in their old age and continue to honor them and see them as wise counselors, right? And lastly we have the category of uh worldly relations. So that's your boss, that's your coworker, that is uh governing authorities, our senator, our representative, strangers. enemies. And in uh if we can sum up how we are to relate to our relations in the world, we are to be kind, we are to be Christlike, season our words with salt, we are to seek to be gracious and loving and peaceable as far as it depends on us, right? to the people around us and display Christ likeness. And once again, as we stated at the beginning, these three categories can mix and that's when things get kind of tricky. But uh basic authority structures do not just disappear just 'cause you become a Christian. Okay? Any questions up to this point? This is just a review of what Pastor Gabe covered last week. Any questions? Pastor Gabe, all of his lectures for this class are posted on sermon audio. I think he already told you that. This lesson will be as well. Um so if if you w Yes, please. Well while you were thinking it occurred to me that in all things in life we are willing to go and learn from somebody who knows some skills, right? You know everything else doesn't matter. We're gonna learn that still. That's that's uh excellent point. But really the elders are like you are the princess because they have masters Yeah. I really like the way you put that. Yeah. You think uh engineering or how to fix a car, you need the mentor figure, but relationships are the same way, it's something you learn. So kudos to you guys for taking this class. You guys are great. All right, let's go to session four. And we're going to run through a few main points and we're going to let scripture really guide our thinking today. Main point number one I want you all to take away from the session. What are relationships for? Why did God put us into relationships? Why did He invent relationships? Our relationships are meant to bring God glory. So we can go to Ephesians chapter four. If you guys want, you can turn to Ephesians four, because this is going to be a key passage we're going to return to again and again, and it might benefit you to see the entire chapter just for context. But uh if you forgot your Bible or what not uh you can just uh my slides will have some of the key verses. But Ephesians four, and I'm going to read uh primarily from the English Standard Version, so apologies to you KJV and NASB uh readers. I therefore A prisoner for the Lord. Who by who by the way is speaking here? Who wrote Ephesians? Paul. Paul. The Apostle Paul. Paul. I therefore a prisoner for the Lord urge you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you have been called. Let me give a very quick rundown of the entire book of Ephesians, just to give us context of what Paul is saying. Because anytime, just uh you know, uh rule of thumb whenever you're reading the Bible, if you you um encounter a section where it says therefore right? It sounds very obvious but we don't do this a lot with the Bible. A lot of people treat the Bible like a almost like a horoscope. You just flip to whatever page you want and take some verse out of context and that's like your your life verse for the day or something. But the Bible is a logical whole. It it's a book, just in many ways, just like any other book you read. There's a beginning, there's an end, there's a logical flow, right? Uh the apostles were very intelligent men. So they had a logic and you want to know what's the beginning of this book that led to Him stating, therefore, right? Therefore follows. It's a conclusion based on some previous argument. Well, this is the previous argument. So in Ephesians chapter 1, Paul lays out the theology, all the intellectual knowledge. So in chapter one, verses three to fourteen, Paul talks about how we were predestined for adoption as sons. That's an amazing truth that before the foundation of the of the world. God knew you were going to exist at some point in time, 1970, whatever, or 1960, whatever, some of you earlier, I won't say how early early. And God predestined that I'm going to make this person at this time period and he or she will come to know me. I'm going to bring them into my family and save them forever. So that's an amazing truth, right? And as a guarantee that you were predestined and you will inherit salvation You will go to heaven. What is the guarantee that God gives us? The Holy Spirit, right? I heard it. He gives us the Holy Spirit. You can think of that almost like a down payment, a security deposit. God didn't have to do this. He did this as a work of his grace. He gives us the Holy Spirit. Then we go to chapter 2 and verses 1 to 22 in particularly, Paul elaborates how we were freed by Christ from Satan, and we are saved by God's Grace alone. That's another amazing truth. I know for many of us here you've been Christians for a long time, but we really ought to uh you know renew our hearts again with the excitement of that truth that you don't have to do anything to merit your salvation. There is absolutely Absolutely no work that has to be performed other than the work that was already performed by Jesus Christ on the cross. Right? John MacArthur has a popular refrain in his preaching that you know atheists love to say, How do you know your it's so arrogant? Arrogant, how do you know your religion's the right religion? There's thousands of religions out there, literally millions of gods, like in the religion of Hinduism. How do you know you're worshiping the right God? And I love John MacArthur's response. There's really only two religions in the entire world. There's only Two, there's a religion of man's work or Christ's work. That's it. Who is working your salvation? Is it God or is it man? Every other religion other than biblical Christianity believes the way to salvation. the way to heaven is to live a good enough life. And that is exhausting and that is terrifying because we are not given how good of a life you have to live before. How do you know that you get the D m you know, the E plus on your report card, heavenly report card, and you just barely, you know, you know y you didn't make the cutoff and you're in hell forever, right? It's terrifying. It's a horrifying thought. It's exhausting living that way. And Christ tells us we can rest in the promise that He saves. Now in Ephesians chapter 4, we get to the therefore. Based on all this remarkable truth about our salvation, about how we were preached. predestined about how secure we are in Christ, right? And what should a heart warm to the things of God feel at this point? You should feel gratitude, right? You should feel love. You should feel like this is amazing. I am so glad I'm not going to help for eternity. I'm so glad that God loves me. What can I do to repay this God? What can I do out of love for God? Not to earn my salvation, but simply because I love God, what can I do with my life to honor Him? Well Paul tells us, he says Walk in a manner worthy of the calling. Now the question is, what kind of life, what kind of walk is considered worthy of the calling to which you have been called, worthy of your salvation? What do you guys think? For those don't don't skim ahead yet. Cheat. But let's list it together as a class. What do you think a life looks like that is worthy of the calling to which you have been called? Humility. Humility, that's a great one. Yeah. Faithfulness. Faithfulness. That's a great one. Love for one another. Love for one another, yep. Obedience. Obedience. I I did uh desiring to know God better. Desiring to know God better. better reading the word of God, praying. I think a life relationship is a life of good relationships. That's a great segue to my next point, Orac. And that's precisely right, you know? Let's see the rest of Ephesians four here. So if you didn't open your Bible, actually, I I I lied, you should open your Bible. Let's go to Ephesians chapter four. And let's see how Paul elaborates on living Walking in a manner so walking that that word walk by the way in the Bible for those of you who aren't familiar, uh it's very commonly a metaphor for your your entire life. Your walk is your life. Walk in in a manner worthy of the calling. I'm going to continue reading from verse two and uh you can just follow along. This is going to be now NASB. With all humility and gentleness, with patience, showing tolerance for one another in love. Uh by the way, keep your thinking caps on. Think about these next hours verses what the commonality is. There is a common theme. Verse three, being diligent to preserve the unity of the spirit and the bond of peace. There is one body and one spirit, just as also you were called in one hope of your calling, one Lord, one faith. One baptism, one God and Father of all, who is over all and through all in all. But to each one of us grace was given according to the measure of Christ's gift. Okay, let's zoom back in to verses two to three. And there Paul elaborates on, therefore, in light of all the great gospel promises of your salvation, walk in a manner worthy of the calling, do this. Verse 2 and 3. What's the common theme in verses 2 and 3? Fruits of the Spirit, very good. Yeah. Seems like unity is is key. And I would y everything you guys said was true, and I would make it a little bit broader. Notice that verses two and three, all of these things are others centric. Are you guys seeing this? These are all relational. These are all relational. In fact, if we can elaborate further, really the two main actions that Paul exhorts us to in Ephesians four verses two to three. is he wants us to bear with one another, endure one another, preserve one another, bear with other believers with love and maintain church unity, both very intimate relational ideas. means rubbing shoulder to shoulder with the brother and sister, right next to you, in fact. And all of this should be done with various attitudes humility, gentleness, patience, eagerness, peaceableness. In other words, a life Life that glorifies God is a life lived through relationships. Hence point one. Our relationships are meant to bring God glory. So does that help us see our relationships in a clearer light, maybe perhaps a different light? Right? Relationships aren't just something that just happened, you know, by happenstance being humans in this earth with other humans, right? It it's not just some something that just happened to be circumstantially because we're alive on this earth and we're in a city with other people. People. Relationships are something that was particularly designed by God, and it's designed to be uh conducted in a manner that glorifies God. In fact, John chapter 13, verses 34 to 35, this very famous uh commandment. Jesus says, A new commandment I give to you, he's speaking to the disciples and to every future disciple, us, that you love one another. Just as I've loved you, you also are to love one another. By this all people will know thee. that you are my disciples, if you have love for one another. So when we conduct our relationships in a manner that is characterized by love, we reveal to the world that we are Christians. Our identities in the name Right? We belong to Christ. We are worshippers of Christ. We reveal Christ. This is what Christ is like. He is someone that loves other people. He bears with one another. He maintains unity. So that is main point number one. Relationships are meant to be. I like in verse three where it says being diligent towards you when you of the spirit want to peace. Relationships aren't something that just happens. This is something that being diligent is not like just have This is we're intentional. This is something that we drive for, not not something that we just you know make a second disk by the way. Excellent point. Yeah. We'll elaborate on that a little further, but you make exactly I hope everyone heard that. Being diligent, as uh verse three says, it's relationships are hard work, right? For some of you guys particularly hard. I'm just kidding. All right. Main point number two. God designed our relationships to grow us. So relationships relationships glorify God and relationships are also to our benefit, right? So um I hope it's very clear in our church that we preach against the uh the prosperity gospel, right? This false teaching that uh because you're a Christian and if you do a lot of good things, it's really a form of work salvation. You do a lot of good things, God will bless you with a lot of material possessions and whatnot. But I also caution against going to the opposite extreme, preaching a sort of of um if I could put it like a poverty gospel. Uh let me elaborate on that. Where you think that you will be a Christian and God will purposely give you no benefits in life and your life will just be terrible and in shambles and he'll starve you to death and then you'll go to heaven. all be spiritual benefits. The truth of the matter is the Bible does teach both negative and positive reinforcement. So what I mean by that is think of raising a child for those of you who are parents or all of you have parents, though. You were you remember being raised, you were both spanked If you are being naughty, but you're also given rewards for good behavior. And God in His wisdom also uses both. And we shouldn't seek to worship God because we want his rewards, but God says he gives rewards. And it is fine to think of the fact that there are benefits to obeying the Lord. That shouldn't be your primary heart motive, but there are benefits. There's a sweetness to being in relationship with God where God rewards good behavior. And there are benefits to being in relationships and conducting those relationships in a God-glorifying way. And one of those great benefits is God means to grow us, stretch us, strengthen us, make us wise, make us understanding in our relationships. So Ephesians chapter 4 Verse 15, you're going to notice all these underlying parts of this verse, once again, they're all relational and they speak to our growth and our benefit. Verse 15, rather speaking the truth in love. That's a relational term, right? can't speak the truth unless you're speaking it to somebody, somebody that you know, somebody you're in relationship with. Rather speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up. So you see this tight connection that Paul makes between relating to others Speaking to truth and love, you know, that's really the essence of a relationship, right? The conversation that you have. Speaking the truth and love, it causes us to grow up in every way into him who is the head, into Christ, from whom the whole body again, notice this intimate relationship. Language in this next part. Joined and held together by every joint with which it is equipped, when each part is working properly, makes the body grow so that it builds itself up in love. What is this body by? By the way. What is Paul talking about here? The church. It's a metaphor for Christians as a whole, right? And in this metaphor of the body, which represents the church, who are each members? What are the toes and the fingers? fingers and the eyeball and the kidney. What are those parts of the body in this metaphor? Individual Christians, us, right? I heard us, right? So we are joined together intimately in one body. Think of the grotesque nature. Don't let your imagination go too far, but think of the grotesque nature of like a part of your body being removed, disconnected from your body. It's it's kinda gross, right? And it It's it's it's obscene and it's it's not the way it should be, right? And that that's the horrors of war and disease and amputations and all that stuff. The members of your body are supposed to be whole. That's the way it that's the way we want it to look like, right? I hope. I hope you guys will mourn genuinely, even if you lose your pinky toe tomorrow. You would genuinely mourn, right? And in the same sense, bring that grotesque bring that m you know, bring that morbid image of a body part separated from your body into the church. How much more grotesque is it when you have a member of the body of Christ that is being neglected? Or on the flip side, you're a member of the body of Christ, and you're neglecting meeting with the body, you're not using your spiritual gifts to help one another. It's it's it's kind of disgusting, to be frank, if I can put it that way. So the body is meant to be joined and held together. There's this intimate bond we have with one another. We should know each other well. We should be meeting with each other regularly, at the very least on Sundays, right? You shouldn't and I I I would go so far as to say, like If you're just coming in for the sermon and leaving right after and nobody knows you and nobody would miss you if you're gone, like, you know, are you really part of the body, right? You're you're losing out because relationships, really talking to people, having those opportunities where you can speak truth and love and they can speak truth and love to you, that's where growth happens in our spiritual walk. I saw a hand somewhere. Uh someone have a thought? Oh yes please. Yep. Yep. Autoimmune disease is the same way. It's the body doing its own thing against the rest of the body. Yeah. Yeah. And that's a disaster. We want the body working as a one functional whole. Great. Okay. Uh Paul elaborates on another I'll elaborate on that. Verses 4 to 7. Now there are varieties of gifts. So now Paul is speaking to uh just like in our human physics. physical body, each member, each component of our physical body is a little different and they all have different specific functions and the toe can't be the eyeball and the ear can't be the the kidney or whatever. Um in the same sense, bringing that metaphor to the spiritual body. He says the following There are varieties of gifts, but the same Spirit, and there are varieties of service, but the same Lord, and there are varieties of activities, but it is the same God who empowers them all into Verse 7 is important. To each is given the manifestation of the Spirit for the common good. Okay, so first and foremost, uh what is the purpose of your unique abilities? natural and spiritual abilities that God has given you. What does it say in verse seven? What's the purpose? Is it so you can just benefit yourself and hoard it all to yourself and say, I'm just so good at uh loving other people I'm just gonna keep loving myself for eternity and all What's what's the purpose? of your n your unique abilities you've all been given. Help build up the church. Common good. Yep. It's to help other people. So, like corollary, if we are all needed in the church To help one another, that also means we need one another, right? If we are required because we need to help other people, that means you require what everyone else in this room offers. And it's very subtle and I I would say the following. I know a lot of people they struggle sometimes to identify their spiritual gifts. There are some people, like frankly, like uh the pastors, where their gifting is very obvious. They're great teachers, they're great leaders, and you're going to see a gradient of obvious in spiritual gifts. And there are some people whose spiritual gifts, to be frank, it's it can be kind of hard to detect. And that's I'm not I'm not disparaging anyone by saying that. I am saying that's God's design. Just like in the body, some parts of the body are very obvious. You can see the hair, you can see see the skin, but then that's like ten percent don't quote me on that percentage of my doctor. That's like ten percent of your body. Most of your body you can't see. You don't see the functioning. You don't see the circulatory system and all that stuff, right? And for probably most of you, you're gifts gifting you you probably feel like I'm not that smart or I don't have enough money, I can't give as generously as this rich guy over here or you know, my house isn't big enough to be as hospitable or whatever. But you have some gift if you're a genuine believer and you're required. You need to be In this church, you know, in this building, with these people rubbing shoulders to shoulder with them, like Ephesians 4 says, speaking truth and love, you know, you need to be operating your gift in whatever manner that you have. You might be the servant with the one talent, right? Right? You're to use that one talent to produce some benefit to the Lord. So that is why we need relationships. It grows us. And by the way, um I also want to quote a very difficult passage on on that note. And um I think uh someone spoke to this earlier. But Luke fourteen uh says the following. Jesus uh is speaking here. He said also to the man who had invited him, so Jesus was invited to uh a luncheon, right? And he says the following When you give a dinner Or a banquet. Do not invite your friends or your brothers or your relatives or rich neighbors, lest they also invite you in return, and you be repaid. But when you give a feast, invite the poor, the crippled, the lame, the blind. Blind, and you will be blessed, because they cannot repay you, for you will be repaid at the resurrection of the just. So I just want to make a note that Jesus tells us that we are not to only seek out the comfortable relationship. with the people that we like. It's very good to have friends. Friends are a great blessing. We all have that uh Pastor Lee preached a very great sermon at at uh last year's um anniversary uh celebration of Hope Bible Church on friendship. And we all have However, we would uh be cautious to not become so insular that you only hang out with the same five people all the time. You only seek out those comfortable relationships because Jesus tells us that There's very little benefit to that. That's you y there's no graciousness that comes out of you hanging out with your best friend. You guys like each other. There's some self interest there, if you think about it. But in fact we are also to seek out particularly brothers and sisters that we may find difficult to love. Those are often the people that are in loneliness. Those are often the people that need us to reach out to them and we need to help them. And Jesus challenges us um uh to uh expand your social circle, put it that way. Expand your fellowship circle. Okay? Does that make sense? Alright, let's go to main point number three. God designed relationships to be the platforms to love and serve one another. So uh I think many of us here heard of a category in the Bible called the one another's, right? The one another commands. And these are commands where God is preaching how we are once again to relate to one another. So this is just a partial list, John thirteen thirty four. Love one another. Romans 12 10, be devoted to one another. Romans 12. 16, live in harmony with one another. First Thessalonians chapter 5, verse 11, build up one another. Now this is a you know obvious question. But before you can fulfill these commands, what needs to occur first? You need to be around other people. You need to be in the body, right? You can't fulfill the one another's if there's no Another present, right? Pretty obvious. And that is probably one of the strongest arguments against a lot of uh wayward Christians that start to ask the ask the question: why do I have to go to church? Why do I need institutional religion? I can worship God in the privacy of my home. I can obey God in the privacy of my bedroom. No, you can't. Because God commands one another's. And that means you need another person present around you. The church exists as a platform for relationships to flourish, and relationships flourish because that is a platform for us loving and serving other people. Does that make sense to everybody? So Sundays are the best opportunity we have to form relationships so we can find those opportunities to serve people, to love others. This is a great just after class. I mean it's so easy to do by the way. the way. You can do it so casually. Just after class, just ask how are you doing? And really ask how they're doing. Ask uh follow up on something you heard about, like they someone posted in the prayer corner that some prayer requests. How's that thing going? Do you need anything? Can I drop anything off at your home? Can I pray for you right here in the hallway before we go into service? It's so easy to do. And church is just such a prime location, it's such a perfect opportunity for that. Uh, Paul continues here and uh I don't speak Greek, but I believe they are imperatives. Yeah. Yeah, they're not uh indicatives if if that's the other option. Yeah. They're they're actual commands. Yep. But uh you can follow up Pastor Lee. He speaks Greek. Okay. Uh by the way, that that that's uh that's an interesting point. I'm going off on a tangent here. So there's a theologian I really enjoy, um named Dr. James R. White. And our church has some minor differences. with him but he is an expert in the Greek. He is a Greek professor in fact. And he gave this very encouraging exhortation. He says people all the time come up and ask him, says what does it say in the Greek? And he says ninety nine percent of the time he'll go back and said the same thing it says in the English Bible. So that's comforting to us non-Greek speakers. And that's that's the wisdom of God that um you know the Bible was able to be translated so accurately to so many languages. But yeah, I I'm sorry, I don't know what it says in the Greek. I'll take ask me in a couple Okay. Um I want to elaborate on something that was uh already touched upon earlier. If we go back to Ephesians 4, verse 3, says uh this one anothering that we do requires us to be diligent. Be diligent. Serving is hard work. Make no uh you know don't don't fool yourself. It's not easy. It's it's supposed to be. If if you feel stretched, if it feels a little bit annoying in your flesh to reach out to this one person for the hundredth time or give advice for the hundredth time and you're repeating yourself or go out of your way to drive to this person's house and drop off a meal. It's supposed to be annoying. That's what hard work looks like. And you shouldn't be annoyed, but you know there's So there's supposed to be a little bit of blood, sweat, and tears that goes into serving other people. That's why it's called service, right? Nobody wants to be a servant naturally in our flesh. We all want to be the master. We want to be the boss. But uh service is what Christ modeled for us. Remember what he did at the Last Supper? What did Jesus do for the disciples? What they refused to do for one another? Washed all their feet. That's that was that was servant's duty. That was the lowest of the low. It w it was so degrading that uh a rap a rabbi's apprentice, right? A Jewish teacher's apprentice, he was to perform all the works of service except for washing of the feet, because that was slave duty. That was so degrading that that was the one thing a rabbi's apprentice was allowed to not have to do. And Jesus And Peter was rightly shocked, and we ought to be as well. That's the kind of radical service Christ expects from us. So I'll let you guys make the application. Based on that. You guys know in your heart, between you and the Holy Spirit, how you need to radically serve someone that is in need in your life. But that's what Jesus modeled. You know, there is no work that is too degrading for us to do in order to love one another. And we have to Do it diligently. It is hard work. It is tough. It feels annoying. ESV uh says in verse three, we are to be eager to preserve the unity of the Spirit. King James Version says we are endeavoring, right? NIV says no. Make every effort to preserve the unity of the Spirit. So loving and serving others, hard work, but it is worth it. It is worth it, right? Alright. Last point here. God designed relationships to grow the church. So relationships don't just grow us as individuals, right? It's not just to our benefit, it grows everybody. It grows the entire church. Okay? So God's plan is that our relationships Grow the entire church. Now that also, let me touch on I know most a lot of you guys are thinking we're we're mainly talking on category uh one here, right? Church relationships. That's been the majority of our discussion here this morning. By the way, that's purposeful. Did you guys know that when you read the Bible and you read about how we are to relate to others and love one another and serve one another, that is almost always in the context of fellow believers. That's primary in God. So there's a hierarchy of relationships. Number one, remember what's our governing relationship? What's the most important relationship? Us and God. And then secondary to that is how you relate to your brothers and sisters in the Lord, your spiritual family. Did you guys know that? So there's a lot of liberal Christians out there. I don't mean liberal politically, I mean liberal theologically. They don't take the word of God seriously. There's a lot of liberal Christians out there that divorce these one another commands from its proper context and they jump to the conclusion, therefore, every church's responsibility, you know, some fifty percent of their budget should go into relief. And look, I'm all for uh relieving the poor. And we ought to seek those things as Christians because we're compassionate. But the idea that you take these one-another commands and impose it on the church and say this is what you are to be. doing for the entire world is divorcing the Bible from its proper context, the authorial intent. God is speaking about other believers. And some maybe we're thinking at that point, well that seems rather selfish and very insular and very insulated. Why are Christians only think it w are we some exclusive club? And again I point to uh my man John MacArthur I'm a John MacArthur super fan by the way for those of you who don't know. My man John MacArthur he makes an excellent point and he says the reason why Christians ought to prioritize one another in love. Actually, let me hear from you guys. Why do you think the Bible does that? Before I give my opinion. Uh so why do you think the Bible makes high priority on loving fellow believers? Why is that the priority before loving other people? So put it this way, the Bible says that where in when two your two relationships are in conflict where you have to love a brother or sister in the Lord or offend a stranger, offend an unbeliever, The Bible actually calls us to offend the stranger rather than offend our fellow believer. Why is that? I one reason is to help each other, build each other up and cry to mature each other and um to grow and So that the world can see Christ. The world can see yeah. Yeah. I think you hit nail on the head, yeah. If we can't love each other in families, there's no point in evangelizing each other. I like the picture of, you know, when you're on the airplane and they give the safety briefing, what do they say about the oxygen masks? Yeah. Yeah. If the church is not a healthy body of believers that's loving each other, just like you guys stated, how can it It'd be hypocritical for us to go out and say, Ah, I wanna love you and they're gonna think, Yeah, and then I come into your church, I become a Christian, you treat me like garbage and then you love everybody else instead. We show the world how sweet it is to be with Christ by the love we have for Fellow Christians. Right? Absolutely. home I guess I do that Yeah. And I'm always reminding them that this is your brother and you won't know how to treat people outside of our family unless you won't learn how to treat each other properly first. So that was just what I thought of as you were Absolutely. Yeah, that's a great point. I'm struggling with some of the now that I don't understand the mainly have physical family. Your own family, mother, father, sister, brother. whatever. Has to have a f somewhere. In the Ten Commandments well, honor your father and mother, and Paul men mentions it in Ephesians honoring your kids and so forth. So I can't say that the my relationship to the church well is easier because I don't have any women. Right. Yes, so here. Um but I still think you especially to unsaved family members. You have a r y if I was pushed to do something for my unsaved family or take care of you tomorrow, guess who's gonna win? Do you understand what I'm saying? Sure. Yeah. And I would actually say that doesn't uh so I I would need a need a more specific scenario, but if I if I can speak you're saying this case precedence over every relationship, I'm saying it's not the top level response. I don't think we're disagreeing is what I would first say. So I I would say when I say we have to take uh we have to prioritize the brothers and sisters in the Lord, um, I mean I don't know how else to put it. I mean that's scripture says that, you know, what did Jesus say to his own mother? You know, his own mothers and brothers wanted to take him and see him because he said he's out of his mind. And he said, Who is my mother? That's right. And he did so it's not mutually exclusive and I think that's the I think that's where we're agreed. Next Saturday and the pastor's memorial service I mean memorial service service for the pastor's mother. Now I would like to be there, but we have a family obligation. Right. And that's being on the books forever. Right. Now you're not going to remember that I'm not going to be there Saturday that my kid is not going to know this for years to come. She preferred to go to a funeral to the my birthday book. Gotcha. I do understand what you're saying. So I would just say this. Uh whenever I teach I'm very hesitant to speak too strongly on specific application. Yeah. 'Cause I'm not the Holy Spirit. That's the Holy Spirit's job. And you you you all always know your particular situations better than I do. All I'll say is the word says we ought to prioritize believers because they are our true true family. And secondly, the Bible also says anyone that neglects their blood relation is worse than an unbeliever because even unbelievers take care of their blood relation. So you can do Ms. Av Mr your j your spiritual family the spiritual family wins. So I if I can make up a situation right on the spot, so don't uh you take it with a grain of salt. Something like uh oh this is a good one. If your if your father tells you you will not young man you will not go to church anymore. I hate I hate Christian Christianity. Yeah. Well you're gonna offend your dad and he's gonna feel dishonored if you go to church, but Hebrews ten says do not neglect meeting with the saints. So guess what? The family of Christ has to win. Christ has to win. So something like that. But your your specific situation I hear what you're saying, and I'm not saying sorry m i in fact Jesus condemned the Pharisees for doing that. They said, Oh, what I would have given you, Dad, in your retirement, that's Qurban. It's given to the temple and that's just their way of sneaking out of Doing anything for their blood relation, Jesus aided that. Yes, this is the other one. I had a a question last week and I asked how to say anyway. Um she was saying that you get to those conflict sometimes. trying to figure out what's the what should I do. You know, you train and then you you do the one that that feels like the that would glorify the Lord the most. So I I mean what what you said is true and valid. But I think that's how you make that And that's you know, for the birthday party that's that's what you've done. Yeah, that's excellent. I love that goes right back to last lesson. Ultimately am I glorifying Christ and making this decision with relationships. within the body of Christ, there's that gentleness and patience on the part of the brethren as well, understanding that there's that conflict amongst the brethren for for these different types of situations. You know, the that that goes both ways. And and you know, we we should as Christians be quick to find a fence just because somebody else does something we don't expect them to do where they should be giving a priority to us. That we should understand what those conflicts are and what those needs are, you know, amongst us. So that goes two ways. Absolutely. Yeah, that's a great point. There's a discussion and there's a hope there's an understanding between believers and there's a hope that there isn't this dismissal of what I have to do and the priorities and things like that. Life isn't done in a vacuum in that extent. done relationally and together and so if I have to give deference to one place I can always come back and and give grace to another's thought. So it's as you're doing life together, the the hope is that you literally do that. You do it together. uh and work through those issues uh so that if there is conflict the unity is there so that that conflict can come from well the the resolution can come from the same place which is correct. And so men do talk about this sort of thing. One of the things I was mentioning was, you know, that this is kind of what you're saying, you know, your relationship. with God, relationship with your wife, and then family, and then you know, you kinda look at the church, but um God has put you in a neighborhood and you know the person next door needs your health, they're gonna get a higher priority than somebody you had at Home Depot that morning because they're your neighbor and hopefully you establish a relationship with them. Hopefully you're reaching out to them. You know, try to reach them for Christ. Hopefully that that's in you know it should be in your heart. So just want to mention that. Same thing you know, God's put you at at work, you know and giving you certain gifts as a calling almost, you know, the kind of work that you do. Yeah. So similar kind of thing. Yeah, it seems like it's important to be cognizant of those hierarchies that God has naturally put in your life by just proximity, right? Yeah, that's really good. Thank you for bringing out those nuances, guys. That's what I get for going off the rails of my lesson years. But hopefully you get what I'm trying to say. The Bible says your relationship with Christians is super duper important and people don't get that a lot. They see love love one another and they think, love the whole world. That's true too. But the context is specifically other Christians. And uh I think a lot of people want to neglect that 'cause sometimes even Christians can be, you know, difficult to deal with. We're difficult to deal with. With if we're honest with ourselves, you know, how many times have you accidentally offended someone? But Jesus loves Christians and Jesus loves when Christians love other Christians. That's all I was trying to say. Okay. Um once again, let's wrap up. uh today's little session by looking at Ephesians four and just seeing how relational the church is and these relationships that God has designed to grow the entire church body. So we talked about how relationships grow us as individual Christians. Ephesians four speaks to the whole corporate body as well. Look at verse eleven. There are particular offices that God gave to the church, whether in the past or the present and the future, that uh are meant to be a gift to us to grow us. And it says that the first time. God gave the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, the shepherds, and teachers. Pause there for a second. Once again, notice that all of these offices only make sense in a relational setting. You're an apostle of what? You're apostle of your your bedroom? You're not an apostle. Now if you're a prophet, a prophet by definition is preaching forth the word of God. To whom? To your pillow? That's that's dumb, right? It's to people. Evangelists evangelize to who? To people. Shepherds, shepherds who? The sheep? The people. Teachers teach who? Students? People, right? So God gave relational offices to do what? Verse 12. To equip the saints, all of us, once again, for relational task for the work of ministry. It is a work and it is a service, another synonym for ministry. Once again I keep using this phrase, rubbing shoulders, shoulder to shoulder with your brother and sister sitting next to you. For building up the body of Christ, verse 13, until we all attain to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, to mature manhood, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ, so that we may no longer be children, tossed too. and fro by the ways and carried about by every wind of doctrine, by human cunning, by craftiness and deceitful schemes, did you know that the more time you spend with brothers and sisters, you will become more wise? You won't be so foolish that you fall for every deceit that is thrown out by the world. There is a direct correlation between how much time you spend with other people, intentional time hanging out. No, just stuff like, hey, let's get coffee sometime. I'd love to get to know you. better. You know, the more time you spend with brothers and sisters in the Lord, particularly wise ones, you will grow in wisdom. It's an amazing equation. You know, this thing goes up, more relationships, more wisdom. Verse fifteen. Rather, speaking the truth in love We are to grow up in every way into him who is the head, into Christ, from whom the whole body we read the source already, joined and held together, very intimate, by every joint with which it is equipped, when each part is working properly, makes the body grow so that it builds. builds itself up in love. So the entire church grows, the more relationships you have, the more relationships the better. Now we all have limited time, we're all limited finite beings. We can't be best friends with everyone. No one should expect that. It's unreasonable. But you know, the more people you talk to, the more you expand your you know social circle, if I can call it, which I don't like because what we do in church is not just socializing, it's fellowshipping. It's there's a spiritual intent behind it. But the more you grow that circle, the better off everybody. We'll all benefit from that. Okay? So maybe an application is uh after service today, go chat up with someone you don't know yet, right? So any uh other thoughts or questions, comments? That's all I have for today. That's uh session four. And then Pastor Leek from let me give some direction. Uh Pastor Leek. Pastor Gabe from here on he's going to I think uh uh do a deeper dive into the one another commands. So we're going to get some more practical counsel on how do I relate to this person in my life. I'm assuming that's why a lot of you are taking this class. But any other questions or comments? Alright, on that note on that note, uh um why don't uh why don't I pray for us then we'll have uh early dismissal. So you guys can fellowship and have relationships, okay?