Okay, good morning everyone. Okay. This morning our lesson will be on uh forgiveness and as I said we will cover Um three areas of forgiveness. We're gonna look at What forgiveness is not, what forgiveness is, and the two kinds of forgiveness. Attitudinal, my tongue gets tied. and uh transactional. That's basically vertical and horizontal. So that's what we're gonna uh cover uh today So, there are many common misconceptions around forgiveness. On the one hand, this is bizarre because of how forgiveness is so central to salvation. Right? In other words, sometimes these concepts can creep into the church. Okay, and um On the other hand, it's not surprising given the way the church has been so thoroughly psychologized. Psychology has crept into the church. So we're going to look at some of these misconceptions around forgiveness. The first one would be sweeping an offense under the rug. That's one misconception. But we sweep the offense under the rug, right? Let's not talk about it. That's why I don't even think about it. I don't want to talk about it. You know, I forgive you This pretend you you you kind of pretend that it didn't happen. Right? This happens when you try to bury the pain of the offense, of the offense. Okay? And what usually happens is the pain usually it it never goes away. It doesn't go away. The offense never doesn't go away. uh it eventually becomes unbearable and usually over a period of time you're just gonna explode So you can't sweep an offense under the rug. It needs to be uh dealt with The uh another misconception is forgive and forget. What's the problem with that misconception? You can't. Right? You can't forget. You can't forget. Because you tend to be you you don't normally forget. You don't forget when there's been hurt involved. Right? Someone you know your emotions are involved. You you you you you can't forget. Um So we tend to try to uh forget those things, but we can't. It's not even biblical. You know, God doesn't require us to forget. We can't So sometimes we want to try to forgive and forget. You ever been there before? You ever said that? Ah, just forget about it. I forgive you, just forget about it. Right? Next year. Don't you remember when you did such and such? Another one would be Minimizing the offense. It's not that bad. Right? This is where we we tend to pretend that the offense is not significant. when it really is. This is usually driven by fear because we don't want to deal with Just going through the process or the person. It could be what some may call the fear of man. I I I just don't want to deal with it Right? So we just minimize the offense. Another one would be uh letting the person off, did we say letting the person off the hook Right. If you forgive the person they won't have to suffer the consequences, you know Sin comes with consequences. Forgiveness, there's consequences. We can forgive people, but there could still be consequences for the wrong that they have done. So so we just let people off the hooks, so we think. Right? Here's another one. I'm sure you've either heard this one or have said this to yourself. I just can't forgive myself. Right? I mean, I know God has forgiven me, but I just can't forgive myself What's wrong with that? You're playing God. You playing God? Right? This has to do with personal guilt or shame. I remember in the 12 self groups you you you hear a lot of that Right? You hear a lot of that. That I just can't forgive myself. Ultimately, who do we sin against? We sin against God. And who's the judge? God. We're not the judge. Right? And here's one. Forgiving God. Say it again. Blasphemy. Right? Why is that? What w what's wrong with that? That's what God has said. God has sinned. I have to forgive God. I'm gonna forgive God. Right? Think about that. This implies that God has sinned and we sit in the seat of judgment against God. That's blasphemy. Right? Yeah. So let's look at what forgiveness is So I want to take a couple of minutes because this is such a very, very important topic. It's very important to our Christian walk. So I just want to talk about forgiveness a little bit uh before we get into uh what forgiveness is. It's centered around what forgiveness is. So so so question. Would you agree that sin is man's greatest problem? Would you agree to that? Let me show of hands. Would you agree that sin is our greatest problem? Therefore, would you agree that forgiveness is our greatest need? I would say You know, forgiveness is our greatest need. You need forgiveness every day. At least I do. Right? So With those two things in mind, when you think about forgiveness, the most important forgiveness question that any of us could ever ask is Has God forgave me? That's a very important question. Has God forgiven me? You can't even embark on on uh forgiving someone else without that question coming up, without you asking yourself that question, without you uh knowing the forgiveness God has Given you. We go back to that question. I'm talking about biblical uh forgiveness, not the misconceptions of how the world does it. So forgiveness is a theme that runs throughout the Bible. Man sins against God. God forgives. We see that throughout the Bible, right? So as Christians, we want to ensure that we have a solid biblical definition of what forgiveness is. So, however, when you look for a definition of forgiveness in the Bible, you're gonna well when you look for a definition of forgiveness, there's a wide range of opinions. The Bible doesn't give us a specific definition of forgiveness. You think about love, you know, 1 Corinthians. Love is this, this, this, this, this, right? And you can you you you can kind of go down the list and say, aha, this is love, you know. So the Bible doesn't give us a specific definition for forgiveness. So how do we ensure that we have A biblical definition of forgiveness. What the Bible does give is a model that instructs us on how to forgive And from that, from that model, we can form a biblical definition of forgiveness. God uses himself as the model of forgiveness. God teaches us what forgiveness is. How to forgive by describing in his word his forgiveness toward us. And so from this we can learn how we are to forgive others by looking at God. Therefore, forgiveness is theological. It's all about God. God is the source. He defines it. He commands us to forgive. And he shows us how we are to forgive. And he expects us to forgive in the same way that He forgives us. So that's the key. The model God gives is Here's how you forgive. Look at how I forgave you. Okay? And so any true biblical definition Of forgiveness must show how God forgave us. Okay? Paul stressed this in both Ephesians and Colossians, just two verses. Ephesians 4:32, Paul says, be kind to one another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, as God in Christ Forgave you. As God in Christ forgave you. In Colossians, Paul says, bear 3:13, Paul says, bearing with one another, and if one has a complaint, against another, forgiving each other as the Lord has forgiven you, so you also must forgive So the key word in both of those passages is the word as, as the Lord, or in the same way, God has forgiven you. This is how I expect you. To forgive God. So if you read that and God says, you know, you forgive as I forgave you, it begs the question. What's the question that it begs? How does God forgive us? Right? So that's the model. We look to Scripture, we see how God has forgiven us, and this is how we must, in turn, forgive one another. Okay. Forgiveness is crucial in the life of the believer. I heard this preacher say that John MacArthur said nearly all the personal problems that drive people to Pastoral care or biblical counseling are related to in some way to unforgiveness. Right? In some way to unforgiveness. There are thousands of broken relationships People's lives have been ruined because people do not know how to give biblical forgiveness. Okay? It's guaranteed for all of us that we will be required To show forgiveness towards someone. It's guaranteed someone will hurt you. It's guaranteed that you will be required to show forgiveness towards someone. You will find yourself thousands of times where you will be needing to forgive someone who wronged or hurt you, and this is going to happen multiple times Just think about your life thus far. You've always come. Maybe this week, maybe today, maybe this morning, right? In Matthew 18, Peter came to Jesus and asked, how often should he forgive his brother? He says, how often should he forgive his brother if he came to him? Up to seven times, Peter asks Jesus He says, should I forgive my brothers? He comes to me every time. How often? Up to seven times? This is the question Peter is asking. But Jesus says, I do not say to you seven times, but seventy times. 7. 70 times 7. So I did a little calculation. Right? Did a little calculation on me 70 times 7 is 490 times for one person you might be required to forgive for one person, right? According to what Jesus said. So if my calculations are correct, that means my wife Being that we have been married for fifteen years. And let's just say every year, you know, once a year. She And if she has had to forgive me 490 times per year, right? Per year. Four hundred and ninety times fifteen years. She has had to forgive me seven thousand three hundred and fifty. times. That's a lot of forgiveness to ask one person. That's a lot of forgiveness, right? That's a lot of wrong I've done. So just think about that. How often you will be called upon to forgive someone? I was like, wow. Last week, um We we looked at true forgiveness is model after God's forgiveness. There can be no understanding of forgiveness Apart from God. God is the source. And imitating Him allows us to understand what it looks like to forgive in any and every situation. So, what is forgiveness? First we must understand that forgiveness involves sin and guilt. Forgiveness is the undeserved releasing of guilt to someone who has sinned against God and toward us. Only God can forgive judicially to release anyone from the death penalty of sin. But we can forgive relationally to release someone from the social and other consequences of sin. So when you think about God releasing someone judicially, he can only do that. The the the the the the the penalty for sin is death When we think about Adam and Eve, that God says, on the day you eat of from this tree, from the tree of knowledge of good and evil, you will die. And Paul says the wages of sin will be death. So only God can release a person judicially from the punishment of sin, which is death. Forgiveness always involves sin. Whenever you're called to forgive someone, By definition, that means the offender has sinned against God and you. Okay, just it always involves sin. Okay. Guilt is not a feeling, it's a status A person is either innocent, righteous, or guilty. Forgiveness is the mechanism by which sinners, those guilty of sin, or release from the penalty of sin. What's the w what what is w what do you what what is the difference between innocent and righteous? Anybody Innocent and righteous. So you think of Adam and Eve again. God created Adam and Eve to live in perfect harmony with him, right? There was nothing known as imperfection or evil then. They you know they were innocent from sin. There was no sin. Can you imagine that? There was no sin. Adam and Eve were innocent until they disobeyed God. And after that, they brought sin into the world and death into the world. So that was a period of time where there was innocence in the world. Christ is the only righteous one. He never broke the law. Okay? Why? Because he always proactively fulfilled the law of God. He came to fulfill the law, and the law was fulfilled in him. So Jesus perfectly obeyed the law of God. So that's the difference in so our righteousness or Christ's righteousness was imputed to us. We're sinners. Okay? Does that make sense? Alright. Forgiveness is not the absence of justice. When God forgives, and thus when we forgive, justice is not forwarded. Justice is accomplished in one or two ways. God will either execute justice on a sinner by pouring out his wrath on them for eternity in hell. Or he will have exercised justice for a sinner by pouring out his wrath on Christ on the cross. Some receive justice, some receive grace. No one receives injustice. Because God is perfectly just. God is perfectly just. That means that he is perfectly righteous in his treatment. He shows no partiality. God will not let sin go unpunished. If he did, he would be unjust. God is just and his justice is an indispensable part of his character in the same way that uh mercy and love are indispensable part uh parts of his character. his character. Without justice, sin would not, sin would go unchecked. Evil would win. There would be no reward for obedience, and we would not even respect God if He was not a just God. So, with that in mind, let's see. We're going to look at four facets of God's forgiveness of us and thus how we are to forgive. one another. Forgiveness is a decision that God makes as part of his eternal plan of redemption. He chose to send his son to die on the cross to offer forgiveness for all who repent and believe in him. And he grants that forgiveness declaring us not guilty in his eyes when we do repent and believe. Furthermore, God not only decides to forgive He promises not to hold our sins against us. So first When God forgives, he does not remember our sins. In Isaiah 43, I think it's in your in the It's Isaiah 43 25. But I wanna I wanna I'm gonna read verse 24 and 25 But when you have um this is God, but when you have burdened me, but you have burdened me With your sins. This is God speaking to Israel. But you have burdened me with your sins, wearied me with your offenses. Israel, burden me. Mike, you have burdened me with your sins and wearied me With your offenses. And God says, I, even I am the one who wipes out your transgressions for my own sake And I will not remember your sins, even though my sins burden God and wearies him. In Jeremiah 31, 34, he says God says, They will not teach again each man his neighbor and each man his brother, saying, Know the Lord, for they will all know me, from the least of them to the greatest of them. Declares the Lord, for I will forgive their iniquity, and their sin I will remember no more. Sin leaves a mark that only God can wipe away. When God forgives, God forgets. God doesn't say that he cannot remember our sins. He says he will not remember our sins. And he makes a promise not to treat us as our sins deserve we should be treated. He chooses, or he chose, to absorb the cost himself in the person and work of Jesus Christ. He treats the sinner as if he has forgotten his sin. So we don't we we we it's not that we we we we don't remember a person sin against us, uh but we treat that person as if they have never harmed us. Does that make sense? I have a question about that. Yes, sir. Um, idea 43, Jeremiah 31. um saying that this is the data that we should quote forgive and forget. Um how do we properly explain that this distinction between remembering being like bringing it back to mind and kind of rehearsing it as opposed to like not even being pregnant in our brain So how do we not so uh uh the question is how do we not have it in our brain? So so if someone's saying Um oh man, why why do you like you should forgive and forget. We already talked about that that's not what forgiveness is. Right. Um how do we properly explain the difference between forgetting and not remembering? Forgetting and not remembering someone's sin. So the idea you will remember the sin. Okay? And so so what what what this means is I won't treat you as though Um I keep that sin at the forefront of what I do. I treat you as if you have not sinned. So the idea is not that you won't remember the sin. Okay, you will remember to sin. But I'm going to treat you as if you have not sinned against me. Does that make sense? Yeah. I mean I I know you have hurt me, right? But because of I have forgiven you I will treat you with love and care and things of that nature. Also, I don't concentrate or mull over what you've done. Okay, that would lead to bitterness. Okay. Anybody got any comments? Yes, Gabe. Yeah, I mean in other words that forgetting is kind of a passive comment. That somehow it just floats away from your concept. Whereas remembering is an active verb. You know, God is omniscient, he doesn't forget, nothing ever escapes his If I can put it this way, database of knowledge. He has an active knowledge of everything past, present, future. So what he promises in saying I'm not going to remember, he's just saying I'm not going to actively think about it. And you use the phrase, have it at the forefront of your mind And so when we're making that promise, we we can't promise that we're going to forget about it. We just can't. But we can promise that when it comes to our mind, we're and you'll get to this later, when it comes to our mind, we're not going to actively dwell on it I mean to the sides probably similar that means we'll break it in more than sufficient Right, yes. Yes. So so for for those who are online Not remembering sin is what we're discussing. And so we won't we won't mull over that sin. Um when it comes to God, he doesn't actively Remember the sin, I think is what Gabe was saying. Yeah. Remembering is is is is the active process. So We don't forget, we can't promise that we will forget harm that someone has done to us, okay? But we we move toward that person or we treat that person as if they have not sinned against us. Okay? That might seem impossible, but it's not impossible. Okay. We know people who have hurt us. I know people who have hurt me. I have hurt people and our relationship because we don't dwell there Right? We've actually forgiven one another. We don't have to live there and and mull over that and it has caused bitterness. Yes, uh Ross. God justifies us, and I know the the the action is not the action, but the saying is you know, just as if I never sinned. So by forgiving someone we can be just as though they never sinned. Right. Yeah. Right. We would treat that person as Ross said just as if they never sinned against us. Okay. Okay. What what we've done in the past is done. And and um even in our relationship with people, uh we're in the prior impact that we can deal with now. It was it was uh possibility changed. You did do this perhaps. The possibility is that you'll disconnect joined this in the future And of course a lot of things come into play to do that. But I think that's what God's grace is, right? This is the grace To overcome that. Mm-hmm. That's a good way of looking at it. Yeah. If when we talk about not forgiving a person's sin. We're talking about um repentance sin where they come in after forgiveness. Yes, that's that's a very important question. Uh uh comment that Karen brought up is that we're talking about a repentant person, right? Is is that what you say? So w when a person uh comes and asks for forgiveness, right That is a person who has repented of their sins. Is that what you're saying? Right? So they're able to come to you Right. I think that's a that's that's key that I have we talked about looking at the log in our own eye. Right? We've had first of all we we Uh first and foremost we s sin against God. Because when we come to people and ask for forgiveness, we're not just saying, Will you forgive me Right? So you i if you come and say, Will you forgive me, I'm gonna say for what? Right And we at this point we need to know the harm that we have done. We need to be specific about what we have uh the sin that we have caused or the wrong that we have done someone and we bring that to God as well as to, you know, the person. So the assumption is, the hope is, is that true forgiveness is A repentant person comes and asks for forgiveness. Now People do come and ask for forgiveness who haven't repented for several reasons, right? They want to feel better. It's about them. So I will ask for forgiveness. Right? I've done that before. Right? I've brought harm and and and if you if anybody knows, you know, you just especially married people. Right? You you you you you you you want the house to be okay. Right? And you babe I'm sorry You know, and it's it's really not about what I've done. It's really about me. I just want to be able to watch the game and everything be okay You know, and I know, you know, you just get this heaviness out of the house. So I just say I'm sorry. That's that's that's not biblical repentance or asking for Forgiveness. That's the world way of doing it. Yes, Ross. They move, yeah. And somehow forgive me. But in that sense, I might forgive them for the for my So without harbor ill and cause my heart to sink. Right. So for the sake of you know, having pure thoughts and things such as that, yeah might sort of force myself to say, okay, I'm gonna have to forgive that. So I guess pushing that out of my mind to a degree to I can say can never forget. Right. Um but in that case there's no repentance on the part of the offenders. Right, right. Right. Ross was saying that, uh for those online that you can forgive even though that person may not to be here and or they may have passed away or something like that. Right? And so you you can still go through that process of forgiveness so that you don't harbor ill will ill will toward that person Okay. you know, a whole uh h harbor feelings even though the person is not here. I remember in twelve step groups, right, if the same i if if if a person had passed away, it's one of those steps where we admit our Uh we want to make amends to people, right? And so people have passed away. Right. And one of the things they would ask you to do is like go to the grave site Seriously. Go to the grave site. And and you know, just kinda pour out your heart to that person. stuff like that. Okay? So the you know the world has a way of doing it. Second, um uh when God forgives us, he does not remind us of our sins and use them against us. Okay. Um Psalms one hundred three, ten and twelve says When you were dead in your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh, he made you alive together with him, having forgiven us all our trespasses, having cancelled That's that's Colossians, I'm sorry, having canceled out the certificate of death, consisting of decrees against us which was hostile to us, and he has made it out And he has taken it out the way, having nailed it to the cross. Now Psalms 103, 10, 12 says, He has not dealt with us according to our sins. Nor rewarded us according to our iniquities, thank God. For as high as the heavens are above the earth, so great is his loving kindness toward those who fear him As far as the east is from the west, so far has he removed our transgressions for him. So Paul is talking about in Colossians the certificate of death It it carries the idea that our uh that it carries the idea of a list of crimes or moral debt before God. What what our sins It's a debt that must be paid. The very essence of forgiveness involves canceling a debt. Forgiveness requires someone must bear the cost. Of what was old. Christ absorbed the cop the cost of our sin. So the sus certificate of debt has been paid in full by the blood of Christ. So forgiveness is not free. Forgiveness will cost you something. Okay So our debt has been canceled. Third, when God forgives us, he does not receive accusations from others. Romans 8, 33, 34 says, Who will bring a charge against God's elect? God is the one who justifies. Who is the one who condemns? Christ, he is the one who died, yes, rather, who has raised, who is at the right hand of God, and also intercedes for us. Christ intercedes for us. Revelation 12:10. Then I heard a loud voice in heaven saying, Now the salvation and the power and the kingdom of our God and the authority of his Christ. has come. For the accuser of our brethren has been thrown down. He who accuses them before our God day and night, talks about Satan there Not only in these two verses you see that not only that Christ intercedes for us, but he also is our advocate. 1 John 2. 1 says that we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. As our intercessor, Christ stands between us and the accuser. As an advocate, he joins with us. Okay, he not only stands between us, but he joins with us as our advocate before the Father. Amen. Four When God forgives us, He removes the barrier that our sin created in our relationship. with him. Romans five ten says, For while we were enemies, we were reconciled to God. Through the death of his son, much more, having been reconciled, we shall be saved by his life. Ephesians 2, 13, 14 says, but now in Christ Jesus But now in Christ Jesus, you who formerly were far off have been brought near. by the blood of Christ. For he himself is our peace who made both groups into one and broke down the barrier of the dividing wall. Colossians 1 2122 says, and although we were formerly alienated and hostile in mind, engaged in evil deeds, yet he has now reconciled you in his fleshly body through death, in order to present you before him holy and blameless and above reproach. So we weren't reconciled to God when we became friends with Him. We were reconciled to God while we were enemies, while we were hostile toward God. While we were engaging in evil deeds, we were reconciled to God by the blood of Christ. So, how can we forgive like God forgives? Because of our forgiveness Um, our forgiveness is relational, not judicial. Our forgiveness is a volitional choice Of how we will relate with the person. Biblical forgiveness is making the following promises. So we can make these follow promises biblical. Uh first promise. I promise that I will not dwell on this incident. First promise. This is how we can forgive as God forgives I promise I will not dwell on this incident. We cannot promise that the incident will not occur in our minds, as we talked about before. But we can promise that when it when the incident comes into our mind, that we will not mole over it, relive, and become embittered by it. Okay? We are promising that when the incident comes to our mind, we will redirect our thoughts according to Philippians 4. 8. Think on things that are good, things that are holy, things that are for example, I will begin to pray for the person or I thank God for the change that God is making in that person. Right? You think good thoughts about the person. How God you look at the person and and give God praise for the work that He's doing in their lives. Rather than you know thinking about the offense You know, dwelling on the incident. Right? Any questions, comments? Promise number two, I promise that I will not bring this incident up to you to use it against you Okay, I'm not gonna bring it up to you to use it against you. So by the time we have reached the point of granting forgiveness, we should have fully dealt with with the issue. But if we haven't We will only discuss the incident to bring resolution. So if you if you bring it up, it's only to continue resolving the issue, not to use it against the person. We may also need to bring it up in the future if a pattern is is established. And we may need to give example of that pattern. Well you see that sin continuously going, you might have to bring it up to the person. But we will not bring it up to uh Bring shame or guilt toward that person. Okay Promise number three. I promise that I will not discuss the incident with others Well we tend to have a problem with gossip. Right? We tend to have you know you don't want to do that. Okay. We won't tell our best friend, close friend, or a small group leader, you know, about the incident. We won't bring it up as a prayer request. You know how we do prayer requests, you know. Lord forgive Mike. I know he didn't mean it You know, and then a a small group everybody wonder so what they might do. You know, even while you pray you your mind goes and trying to figure out what so what they might do. You know. Um There are two exceptions to this promise. If the law has been broken State federal law, something like that. The authorities may need to get involved and we will have to talk about that situation with them If there are lasting consequences or we need outside help, maybe we might need counseling to grow from that. Okay, we might there we will talk about uh the incident. But other than that, there's no re we sh we s we promise not to bring it up. Okay? And so to to to the other point, if if if I'm constantly thinking about this and becoming bitter about this, then I need to see someone to help me get past that. Okay, I promise um I promise I will You see, I promise that I will now allow this incident not allow this incident to stand between us. So you don't want the incident to stand between you and us and and the other person. Remember God has broken down the wall that divided him, that divided us and him. And we we want to do the same thing. So the majority of conflicts in our lives and the way that we we wish Sin against one another do not create lasting relational barriers. So basically what they're saying is most of our conflicts don't create lasting barriers between uh relationships. Expressions of anger, uh, the silent treatment, we all know about the silent treatment, broken promises, etc. , can almost always be forgiven without any lasting relational consequence. It takes work, but we can do that. However, some sins have natural consequences that do cause necessary barriers Here are some examples. Significant acts of breaking trust may require a lengthy period of rebuilding trust, which involves extreme transparency not needed in most relationships, for example, adultery. Significant harm Uh, physical, sexual abuse, those kinds of things, uh May cause for a complete separation. Failure of integrity may make it unwise to continue working relationships. An example might be firing someone who mishandled business finances. Okay, but in most cases, there can be a fully restored and even strengthened relationship. In some cases, the relationship may be altered temporarily or even permanently, but in few cases, the relationship may need to be completely severed. Okay, any questions or comments uh so far? We all good So the um million dollar question, right, is what if the person doesn't ask for forgiveness? You've been harmed and you're just fuming and waiting and knowing you should ask for forgiveness. And he's not asking for forgiveness. Right? Am I still supposed to forgive them We'll stick with the script. There's some measure of debate on this question. But the best biblical approach seems to view forgiveness in two senses, attitudal and transaction. You might also say, vertical, you and God, horizontal, you and the other person. Yeah. Transactional or horizontal forgiveness is when a person has sinned against us. They confess their sin, ask for forgiveness And we grant forgiveness making the four making these four promises. I may have jumped with my slides again. Go back one? You did go back one. Okay. Yeah. Okay, transitional. So I said that as uh um These are the four promises. Okay. So transactional or horizontal, this is the kind of um Can I go forward? Okay. Um I think I'm okay now. Transactional forgiveness is between you and the other person. horizontal, attitudinal forgiveness is between you and the Lord vertical So I said what transactional hormonal position what do you do until you ask person if you ask you do two options. So what do you do until the person asks? Or if the person never asks? You have two options. You can become bitter by holding on to their offense, or you can forgive them. Okay. Two options. You can hold on to it and become bitter. Where it affects your life and everybody else's life around you, outside the person that you uh have become bitter about, or you can you can uh forgive. Mark eleven twenty-five says, Whenever you stand praying, forgive if you have anything against anyone so that your father who is in heaven will also forgive your transactions. Matthew 18, 35 says, My heavenly Father will also do the same to you If each of you does not forgive his brother from your heart. When Jesus says, so that your Father who is in heaven will also forgive you of your transgressions. Right, we're saved. This is not forgiveness that that um I don't want to put it. Um That's required for salvation. Okay? So so when we don't forgive another, right? It It causes harm or breaks fellowship with God because we haven't forgived our brother. Okay. Is that making sense? So our relationship with God is strained in the inner sense when we don't forgive one another as He has forgiven us. It's not that, you know, he hasn't forgiven us, you know, our salvation comes from forgiveness, right? But now our relationship with him has been strained because we're not forgiving. the other person. So we forgive others in our hearts in four ways. One, we remember that while they may have sinned toward us and hurt us, they have primarily sinned against God, who will in his way and at his time exact justice. So this is how we can forgive people in our hearts when they don't come and ask for forgiveness Okay. We entrust them to God. Right? Remember that while they may have sinned toward us, um We entrust them to God. We see this in Genesis 50, 19, where Joseph, talking about Joseph, says, don't be afraid when he's talking to his brothers. Romans 12, 19. Look at James 4, 12 and 1 Peter 2. 23. All these passages. Teach us, we are not the judge. We are not the judge, but God is. Therefore, we let God be the judge. We let God be God, so by faith we consciously lift the person up and place him before God, the righteous judge. So we don't become the judge. Okay? Second promise is we remember that we are called to not become bitter toward others. So we choose not to cultivate sinful attitudes toward the person. Once again, moling over the sin. Let all bitterness, Paul says in four in Ephesians four thirty-one Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and slander be put away from you, along with all malice. Colossians 3. 19 says, husbands, love your wives and do not be embittered against them. And Hebrews 12, 14-15 says, pursue peace with all men and the sanctification without which no one will see the Lord. See to it that no one comes short of the grace of God that root out bitterness springing up causes trouble and by it be defiled. So we don't want to become bitter. I know we're going to talk about uh bitterness in in the next uh class or two. So that's what we don't know. We don't want we don't want to become bitter. Um any questions or comments? Uh huh. So something Something that in our last pastor had said that I really I had nothing, I think he was very past there. Something said that I never quite understood or was able to understand. And I feel like is different than what you're saying here that I want to kind of reconcile the difference between this. Is you would say that you can't forgive someone if they haven't repented because God hasn't forgiven them because they have not repented And and he would say it's not forgiveness, it's you're like buried with them in a sense. It's it's different. And I don't know like because a lot of these verses I'm wondering if he's saying let you know pursue peace with all men, um, but it doesn't say forgive all of them. So I'm not sure if it's like there's a distinction there between those two, between like, you know, when if someone is not a Christian And they don't repent because that's not part of their way, but they are hurting you in some way is it different than I'm not sure if I'm making sense but I am sending your your question and kind of reconcile that. Um when we're when we're practicing attitudinal forgiveness uh We're we're thinking in the in the context of that uh sin created debt, right? We talked about that as there's a there's a debt that's created And so in a sense we're releasing that debt in our in our heart, recognizing that their primary debt is against the Lord So I think of Jesus as he hung on the cross. He didn't say, Hey, I forgive all of you while they were actively sinning against them. But he did say, Father, forgive them for their known. And so what he was saying was he was entrusting them and their sin to the Father to do what was right, and not harboring and taking their sin upon himself. um and growing in bitterness toward it. So with with attitudinal forgiveness, we're not saying like you wouldn't go to the person and say, okay, I just want you to know I've forgiven you, even though they have an attitude Especially if they but it's just in our own heart before the Lord saying Lord they have sinned against you primarily. Uh yes they've hurt me, but uh Lord this is for you to take care of. Help me to show the love of Christ to them. Your love of loving enemies. Help me to do good to them. Help me to not be embittered against them. To bear with us. To bear with them, yeah. To me it sounds like a very similar way of just use it avoiding the use of the word forgiveness. Uh I don't think scripture is quite so clear. Uh the notes uh as Mike mentioned has the passage where Jesus says if you s if you're standing praying and you remember that somebody has sinned against you, forgive. Forgive them there while you're praying. So I it almost something it doesn't matter whether you think of it as forbidden or not, the bitterness, you know is what it you're trying to to uh Yeah, I love it. So thank you. I've had another thought on this and perfectly one consideration about the end. Yeah. And to those online, I just wanna say this is the discussion. Um for th for people who don't ask for forgiveness, can we forgive them? Right So the ultimate answer is yes. In a certain way. In a certain way. That's Grace. In a certain way. from all me it seems uh the Limeline is he and he keeps saying in these passages God will do something. The Limeline My forgiveness is really recognized and God did just and giving it to him and saying I I I know this is maybe a little rude, but basically, God, this is your problem. You deal with it. It's not my problem. If I make it my problem, you know It's like he was saying if if I'm trying to forgive him, again I'm playing God. And it's that whole thing of recognizing Right. This is in my mind, I think it I I seem like it's correct, but again, forgiveness is giving it to God. He is the judge. Everything's gonna be judged perfectly. Right. Revelation twenty tells us the books are gonna be open. Everything is in there. Right, so when people don't ask for forgiveness who have harmed us, it doesn't mean that we can't forgive. It just means that we turn that person over to God. Let God be the judge. God will handle that person. I I I think that can be a problem when we harp on or need have this need for that person to come and ask for forgiveness to the point that it causes us to walk in a certain way. That sort of goes back to that point you made earlier about you know someone's not it said that is out of your life in some shape or form and then not going to be asking for forgiveness. And so, you know, and even David said you know search my heart uh and you know it's any evil way in my heart. So the desire is that we have no evil ways in our heart. Right. By doing that, by putting that away and like you say, giving that to God. Right. Um creates the peace not only in that relationship uh vertically, but it also calms our heart, knowing that No, we need to do. Right, because I y you know, God doesn't treat us He doesn't he doesn't hold back his love because we haven't asked for forgiveness. Right? He he continuously loves us. I mean, where would I be? Right? So um I think that I believe that if someone hasn't asked for forgiveness What does God call me to do and how to treat that person? You know, w what what am I to do? My forgiveness of that person I don't think is contended upon if they ask me Okay. Okay, let me get this guy the UK. There's a lot of things we can that we don't even know about. Well yeah, right. Right. Right so we haven't we haven't lucky God for everything we Right. Yeah. Yes. I'm just thinking about that. Well that's true. Karen. to you and someone asked that question about someone who is not repentant. How do you forgive? And John McCarker said the same thing. He said that what happens in those situations is that The consequences still happen, meaning that the the fellowship and the blessings of the fellowship is lost in that relationship You know, um but also the reality is too is re the reason for guards apart from bitterness is because if if an enemy comes to you and says, Love your enemy and and they ask for something to give you how much more do you you still I think something you would need something. In other words, you have to separate the situation. Um you know if you will pretend to separate the situation. But sometimes I find myself when I have 'cause I have in the family understand the sin and I find myself um reacting to the the to the sin but the situation doesn't have nothing to do with the sin and then I catch myself that I'm not um you know I mean that I'm react I'm reacting to the wrong thing. So it has an effect on how you treat them. Yeah. Right. In other situations. In other situations, right. Right. Okay, we're just about out of time. But the last one is what we've been saying. The person doesn't ask for forgiveness. We must pray, bless, and do good to them. Tall order, right? That's what we ought to do. In um Matthew 5, 44, Jesus says, But I say to you It's like Karen just says, Love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you. Romans twelve, twenty twenty-one says, But if your enemy is hungry, feed him, and if he is thirsty, give him a drink. For in so doing you will heap burning coals on his head when you are kind and loving to a person who has harmed you Right? That kindness can bring them to repentance. You know? Don't be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. Okay, so it looks like we made it through. You know. Any other comments or questions? Let us pray.