Okay, so today we are on the one-anothers of strengthening. And with this set of one-anothers, we really get to what is the purpose of the church. So just as part of our introduction, I want to just remind you of that. I know most of you are very familiar with with this, but uh it's always a helpful reminder to to think about what is it that we're even supposed to be doing anyway? What what is the purpose of the church? Why do we gather together on on Sundays, why do we uh encourage you to to participate in home Bible studies in small groups Why do we encourage all the rest of the one another's that we'll look at today? So let's just look at a couple passages and bring these things to the forefront of our mind. And we'll start with Matthew chapter 28 Matthew twenty eight, the Great Commission, right? This is one of those passages that uh If if you're if you pay attention, you can kind of get confused as to what in the world this passage is saying. Is this passage trying to encourage us to evangelize? Is this passage the call for missions? Is this passage uh the the call for what the church should be doing when we gather together on Sundays? It's it's kind of treated in a variety of different ways And sometimes it it kinda comes across as those ways are are self-contradictory. But I think if we just pay attention to what Jesus is saying, it's really not that complicated at all. And of course it has implications for all of those different things. So let's let's look at Matthew twenty eight, verses eighteen to twenty, where Jesus says, uh starting with a quote, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth, go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and of the Holy Spirit Teaching them to observe all that I commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age. Now I I would assume that Pastor Lake has preached this passage, though I haven't heard it. Um But I I'm sure he has, and if he hasn't, you probably know that the main verb in this is the verb make disciples, which is one word in the Greek And that the other verbs like go, baptizing, teaching, uh are all uh supporting verbs, if you will. They're participles that support the main verb. They they explain what it means to make disciples. And so when we look at what is the picture that Jesus is painting here is we can say he's not calling us to make converts. He's not calling us just to go out and and preach the gospel and expect uh a response and leave it at that. He's not calling us in this passage to do uh mass campaigns where uh thousands, tens of thousands of people come, hear the gospel, uh however many respond, and then great, we've we fulfilled the great commission. Let's move on to the next City. Are those things bad? No, I'm not saying they're bad. I'm just saying that's not exactly what Jesus is telling us to do in this very text. What he's doing here is is to give us a picture, he's giving us a picture of the the full breadth. of what the mission of the church is. And that is, on the one hand, we need to go. You can't really do any of these things unless you go. And does that mean You go uh internationally? Does that mean you go locally? Well you just go wherever you're called to go. You go wherever your sphere of influence is Whatever the circumstances of life, wherever they take you, uh you go wherever God calls you to go. And as you're going You make disciples, you make those, you you uh cultivate people who are following Christ, not just converts who made a uh uh an ascent to who Jesus is, but someone who becomes a follower of Christ. That is, they sit at his feet They listen to his teaching and they live the way he commands them to live. Baptizing them, of course, refers to the outward symbol reflecting that one has changed their uh their master that they are now setting aside their old life, they're leaving their old life behind and now they're living a new life. And then the the I think the key picture that has the longest uh part of of what it means to make a disciple is teaching them to observe all that I commanded you. You can preach the gospel in 30 seconds. You can preach the gospel in 30 minutes or in an hour-long sermon or in a series of sermons. But you can't preach all that I have commanded you in that way. That takes a little a little bit more time. Takes a lifetime, if not multiple lifetimes And uh so th the the bulk of making disciples is teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. So we could put it this way, in just simple terms, what does it mean to make disciples? It just means to take someone who is an enemy of Christ. Who is hostile to Christ, who is dead in their sin, and by God's grace, if if He g grants them life to cause them to understand the person and work of Christ and the teaching of Christ for the rest of their life. To teach them not only the doctrine of Christ, but what it looks like to live out that doctrine for the rest of their life. So that raises the question of personal application. W what is what does your life look like in that context? Is your life a life of discipleship. Are you growing in the grace and knowledge of Christ? Are you growing in your understanding of doctrine? Are you growing in your obedience to that doctrine? Are you growing in your obedience to all that Christ has commanded us. That is what we are all about in the church. Yes, we do need to evangelize and we can do that in a host of different ways. But we can't look at our evangelistic efforts and say, there I've done the Great Commission. The Great Commission is discipleship, which is a lifelong endeavor. And so to emphasize this a little bit more, we can turn to Ephesians chapter four. I know we've looked at this probably multiple times in this class, but this is just a a seminal passage that is uh critical for us to understand as what it means to be the church. So I think Paul reflecting on what Jesus is saying of uh of what it looks like to to make disciples in Ephesians chapter four. He talks about the the working of the church, what it is that we are to be doing when we gather together. And starting in verse 11, he says, and he gave some as apostles, and some as prophets, and some as evangelists, and some as pastors and teachers. for the equipping of the saints for the work of service, to the building up of the body of Christ, until we all attain to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God to a mature man, to the measure of the sature which belongs to the fullness of Christ. As a result, we are no longer to be children tossed here and there by waves and carried about by every wind of doctrine by the trickery of men, by craftiness and deceitful scheming. But speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up in all aspects into him who is the head, even Christ. from whom the whole body being fitted and held together by what every joint supplies according to the proper working of each individual part causes the growth of the body for the building up of itself in love So there's there's a lot there, but the simple picture is of a human body. A body that starts out small, that starts out undeveloped, if you will And that grows and matures. And the idea in this picture is not one of of numerical expansion, though you could say that that wouldn't be naturally true of the Church of Christ But what the picture is here is is not numerical growth but spiritual growth. Maturing growth And specifically growth in doctrine, as he says, unity of the faith, that's what we're seeking to attain. And then maturity. that uh we become more and more like Christ. That's what he means when he says to the measure of the stature which belongs to the fullness of Christ. We're seeking as a church to to grow in maturity, to grow in the understanding of what Scripture teaches And as we've spoken before, it's not just apostles and prophets and pastors and teachers and evangelists who do all of that work. We participate in equipping the saints so that all of us together, you and I together, work together for the maturing of the body. That is what we are about. We are about growing in the grace and knowledge of Christ. I think that's probably the best biblical snapshot from 2 Peter 3. 18. of what we're what we're seeking to do. Let me just emphasize this with one more passage. Colossians chapter 1 Verses 9 to 12. I just want to make sure that we have it clear in our minds that this is what God wants us to be about. There are those who say that the church exists for the unchurched. The church exists for unbelievers. And I don't think that's true. I don't think you can make that case from Scripture. Yes, we exist to proclaim the gospel to unbelievers, but that's is not the ultimate purpose of the church. That's that's the beginning of the purpose of the church. That is the first part of the purpose. The ultimate purpose is the edification of the saints, the building up of the body of Christ, the maturing, the growth and the grace and knowledge of Christ. And we see that again here in Colossians chapter 1. This is a prayer that reflects Paul prays. For this reason also, since the day we heard of it, we have not ceased to pray for you and to ask that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding. So again, he's praying for growth in knowledge. Not just facts, but spiritual wisdom, he says, understanding. So that we know not only that the bare facts in an intellectual way what God's will is But we know what implications that has for life. But it doesn't end there because he says in verse 10, so that the purpose of this spiritual wisdom and understanding is so that you will walk in a manner worthy of the Lord To please him in all respects, bearing fruit in every good work and increasing in the knowledge of God So the purpose of growing in our knowledge is to affect our life, to affect how we speak and how we interact and how we live. And oh by the way, it means even more growth in the knowledge of God, that we're always growing because we never reach the fullness of the knowledge of God in this life. Because we're so finite But growth in knowledge must lead to growth in maturity, or in the words of Jesus, to obeying his commands, not just knowing his commands. But obeying his commands. And as he ends his prayer, we see that this is not just something we do in the flesh. He says, strengthened with all power, according to his glorious might, for the attaining of all steadfastness and patience, joyously giving thanks to the Father, who has qualified us to share in the inheritance of the saints in light. So we can't do this on our own. We need the Spirit. We need the power of God to do these things. And that's why we're so grateful that all authority has been given to Christ and that He is always with us and He will never leave us. Because he enables us to do these things. And then just at the end of that chapter, this is what Paul made his ministry all about. Verse 28. We proclaim him admonishing every man and teaching every man with all wisdom so that we may present every man complete in Christ. Don't think that because Paul was an apostle and because he traveled all over the place That he was only about preaching the gospel, that he was only about uh giving the gospel to unbelievers. Yes, he did a whole lot of that But he also spent years with believers, teaching them, helping them to understand the truth, helping them in their case to understand the Old Testament as well as what God was revealing him as an apostle, as was the other apostles, and so that they might know how to live and what to believe. I mean uh obviously most of the New Testament was written by Paul to believers, not to unbelievers And so as important and necessary and critical as evangelism and gospel ministry is, that's the first part of the ministry of the church not not the whole sum and sub substance of it. The sum and substance of it is making disciples, teaching disciples to obey what God has commanded. So as we come to the one another's of strengthening then as as I've categorized them, these are things that we should be doing to one another to fulfill this purpose of the church. The one another's of love that we looked at the first week are is certainly part of that. the one another's of unity, which we looked at last week, kind of binds us, holds us together. But this is where we actually make progress uh and and put intentional effort toward growth in in discipleship, growth in building up one another. So w there's definitely overlap between uh among the the one another's we're going to look at today. And I was realizing right after I hit the print button that uh of the handout, I'm like, oh I sh I should do this in a different order. Uh so I started to rearrange the one another and I'm like, no, I've already printed it out and So I went back. But then I realized the reason part of the reason we're starting late is because I I didn't actually print them out. And um and so I could have done it anyway. I just noticed that light is partially falling down. Is that Okay. Watch out, Diane. Yeah, I think that's a good thing. All right. Well any before we dive in, any thoughts or comments on what we've said so far? Any clarification, point of clarification. Again, I I think those of you, especially those of you who've gone through the new member class You you understand how we think about the ministry of the church, purposes of the church and all of that. Well it's yeah. Marcus, if you could just stand on a chair and just hold it up with your head. Okay. So the first set the first couple one another's stimulate one another to loving good deeds from Hebrews 1024. Stimulate one another's to love and good deeds. We'll come back to this at the end because verse 25 has another one another. But in verse 24 he says very simply and let us consider how to stimulate one another to love in good deeds Alright, so this is something we have to think about. This is something we have to ponder, to think creatively about. It's not something that comes naturally to us. And that is to stimulate one another to loving good deeds. This is an interesting verb here to stimulate the infinitive. It is only used twice in the New Testament, here and one other place And in the other place it's a little bit more um uh more direct in in the actual meaning of the term because the term means uh to provoke or to agitate. It actually normally has a negative connotation. Uh we we might in our vernacular use the idea of pushing someone's buttons of bringing someone to the point of uh of a negative response. It's often in that context. But I guess to make it neutral, it's the idea of compelling someone to action. Uh of spurring one another on. Yeah, thank you. And and and and it so moving on to someone uh that that causes them to take action And of course here it's positive action, so it's in the best possible sense. Now we've talked about love, so we won't we won't spend time on that. But simply, it's suffice it to say that we do need to encourage one another in very specific, intentional, and purposeful ways, to grow in love for one another We need to remind one another to love one another. But let's think a little bit about the good deeds part of it. Uh turn to Titus. Well I want to look at several passages in Titus. I saw that Pastor Leake preached this uh little epistle. several years ago, and so uh some of you may may recall uh that. Um but there's a theme, kind of an underlying theme of good works in Titus of the importance of good works. Of course, Titus is Paul's letter to this man who was pastoring the church in on Crete. the island of Crete. And uh it was a a newer church and there were a lot of um immature believers and so there's a lot of basic instructions and so kind of flowing throughout the the little epistle is this Important concept of good works. And it starts really in chapter 1, when he's describing the qualifications for elders. And in verse 8, he kind of brings up the idea in seed form to refer to the fact that elders need to be men who love what is good In chapter one verse eight. They love what is good. The unbelievers there in Cree he he described Quoting one of the prophets is always liars, evil beasts, and lazy gluttons. So a believer needs to love what is good. And of course when we think about uh qualifications for elders, we're not thinking about, you know, people who have super super gifts or super there's supermen in the faith, but they're just consistent. They're consistent believers. And so if that's true for elders, it should be true for all believers that they love what is good. And then in verse sixteen, we see the opposite of of this, referring to unbelievers. They profess to know God But by their deeds they deny him, being detestable and disobedient and worthless for every for any good deed. Worthless for any good deed. So that gives you a hint that there's something important, something unique about believers that we should be mindful about good deeds. And then in chapter two verse three, when he is uh speaking to older women on what they should be Uh what character they should have, he says, older women likewise are to be reverent in their behavior, not malicious gossips, nor enslaved to much wine, teaching what is good Now that's not referring to deeds specifically, but again an emphasis on that which is good. There needs to be an understanding of what is good. And then in verse 7 He's speaking to Titus himself, in all good things, in all things, show yourself to be an example of good deeds, with purity and doctrine, dignified, sound speech, so on. So among the key things that he wants Titus to uh be a good example of to these believers is one who does good deeds. And then verse 14 Speaking about what God has done, who gave Himself, that is Christ, who gave Himself for us to redeem us from every lawless deed And to purify for himself a people for his own possession, zealous for good deeds. So as unbelievers, we were uh redeemed, we were we were always bent toward lawless deeds But Christ redeemed us so that at least in part we would be zealous for good deeds. And then in chapter 3, verse 1. Remind them, that is the church, to be subject to rulers, to authorities, to be obedient, and to be ready for every good deed. Be ready for every good deed. And then verse 8. This is a trustworthy statement, and concerning these things I want you to speak confidently so that those who have believed in God will be careful to engage in good deeds. And careful has the idea of thoughtfulness there. That they will be ready, that they will be thoughtful, that they will be intentional about engaging in good deeds, things that are good and profitable for men. Alright, and then one more, verse 14. As he's closing out this letter, he says, our people must also learn to engage in good deeds, to meet pressing needs, so that they will not be unfruitful. Wow. We we tend to w when we when we think about good deeds or good works, we tend to put it negatively, don't we? We tend to emphasize, no, you don't need to do good deeds to be saved. And certainly w we don't. But that doesn't mean that we have no that there's no place for good deeds. There should be a significant emphasis in our lives, in our thinking. about good deeds. We should be zealous for good deeds. We should be ready and careful to engage in good deeds. Uh we must learn to engage in good deeds over and over and over again. This is emphasized Begs the question, what is a good deed? What what counts as a good deed? And I think in verse 14 there of chapter 13 of chapter 3 we see a a good helpful uh definition if you will. He says You know, our people must be uh also must also learn to engage in good deeds to meet pressing needs so that they will not be unfruitful. I think we can identify a good deed as something that meets a pressing need that produces fruit. So flipping that last phrase so that they will not be unfruitful. The word good, there's two different words that are used even in this one epistle as you trace each of the different instances of good. There's two words, kalos and agathos. Um and they both are essentially interchangeable in the Greek. There's no meaningful distinction between them. But the idea that that it is something useful Uh something that is good is useful, it is pleasing, it is enjoyable, it is beneficial. So useful and beneficial are our key ideas when we think about uh good deeds. Uh, you know, when you say, oh, that was a a good movie or this is a good day, we we mean different things, you know, what is it that's good about it? But where when we speak about good deeds, we're saying something that is beneficial, something that is useful, something that helps uh helps someone. So when I do a good deed, I'm trying to help someone. I'm trying to to to be useful to someone else. And of course that can look a uh a a million different ways. What is their need? Whatever I can do to meet it is a good deed. So here in Hebrews 10 he says, stimulate one another to love and good deeds. So we should be encouraging provoking in the best possible sense one another to do good deeds. But we also should be doing good deeds ourselves. So it's not like, hey, you need to good dee do good deeds and I don't Of course, because then they're gonna say the same thing. Well I need to provoke you too. But of course, uh scripture tells us to do good deeds as well. Just to give you a couple passages. Uh first Thessalonians chapter five, verse fifteen. Uh he says there uh see to it that no one repays another evil with evil. But always seek after that which is good for one another and for all people. And then he says the same thing in Galatians chapter 6, verse 10 So then, while we have opportunity, let us do good to all people, and especially to those who are of the household of the faith. So again, a repeated emphasis that we need to be about the business of doing good deeds and encouraging others to do good deeds. Now let me throw this out to you all and ask you, what are examples of good deeds that others have done to you or to someone else? Let's just think very concretely. What are what are good deeds that you've experienced other people doing or seen other people doing what Come on, I know there's making our church look bad. And my family typically didn't have a lot of time to I helped them. Yeah. So giving financial resources to to meet someone else's needs, great. Marcus. or uh in the hospital or something that we've got. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Yeah, we do that a lot. Providing meals. Yes. And one of the people in our small group made us dinner that night. Oh nice in our in our house. And that was just a Yeah, great. What else? I haven't built that so now that I'm not handsome either with my husband and so sometimes there'll be a need and people have said, Your step is off, let me go back and walk with the school and fix it for you and it's Just amazing. Yeah. Good. Well even the study design comes to the big hospital Yeah. Okay. No, you just move into town and probably boxes all over all over. Once you come over for for dinner, you know we we we didn't know they opened some Yeah. Great. And one by one that I know they're busy, they have schedules, but just to laundry watch kids on one attacking Uh those people that serve on the children's ministry since my wife is unbeliever I come by myself and them watching my Yeah. What else? Maybe a couple of Yeah. And we'll see if we can get out of that. And I actually wanted to my doctors and my monitor is Yeah. Yeah, there's so yeah, Marcus last one. Good. So again it can take all kinds of different forms. W just depending on the need, depending on the moment. So uh my exhortation to each one of us is To be zealous for good deeds, to be mindful of what are the needs around us so that we can participate in doing good deeds and meet the needs that other people have Let's go to the next one another then. Uh encourage and build up one another. You might have gone on it but you didn't, which would be how do we encourage others? And I was gonna suggest that sometimes when we see someone being it's not fasten the buff, it's like, oh your your electric socket's broken. Well he's an electrician. Would you mind helping so and so? Yeah. And so there's a need, there's someone that wants to help but you're meeting the two in the middle type of That's a great great uh insight of one way that we can provoke others is encourage others either to come along with us or if we can't say, Hey, I know someone and give someone else an opportunity to serve in that way. Yeah, that's that's really good. Um and that's uh maybe uh for those of us who have kids who are old enough That's one way we can teach our kids to have our kids participate and see that, hey, this is a good thing, this is part of what we do as the body of Christ, so that they see that example. All right, encourage and build up one another. First Thessalonians five, eleven. Again, Paul simply says, Therefore, encourage one another and build up one another Just as also, just as you also are doing. So he assumes that they're already doing it, and he just encourages them to do it even more So the idea of building up, uh another word that's often used is edification, uh, it's the idea of a building. That you're they're you're constructing a building. Uh in Ephesians 4 Or sorry, Ephesians 2, Paul uh refers to the church as a building. And so uh this metaphor, this this concept is is often used that the church is the household of God, it is a building And therefore, uh we need to build it up. It's not fully constructed yet. Uh the foundation is laid by Christ and the apostles But we get to actively participate in building it up, and strengthening it, in adding bricks, in adding the the mortar, in adding the the the sheetrock, uh in in painting it, uh as it were. Now how do we do that? Well, one of the primary ways we do that is through our words. Right? Uh because the idea is not that we literally are a building, but that uh we are seeking to mature and grow, and how we do that is through our word. So Paul says in Ephesians four twenty-nine Let no unwholesome word proceed out of your mouth. Words that are destructive. Words that tear down Don't do that, but only such a word as is good for edification, for building up, according to the need of the moment. So that it will give grace to those who hear. So we encourage and build up through our words. Uh Romans fourteen verse nineteen says so then We pursue the things which make for peace and the building up of one another. We pursue the things which make for peace and the building up of one another. So building up and encouraging are kind of synonymous concepts, right? Encouraging your you're increasing someone's courage, as it were. Uh you're strengthening them, you're fortifying them, uh with building up there's that same idea plus the the growth and maturity. So Let me ask the same question that I asked before. How have others built you up? How have you been encouraged by others? Um a lot of times I always have to be careful of like dug, you know, coming does all very They'll want to know what I've been studying recently and what I've been what I've been learning from God's Word. So, you know, it's an encouragement, you know, to be in God's Word. But he generally is interested, you know, I think you do that as an impressive case and you cut it off. Being in the body, singing and and learning and all that, you really feel very fortified after things like that. And then I was using the card and Yeah. Yeah, very catalyment all those that reached out of our Or um be like um maybe even having um one of our others Um, yeah, my great chair. Yeah. So Yeah. Testimonies are so so encouraging. My uncle passed away uh last uh week and uh he actually wrote a letter to me and left it on the computer knowing that I would read it and he uh specified out various things that I've participated with him together over the last ten years and it's one of those things where I don't think too much of it, but for him being uh Uh uh someone that was never married, it meant a lot to him. So that was kind of encouraging to realize, wait a second, I you had an important part in this person's life. Yeah. It's amazing how much uh letter writing or card writing or digital uh i is uh a blessing, you know, because it's not very common anymore, right? We don't tend to think in terms of long form communication anymore. The sound bites, the short messages. And just to share wisdom and very physical worldview and um very encouraging to think rightly about things for something to find through it. But if we can do it too it's still taking the time to speak in Yeah. So in the vein of how Paul put that uh in First Thessalonians five eleven uh encourage and build up one another as you also are doing. Let's take a moment and think about how can we do it even more Uh if even if it's already happening, how can we be more uh faithful and excel still more in encouraging building up one of them? But and in our family. And so in one regard, there's sometimes great encouragement when you go to small groups of people are showing up and and participating. And on the other And it can be incredibly discouraging. You had a long week and you're looking for people to show up and continue and build. And so in that regard, just being faithful in the small group and showing up with tired or have had a lot of these easy strategic encouragement for you when you're done at the end of the night when it's not going an easy butt. Um But then I'll think it that other people might have. Faithful lesson. Coming in backwards. Yeah. It it is um it is true that we often think, Oh, people won't miss me. Life goes on, ministry goes on, ministries go on. Uh I'm not needed. And yet if we all all had that mentality, nothing would go on. But if we all had the opposite mentality, uh what an encouragement that is, what a blessing. I'm glad that you show up here on Sunday morning. It's an encouragement to me. Um Taking opportunities to speak words of encouragement beyond the basic all prayer feelings. Maybe praying in the moment. Or uh sharing a passage of scripture that has been helpful to you in similarly difficult situations. Tell me about the Montgomery's uh What's whispered in the dark will be shut on the house top. I think I want to do a cow to do that Everyone. People that had children had to do. They were inviting everyone. They always had gifts for everyone. They would make their children draw pictures and it was just Yeah. Great. That's what we were talking about earlier. It's not comfortable. Well, along similar veins, let's talk about praying for one another. Praying for one another. Ephesians six eighteen says with all prayer and petition pray at all times in the Spirit and with this in view Be on the alert with all perseverance and petition for all the saints. For all the saints. Not just for yourself. Not just for uh Paul, not just for the leaders, but for all the saints. And pray on my behalf, certainly for for him as well, that utterance may be given to me. In Romans 1530, he he asks the the believers in Rome to strive in their prayers to God for him. Uh James 5. 16, James says to pray for one another. It's in the same context of confessing your sins to one another. Also pray for one another. So w I think we understand this and it's easily understood and it's not complicated. We all know what it means to pray, we all know what prayer is. But I think A helpful way we can spend a little bit of time is to think about how we should pray. What are the kinds of things that we should pray? And so to do that I want to look at at various passages Let me uh spread this out a little bit. Uh if you have a loud voice that you can read out loud and are willing to do so, uh could one person volunteer to read Hebrews 13, 18? Raise your hand so I get Steve. Alright, so Steve's gonna get Hebrews thirteen eighteen. Uh can someone volunteer to read Philippians one nine through eleven? Jessica, Philippians 1, 9 through 11 has Jessica has that one. Or I read it earlier, but just to read it again, Colossians 1, 9 through 12. Anybody want to volunteer to got that one? Uh and then uh uh Second Thessalonians one, eleven to twelve that I see Carrie, did you raise your hand? All right. Carrie, why don't you get Second Thessalonians one 11 to 12. And then I'll give you a passage in chapter three after you read that one. So let's let's start with those. Uh for now. So Steve, Hebrews thirteen eighteen, read that loud. Okay, so what is it? That's the same one I have. Um Okay, yes. No, that's good. I just so he let me just re restate it. Uh pray for us for we are sure that we have a good conscience, desiring so this is what they want, desiring to conduct ourselves honorably in all things. So what is he asking? What is he asking for prayer? Pray for us. Let me skip the middle phrase. Desiring to conduct ourselves honorably in all things. Okay. Holiness. Good. Well we'll we'll cut off there. I think all of all of those things. So when we pray for others, one of the things we can pray for is uh that they will have good character, that they will exhibit character. Maybe another way to phrase it would be that they would be faithful witnesses of cr for Christ. That by their the manner of their life, by their actions, by their words uh that they will, in the words of the author here, conduct themselves honorably in all things. Alright, um let's see Who who who was the next one to read? Uh Philippians one was that Jessica nine to eleven. Real knowledge and all discernment, so that we may prove the things that are actual in order to be convicted and label us until the day of Christ. I think that the fellow I think the field is the fruit of righteousness comes through Jesus Christ, the joy of faith. What what's the short version? Yeah. Yeah, the love would abound more and more. And again, in real knowledge and all discernment. That's not something we typically pray for, is it? Lord, help us to love one another more and more. Help this person to love others more and more. Uh and s and to go on and say in real knowledge and all discernment. Help this person to grow in love based on knowledge. Help them to grow in their discernment. for the purpose of you know approving things that are excellent that they might uh View things the way that that that they might evaluate things the way that God would evaluate them. And that they would be pure, that they would be sincere and blameless until the day of Christ. Alright, uh Colossians one. And to add the feeling in all to make them and Worthy of the Lord, succeeding in all respects, bearing fruit in every spirit of work, and increase him in the knowledge of God. to his glory of mine for the intending of all sad fastness and patience and joyousness Giving thanks to the Father who has qualified us to share in the inheritance of the saints and life. All right. So someone uh someone put that in in your own words. Pam you or or anybody else? How can you summarize w what are the kinds of things we can pray for others? Yeah. Yeah. Yep. Yep. All right, for the interest of time, Carrie, uh why don't you do second Second Thessalonians one, eleven, and twelve? Pray for you always that our God will help you worthy of his glory and fulfill every desire for goodness and the work of faith with God. Move the body because we glorify you and you according to the faith of God and then we can Alright, so that God will count you worthy of your calling and fulfill every desire for goodness and the work of faith with power. So God fulfill their desires for goodness. Fulfill the things that they desire that that are worthy. You know, when we pray for our missionaries, they often give us summaries of requests. Uh but no doubt there's a whole lot more that they haven't said for the sake of brevity of communication. And so we can pray that that God would fulfill every need, every desire that they have that is good. And working of faith with power. And in that, verse 12, so that the name of our Lord Jesus will be glorified in you and you in him. So praying for the glory of Christ, that Christ would glorify himself through others. Through situations. In uh chapter three, uh I'll just read that real quick. Chapter three, verses one and two, he has another prayer. Finally, brethren, pray for us That the word of the Lord will spread rapidly and be glorified, just as it did also with you. And that we will be rescued from perverse and evil men For not all have faith. So there he adds, praying that the their gospel ministry would spread and that they would be rescued from those who would seek to suppress and oppress the gospel. So often we pray uh in our pastoral prayers, you know, for other local churches, other gamma churches. We pray for uh our missionaries that that the gospel would spread, and that's something that all of us can incorporate in our personal prayers for the lives of others. Alright. You can look at Ephesians one eighteen to the end of the chapter. Ephesians 1, 18 to the end of the chapter. Ephesians 3 verse 14 to the end of that chapter. And then uh Ephesians 6, verses 18 to 20. I already read that a second ago. Let me just highlight chapter 3, verse 14, and following what his prayer is there. Um because I just I love this prayer so much. Uh Paul says, For this reason I bow my knees before the Father from whom every family in heaven and on earth derives its name, that he would grant you according to the riches of his glory, to be strengthened with power through his spirit, through his yeah, his spirit in the h in the inner man. So the the the basic request is that God would grant the believers Strength with power through his spirit, that he would strengthen the inner man of these believers. And that he would do that out of the riches of his glory. Now why do believers need power with strength with power? Why do we need strength in our inner man? Because in verse seventeen, so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith. So that's one reason. So that We need we need strength in our inner man so that Christ would dwell, that Christ would reside. You know, uh the idea of abiding in Christ, that Christ would abide in our hearts through faith And then verse 18, so uh another part of that request is so that we may be able to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and length and height and depth. And to know the love of Christ, which surpasses knowledge. So when we talk about growing in knowledge, growing in spiritual wisdom and understanding, there are some things that are beyond human understanding that are beyond the the ability of the flesh to comprehend. And we need spiritual power. We need God's power to comprehend them They even begin to comprehend them, to know them. And one of those things is the love of Christ. And we say, Well, I I know the love of Christ. I know what he did for me, I know that he died on the cross, so on and so forth. Yes, we can know some aspects i intellectually as it were, but he's not talking about, you know, help them to know calculus. He's saying there there is a depth, there is a richness. That's why he says the breadth and length and height and depth. There is a supernatural power that's needed just to understand the love of Christ Uh and that is possible and that is something we need to grow in. So we can pray that for ourselves and we can pray that for others. So through all of these requests, through all these passages, we see that we can go well beyond uh Lord help them to know who they're supposed to marry, or help them to know, you know, whether or not they're supposed to take this job, or Lord provide for for their physical needs, or Uh Lord heal their their disease. I mean those are all good things to pray and we don't want to not pray those things. But we can go beyond that to pray for the spiritual needs, for spiritual purposes, for God to be glorified through people. Uh we can pray for growth and knowledge and wisdom and understanding. And uh when we pray those things, uh not only in our in our private uh prayer times, but when we out loud pray for someone in those ways, that is encouraging to them. Alright. Um dear. Real quick, Galatians 6. 2, bear one another's burdens. Bear one another's burdens. So we know that in life we experience burdens, we experience difficulties. Life gets hard. Life gets heavy In Galatians 6, 2, bear one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ. So what he's saying is that when we bear one another's burdens, we are fulfilling that command to love others as ourselves. That we don't just look at somebody else's difficult circumstances and say, oof, that's rough. I'll pray for you. But we actually step under that weight uh and help support that weight with them. It might be a a trial, might be a uh a a a health thing, it might be a financial uh difficulty, it might um the uh the loss uh of of a loved one or or the loss of a job or all all kinds of different things. H we can come under and come side by side with others in their difficulty Classic example would be the Good Samaritan, right? But there was someone who came and bore the burden to care for someone's uh healing and their uh restoration Let me ask this question. What makes it difficult to bear one another's burdens? Well what makes it difficult though? Why why is it so hard for us to it's it's messy? Takes time, selfishness, laziness. All the fruit of the spirit, right? No All it's all the w the the the flesh they're all these are all fleshly reasons. I I don't want to deal with that. Uh Marcus mentioned selfishness. You know, I just I have my own I have my own burdens that I gotta bear. Uh and Paul does say each one will bear his own load. But there there is a balance. We we need to sacrifice, and that's what it means to love others as we love ourselves. That's how it fulfills the love of Christ. That we're loving others the way we love ourselves when we bear others' burdens. Um We can do that in a corporate way through things like the Benevolence Fund, through the care ministry, but we should also be mindful of ways in which we can do this on a personal level. Uh there's there's a lot we could talk about that um but let's go on to teaching and admonishing one another. Teaching and admonishing. Uh I'll just go to the one reference, Romans fifteen, verse fourteen And concerning you, my brethren, I myself also am convinced that you yourselves are full of goodness, filled with all knowledge, and able also to admonish one another. Admonish one another. I read earlier Colossians 128 where Paul says, you know, he teaches everyone, uh ev every person, admonishing everyone, so that he may present everyone complete in Christ. We should be teaching and admonishing one another. So teaching is obvious. Communicating truth so that someone will grow in their understanding. That truth could be far and wide. It could be helping someone learn to tie their shoes. It could be helping someone to learn to uh care for their children or to cook or uh how to do things around the house or of course teaching spiritual biblical truth, God's revelation. Revelation. And I think obviously in when we talk about uh the church, that's where we tend to focus is God's truth. But then also what that looks like in life. how to uh grow in your marriage, how how to deal with the the challenges of of relationships and parenting, how to How to be a faithful witness for Christ. We should be teaching one another. And that doesn't just have to happen in formal settings, right? Like according to disciples, men's wit men uh men's and women's ministries Uh it can happen in one-on-one. One-on-one disophership in informal ways. It can happen over coffee. It can happen in the lobby. We need to be mindful about how we can take opportunities to teach. But admonishing goes beyond teaching. The word admonishing is nutheteo from you've probably heard the w phrase nuthetic counseling. Uh it comes from that nuteteo for to admonish. It really refers to warning or instructing with particular focus on problem areas, one one Greek dictionaries. I defines it as to counsel about avoidance or cessations of an improper course of conduct. So teaching would be just helping someone who's naive or or lacks understanding, helping them to grow. But admonishing is the idea of, okay, this person is going the wrong way. They're doing the wrong thing, and I need to admonish, I need to counsel, I need to warn. uh them to stop uh what what they're doing and and turn around. That's why in Second Timothy three sixteen, you know, when he talks about Scripture being inspired by God. He says it's profitable for teaching, that is to to speak what is true, to help someone learn what is what is true. for correction, for addressing the problems that someone the the the p the problem thinking, uh for um Uh I'm getting the order wrong, aren't I? Uh rebuking, there you go. Uh so it's teaching, re rebuking or reproving. Uh so so so On the one hand, teaching what is true, on the other hand, teaching w uh correcting someone so that they are recognize what is wrong. And then the third thing is um correcting. So correction is you know, here's how to change, and then training would be here's how to implement what it what is true. I didn't communicate that very well. I apologize. But those if you look at those four terms you can see kind of a progression uh of the usefulness of scripture there. Or speaking the truth, showing what is erroneous, how to turn from wrong to right, and then training to live according to that which is right. And we not just use our our words in kind of didactic or conversational things, we can also use songs. So that's the next one there. Speaking to one another in psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs. You're familiar with those passages in Ephesians 5 and Colossians 3 We desperately need a steady diet of songs that teach us and remind us of the truth. You know, most of the times when we're singing songs we're not like we're not like, oh wow, I didn't know that. We typically are being reminded of truth Uh but for some people it can be teaching, right? It maybe they've not grown up in good church and you know it's the first Sunday at hope or another another good church and Wow, you know, I I didn't realize uh you know they're talking about God's sovereignty, that he's in control of all things, or uh they're talking about God's love, and it's an unbeliever who's never uh heard of God's love, which is possible But the songs that we sing should teach and remind us of the truth. The last couple of Sundays we sang a mighty fortress is our God. That's a very a helpful reminder of God's power over evil forces. You know, there's a song, It is Well, which is comforting in difficult times Uh in Christ alone, Amazing Grace, a newer song, He Will Hold Me Fast. You know, there's so many songs that teach, that remind us of the truth, that encourage us uh and bring God's word to bear in our minds. And they're intended, because of the n nature of music, they're intended to stir emotions. They're intended to affect us emotionally. But we want to be careful of songs that only stir emotion, right? that uh by repetition or but even just by the lyrics of of uh uh being focused on emotions being stirred. It's not that we want to be shy. We do want to express emotion uh but we want to make sure that that's not our focus. So we need to be uh utilizing psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs uh in in our interactions. You know, you can do that in the hospital room. You can do that in small groups to bring up small groups again. You can do that with uh folks who are over for a meal Uh you don't just have to leave that to Sunday mornings. And then finally, oh dear, we're late. Not forsaking our assembling ourselves together We we ha the only way to accomplish all of these things that we've talked about is by being together, right? There's a measure to which you can do some of these things on your own or through digital media Reading blogs, listening to sermons at home, uh reading books. But by and large, we have to be together to do these things. Uh God has called us to live together to cultivate relationships with another one another face to face so that we can weep together, so that we can rejoice together, so that we can hear one another's voices as we're singing together. So we can see each other's facial expressions and have that nonverbal communication. And so it's important that we continue to meet together, as he says there in 1025, and all the more as you see the day approaching. So Elias is gonna cover uh next week the uh really the reasons why we have to do this together in person. Uh because there we're gonna look at the one another's observing next week. Elias is gonna teach, I'm gonna be teaching the youth group next Sunday. Uh and then I'll wrap it up the week after that. Um with our resources for relationships. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this time. There's so much that we can discuss and uh and and consider Help us, Lord, again. We desperately need your power to grow in our understanding of what you have called us to uh and how we can engage in relationships in a way that's pleasing to you and edifying for us. In Christ's name. Amen.