All right. Very good. So uh I've heard from a couple people that sometimes the recordings don't pick up, you know, the contributions that you all make to the discussion. So I apologize for that. There's only so much this little recorder can can pick up. My son Noah does his uh very best to uh uh elevate the volume uh of that. Uh but sometimes you know there's just not much that can be done. So Uh if anybody has expertise and you know how to do good classroom recordings, I'll tell you I've I've done a number of Google searches and it's all like how to read how to record your class on Zoom. It's like that's not what I'm looking for. But uh anyway, we know there's probably some solution out there. We just want to make the recording as useful as we can Uh well today we're going to be talking about taking responsibility, I think page 33 in your notes. But before we do that, I just want to go over the four G's again for the sake of review and uh just set them before your your eyes again in mind. My goal would be for you to have these four G's memorized uh or at least have them familiar enough in your mind that you're like, you know, what was that third one? Oh yeah, I know where to go find it. Um because this really helps in the process of working through the conflicts that we have. So as a reminder, the first G, let's say it together, is glorify God. And the idea there is that our highest priority in any conflict is to glorify God, to be pleasing to Him. We do that by Um taking advantage of the opportunities God has given us, seeing our conflicts as opportunities, to glorify Him, to become like Christ, to minister to others. And as we're glorifying him, even though a conflict may or may not be resolved, the if we're uh honoring the Lord, then that's uh that's what's pleasing to him, that's what matters in the long run. And one of the ways that we glorify God is by following the instructions that Jesus gave us, which is what we're going to talk about today, to get the log out of your own eye. And from we see that from Matthew seven. We'll spend all of today uh talking about that. Uh and then once we've taken the log out of our own eye, then Jesus says, You will see clearly to to remove the speck from your brother's eye, and so that's gently restore the idea of Going to your brother or sister who has sinned against you and showing them their fault and uh helping them to come to repentance If you see someone trapped in a trespass, as it says in Galatians 6. 1, that you who are spiritual should restore such a one in a spirit of gentleness. And so we want to not just leave people wallowing in their sin or or going down the path of sin, but rather show the love of Christ by confronting in a loving, gentle way those who have sinned so that they might be restored. uh and redeemed and have uh relationships repaired. And then as they do repent, uh we need to go and be reconciled. And that comes from Matthew 5, 23, 24, where Jesus says If you're at the altar and they remember your brother has something against you, go first be reconciled to your brother, then come and offer your gift. uh he's speaking about the fact that we need to live a life of reconciliation, that that should be a higher priority to us than uh than even worship itself in in the context of what Jesus was speaking about, uh uh giving a sacrifice, a sacrificial animal. But that's how big of a priority it is to God, that He cares uh more about our living in obedience than in our external expressions of worship. And so uh he wants us to to live a reconciled life. And and how do we do that? We do that by practicing forgiveness. Um Um and uh even when someone doesn't ask for forgiveness, not harboring bitterness in our own hearts toward them, uh and praying for them, loving our enemies, uh those who uh do not see forgiveness. Uh as it says in Ephesians four that we are to pursue um the preservation of the uh the bond of peace that we have by the Spirit. So um those those are just the the encapsulation of the biblical principles of biblical reconciliation. So today we're going to talk about the key truths from Matthew 7, 1 through 5, and just briefly dip our toes into confession of sin. Uh Mike Moody's gonna be here next week teaching the next uh lesson on confession. Um I'll be doing the meet and greet for visitors next Sunday. So uh we'll we'll tip into that and then he'll uh Do that next session next week. So as you see there in your notes, last week we concluded with the reality that if false worship is the problem, true worship is the solution And so now we will talk about the first step in moving from false worship to true worship, namely repentance. Now, I know you have the text in your notes there, if you have notes, but if you have a Bible, I would encourage you to turn to Matthew chapter 7. It's always good to look at scripture in your own Bible and For the most part we put a lot in the notes just so that you don't have to be flipping uh all day long from one page to the next. But this is a good passage to just get in your eyes what it looks like in your own Bible so that you can come back to it later and to reflect and meditate and and uh pray through it and and apply it. Let's uh just follow along as I read Matthew 7, 1 through 5. Do not judge, so that you will not be judged. For in the way you judge, you will be judged. And by your standard of measure, it will be measured. to you. Why do you look at the speck that is in your brother's eye, but do not notice the log that is in your own eye? Or how can you say to your brother, let me take the speck out of your eye And behold, the log is in your own eye. You hypocrite, first take the log out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to take the speck out of your brother's eye. So we see this passage, a familiar passage, one of you know kind of along with uh uh j John three sixteen, uh one of the verses sinners are very well aware of, or at least verse One. Don't judge, right? You can't tell me what to do, don't judge. Uh but obviously it doesn't mean that we are not to judge others, that we're not to uh evaluate and come to conclusions about others, but rather that we are to uh avoid hypocritical judgment. That's that's the issue that Jesus is talking about here, hypocritical judgment. He says verse 2, again, for in the way you judge, you will be judged. So however however you look at others, whatever assessments you make of others, the whatever standards you apply to others Just recognize that's how God is going to judge you. And so when he when he then goes on to talk about the log of the spec, he's really referring to hypocritical judgment. How can you, as it says in verse 5, you hypocrite, first deal with the sin in your own life before you deal with the sins in the lives of others. So hypocritical judgment is the issue. I mean if you just go uh down to verses fifteen and sixteen We see that we it is right to examine by outward appearances. In fact, look there, beware of false prophets who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly are ravenous wolves. You will know them by their fruits. Grapes are not gathered from thorn bushes, nor figs from thistles, are they? So every tree bears good fruit, but a the bad tree bears bad fruit. The idea Jesus is saying is you will be able to tell in one way or another who is a false prophet. And you should. You should be aware of that. You should be looking for that. Uh it's not based on the uh the clothing that they wear necessarily, you know, the d whether it's a designer suit or whatever. But rather the fruit of their life. And so we should be looking and discerning uh so that we can detect those who would um who would be false prophets. And so, as it says here in the notes, we must keep in mind both the way we judge and the standard by which we judge. The way we judge must be defined by Christ-like character, grace, mercy, patience, love, humility, and so forth. Meaning we don't judge from the perspective or from the standing point of self-righteousness? I could never do that. I can't believe you know you said that. I would never say that word Um we shouldn't do it from the um character trait of impatience, um, but rather recognizing that just as God has been patient with us, we're gonna be patient with others Um were to do it in a loving way, not a not an unloving way. Uh we're to be gracious, uh not um Sticklers with the law. We're to judge like Christ because he lived and interacted with people and sinners Uh he was he was all of these things, gracious and merciful and patient and loving and humility. He didn't walk around slapping people and judging them and condemning them for everything they did. And so we need to imitate Christ in the way we judge. And then also the standard by which we judge must be scripture, not our own conscience or personal standards, right? That's that's the difficult thing for us is You know, we sometimes equate our understanding of Scripture and our personal standards as the same thing And so if we wouldn't watch a certain show, then surely no true Christian could watch that show, or if we wouldn't go to a certain place, no true Christian could could go to a certain place. You know, whatever it might be. Uh if we wouldn't spend our money this way, then no true Christian should be able to do that either. And we'd be very, very careful to not uh equate our conscience or our personal standards with the uh with the scripture. And so when we judge, it should be based on scripture itself, not on our own ideas, our own thoughts and personal standards. Now, by using the word plank, Jesus refers to our sinful behavior, words, and thoughts in this situation as well as in life in general. So I don't think uh he's saying exclusively, you know, if if you're gonna confront someone, just recognize that you've sinned in the same way. Now that might be true, but it also might not be true. And so I don't think he's saying you can only judge someone if you first acknowledge that you've sinned in the same way and in a more significant way. And that's the plank in your eye, that you're a bigger sinner than they are in the same way and in the same situation. But rather you can recognize, okay, maybe I haven't uh contributed to this conflict in the way that they have, but I am a sinner as well, and there are other struggles that I have So we need to recognize that uh that we are sinners even if we may not have sinned in the same way or contributed to this conflict in the same way as the other person. Uh the first rule of point there, sin can be defined by any lack of conformity to God. It's falling short of God's holiness, which doesn't necessarily imply intentionality. So, you know, when we think about ourselves in a conflict, um I think we might have talked about this in the past, but um you know sometimes we're struggling with, well I didn't initiate or I my it wasn't my sin that initiated this conflict. I I didn't say something that uh that was sinful. You know, I didn't cuss this person out. I did I didn't speak in anger. I didn't act in a sinful way And so now as I'm trying to take the plank out of my eye, what what am I supposed to confess, what am I supposed to acknowledge or to deal with? Well Uh just because I didn't intentionally sin doesn't necessarily mean that I didn't sin at all. Well you and I sin all the time. If if we really think about the nature of sin as a lack of conformity to God's holiness, uh the reality is we are, in a sense, we're sinning all the time Uh, you know, greatest commandment, love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. Just ask yourself Do I, every moment of every day, love the Lord my God with all my heart, soul, mind, and strength? If the answer to that is no, then You're sinning all the time. Now again, not intentionally. It's not like you're going around I hate God. I love God. I hate God. I love God. I mean, but it's just there. It's part of your lack of conformity to Christ. And so we just need to recognize that I may not have intentionally sinned in a way that contributed to cause this conflict, but is there some way that my lack of conformity to Christ has uh played a part in this conflict. Or again, even uh even if not in this conflict, but just the recognition of my own weaknesses that I know I struggle in other ways, and so I I come to the point of seeking reconciliation with humility And saying, I I need Christ just as much as you need Christ. I need forgiveness just as much as you need forgiveness. Maybe for different things, maybe for different reasons. But I'm a sinner too. That's the plank that we need to to deal with. We manifest sin in three areas, thought, speech, and action. And so our thoughts include beliefs, attitudes, motivations, and desires. We tend to think of our actions and our speech as potentially sinful, right? That's what we observe, that's what we see, that's what we hear. But we also have to think about our own thoughts. And were my motivations honoring to the Lord? Or did I have sinful motivations? uh were the beliefs that I was uh basing my actions on um honoring to the Lord. Did I have an attitude that was like Christ or or not. We can ask ourselves those things. Did I have a desire And that uh was not a God honoring desire. We'll talk a little bit more about that as we as we move forward But we can sin by commission, thinking, speaking, and acting in ways that violate God's standard. Again, that's ways in which we we uh we intentionally uh act out uh that our heart is revealed. By something that we actively think, speak, and do. And we can also sin by omission, not thinking, not speaking, and not acting in ways that God requires. Again, so often when we think about the great commandment to love the Lord our God with all the heart, soul, mind, and strength, we think about the active elements of that. Uh but there's also the the the ways in which we fail to do that by omission. Um that we we really don't cultivate uh a right heart and a right spirit before the Lord You have there in your notes Romans 3. I just think this is a helpful passage. I think it's one of the key passages in the New Testament that reveals, in fact, it's quoting the Old Testament. So in the Bible, uh that reveals the nature of mankind and even though we have been saved, those who have trusted in Christ And we have the new self that is being conformed to the image of Christ. There are still these remnants of the old man that are hanging on to us. Paul says as he's working through the gospel in Romans, what then? Are we better than they? Meaning are Jews better than Gentiles? Not at all. For we have already charged that both Jews and Greeks Are all under sin, as it is written, there is none righteous, not even one. There is no one who understands, there is none who seeks for God. All have turned aside. They have together become worthless There is none who does good, there's not even one. Their throat is an open grave, with their tongues they keep deceiving, the poison of asps is under their lips, their mouth is full of cursing and bitterness Their feet are swift to shed blood, destruction and misery are in their path, and the path of peace they have not known. There is no fear of God. before their eyes. I think if if you dissect this, I mean it's interesting you you see the the bolded words are the uh various body parts But what he's uh revealing here, what scripture reveals here, is uh how much of our sinful nature is manifested through our mouth, through our speech. And um, you know it It should cause us to think about James three, where James talks about the the tongue is even though it's the smallest member of our body, it's the most powerful and deadly. And so Uh one of the ways, one of the most uh common ways in which we sin in a conflict is by how we speak. And then he you know he uses very picturesque language of uh death uh is is our throat. Uh we deceive with our throat we uh kind of murder and kill you know, poison of asps. We curse with our mouth, all of those different ways in which we sin with our mouth. And then he talks about our actions when he refers to our feet. uh that the the way in which we live our lifestyle is of a lifestyle of destruction, a lifestyle of not just destroying our lives, but more than that destroying the lives of others Um it's it's a way of living. But all of that is undergirded in that last line by the fact that we have no fear of God, as you know, unbelievers. Now again, as believers, this is not the true nature of a believer. Praise the Lord But we can sometimes act according to the old man, right? And so Paul goes on in chapter six to say, you know, don't keep submitting yourself to a slave of sin. for unrighteousness, but submit yourself as a slave to God. And so we can be we can fall under these old patterns and habits in our lives, speaking and acting and and thinking in ways that are dishonoring to the Lord And when we recognize that in a any particular context, we need to confess that. We need to acknowledge that, be be open and honest about our sin. Because it it happens so so frequently. I do think there are times where we can truly be innocent in a conflict. where you can do what God calls you to do. You can say Christ honoring things. You can act in ways that are like Christ. and yet someone b is your enemy. Really because of how you've acted in a in a God honoring way. So I don't wanna I don't wanna say with all this that if you're in a conflict then Every time there's some sin you gotta do on you gotta do some hunting, you know, for for sin in your heart. You gotta do some deep navel gazing to try and figure out what's the sin in your life. Because I I do think it is possible to not sin and still find yourself in a convict and I think that's possible because that's what Christ did. Right? Uh he was the perfect God man, never sinned, thought and believed everything that was true, good, and right, only spoke words of kindness and love and gentleness. Uh he acted in ways that were gracious and in in ever kind and everything. But yet he was in constant conflict because he was hated. Uh the Pharisees and the Sadducees they they were jealous of him and they didn't believe in him. Uh and and so he was in conflict all the time. So that's possible, but I would just submit to you that is extraordinarily rare. And so I would not be quick. to think, well, I'm not aware of anything, so I must not have done anything wrong. You know, that's just that quick thought. But rather examine yourself think through and we'll walk through uh you know a number of questions to really uh consider w w how have I sinned? Just because Even though we're saved and we're being sanctified and Christ is being formed in us, Lord willing, as you're pursuing, walking by the Spirit. We still have a tendency to sin. And so just be more inclined to consider I've probably not acted in a way that's like Christ in in this situation. Um that's more likely than than not, so let me let me see what I can uh identify in in my life. That's a plank. Um So we just need to recognize that, that often we we need to get the plank out of our eye We need to recognize uh that we've likely sinned in a situation or if we haven't sinned in that situation, that we're still a sinner, and that we come with humility as we uh um address the situation. Now you see there Jesus presents the proper order here. You must start with you. The problem is that we that our tendency is to start with the other person, to focus exclusively on what they've done and what they've said and you know we judge their motives, we look into their heart and you know we we know all about them Um and we know how they've contributed to the the situation. We know that they're a sinner, that they clearly have a plank in their eye. You know, we just we think all about them. Uh but Jesus is here saying, start with you. Set kind of set them aside, not not to sweep their role under the carpet, not to ignore anything they've done, not to minimize their sin or anything like that, but simply start with you. Start with you. Acknowledging Personal sins breeds empathy, compassion, and patience, and helps me realize that I am just like those who sin against me. I don't know if you can think of any examples in your life of recent conflicts you've been a part of where it's been a challenge to or it was a challenge to to work through the conflict. But again, so often we we just tend to think so highly of ourselves and yeah, it really was all their fault. I really was the innocent party. And I can't believe they did that. Um how can people do that kind of thing, right? And that's all kind of self-righteous thinking. Um it may be that we didn't sin in that particular situation or in that particular way But we are just as susceptible of sinning as anybody else. And so starting with ourselves puts us in a place of humility. And it's I skipped the first point there. Starting with ourselves reorients us around God's purposes. We focus first on what God expects of me versus what I expect of others Now I know again I know this is difficult. It's difficult for me, it's difficult for all of us. But often because I'm often sitting in the counselor's chair, if you will. um trying to help someone focus on themselves. It's amazing to me how we'll be talking about some biblical principle on in their situation in light of a conflict. And the first response, you know, I'm thinking, man, this is good stuff. Like I'm I'm doing a really good job, you know, helping this person see, you know, their their side of the conflict. They're like, oh yeah, yeah, like they're they're giving me that nonverbal feedback, like it's we're communicating here. And then the first words out of their mouth is, Yeah, the other person I'm like, no, we're not talking about the other person. We're talking about you. Uh that the and again, that's th I I am the same way. We're all the same way. We tend to focus on the other person. But when we focus on ourselves That helps us orient around, glorifying God. How can I minister how can I uh glorify God in my life? How can I become more like Christ Um because if we don't do that, if we're focused on the other person, we're not thinking at all about how I'm supposed to glorify God or how I'm supposed to grow. So that's why we have to start with ourselves. Next, then, Jesus assigns greater weight to your sins than to the other person's sins by calling yours planks and his specks. Now, you know, we want to um recognize that there's there's relativity here. Uh in the sense that, you know, if you if you say uh an unkind word and the other person murders you, at which point you can't pursue re recognition But let's just let's just go to the extreme, right? Murders you and your heart. Murders you yeah. Or they beat you up and you know you're in the hospital now and you're like, all I did was call you a name Uh we would recognize okay one is you know more significant than the other, right? Uh but from the perspective of what Jesus is saying, he he's not he's not pulling the curtain back looking at an objective. ver vision of the situation saying yeah your sin is always going to be greater than the other person's. What he's saying is, from your standpoint, as you look at the situation You have a greater understanding of your own heart and your own sin, and all you can see from the other person is their external uh contribution. You can't see into their heart. I know we think we can, but we can't Right? We can't see their heart. We can only see, you know, we heard what they said or we saw or we experienced what they did, but we can't see into their heart. So uh there's only so much that we can way, if you will, in terms of the other person's uh role in the situation. But for our part, we can, by God's grace, look at our own heart. We can examine ourselves, not just know what we've said and done But really think through our heart beliefs and our motives and our commitments and our desires. And so we have a lot more that we can pile on to considering our role and our our position in the situation. And so because of that then uh we uh th there's that greater weight. And you know, the the illustration I think of of glasses is helpful. Many of you wear glasses like me and When you know that when you have something that is um small but right there, you know, it it in some way obscures your vision, right? And it has an impact on how you see things. And you think, man, I can't see anything, and you take it off, it's like, oh man, it's just this little fleck of dust. Um but then you you know, y the reason you can see the fleck of dust is because you pull it away from yourself. But as soon as you put it back up, that now looks like this humongous thing that's you know blocking your vision. It's that same kind of thing is the closer you are to uh your awareness of sin, the more significant it is. uh in in your life because you see more of it. Um and so uh and so we need to reflect on that uh reality that I I I can examine my own heart, I can consider my motives, uh, I can consider the other factors that play into the situation from my perspective And I need to kind of put all of that together and see that as weightier than just the external factors of the other person's sin. Humbly dealing with your sins first puts you in a better position to minister to the other person than help him or her deal with his or her sin. So I've already noted that a couple times, but when when you truly come to um talk to someone about a conflict and you've done your own um log removal, uh you will just be in a w have an attitude, a disposition, uh, your tone of voice, your your pace, and just everything will be dramatically different Because you will recognize uh that you're uh a s again, a sinner just like them. Uh maybe they'll ha th there will be certain things that you can seek forgiveness for before you even confront them about their sin. Um, but you you'll just be in a much better position uh to address their sin. As opposed to if you don't do any of that and you just come with accusations, with bombardments, uh, and uh with self-righteousness, and then things really don't go well You just pause there and just see if there are any thoughts or comments, questions about any what any testimonies of Yeah, really Yeah, yeah. I I don't think I I mentioned that, but you're right that that's what Paul says there in Galatians 6. Um I mean just quote it specifically. You you certainly mentioned the gist of it. Um You know, restore such a one in a spirit of gentleness, each one looking to yourself, so that you too will not be tempted. And yeah, it's that that same attitude of humility. Uh So in the case of Galatians 6, it's not the context of a personal conflict, but just someone who's trapped in personal sin. And what he's saying is as as you try and restore such a one, just be careful because sometimes when we when we are exposed to the sins of others, uh depending on the situation, sometimes we can be tempted by that sin. Um because, you know, we we're all pretty creative in our sin, but uh sometimes a lot of times we sin in ways um that other people don't think about. Other people sin in ways that we don't think about. And so as we're trying to restore someone and we're becoming more aware of their sin Uh we we can be like, oh I never thought about you know sinning in that way. I wonder what that's like. And you know, now you're down the path of potentially sinning in in the same way Yeah. Um or I mean a different kind of example would be someone who is an angry person and impatient as you're trying to lovingly restore them uh and they're responding in anger and impatience, then you get angry and impatient and respond in like manner. So there's a variety of ways that one can can be tempted as you're trying to restore someone else Karen Yeah. Yeah. W when we uh talk about I think it was towards maybe in the last class uh uh in in the last class uh at the end of this uh the quarter Um we'll talk about what do you do and you know you've tried and made up made every effort and haven't been able to reconcile. And one of the points is, well, go back and examine how you've gone through it and is do do I need to redo something? Have I have I not been effective or have I not been humble or uh did I maybe confront in a way that was unhelpful or, you know, whatever and uh did I have the wrong perspective? Um so we wanna be humble even about yeah, how we go about that confrontation. Marga. Yeah. No, that's good. Thank you for sharing that. Yeah, you know, it's amazing to me how how many assumptions we make uh that put ourselves in the best possible light. You know, we think we've said something that we actually haven't done, uh We um you know we yeah, we just things like that where we make assumptions um and just slowing down, thinking, praying is so helpful. All right. Well let's let's continue on here. In many cases, uh some of your contribution to conflict, your sin will be fairly obvious, right? You'll know exactly what you said or exactly what you did You'll be able to identify sinful attitudes, thoughts, words, actions that contributed to the conflict, but don't stop there. Remember that conflict doesn't start When you open your mouth or move your body, it begins in the heart. And finding the log can be difficult because Of what Jeremiah 17, 9 says, the heart is more deceitful than all else and is desperately sick. Who can understand it? And uh Paul says in one of his letters that as he examined his own conscience with regard to a particular situation, he he felt Uh innocent. Like I I I've examined myself. I'm uh I haven't been able to discern any particular sin, but he goes on to say, but I'm not by that acquitted meaning I'm I might be blind to certain things. It's the Lord who who knows the truth about me. And so we need to recognize that even if we we uh can't see anything specifically, uh we can uh We can still do some more heart level work to examine ourselves. As believers, we do have a new heart, as we've said. We are a new creation. But the flesh that remains can sometimes obscure our vision. And we can also lack necessary understanding of God's word that would otherwise identify what is going on in our heart. And so we have a passage like Psalm 139, Search me, O God, and know my heart. Try me and know my anxious thoughts, and see if there be any hurtful way in me, and lead me in the everlasting way. So again, we we don't want to just stop with what's obvious and apparent. We want to say, Lord, show me. Is there something that I'm missing here? Is is there a hard attitude? Is is there something that I'm b blind to uh in this situation? Our propensity to self-deception is why God has given us the body of Christ whom we can ask for help. Sometimes God answers our prayer for revelation, if you will, of our own sins by bringing something to our mind and by kind of clearing away the fog and helping us to see our heart more clearly. Other times, God uses other people in our life to point out the things that we are blind to. And that's where we have to really be thankful for the body of Christ, maybe our family members, maybe others around us who can speak into our life, and we have to be ready to receive that kind of admonition. And you see James 5 there, if anyone among you is sick, or you could translate that weak spiritually, then he must call for the elders of the church, and they are to pray over them, anointing them with Anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord, and the prayer offered in faith will restore the one who is weak, and the Lord will raise him up, and if he has committed sins, they will be forgiven him. Therefore Confess your sins to one another and pray for one another that you may be healed. Now, this is a passage that there's kind of two main interpretations you're very familiar, I'm sure, with one main interpretation whether which is the most common one, which this is referring to those who are physically sick and that they can call the elders, you know, for anointing, for prayer, uh, for healing. And uh and we do that. Uh so um good footnote, if if uh you are ever in a position where you would like the elders to come pray for you in your sickness, physical sickness uh we would be glad to come and to pray for you, anoint you with oil. Uh we we we use vegetable oil, it's not holy oil. Maybe olive oil. I think it's olive oil Uh but it's just it's it's th it there's a uh it's a spiritual ac act of uh showing our dependence on the Lord. There's nothing magical. We don't we don't believe in you know it's not the gift of healing, you're bam gonna be healed in that very moment. Uh but it's a way of crying out to God and saying, Lord, you know, maybe I've gone to the doctors and maybe I'm doing what I what I can, but Lord, we need you to intervene in this situation. So we we would gladly do that But I'll be honest, my personal interpretation is that it's more of a spiritual issue here. That in the context, James is writing to believers who are persecuted, and even in the preceding passage Uh he's referring to those who are really um weighed down by the persecution and they're even physically exhausted uh by the persecution and And they're spiritually weak as a result. You know, for yourself, that when you are physically tired, that makes it difficult to be spiritually strong. And so these are believers, as I would understand it, who have been under duress from unbelievers and as a result have uh Experienced spiritual weakness and and even sin. And uh and that's why he says if he has committed sins, they will be forgiven him. So that's that's my personal interpretation. Um I honestly don't know what Pastor Leek how how he interpreted that passage, but Anyway, 1 Thessalonians 5. 14, we urge you, brethren, admonish thee and ruly, encourage the faint-hearted, help the weak. So James five, First Corinthians or First Thessalonians five fourteen is an admonishment of the church. Come alongside those who are weak And so when when we're the weak one, that means that we can take advantage of the blessing of being part of the body of Christ and receiving ministry from others who can speak into our lives. And of course we've mentioned Galatians 6 a number of times. So the point is, okay, you've you've done your own heart level work, uh, you've examined yourself, you've thought about your actions, your motives. And if if you're really not sure how you have contributed to a conflict or how you've sinned, uh Don't just assume, well I didn't see anything, I don't observe anything, so therefore there must be nothing there. Don't assume that. Rather say maybe someone else can see something that I can't see Again, might be a family member, might be uh a counselor, might be a beloved brother or sister in Christ who knows you well. So If after the following process, the one we'll talk about in a moment, if you struggle to identify the hard issues behind your words and actions, seek the Lord in prayer and reach out to someone who can walk with you and So this is just my appeal to you, knowing that conflict is very common in the life of the church, especially in the home. Don't ever feel like you're alone. There's so much benefit to coming early to someone else and seeking help. You know, so sometimes um I'm trying to think of how I want to say this. Sometimes people come to counseling like at the very tail end of uh they're on the edge of separation and divorce. And you know, r especially right now, we're pretty much at capacity. We have a waiting list in the counseling ministry. And if especially if it's someone outside the church, you know, I'm I'm not gonna take a new case right now. If it's someone in the church, you know I'll I'll bend over backwards for that. But um but sometimes they'll they'll say, hey I needed help at that moment, you know, but but now it's too late And I want to say no, it was too late when you asked. You know, you should have gone months, years earlier to someone to seek for help And so I just want to appeal to you again, if you're struggling, if you're like, man, this is this is not getting better, this we're not being able to resolve this, don't delay, don't wait for things to really get bad before you seek help and and uh get counsel from others. Do what you need to do in terms of your own personal bearing of your own load, as it says in Galatians 6. Do your own heart level work, but if you need help, be quick to seek it. So, to find the log in your own eye. Uh work backwards from what you can see to what you can't see. So here's a list of questions, eight questions. for you to to consider. And this is one of those sections that you know I would encourage you to just take make a mental note, put a bookmark here, and have these where you can come back to it and consider in the future as you're as you're working through a conflict. So one thing you can ask yourself to get the log out of your eye is in what ways were my speech, words, tone, timing, unwholesome And unedifying. For example, were my words crass? Were they sharp, stinging, or otherwise hurtful? What was I trying to accomplish by speaking that way? So you see you see Ephesians four twenty nine, let no unwholesome word proceed from your mouth, but only such a word as is good for edification according to the need of the moment, so that it will give grace to those who hear So we can ask ourselves, when I said what I said, was I trying to build up the person or was I trying to tear them down? Very simple Also, in what ways did my speech attack the other person? Kind of along the same line, but Perhaps more forceful, what desire or expectation of mind did they not meet? Jesus said in Matthew 5 22, but I say to you that everyone who is angry with his brother shall be guilty before the court. And whoever says to his brother, You good for nothing, shall be guilty before the Supreme Court. And whoever says, You fool, shall be guilty enough to go into the fiery hell So it's one thing to to say unwholesome and edifying things, it's another way to a it's another thing to attack someone, to speak to them in a way that uh that denigrates them, that tears them down, that uh speaks evil against them, that uh identifies them as uh inherently the problem. Um You know, y y you're just not good for anything. You think about that phrase good for nothing and the the v variations that that can take. Just imagine if you speak that way to someone on a on a regular basis, to a child or to a spouse, to a coworker, what that does to the other person. Third question we can ask is, in what ways did my speech deny the image of God in the other person? What does such speech reflect about my thinking about them? James 3. 9. With the tongue we bless our Lord and Father, and with it we curse men who have been made in the likeness of God. To deny the image of God in a person is to speak to them in a way that basically says, you are worthless. You're just like an animal. I I can throw you out like a a rabid dog. I can treat you like an undesired cat. Uh I I can speak any way I want because you are not worthy of kindness, you're not worthy you don't you have no dignity you have no value. So how did the way that I speak reflect my thinking about them? Did I speak in a way that reflected that they are made in the image of God, that they're an everlasting being, uh that God himself loves them and cares for them. Or did I speak in a way that destroys the Number four, in what ways did my speech seek to manipulate the other person? How did I attempt to control them? This is um Judges 16 when um Delilah came to um Samson and tried to get him to reveal his secret about his strength Of course he kept lying to her, and she said to him, How can you say I love you when your heart is not with me? You have deceived me these three times and have not told me where your great strength is It came about when she pressed him daily with her words and urged him that his soul was annoyed to death. So, you know, she was wanting to convey that she wanted a higher level of openness and transparency and honesty and love between them. Like that's what she was trying to get him to think. But of course she was manipulating him. She was really trying to uh get uh a lot of money by uh revealing his secret to his enemies. And so how have I spoken in a way that's been manipulative? How have I tried to to speak to get them to to do what I want them to do rather than uh building them up and and showing sacrificial love to them Number five, in what ways were my words and actions of the flesh, and thus at war with the spirit? So you can look at a passage like Galatians 5, 19 to 21 that speaks of the deeds of the flesh as these. Now the deeds of the flesh are evident, which are immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, outbursts of anger. Disputes, dissensions, factions, envying, drunkenness, carousing, and things like these, of which I forewarn you, just as I have forewarned you, that those who practice such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. So does the way did the way that I spoke uh reflect these kinds of attributes? Number six, in what ways did I not manifest the fruit of the Spirit So contrary to the deeds of the flesh, there is the fruit of the Spirit, in which love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control. So did I speak in a way that reflected the opposite of those characteristics? Was I lacking in gentleness or patience or kindness So those are all, I mean, six different ways that refer to uh speech, though six is not limited to speech. But again, because how we speak is really what is driving a conflict in addition to actions, uh we need to examine our speech. But uh then starting with six and then the other two going into actions and the heart. So number seven, what lie was I believing about this situation? What lie was I believing? Kind of like Margaret, you know, sometimes we we make assumptions, and the lie that we tell ourselves is I know everything that I need to know to make a right judgment. I know what the other person is thinking, I know the other person's motivations, or I know, you know, I have all the information to come to the conclusion that I've come to. And we lie to ourselves about that. When we need to recognize, you know what, maybe I don't have all the information. Maybe I need to listen. Maybe I need to ask questions. Maybe I need to get another perspective And number eight, in what ways were my desires disordered or unmeasured? Disordered or unmeasured? What did I desire so strongly that I was willing to sin, to obtain, or sin because I couldn't have it? Again, the idea of disorder disordered or unmeasured is we can have good desires, but if we get them out of priority, then we can be responding in a way that's dishonoring to God, or we can have a good desire and ha and desire it so strongly that we're willing to sin in order to get it. Those are more or less the same, just different ways of thinking about about a desire, but uh you know my desire to glorify God, my desire to to be like Christ, my desire to uh love my spouse, my desire to have children who obey me. I'm not saying that there's a clear priority there that's But um do I have one of those desires I mean w k this this is how bad we are, right? We can have the desire to glorify God so strongly that we will sin when someone makes it difficult for us to glorify God. Pastor Gate. Yeah. Yeah, I I really do believe that if you know if you were to take this class and set the notes aside and never think about it again. But you would have a really hard time dealing with conflict biblically. I think what has helped me, just in case anyone wants to know what what what you should do, what's helped me in applying these things It's just going over over and over and over and over again. Um I mean I've l taken classes, I've read books, and then I've taught classes. So it's like it's there all the time And I'm not I'm not saying I'm perfect 'cause I'm not, but I I can say that there's um there have been many times where I've by God's grace been able to apply all of these principles just in terms of thinking and examining and the general disposition of, okay, I I know I've probably done something that that wasn't like Christ even if I wasn't being overt about sinning. And so, uh like any uh principle, uh any process of sanctification, it does take effort to exercise. uh to to work at it. Um and so every time you find yourself in a conflict, that's an opportunity. Alright, I need to I took that class Now I need to think about what what do I do in this situation? How should I be thinking? And just put it into practice. In fact, the disclaimer here it kind of goes along with that that point My point is not, let me just read that. My point is not that we must ask each of these questions every time we're in a conflict. That's not usually going to be possible. The point is that once we start to understand our hearts, by thinking through these questions at various times, we begin to see the log in our eye more clearly, and that enables us to deal with our sins more quickly. and thoroughly. So the more we grow by exercising, by meditation on scripture, by personal study Even by teaching, you know, teaching your kids, teaching a small group, teaching co-workers, ministering to others who are going through conflict if if you're not in any yourself just by constant engagement uh and repetition it starts to really become part of how you think. Um and And obviously the grace of Christ and the Spirit is still necessary for you to obey and and honor the Lord in any given conflict, but it does become more of a a disposition, more habitual way of responding. as opposed to you're always starting from zero and trying to figure out how do I how do I do this again. So So yeah, it's it's it's tough to if not impossible to have all of this at you know at the forefront of your mind all the time. But uh because We are in a variety of kinds of conflicts all the time. We have regular opportunities. And so the key is to take advantage of those opportunities to say, okay, I need to think how should I be thinking You know, I've I've been sinned against, you know, it hurts. What uh what do I need to do here? Rather than just wallowing in our hurt and pain and lashing back. I hope Yeah, no, I mean, you know, talking to your spouse, talking to brothers in Christ who know you well or those who interact with you uh often just to say, hey Do you see tendencies in me? Do you see you know you need to be specific, I think, for people to to be helpful, but um and to ask about that in in advance. Um What what can I do to change my habitual responses? Um I mean I I have couples do that all the time when, you know, they tend to have a a heated um argument on a regular basis on whatever issue and it's because there's patterns of of ways of responding to things. Um, you know, I'll encourage the husband, ask your wife what what would be more helpful for me to say instead of what I normally say? Uh or what do I say that's unhelpful? Uh so that then you can think in advance and plan and pray and um and and and work at it. Yeah. Right, so um the so again these are all just ways of examining our own hearts. And it does require great uh strength from the Spirit, a humility, uh just a commitment to die to yourself, to say, Lord, whatever Whatever comes out of this process, whatever you reveal to me that is in my heart, Lord help me to uh embrace that or in the sense of accepting it um and not uh not shove it away but but to acknowledge that and confess that So what do you do? Well, I don't think the first thing you should do is go to the other person. Mike will talk about that next time. I think the first thing you should do is go to God with what you observe in yourself. So once you've observed, once you've identified the hard issues, thoughts, words, and actions that were sinful and contributed to the conflict, you must remember that sin is first and foremost against God. And again you have those familiar passages, Genesis 20, verse 6. That's Abimelech when Abraham lied to him about Sarah being his wife. It's interesting that God said to him in a dream, Yes, I know that in the integrity of your heart you have done this, meaning you you haven't slept with his wife, and I also kept you from sinning against me. Now we don't we don't really know what is Abimelech's relationship to God. Uh it seemed as though he was you know probably a pagan worshiper, false worshiper. But uh God was basically saying to him, if you would have slept with Abraham's wife, you would have been sinning against me as the true and living God. Uh Genesis 39. Um As Potiphar's wife tempted Joseph, he said, How then could I do this great evil and sin against God? It's interesting how he starts out uh saying, listen, my master, you know, no one's greater than him, he's withheld nothing from me except you because you're his wife. It would have made sense if he would have then said, How could I sin against My master, Potiver, your husband. But rather he says, against God. Of course, Psalm 51, David says, Against you you only have I sinned and done what's evil in your So all of our sin is first and foremost against God, and so when we recognize our sin, we need to confess that to God. We need to say to God And affirm what he has already said to us. Say the same thing back to God and affirm that we have sinned against him. And though all of our sin is judicially forgiven, we cannot undo God's work of regeneration in our lives, of course. We cannot be unborn again. uh and and kind of forgiven and and redeemed again, but it's still imperative to confess our sins to the Lord and receive his relational forgiveness. So just as you know when you have uh a child that that you love and they sin against you, there's there is a relational brokenness there and reconciliation re repairs that. It's not that you have to start from scratch in the relationship, but you just address that that tear at the seam of the relationship. In the same way with God, um w we need to Uh, restore our relationship with him. These are just precious passages, Psalm 32, verse 5. I acknowledged my sin to you and my iniquity I did not hide. I said, I will confess my transgressions to the Lord, and you forgave the guilt. of my sin. What's amazing about that passage is the language of using virtually every term he can for sin. Um and that I think implies a thoroughness to his confession. He didn't say, Hey, I made a mistake and I affirmed that. But he used all the language, all the terms for sin, iniquity, transgression. guilt, sin, and uh and so he's thorough in his confession to the Lord. And then the promise of Proverbs 2813, he who conceals his transgressions will not prosper, but he who confesses and forsakes them will find compassion. Now, because of the cross, we can be open and honest about our sin. There is no need to hide behind, you know, uh uh self-righteousness, what will other people think about me, about you know my reputation. Um We can find we find forgiveness at the cross, and so we have no need to hide our sin. Then 1 John 1. 9, if we confess our sins, he is faithful and righteous to forgive us of our sins And to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. If we do that, if we go to the Lord and we confess our sins and embrace and And receive his forgiveness with full, a heart full of thanksgiving and praise, then we'll be in the best possible position to go and have a conversation with another person And confess our sins to them and then if need be confront them about their sin as well. Um and because this is so rare that have this extreme amount of humility uh and love and and grace, uh I I'm really convinced that people will tend to respond well Uh not you know, how they respond is between them and the Lord and sometimes the person is hard hearted and they just refuse to acknowledge their own sin. You know, you confess your sin and uh you lovingly confront them and they just say, Yeah, you should be confessing your sin. Right, and that's it. And that's painful, but um but we can always be confident that if if we do these things Not only will we be forgiven by God and cleansed of our sin, but we will be glorifying God. And that's the greatest uh thing of all. So so we're done a few minutes early unless there's any uh thoughts or comments uh about this. Yeah, William. Yeah. And if I if I can just use that as an illustration, uh Uh since you confess that. Um I think that's a good example too of how uh we can eliminate or reduce conflict simply by dying to ourselves. And say, yeah, I g I'm pretty convinced I'm right, but I'm gonna allow this other person to be right. Um and just not make a big deal about this. Oh yeah. Oh yeah, absolutely. And uh you know in that in that case, you know, what that checker person, employee, uh thinks of you, you know, who cares? You know, you're probably never gonna see him again uh or talk to him again. But in a case of a personal relationship That's when I think it's even harder. Oh yeah. Because then they're continuing to think that they were right. But that's you know, I to Uh to Paul's point there in First Corinthians six, uh even then that's when we need to allow ourselves to be wrong. Yeah, Maria. Yeah, that I think that does happen. Um not always, but but it does happen. Yeah. Alright. Oh yeah. Well I uh it has depends on the situation, right? Uh I would say um it's always a good idea to if someone has done something wrong to try and address it, if it's meaningful and significant. You know, if they they ran over that flower that you planted yesterday, it's like, oh that who cares, you know, not a big deal. But if there's something actually significant to try and address it. But if if they don't respond in a in a helpful way, uh then uh then you need to think about what you know what are your options. And You know, again, in in a situation like that where it's maybe a neighbor, maybe not a fellow believer, we have uh not only the glory of God to consider, but our testimony. And and our testimony is not just, well, that person never addresses problems, you know, because they just eat it But rather, um they they love, they forgive, uh and w you know, there's opportunities for the gospel, uh sometimes when dealing with conflict with unbeliever. So we want to consider how can I represent Christ well? What can I do proactively or actively rather than just let it go and be passive But how can I be Christ with them? How can I uh reflect the character of Christ in my interactions with them? So, I mean, yeah if you want to talk about specific situations we can, but uh those would be a couple things to keep in mind Okay. All right, let's pray.