So let me go ahead and pray, and we'll we'll dive in to the Word of God. Heavenly Father, I thank you for this morning, a new day in which your mercies are refreshed for us, that they are uh like the manna that came for Israel fresh every day And we don't we don't get yesterday's manna, we don't get tomorrow's manna, we get mercy's for today. That is exactly what we need. Thank you for your grace. Thank you that we can uh come out of um the the normal day-to-day uh responsibilities to worship you together. To look at your word, to sing praises, to uh hear your word preached I pray that you would be glorified in all that we do today, and that uh the especially in this hour as we talk about relationships and and how your word would help us to to think about that, uh increase our understanding so that we might know how we can live for you in Christ's name. Amen. Alright. So I want to start with a little bit of review. Yeah. My wife reminded me, d are you recording? My mom asked me to record, so I was gonna record it anyway, but um is this me or is it warm in here? The thermostat is right there. I don't know Norman if or Steve if you're willing to Yeah? I d I feel like it's really, really warm. Um Last time we didn't make it all the way through the notes, but that's okay because I just kind of brought the tail end into today, so don't worry about missing anything with a new set of notes. Uh but I do want to start with a review just to make sure we're all uh caught up with with what we're going to talk about today in the context. So we looked last week at how God's nature is a nature of relationship, right? He is a trinity. He has three persons that all share the same essence of deity, the same essence of Godhood, but they are three persons. And this relationship is not just a relationship of utility in the sense of they each have their own roles and and they're out accomplishing a purpose each in in different roles. There is actually a relationship of of love that they have for one another, uh of caring for one another. And so I didn't mention this last time, but when you see Jesus hanging on the cross crying out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? That is a cry that only rises out of a deep, eternal love relationship. So God Himself is a God of relationship, and you need to realize that this is unique in the Christian worldview. The God of Islam is not a God of relationship. The God of Mormonism is not inherently a God of relationship. I mean, yes, you know, you have your eternal wives and your proper, but in his own being he He's not a God of relationship because he's just one person. The God of Jehovah's Witnesses is not a God of relationship. Within the true Orthodox Christian worldview, the Trinitarian worldview alone do we have have a God who by his nature is a God of relationship. We saw also that we are made in God's image, obviously from Genesis 1 and a number of other passages. And what that means is that We represent God on earth. We are his ambassadors as he has given us rule over the earth. And we also reflect God. He has made us to be like him in various different ways. And so as we uh engage in our ambassadorship, if you will, as we engage in ruling the earth, again it's not just a utilitarian thing that God has made us to be like him, but that he has made us to be people of relationship. That he has enabled us to, as we're ruling and subduing the earth, we're relating with one another, working together, cultivating a variety of different kinds of relationships. And And propagating the human race, which uh we propagate that image of God as we do that. So we are we are made in God's image. He has infused his image into us. by giving us capacities that mirror his image in terms of character traits like love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, the fruit of the Spirit, you know, you could go down that list. Abilities like communicating with others, creating, taking what is in this world and molding it and manipulating it to create new things. And then of course ruling, governing, managing resources and and everything that's around us. These are all things that are like God. These are all things that you don't see in any other realm of life. You don't see animals doing these things. Uh and of course you don't see any non uh non-living, non-li biological beings doing these things. So God infused not only characteristics and abilities, but he also infused his image into us by giving us functions that allow us to accomplish his purposes. In other words, we take the character that he's infused in us, we take the These abilities that He's given to us, and we use them to rule and subdue the earth. The supreme example, if we want to say, okay, what what what What does this look like? What what is the model of that we are to follow of of what this looks like? Well we have that in Jesus Christ, that he is the image of God, that he is truly God, and he is truly man. And he is the only one in history who has perfectly represented God on the earth. And perfectly reflected God on the earth. He's perfectly fulfilled God's purposes. And he's perfectly done that uh by having the character and using the abilities that God gave him as a human being. in order to show us what it is to be like God, what what God is like. And so in in anything that we want to know, okay, w what is what would God do in this situation, we can ask that Age old question. What would Jesus do, right? I mean really the question is what has Jesus done? Uh but w there's nothing wrong with the question, what would Jesus do? I think the biggest problem with that whole movement, what was that, the nineties or whatever? The the biggest problem with it was just that it turned into a marketing thing. That it was about selling stuff and trinkets and it it kinda cheapened the whole thing. But the the mindset is right If I'm going to interact with my spouse or with my co-workers or with my children or with with my neighbors, if I'm going to engage in the work that God has given me, whether it's working in an office or working in a in uh construction or working at home, How do I do that? Well, I look at Christ because He is the epitome, He's the model, He's He's the example of one who perfectly did those things. And so we noted that a simple way to remember what it means to be made in God's image is that we have the ability to love God and love others while we're subduing and ruling the earth. We have the ability to love God and love others while we are ruling and subduing the earth. That is how we represent God on the earth and that is how we reflect him by loving him and loving others. And so In many ways, the rest of this class, uh uh mainly starting next week, is looking at how do we do that? What does that look like on a practical level. So if you turn to Genesis 3, we'll start here in the next section, the image of God at the beginning. Well I want to just take a moment to recall, okay, we we've identified Jesus as the the perfect model, the perfect example. But we see we can still look at Adam and Eve who were made in God's image prior to their fall into sin to see what is it what did it look like for them who weren't God? You know, these were just humans. They weren't God at all. What did it look like for them to uh to manifest the fact that they were made in the image of God. Well, we can start by the reality that they experienced these three relationships, the relationship with God, and the relationship with others, and the relationship with nature in perfect harmony. Uh look at chapter three, verse eight, and I realize this is this verse falls after uh they sinned. But we I think there's a truth that we can pull out of here. Genesis chapter 3 verse 8. It says They heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day, more literally the wind of the day. We don't know what the temperature was. And the man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord among the trees of the garden. So just consider that first part. They heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden. There's an implication here that there was a familiarity with them and God That it wasn't that they hid themselves because I've never heard this sound before, it's terrifying, I have no idea what's going on. No, they knew what that sound was. There was a familiarity between them and God. We can't say with absolute certainty, but we can surmise that there was some kind of a physical manifestation that God used to interact with them, if you will, face to face Just like as we see uh later on with the um manifestations of God to Abraham, to Joshua, uh to others, you know, whether it's the burning bush or whether it's a man dressed as a soldier, that God did come and show himself to people in a physical way. It seems as though that that was likely an a regular, familiar occurrence. And so again, we can surmise that there was harmony between Adam and Eve and God. They had a perfect relationship. What about their relationship with others? Well, they only had one another at this point, but we can look at verse 25 to see what their relationship was like. It says, uh chapter two, verse twenty-five, that is, and the man and his wife were both naked and not ashamed. This is a a perfect relationship of vulnerability, of transparency Uh I know everything about you, you know everything about me, and we're living together, we're we're loving one another, we're working together, we're serving together, we're We're living for God together. There there's no animosity, there's no conflict, there's no guilt There's no shame. They had perfect relationships with one another. They weren't trying to tear one another down. They didn't have, you know, marriage arguments They weren't arguing about kids because they didn't have any kids which is probably why the fall came before they had kids. Now I have no idea, and neither does anyone else, what would have happened if they had not sinned. Uh people speculate, you know, would we all be walking around without any clothes on because we're perfect? Who knows? Doesn't matter. The point is that this passage it makes it very clear they had perfect harmony with one another. There was no sin, there was no No barrier between them at all. Then they had perfect relationship with nature. Look at chapter three verses one and two. Now the serpent was more crafty than any beast of the field which the Lord God had made. And he said to the woman, Indeed, Has God said, You shall not eat from any tree of the garden? And the woman said to the serpent, From the fruit trees of the garden we may eat, but from the fruit fruit of the tree which is in the middle of the garden, which uh God has said, you shall not eat from it or touch it, or you will die. Now the simple thing I want to point out from this is, again, Eve did not jumped back and like, what? What is going on here? This serpent is talking to me. Serpents aren't supposed to talk. Now again we don't know exactly what the dynamic was between Adam and Eve and the animals around them and the vegetation around them. But the just the fact that she was interacting and apparently not surprised showed and and not suspicious of this particular animal showed that there was harmony there. They they cultivated the garden As we find out in the curves, which we'll look at in a minute, uh there was no difficulty in the work that they had in cultivating the garden. Uh as they interacted with the animals there was no fear of other animals. Uh there was no concern about getting, you know. spider bites or tick bites or whatever else. They they lived in perfect harmony with nature and they were fulfilling to a to the degree that two people could. The command for God that God gave them to subdue and rule the earth. So before the fall, Adam and Eve were in perfect relationship with God, in perfect relationship with each other. an imperfect relationship with nature. But it didn't last long, did it? We see that they fall. We're not going to take time to look at the the section on on how they fell for the sake of time. But I I do want to look at the effects of the fall, the immediate effects. We'll first look at the immediate effects and then the long term effects. As we look at this, the immediate effects, we go back to verse 8 and see that, okay, now there is If you look at the second half of verse eight, and the man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of God among the trees of the garden. Then the Lord God called to the man and said to him, Where are you? And he said, I heard the sound of you in the garden and I was afraid because I was naked So I hid myself. Now of course the Lord is not asking, Hey Adam, tell me where you are. I can't find you. I have no idea where you are. He's he's engaging in a relationship just like he does with us, right? He he condescends, even though he knows our every need, he still wants us to talk to him. He still wants us to bring our needs to him. And even though he knows where Adam is exactly, he still calls out them saying, hey we're Are you talk to me? Let's engage together. And so Adam says, I heard your sound in the garden, and I was afraid because I was naked. I was afraid because I was naked. Think about this. Again, we don't know exactly what Adam knew about God, but more than likely he knew that God knew everything. I'm sure of that. And yet Adam's saying, hey, uh even though God has seen me, you know, many times, whatever it was, even though God made me I'm afraid because I'm vulnerable. I've done something wrong and I I need to hide From God. Now it gets worse. Verse 12. Verse 11. Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten from the tree of which I commanded you not to eat? The man said, The woman whom you gave. So not only does Adam hide himself from God But when he's forced, he he comes out and stands before the Lord, and he has the audacity Not to blame the woman primarily, but to blame God for giving him the woman who caused him to sin. So again, not only is there a a fear of God, but there is a hostility against God. Now the hostility might be relatively minor at this point. He's not, you know, trying to kill God. Um he's not attacking him uh in any physical way, but he's accusing God of evil. Okay? With an immediate Effect of man's relationship with God, hiding from God, fearing God, and accusing God of evil. What about their relationship with one another between Adam and Eve? Well, again, they're in verse 12. Adam doesn't take responsibility. He blames Eve. He passes the buck to Eve to say, hey, it was her fault that that I I took of the tree and and ate. She gave me the fruit. And so there's there's blame shifting uh in verse sixteen, if we look down there, it says to the woman, uh God said, I will greatly multiply your pain and child. Childbirth and pain will bring forth children, and this part your desire will be for your husband, and he will rule over you. So immediately in their relationship, God institutes this dynamic, uh, which I don't You know, scripture isn't clear is does God institute it or is he is he just saying this is this is just going to be the case because of sin? But there's this now this dynamic between Adam and Eve where before they were naked and not ashamed, there was no guilt, there was no There's no shame between them, there's no barrier between them. Now all of a sudden there's hostility between one another. That one is going to want to usurp the other, one is going to be stronger. than the other and force uh his authority over her. Look at chapter four. Uh As as we look at we won't ri really read it, but this is of course the chapter where uh the immediate effect of sin within a few years comes to its climax in terms of man's relationship with one another. Verse 8 of chapter 4. Cain told his brother Abel. And it came about when they were in the field that Cain rose up against Abel his brother. And killed him. So again, before there was harmony, there was peace. There was nothing between mankind separating them. And then all of a sudden there's blame shifting, there's usurpation, and now there's murder. What about the relationship that they had with nature? In Genesis chapter 3, verse 15 God says this, I will put enmity between you and the woman, between her seed, your seed and her seed, he shall bruise you on the head So this is God speaking to the serpent. And there is definitely a a long-term promise here. There is a clear w what is often called the proto-evangelion, or however you want to pronounce it, but a proto-gospel, an initial gospel that he is promising to the serpent that the seed of the woman would ultimately crush his head. But to a lesser degree there's also this reality that now there's going to be enmity between mankind and animals. Okay? Just a a hint of that which then carries on as we look further in Genesis 6. uh when we see you know why God is flooding the earth. But it starts here in the garden. In verses seventeen to nineteen, again the relationship with nature, God says to Adam, Because you have listened to the voice of your wife and have eaten of the tree about which I commanded you, Both thorns and thistles it will grow for you, and you will eat the plants of the field, by the sweat of your face you will eat bread. To re till you return from the ground, for from it you will take it, you were taken, for you are dust, and to dust you shall return So not only is Adam and Eve's relationship with the animals around them uh distorted and and brought into enmity Now man's relationship to to nature itself, to the very ground on which they walk, to the with the very plants from which they were uh receiving their nutrition. Their job was not just going to be to till the garden and uh cause it to bear fruit so that they could sustain themselves. Now their job was to go out into the field where uh you have to plow the ground. You have to take out the stones, you have to take out the thorns and the thistles and the weeds You have to plant. And it's hard, hard work. You got weeds you got to deal with. And so the ground is cursed because of Adam and Eve. So just immediately, in a in a moment, in an instant, their relationships with God With one another and with nature are broken. Now the question comes, what about this thing of the image of God? What happened to that? Did anything happen? Did it completely go away? Is mankind after the fall still in the image of God? Well, I think the answer has to be yes, because in Genesis 9, in James 3, uh scripture is clear that man is still in the image of God. In Genesis 9, God is saying, you know, whoever can kills man by man his b his blood shall be shed because he's killed a man who is in the image of God. Uh in James three, God is talking about the tongue and how With the tongue we both bless our God and Father and curse man who is made in the image of God. And so scripture is clear that we are still made in the image of God. So what we say then is that the image of God after the fall is marred. It's distorted. It's disfigured. You could pile on some additional adjectives if you want But it's ultimately not lost. It's not revoked completely. If it were revoked completely, we would all just be animals. We would be like Nebuchadnezzar, right, in the field. He he lost the image of God, and it didn't it doesn't put it in those terms, but he became like an animal. He lost the ability to relate with God, he lost the ability to relate with others. And he ate from the ground like animals. And then eventually obviously God restored him. So the image of God is marred, it's disfigured, but it's not ultimately lost. How do we see this working itself out? What does it mean? What does a marred image of God look like? Well, first of all, We have to realize that because we are made in God's image, the the effects the immediate effects of the fall of hiding from God, of accusing God, just uh expound excuse me and and grow exponentially. Turn to Romans chapter one There are there are so many passages we could look at on on each of these elements, but I I hope I've chosen ones that are Particularly clear and uh expansive. Romans chapter one, a familiar passage. In short The marred image of God in us means that we suppress the truth of God Verse 18, for the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who suppress the truth in unrighteousness, because What is known about God is evident within them, for God made it evident to them. For since the creation of the world, his invisible attributes, his eternal power and divine nature have been clearly seen, being understood from through what has been made, so that they are without excuse. For even though they knew God again there's that we know God because we're in the image of God, they did not honor him as God or give thanks. But they became futile in their speculations, and their foolish heart was darkened. Professing to be wise, they became fools, and exchanged the glory of the incorruptible God for an image. in the form of corruptible man and of birds and four footed animals and crawling creatures. Therefore God gave them over to the lust of their hearts, to impurity, so that their bodies would be dishonored among them. For they exchanged the truth of God for a lie, and worshipped and served the creature rather than the creator who is blessed forever. Amen. In our fallen state, the marred image of God means that we suppress the truth of God. That we deny him, that we reject him, that we we exchange the truth about him for a lie And you could ask, well, what is that lie? That lie is, in many cases, that I am God. I am in control. I get to decide what's true and what's right. I get to decide my destiny. I get to decide what's going to bring me happiness and fulfillment in life. I get to decide how I'm gonna live And you see that bearing out in the rest of that passage, which we'll look at more of it in in a moment. If you just flip over to chapter 3. In chapter 3, Paul is quoting from the Psalms and describing all of mankind. This is such a key passage uh in scripture that basically tells you this is what all mankind is like apart from the grace of God, this is what all people are like. Verse 10. As it is written There is none righteous, not even one. There is none who understands. And this, there is none who seeks for God None who seeks for God. Now again you could say, well, what about those who do seek after God, who seem to be searching for truth? And that's where that phrase, apart from the grace of God, comes in. Because God by His grace does work in people and draw them to Himself. And sometimes it's in a moment they hear the gospel for the first time, they believe. And in other cases it's over a long period of time of searching, of of recognizing there's this understanding of eternity, there's this understanding of a creator, and the process of searching for him is extended But fundamentally, apart from the grace of God, no one seeks for God. And then look at verse 18. There is no fear of God before their eyes. There's no fear of God. Now that doesn't mean that um uh that there's not, you know, some concern, you know, some experience guilt and whatnot and they're concerned about the future. But what that means is I'm not afraid enough to be able to submit myself to worship Him. You know, some might be fearful of death, they might be fearful of eternity, but ultimately they're not afraid of God enough to submit to Him. Their fear of him is less than their fear of other things or their love of of other things. So, again, the Marred image demonstrates uh itself by the fact that we suppress the truth of God, we don't seek Now turn over to Colossians chapter one. It's just another another element of this. Colossus chapter one, verse twenty one. Paul writes And although you were formally alienated, and here's the key word, and hostile in mind. Hostile. So when we think about suppressing the truth, when we think about uh exchanging the truth of God for a lie, when we think about not seeking God, not fearing after God, now we have to add in this other dimension of hostility against him. So it's not that I'm kind of apathetic toward God, and so therefore I do these other things, because I just I don't care about Him. I it's gonna do whatever I want. No, it's I'm hostile, I hate him. I hate God Uh suppose I should have had you turn here earlier, but you don't have to turn back. Romans chapter one verse thirty says uh among the long list of of The results of the debased mind, but men are haters of God. Haters of God. So where we were created to to love God, to to worship Him, to be in fellowship with Him, to to engage with him in in um two-way conversation, to serve him, to follow him, because of sin, that That is lost. And now we suppress the truth of God, we we don't fear him, we don't seek him. In fact, we hate him Well what about our relationships with others? Actually before we get to that, that let's uh There's some other dimensions here uh about God. So those first ones are about our our representation of God. I didn't make that clear. That in our representation of God, instead of being his ambassadors, we have become his enemies On the side of reflecting God in his character and relationships, we became like his adversary. The devil. In Genesis chapter eleven, I know I'm having you turn a lot of places, you can choose which ones you want to turn to. We see this idea of self definition, self identity This is the Tower of Babel incident. Now the whole earth used the same language and the same words. And it came about as they journeyed east that they found a plain in the land of Shinar and settled there. They said to one another, Come, let us make bricks and burn them thoroughly. And they used brick for stone, and they used tar for mortar, and they said, Here's the key, come. Let us build for ourselves a city and a tower whose top will reach into the heaven. Here it is. And let us make for ourselves a name Otherwise, we will be scattered abroad over the face of the earth, the whole earth. So God had mandated mankind to spread throughout the earth. to subdue the earth. And they said, nope, we don't want to go with your idea, God. We want to make a name for ourselves. We want to define ourselves. We want to control our own destiny. And so we're g we're gonna rebel against that, and we're gonna pursue our own selfish ambition. And we're gonna build this tower. And we know what happens after that. Now now think about the devil. We don't know necessarily what God's call on his life was. We don't know what What his responsibilities were, uh, what tasks the Lord had assigned to him. But he chose to go a different route. He chose to rebel against God's command. He said, I I don't want to do what God has called me to do. I don't want to follow God's commands. I want to I want to be like God myself. I want to be the one in charge. I want to be the ones that control my own destiny. And that's that's what these people did In uh Ephesians chapter two, verse three, I'll just read it. Paul says, Among them too, we all formerly lived sorry, actually, verse two. I have a type on my notes. Verse 2. And you were dead in your trespasses and sins, in which you formerly walked, according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air. of the Spirit that is now at work, that is now working in the sons of disobedience. In other words, as unbelievers, prior to the grace of God redeeming and regenerating us, we were walking, following The devil, the prince of the power of the air. He was our master, and we were gladly submitting to him. We were following his course. We were we were like him pursuing selfish ambition and self-definition Uh in Ephesians chapter four when again Paul is talking about what unbelievers do, how they live, he says this in verse seventeen of Ephesians four. So this I say and affirm together with the Lord that You no longer walk just as the Gentiles also walk in the futility of their mind, being darkened in their understanding, excluded from the life of God, because of the ignorance that is in them, because of the hardness of their heart. And they have Having become callous have given themselves over to sensuality for the practice of every kind of impurity With greediness. I think it's that last word that defines what determines what an unbeliever does. Greediness. That the unbeliever is a slave to their own greed. Wherever that greed lead leads them, whether it's To the pursuit of money, to the pursuit of fame, to the pursuit of pleasure. They are they live according to their greediness. In James chapter four, verse one, James asks this question that plagues all of us. What con what is the source of quarrels and conflicts among you? Why do we fight with each other? Why why do we uh Uh not only disagree on things, but why do we fight in our disagreements? Why can't we just settle our differences in a peaceful way all the time And he says, is not the source your pleasures that wage war in your members? You lust and do not have. That is, you have strong, compelling desires and you do not have, so you commit murder. You are envious and cannot obtain, so you fight and quarrel. You you do not have because you do not ask. You ask and do not receive. Because you ask with wrong motives, so that you may spend it on your pleasures. And then verse 4, you adulteresses, do you not know? That friendship with the world is hostility toward God. Whoever wishes To be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God. So out of our strong desires for Possessions, for power, for protection, for pleasure, for anything that we think will bring us happiness, we fight and quarrel with one another because we want to be a friend of the world. We think that when When we find our our intimacy, when we find our our love, when we find our comfort in the things of the world That's when we will be happy. But what we're doing at that very same moment is making ourselves an enemy of God. We're demonstrating our hostility against God. So again, we we don't reflect God in character and relationships, but instead we reflect the devil. Jesus said this to the Pharisees in John chapter 8, and they're interacting about, you know, who's who's really from the Father? And he says, You're not from the Father. If you were from the Father, you would believe me. But you are actually doing the things that your father, the devil, does. You lie, you murder. They were they were following their father the devil. We don't often think in those terms that whenever we sin, whether it's a a a one moment of sin or whether it's a lifestyle of sin, We're imitating Satan. We're following after Satan. My guess would be if we think in that in those terms, if we recognize what we're actually doing. That that would for believers that that would be a compelling reason to avoid sin. I don't want to be a Satanist, right? Now again, if you're a true believer, you're not you're not gonna be possessed by demons and you're not you're not gonna be worshiping Satan, but in that moment, that is what you're doing. And we want to flee from that. So we don't we're we're not God's representatives, ambassadors, we're his enemies, and we're not reflecting God in our character, and instead we're following the character of the devil. Now, regarding our relationships with others, instead of working in harmony together to rule and subdue the earth and propagate the human race, we've become one another's enemies. So we become enemies of God and we become enemies of one another. If you're happening to be there in Romans, you can turn to chapter three again, that same passage that I didn't read the whole section. Again, this is the behavior of all unbelievers prior to and apart from the grace of God. Romans chapter three, verses twelve All have turned aside. Together they have become useless. There is none who does good, not even 1. Their throat is an open grave. With their tongues they deceive. The poison of asps is on their lips. Whose mouth is c is full of curses and bitterness. Their feet are swift to shed blood, destruction and misery are in their paths, and the path of peace They have not known. This is how, from God's perspective, this is how we treat one another We we curse one another with our lips, we murder people with our mouths, and with our actions, with our feet, with our bodies. We destroy people. Maybe not physically, maybe not killing them, taking their life, but we destroy people with our words. In Titus chapter 3, Paul again describes with other terms what life was like for all of us as unbelievers. In Titus chapter 3, verse 3, he says For we also once were foolish ourselves. So he's he's inviting himself into this description. Disobedient Deceived, enslaved to various lusts and pleasures, spending our life in malice and envy, hateful and hating one another. That's pretty bad, isn't it? If you encountered someone and that and you knew that was their reputation, you probably wouldn't want to interact with that person Well that's who you and I were prior to God regenerating us. Again, we may not have been in in in terms of the the human perspective and our experience as bad as we could possibly be. But fundamentally, that is what unbelievers uh how unbelievers live. Going back to Romans chapter 1, after that longer passage that I read, Paul lists out some 21 characteristics of the life of unbelievers, starting in verse 28. Uh he says, and uh and just as they did not see fit to acknowledge God any longer, God gave them over to a depraved mind, that is, a mind that doesn't function right to do those things that are not proper, being filled with all unrighteousness, wickedness, greed, evil, full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, malice, they are gossips, slanderers, haters of God. God, insolent, arrogant, boastful, inventors of evil, disobedient to parents, without understanding, untrustworthy, unloving, unmerciful And although they know the ordinance of God that those who practice such things are worthy of death, they not only do the same, but also give hearty approval to those who practice them. Again, what a what a damning list of things that we do as unbelievers that unbelievers do that is the result of us hating God and hating one another. It is for these things that we are condemned to hell. Along with, of course, rejecting Christ. But these are gross sins, severe sins. that God says is true of all of us apart from his grace. So again, we have to, after saying all that, say we still have the image of God. It's kinda hard to think. If that's how God views us. But that in that image exists, but it is distorted. And we know we still have the image because even with all of those descriptions, we still see in the in the world of unbelievers, and you experience this in your own life before you became a Christian, before God saved you. That you had the abil ability to love. Right? You could love your parents. If you were saved at an older age, you could love your children apart from Christ. Uh you could uh take joy and pleasure in your work, whatever your work was. Uh you could look at creation and enjoy it. You could see the beauty, even if you didn't attribute it to God, you could still recognize beauty and goodness. You know, many unbelievers are philanthropic, you know, generously giving millions and millions of dollars, of course, those who are billionaires, uh, to to worthy causes. And even many unbelievers who aren't rich give to like the Red Cross or a whole host of causes. So there's still, if you will, goodness. Elements, evidences of the image of God in unbelievers, and we see that. That's what allows the world to operate If if we didn't have the image of God uh at all, then life would be impossible. You couldn't leave your house. Uh you couldn't live with anyone because you would kill them. Um So we still have the image of God. W w because of the remnants of the image of God, great love and great hate Can coexist. Virtues and vices can be entangled with one another We can love those who love us. Remember Jesus said that? You know, what's the point of loving those who love you? Don't unbelievers do that? Uh we can unbelievers can love those who love us, but we'll hate everybody else who gets in our way. So again, the the image is distorted. Alright, so let's end class because that's where life is and No, that would be a pretty pretty sad place to live, right? If if that's all that was that was in Scripture? It's like, all right, come Lord Jesus, you know, save us now. This is a terrible place to be In salvation, in the gospel, the image is restored in a new way. When God saves us, he doesn't just forgive us of our sin and here's your ticket to heaven. He changes us to restore the image of God in us First of all, God restores his relationship to us. Uh Colossians chapter one, right after it talked about our hostility against him. Some of you were here when I preached on this passage a f couple months ago. In verse twenty-two, so despite our hostility, despite our alienation, our behavior, verse twenty two says, Yet he has now re Reconciled you in his fleshly body through death in order to present you before him holy and blameless and beyond reproach. Those three descriptive descriptive words, holy, blameless, and beyond reproach, are each the opposite of what it means to be alienated, hostile in mind, engaged in evil deeds. That God reverses what was true about us Not only by forgiving us, but by changing us so that we might relate with him, that we might be reserved for him. that we might live a life that is um reflecting his kind of life. In chapter two of Colossians It's another passage that I love. Paul says in verse 13 of Colossians 2, when you were dead in your trespasses. and the uncircumcision of your flesh, he made you alive with him, having forgiven us all our transgressions, having cancelled out the certificate of debt consisting of decrees against us. which was hostile to us. And he has taken it out taken it out of the way, having nailed it to the cross. And the image there is that in in those ancient times when you took out a loan from someone, the the lo the details of the loan, the stipulations, the the you know the repayment um uh requirements, the penalties for not fulfilling your your repayment, they were all written on a tablet and of course they didn't have laser printers and you know paper mills. So the tablets that they had were were not written with permanent ink. It was things that that could be erased. And so he's using this image that between us and God There was a tablet with all of our debt, all of our sin that we owed him, and the consequences of what that sin was. And we know what the consequences are. The wages of sin is death. And it's not just that we had this tablet, it's the collectors were knocking at the door. The penalties were hanging over our head. And at any moment God could have chosen to say that's That's it, I've had enough. You know, you this is long overdue. I'm gonna I'm gonna uh call this loan and you're gonna pay the penalties now. At any moment, from our first sin forward, he could have said, that's it. You're done. That's enough. But at salvation, whatever point in life that is for you, God took that tablet And he wiped it clean. There's no more penalty. He he didn't just say, okay, I'll just erase some of the penalties. But remember, you still owe me. Right? He he took away the penalties and he erased the debt, drawing us, reconciling us with himself. So our relationship with God is restored. But at the same time, we is we still need to cultivate that relationship, right? We still need to, as His children Cultivate a loving relationship with Him. We still need to take His word that He has given to us and know what He has revealed. And we need to know who he is, because he reveals who he is through his word. We need to know what he expects of us, which he has revealed in his word We need to understand how he has designed this world to operate. All of it is through his word. So he expects us to interact with him by reading his word, but he also expects us to interact with him by seeking him and praying to him. communicating with him. So that there is a two way communication. It may not be face to face, but there is two way communication. There has to be a cultivated relationship between us and God, even though God has reconciled us to himself. Just like When parents adopt a child, let's say it's an older child who can who can engage in relationship in a more meaningful way right at the beginning, the the bare fact that they have an adoption, that an adoption has taken place doesn't mean that the child thinks of the parent as mom and dad, right? It takes time for the child to cultivate that relationship and the parents to cultivate that relationship. Well God has has done everything to make that relationship perfect. Now it's up to us to understand what He's done. So that we can enjoy that relationship with him. But what's interesting in this is that when the New Testament talks about The restored image that God is working in us through salvation, it always, let me just say almost always, talks about it In the context of our relationship with one another. Okay? Turn to Ephesians chapter 4 In Ephesians chapter four, right after the passage that I read from verse seventeen to nineteen describing unbelievers. He says this in verse 20. But you did not learn Christ in this way, meaning you didn't learn to behave in this way be uh as you were imitating Christ. If indeed you have heard him and have been taught in him, just as the truth is in Jesus, verse 22, that in reference to your former manner of life you lay aside the old self which is being corrupted in accordance with the less of deceit. And that you be renewed in the spirit of your mind, and verse twenty-four, put on the new self, which in the likeness of God has been created in righteousness and holiness of the truth. So there's this dynamic that we are to stop behaving like our old self. We are to take it off like we take off an old dirty garment. We're to renew our mind, to think a new way, and we're to put on this new self. We are to identify ourselves through how we live and how we think with the likeness of God. Which has been created in righteousness and holiness of the truth. Now, what does that look like? How do we do that? Well, Paul tells us. Verse 25. Therefore. As a result of this, what does it mean to put on the new self? To put off the old self, to put on the new self? Verse 24, therefore 25, therefore, laying aside falsehood, speak the truth, each one of you with his neighbor. Verse twenty six. Be angry and do not sin. Verse 28, He who steals must no longer steal, but he must labor, performing with his own hands what is good, so that he will have something to share with one who has need. Verse 29, let no unwholesome word proceed from your mouth, but only such a word as is good for edification according to the need of the moment, so that it will give grace to those who hear. So far, all of those commands of what it looks like to put on the new self are in our relationships with one another. Don't lie, but speak the truth to one another. Don't sin in our in your anger toward others. Don't steal from others, but share with others. Don't tear people down with your words, but build them up. That's what it looks like to be restored in the image of God. Now verse thirty says, Don't grieve the Holy Spirit of God, so there's an aspect of our relationship with God. But verse thirty one goes right back to our relationship with others. Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and slander be put away from you along with all malice. Kind to one another, tenderhearted, forgiving each other, just as God in Christ has also forgiven you. Now, when Paul wrote this he didn't put chapter five. So let's keep reading. Therefore be imitators, okay? Imitators. It doesn't use the word image, but this is what we're doing. We're imaging God. He he could have said image God as beloved children. And walk in love just as Christ also loved you and gave himself up for us, an offering and a sacrifice to God as a fragrant aroma. And he goes on. And the rest of chapter five into chapter six talks about what it looks like to be this new self that has been created in the image of God, in the likeness of God. And the vast majority Majority of it is in how we relate with one another. Turn over to back to Colossians chapter 3. Colossians chapter three, verse nine. Do not lie to one another, since you have laid aside the old self with its evil practices. Verse 10, and have put on the new self who is being renewed to a true knowledge, listen, according to the image of the one who created him. A renewal in which there's no distinction between Greek and Jew, circumcised and uncircumcised, barbarian scythian, slave, free man, but Christ is all and in all. So he starts with this idea of lying. He says, you know, behave according to the new self Which is being renewed to a true knowledge according to the image of the one who created him. Again, he's connecting this idea of the fact that we have been renewed, we have a a restored image of God in us, and it manifests itself through our relationships with one another. Verse 12. So As those who have been chosen of God, holy and beloved, put on a heart of compassion, kindness, humility, gentleness, and patience, bearing with one another, forgiving each other, whoever has a complaint against anyone, just as the Lord forgave you, so also should you. Beyond things, beyond all these things, put on love, which is the perfect bond of bond of unity. Let the peak peace of Christ rule in your hearts. That is, let that peace of Christ be the determining factor in how you interact with one another. Let it rule. Let it be the umpire, to which indeed you were called in one body and be thankful. And he goes on from there. So I just want to point out that as scripture talks about this renewed image of God that is in us at regeneration, that it talks about in the context of how we relate to one another. For the sake of time I won't mention it, but you can look up Romans chapter twelve, verses one to twenty-one, which is the whole chapter. And then chapter 13, verse 14. Let me just read that verse and just make a brief comment about it Romans thirteen, fourteen. He says, put on the Lord Jesus Christ What does it mean to put on the Lord Jesus Christ? It means to live like Christ. To to look at what Christ did, what what was his character, what was his behavior, what were his thought patterns. Put that on, because that is your new self to be created in his image. And then If you look at the context before that, the the previously there in chapter 13, in the context after that, in chapter 14 and 15, it's all about our relationship with other human beings, whether it's un uh whether it's believers. Or whether it's unbelievers, the beginning of chapter 13, of course, talking about a relationship with government. So putting on the Lord Jesus Christ has massive implications for our relationships with others. So what is the significance of all this? There is a direct correlation between your relationships with other people and your spiritual maturity, your sanctification, and your godliness. Let me say that again. There's a direct correlation between your relationships and your spiritual maturity, sanctification, and godliness. I don't remember if I said it last time, but all things being equal, there's no such thing as a Christian that is left to him or herself. Those who say, you know, I love Jesus, but I just I can't stand the church, I worship God on the mountain, uh, they cannot obey God. They're they're actually living in rebellion against God because God calls us to live in relationship with one another John MacArthur has said that you are never more like God than when you forgive. You're never more like God than when you forgive. And that's what these passages bear out. We saw that in Ephesians chapter 4 and Colossians chapter 3 Forgive. Why? Because you have been forgiven. Imitate God and walk in love. How did Christ uh love us? By giving his life for us and forgiving us. So the reason we should care about the quality and the nature of our relationships is because they are the primary way in which we glorify God. Not the only pri not the only way, but a primary way in which we glorify God That is, we represent God on the earth, and we reflect God to others by and through our relationships with others. This is why Jesus says in Matthew chapter five, you know, no one puts a l uh lights a lamp and puts it under a bowl. You know, you are the light of the world. Live your light before men so that they may see your good behavior and glorify God. Well that good behavior, if you really look at the Sermon on the Mount, by and large, is our relationships with one another, how we interact, how we deal with difficulty and struggles and sin with one another. Just a brief word on eternity. Turn to Revelation chapter twenty-one. So God is working to restore his His image in us, that's what we call the doctrine of sanctification. That progressively, day by day, week by week, year by year, he is conforming us to the image of his Son. We could you could write down Romans eight, twenty eight and twenty nine. That's w that's What God is doing through all things in our lives. But there will come a day when that image is fully restored. when we will finally be one hundred percent the image that God designed us to be. We won't be a hundred percent like God and there's only He's the only God there is and we won't We won't become gods like the Mormons teach, but we will be a hundred percent like what he created us to be. In Revelation chapter 21 verse 3 John says, And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is among men, and he will dwell among them, and they shall be his people, and God himself Simple point there is that we will be in perfect relationship with God. And we will see him face to face. uh what is that three um that when we see him we will be like him because we will see him as he is We will have perfect relationship with God. In verse eight of chapter twenty-one of Revelation, but for the cowardly and unbelieving and abominable and murderers and immoral persons and sorcerers and idolaters and all liars, their part will be in the lake that burns with the earth. fire and brimstone, which is the second death. So anyone who has not been restored, if you will, will be completely separated forever from God. And then verses twenty-four to twenty seven of that same chapter, we see uh by implication what our relationships will will uh look like in terms of how we will relate with one another. Verse twenty four. The nations will walk by its Light, and the kings of the earth will bring their glory into it. In the daytime, for there will be no night there, its gates will never be closed. And they will bring the glory and the honor of the nations into it, and nothing clean, and no one who practices abomination and lying shall ever come into it. But only those whose names are written in the Lamb's book of life. What we see here is a picture of perfect harmony among mankind. Though there are nations There is not hostility. They work together in perfect harmony, and they're all submitting to King Jesus. They produce, we will work together. We don't know exactly what what that means or what that looks like, but we will work together, we will produce, we will be ruling on the earth, ruling and reigning with Christ. We will somehow be manufacturing, and well again we don't know exactly what that looks like, but we'll be bringing the glory and honor of the nations. To Jesus as an offering of worship. And all of that will be done in harmony with one another. So that I suppose that has implications for both our relationships with one another and our relationship with nature on the new heavens and the new earth. Of course we could talk about the millennium where the lion will lie down with a lamb, the child will play at the nest of an adder, and you know, no danger between mankind and But the eternal state is characterized by perfect relationship with God and others and nature. Now closing thought here. Uh since we're in Revelation, just turn back to first John chapter four. His last last couple comments here. First John chapter four verse twenty Again, this is why it matters that we think about our relationships with others in terms of being made in the image of God, being capable of loving God and loving others. 1 John 4. 20 says, if someone says, I love God and hates his brother, he is a liar. For the one who does not love his brother, whom he hates, Has seen cannot love God whom he has not seen. And others that we all have are integrated, are are wrapped up together We cannot say, oh yeah, I've have a great relationship with God, had a wonderful time night, quiet times this week. You know, I'm growing in godliness. God is really showing me all these things. All the while our marriage is in a mess. Uh we can't get along with our coworkers. Uh we're always at odds with our neighbors. You know, the relationship between us and our children is is awful And of course a lot all of that assumes there's some contribution on our side uh for those bad relationships But if if our relationships with others are in a mess, that means that our relationship with God is in a mess. And that's only because of the fact that we are made in his image, that we're made to love him, most of all. and love others. And so we need to think about that relationship in in so that as we examine our own relationships, which we'll do next week We always need to be balancing, okay, yes I'm relating with others, but what does this what is my interaction with this person, whether it's your spouse or a a stranger, and everything in between What does this relationship say about my relationship with God? On a separate point here, what makes sins like anger and murders so grievous is that we're not just attacking another creature. We're attacking a person who's made in the image of God, and therefore we're attacking God. That might not be our in our motive. We might not be saying, I hate God, therefore I'm killing you. But that is what's going on. Again, because these relationships are integrated. And then finally, if we were to look more at James chapter 4, we would see that when we sin in our conflict with others, what's actually Going on is we are engaged in idolatry, in spiritual adultery. James says that I read that portion. So the relationship that we have with others and the relationship that we have with God as a result of being made. made in the image of God are are integrated. We can't separate my own personal godliness, growth and holiness, pursuit of of God, enjoyment of God. We can't separate that from my relationships with others. They all interrelate. So we will keep keep looking at what scripture has to say. I apologize that I went a little over and didn't have any interaction. I I was hoping we'd have some interaction, but uh Hopefully we'll do that more in the future. Um let me pray, and then if you have any questions, uh you can come talk to me or Um I don't want to keep you from finding your seat in this worship center. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, I thank you for this time. It's just remarkable as we think through these issues How exhaustive and expansive your word is that in such an economy of words, in an economy of pages You have revealed the depths of wisdom that even we've just scratched the surface. Lord, help us to examine ourselves and to realize that if if we feel like we have a good relationship with you and we know Know that we have a bad relationship with others, that we are self-deceived. And so as we move forward in this class, help us to grow In loving you with all of our heart, soul, mind, and strength, and loving others as ourselves. In Christ's name. Amen.