All right, we're gonna l start working through the one another's uh for today and then then three subsequent weeks. Uh and so I've categorize the one another's in different uh categories. And today we're going to look at the one anothers of love. Um just because that's the uh a a a large umbrella for some of them that we can do. There there's no biblical categorization. Uh just do there we divided them up so that it's easier to to tackle them in in somewhat similar uh areas. But before we get into that, I want to consider why these are so significant. So turn in your Bibles to 1 Corinthians chapter 12. First Corinthians chapter twelve. Want us to think about w why these one another should even be something we think about. In 1 Corinthians chapter 12, if you know your Bible, this is where Paul starts the discussion about spiritual gifts, which he carries on through chapter 14. Chapter 13, of course, is the chapter of love, which we'll talk about at the end. That'll be the last section we look at today. But for now I want us to look at chapter twelve starting in verse twelve and follow along as I read. For even as the body is one and yet has many members, and all the members of the body, though they are many, are one body, so also is Christ. For by one spirit we were all baptized into one body, whether Jews or Greeks, whether slaves or free, and we were all made to drink of one spirit. For the body is not one member, but many. If the foot says, But I am not a hand, I am not a part of the body, because I am not a hand, I am not part of the body, it is not for this reason any less a part of the body And if the ear should say, because I am not a part of Because I'm not an eye, I am not a part of the body, it is not for this reason any less a part of the body. If the whole body were an eye, where would the hearing be? If a whole were hearing, where would the sense of smell be? But now God has placed the members, each one of them in the body, just as He desired. If they were all one member, where would the body be? But now there are many members but one body. And the eye cannot say to the hand, I have no need of you. Or again the head to the feet, I have no need of you. On the contrary, it is much truer that the members of the body which seem to be weaker are necessary And those members of the body which seem to be less honorable, on these we bestow more abundant honor. And our less presentable members become much more presentable. Whereas Our more presentable members have no need of it. But God has so composed the body, giving more abundant honor to that member which lacks, so that there may be no division in the body, but that the members may have the same care for one another. And if one member suffers, all the members suffer with it. And if one member is honored, all the members rejoice with it. Now you are Christ's body, and individually members of it. And God has appointed in the church first apostles, second prophets, third teachers, then miracles, then gifts of healing, helps, administrations, various kinds of tongues. All are not apostles, are they? All are not prophets, are they? All are not teachers, are they? All are not workers of miracles, are they? All do not have gifts of healing, do they? All do not speak with tongues, do they? All do not interpret, do they? But earnestly desire the greater gifts, and I will show you a more excellent way, and we'll stop there. Pop quiz. What metaphor is Paul using to describe the church? Good. You're paying attention. The body. Who put the body together according to Paul? Jesus. God. The Lord. Right? However, you want to say that. Who determines what part each of us plays in the body? That's right. The the designer. God God puts us all the way He He wanted to. Um Verse twenty four. Whereas or it says, but God has so composed the body Um oh where's that other phrase that I that that we saw there? Um well We we we read it earlier that God is the one who appoints uh the gifts, he appoints people, he puts the body together. He chooses who's an eye, he chooses who's an ear, he chooses uh who the apostles, who the prophets are, who the servants are, who the givers are. He distributes the gifts. As we think about this metaphor, the way that the Holy Spirit inspired Paul to teach us about the church. What implication does this have for how we should think about our commitment to the church? There's no one right answer, just Steve. We're all important, Steve? Yeah, all all uh I mean God's designed us to fulfill certain Needs that other people don't have and vice versa. Yeah, God's designed us to fulfill certain needs. Marco? Yep, we have to interact. We have to have relationships that function completely. So there's a deficit if we're not doing our part. Right. How committed we should be with the question? Yeah. I would think it's committed as I I am to looking after my body. Are you? I'll I'll I'll put it on myself. I hope I'm more committed to the church than I am to my dumb thing. Yeah. Now if if I get a cut or if I break my arm, I'll be very committed. That's exactly what's right. But I'm missing somebody that's the arm. We need to be committed to ask where they are. Yeah, amen. Amen. Yeah. Any more thoughts along that stream of commitment? Well you wouldn't want your arm to decide, I'm taking high, you know. Yeah. But I think a lot of times Um in churches, when you make that covenant, it's really hard to break it because you did make a covenant, but sometimes it's messy. Sure. Yeah. Yeah, we'll we'll we'll come back to that. But Paul uses the example, right, of hey, I'm not a I'm not an I, so uh I guess I'm just not needed. Like the arm walking away. I'm I'm not I'm not the preacher, so I'm not all that important. Um Let me sidestep that. What other metaphors does Scripture use to describe the church? So the body is one metaphor. What other metaphors? Bride. Uh yeah, I don't know that that's a metaphor, but that's maybe the means by which the body is created. A flock. The body's a flock. We are Christ's flock. A building. Right? Absolutely. Ephesians chapter two. Any others? Those were the three I thought of off the top of my head when I was putting this together. I didn't do an intense study of this, but any others that you can think of? that I I didn't think of metaphors to refer to the church. If you think about these metaphors, the body, uh, the bride, the flock, a building. All the metaphors that describe the church imply, they don't explicitly teach, but they strongly imply That God is the one who decides who's in it and who's not, right? Uh the doctrines of grace, the doctrine of election, predestination, all of those doctrines I think are consistent with all of the metaphors uh of of Scripture. Whereas if if we were to say, well just people can decide, God gives people free will whether or not they want to be part of the church I I don't see that being consistent with a metaphor uh the metaphors of scripture. You know, the uh the sheep don't just say, Hey, I want you to be my shepherd. I don't like this guy, I want you to be my shepherd. You know, they're too dumb to do that. Uh bricks don't say, Hey I want to be part of that building. Uh the builder chooses the bricks. Um the the bride, at least in ancient culture, didn't decide who her who her husband wanted or was going to be. All of the metaphors imply the doctrines of grace, the doctrine of election, that God Himself is the one who chooses us, who calls us, who makes us part of His body. Now the the other side of that then is that there is there is a strong commitment that we should have where we shouldn't feel the freedom, if you will, to just decide, ah, I don't this really isn't for me. You know, like those who might say, I love Jesus, but the church isn't really for me. Just me and Jesus, we're good. You know, we'll we'll we'll enjoy our walks on the beach or we'll enjoy our hikes or we'll enjoy just time by the fireplace or whatever. But the church the church isn't familiar. We don't we don't have that choice. That's not an option for a believer. Uh we must be committed to the church because when God saves us, he saves us into the body of Christ. I just thought of another one, a kingdom. I don't know that that's a metaphor because that's that's more real, but that's maybe another way to think about it. Speaking of covenant, which Victoria brought up Um true, yeah, that we are part of uh that we are God's slaves uh and in that sense part of God's household. Yeah, that would be another one. In our church covenant, one of the aspects, one of the paragraphs that we who are members have all read, and I know some of you are in the membership class, and uh Lord willing will uh make this covenant Here's one of the things that we say. Covenanting together in Christian love, we promise to watch over one another in bib in brotherly love, to aid each other in sickness and distress. to be kind and courteous in speech, to be quick to forgive and slow to take offense, to to be active in seeking reconciliation. And to serve one another, preferring one another in a spirit of humility I don't know if you think about that paragraph outside of when we say that statement every time we bring in a new group of members. I mean obviously we could pull uh w we could go to specific passages of scripture to to identify where those came from. So we're not covenanting together something that God Himself doesn't already call us to. But isn't it true that we are so easily forgetful of these promises, of these commitments? Isn't it true that it is so easy for us to to get offended, uh to be hurt, uh, to disagree with something that we hear? and pull away, right? And think, oh, I don't like that. Um I think we're all old enough to have either experience this ourselves or to know others who have left church for the silliest of reasons. Or at least, even if they were r uh significant reasons that they could have been dealt with in another way. The reason the one anothers are so important and we're spending so much time uh four weeks to to look at them is because they really challenge our commitment to the church. And when I say our commitment to the church, I don't mean necessarily our commitment to to whole Bible church uh as such, but our commitment to the people of God. our commitment to the relationships uh that we have in in the body of Christ. And for us who are members of Hope Bible Church, that certainly means Hope Bible Church. Because Hope Bible Church is the people, right? We all understand it's not the building, it's not the facility. This church has has met in various places all around Colombia over the last twenty-two years And so it's not that we're committed to nine one one two Guilford. It's we're committed to the people. Um we're not committed to Pastor Leek, we're not committed to the elders, we're not committed to the staff, we're committed to everybody. The whole church. And the one another's give us, if you will, the the community rules Uh we all dislike homeowners association. Uh but this gives us the community guidelines of how to live in this community. And so it's really important that we give attention to it. And I think as we go through, there's probably not going to be a time where somebody says, wow, I didn't know that that's what that meant. You're probably gonna be like, yeah, you know, I know that, I understand that. But again, it's important for us to think about these things, right? Uh when a couple is struggling in their marriage, it's important to remember the vows that they've made. It's not that they're gonna be surprised that what? I said what It's that yeah, okay, that's right. You know, I did say that. I am committed to that Um yesterday we were uh our family was taking pictures with uh Lonnie Armstrong and uh she had Rich we we were doing just pictures with Rich and I at one point and She had Rachel face each other and so just, you know, naturally we kind of locked arms like that, you know, and I said, I do. All over again I do. We need to remain committed in an ongoing way. We need these reminders. And so my hope is that as we walk through these things, that you're that you don't just check out like, yes, I know that. I know that, I know that, I know that But you really think, okay, how can I implement that? I'm going to ask two questions at the end of each one another. At least today, and hopefully I carry it through, and this will be a point of discussion for us. How do we struggle? Where do we struggle in fulfilling this one another? And how can we grow or excel still more in fulfilling this one another? Okay? So with each one I'm going to ask those two questions and we'll we'll bat those around because I think it's important that we think very, very practically of what does it look like in in Howard County or whatever county y you live in in the twenty first century, how does it look like what does it look like to fulfill these one another's? Okay. With that introduction, let's start with the first one. So I listed out the ones we're going to look at in in the notes today. Hopefully you got those. If we had enough. So the first one is accept one another. Accept one another. You can look at Romans chapter fifteen Verse seven. Romans chapter fifteen, verse seven Paul writes there, therefore, accept one another just as Christ also accepted us. To the glory of God. Accept one another. To accept means to receive into to receive into. So when he says right there, just as Christ accepted us, what that means is that Christ received us into his family. He received us into his kingdom. He didn't shut us out. Right? He he received us. He made us part of His His life and His His Kingdom. An illustration is in Acts 28, verse 2. Uh Paul was shipwrecked with you know a couple hundred other people. Uh they by God's grace were all survivors, they were able to get to shore. And it says the natives accepted them, the natives received them and cared for them. You know, the natives could have said, Hey, who are you guys? We don't want you to take our food. No. They received them and and cared for them. They cared for their wounds. They provided food and ultimately uh helped them to get to their next destination after the winter. In Philemon verse 17, Paul is writing to Philemon about Onesimus, and he says to him, Accept him as you would me. Receive Onesimus into your house as if it was me that was coming to you. Right? And of course, if you know the situation there, Onesimus was the escaped slave of Philemon. And uh Naturally, in the flesh, Philemon would have probably uh wanted to punish him. Um He probably would have wanted to to have some justice done for the fact that he had escaped and defrauded him. But instead Paul says, Receive him into your home. as you would me, as if to say, welcome him. Uh make him make him feel welcome and comfortable. Pr uh meet his needs. Care for him. Be kind to him. Now, what's the context here in Romans 15? This this helps us think about what this is talking about, what Paul is calling us to do. The context actually starts in chapter 14, verse 1. In fact, you see the word again right there, chapter 14. Now, except Here it is again. Except the one who is weak in faith, not for the purpose of passing judgment on his opinions. Okay. Except So what does that mean? That means that when we uh engage with one another, as we get to know one another, we come to realize Hey, we're pretty different. We have different backgrounds. We have different cultures. We have different political views. We have different biblical views, biblical interpretations. We have different ways of living life. We have different standards for what kind of music we listen to, what kind of mu movies we watch. We have all these differences. And some Paul identifies as weak in faith, those who uh are more conscious and think that uh certain things are sin that may not necessarily be sin And some people are strong and they say, no, that's that's not sin. It's okay to have a glass of wine. It's okay in this case to eat meat that's sacrificed to idols. That's not that's not gonna bother my conscience And Paul says, with all of the differences that you have in the church, accept one another. Don't be divided on the basis of your differences. Don't say, hey, you can't be part of my group of friends because you don't do the things the way that we do them. You you don't have the same background, you don't have uh you know the same skin color, you don't have the same culture, you don't have the same preferences the same hobbies. No, he says accept one another. Bring each other into your lives. Welcome one another without making people feel left out, like they're they're strangers, they're outsiders. So that's a pretty simple thing, right? It's a simple thing to understand. That's a pr pretty simple truth. So what in what ways do we struggle? How is and I'm not disagreeing with you, just want you to talk about it a little bit more, how is accepting one another a lot of work? You really have to think through it. It doesn't come naturally and none of it does. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Yeah. What's natural or rather Yeah. Yeah, that's right, right. And the older you get, the more difficult to accept one another. Just check in. I think we we've become so set in our ways and thinking that We have so much wisdom and we know from our our long life how things are and how they will be. Yeah. It's that's obvious to me that that's wrong or that that's gonna hurt you because I've seen it many times. Young people maybe are have find it over A little easier. So I I think. Is that right? It depends on the first. Mm. If you're looking for a friend, you're not going to choose someone that's di diabolically opposed to you. Sure. But at Queen can see we need to be able to accept each other. Yeah. Yeah. Karen? I was going to say just like outside of church, other organizations By nature we form clicks. We form groups of people that we're comfortable with. And we don't n naturally go outside of those groups to extend us ourselves in grace to uh include them in our group. It's all sometimes done through status, hierarchy, many different goals and ways that we do it. But that it's never different research than it is in other organizations. It should be. Right. But that's what we strive to do, but sometimes we don't do a good job of it. Yeah, and and what uh responding back to what Morag says, you know, uh accepting one another doesn't mean everybody has to be everybody else's best friend, right? Uh th there's a normal sense in which we can't be everybody's best friend. We will naturally gravitate to those we have most things in common with. But having said that We should make opportunities to get to know one another and not necessarily think, you know, as as you're meeting someone maybe for the first time and you're getting to know them. you know, they say something of maybe what style of music they listen to or just the things that they like to do in life. Sometimes we have this thing in the back of our minds that's like, okay, I guess we're not gonna be friends because we don't have those things in common, right? Uh and and that's normal, but at the same time so quickly can't we sometimes or so easily can't we sometimes shut off a relationship and make it Shallower than it could be? Um what else? Oh we have all these things in common. We'll be Greek friends and you turned out, boy, this is not the friend I thought I was gonna be, you know, because you've made some assumptions of bank uh uh uh amongst the similarities. So just because you can talk about Right. I think part of it also is people some Yeah, absolutely. I I've heard that from people. Why am I afraid to tell you who I am? Because uh if I do you may not like me. Right. John Powell. No. Okay. Okay. Oh very old Okay. Well it's certainly true. Uh I've you know I hear p that from people a lot. Margaret, you were gonna say something? Maybe somebody else's culture if they or if you feel like they won't understand yours, it can be a fearful thing. Then the other thing is that it takes a lot of time to sit down and listen to where somebody else is coming from. their background has been what what their experiences have been. And it can challenge you, you know, maybe it can challenge the way you see the world. And that can be kind of Like, well wait, maybe what I would find isn't all that chew or all that one way. Yeah, our own prejudices of of various kinds um can prevent us. Well let's talk about how can we grow and excel still more. So what are what are things, practical, specific things that we can do uh in our in our lives, in our thinking? in our actions to grow in accepting one another. Just take one bite at a time and try to engage, you know, directly if it's just even for a minute or two with a real connection, like how are you this morning? And you know, you're not trying to get into their whole life story, but you are trying to make a significant connection with one or two people a week and you do that consistently. so that it's achievable. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Good. So be intentional about um engaging with people in a meaningful way. Right. Okay. I also think people have to be open to allowing themselves to interact with people too because sometimes it's it's if if your approach and you're not Allowing yourself the other person is not allowing themselves to be open, you know, then it can cause some friction on whether you continue to Right. So you have you have to be open. Yeah. And openness tends to breed openness, right? So if if I become vulnerable with you, then you might feel more comfortable being vulnerable with me because now you realize you're not the only sinner I am. I'm a sinner too, and so we can we can relate with one another. I mean uh encouraging one another, one other one another's. We're not going to talk talk about that today. That'll be under uh a different week. But uh the way that we speak with one another can open up a relationship and help us to see the person in a different light than simply by our differences Um So Dave, we'll have a dinner next week. Yes. I hope you're all signed up for that. Really? Yeah, we talk that we talk. And talk is all we do is cheese. You can sign up for a dinner and you're gonna be invited in here not to bring anything. Yeah. We're meeting guests. So he pushes and pushes and people stand back and see nobody talks to them. Well here's the deal. So Yeah. Well actually I was thinking about that as an application. I was thinking about that as an application that if you're not signed up now obviously some of you have pre existing commitments. But if you have availability, what a great way to to put things into practice. Uh to meet people that you may not know because nobody knows who they're gonna you're who you're gonna eat with until Uh until they tell us. But uh once you find out But i if you are signed up or if you pl are able to sign up and plan to do it, encourage other people too, in your conversations. Uh this morning in the foyer or after the service. Ask other people, hey are you signed up? Yeah I'm gonna sign up. And let let's let's do that together because it's such a good opportunity, Victoria. that I've been working with sort of very recently. Um the the willingness to be uncomfortable when you're un when you're uncomfortable. Okay. Um you know you meet people, they give you the And that you start focusing on yourself. But if you were comfortable being on Sure. Sure. Pick towards very good practice. Yeah. Good. So be willing to be uncomfortable. I know that I always sit in the same place and the same queue practically. However, when someone new like Victoria sits next to me, oh I haven't seen you before. And they may be a member of the church Or there may be someone that just came the first day either way of Hey nice to meet you, first time here. Oh no, yeah. So at least I know a new place, hopefully remember a new name And if anything, if they were a new uh first time there, at least maybe they felt somewhat welcomed and maybe more inclined to come back the next week. Yeah Yeah, that's a great one that when we see new faces, particularly here on Sunday mornings, uh, to treat people that you don't know as potential friends, as uh Uh hey uh y you might be a first-hand visitor, you know, you don't have to assume that, but uh just greet people you don't know and and Don't let people um don't miss those opportunities to welcome people. Uh Mike had his hand up first. So I was thinking, um right, this can be difficult for us to do it alone. Yeah. Ourselves. Um I know dinner eight and what we have now was like just awesome for us to get to know people, even though we have been here uh a while. Um and uh I I guess I'm looking from top down. Okay. Elders down. Yeah. Foster these types of how do we But what's their role in to kind of I don't know, setting up events Setting up something where this will foster these types of relationships. Yeah, we have small groups. Yeah. Well I I I think uh the big thing that uh elders but I mean it it's I I don't know that I would say it starts with with us elders, but we certainly should be examples uh of being hospitable, of uh welcoming people into our home. I mean from what I've heard from Pastor Leek and others, the the Leeks have been extremely hospitable. How they've many uh for many years have just oh well really since the beginning have had people in their home uh all the time. And so I think they've done a good job of that. And uh I think Uh Race and I could probably do better. Uh we've talked about that. Um looking forward to participating in the Mystery Dinner. I won't tell you how. I don't know if I'm supposed to. But um but we have had people to our home, groups of people, and and look forward to doing that even more, especially as as with the holidays are coming up. But uh the more we provide examples, uh the more people feel welcome and and learn from that example Um so the sim defin definitely an important element of of giving an example. I mean being hospitable is one of the qualifications for being an elder. Uh so it's so important. Oh I'm sorry. So I think some of us fall back on how we were raised. My parents had a bed and breakfast. Oh wow. So I learned hospitality from all through my teens, twenties, um with complete strangers. Um but I think it's also being more intentional about moving outside of our comfort zone and inviting people to our houses. Right. Like not inviting that couple that you know you have a lot in common with, go for somebody completely different and just be intentional about it. Because if you're not, it's not gonna happen. Yeah. Because we all gravitate towards comfort. Yeah. And moving outside of that is uncomfortable and who wants that? Right. Carol, last word before we move on. Very quickly. We use we need need to use each other's names more. Because especially for people who they need to hear who we are So they can feel more comfortable. Just use names and learn names. Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. Okay. Uh someone fast forwarded that clock and my watch. So I don't know what time it really is. But we gotta we gotta move. So next I want to consider be kind. Be kind. So Ephesians chapter 4, verse 32. Ephesians 4 32, Paul says, chapter 5 is what I'm looking at. It's supposed to be chapter 4. Be kind to one another. Tender hearted, forgiving each other, just as God in Christ has also forgiven you. He says the same thing in Colossians chapter three, verse twelve So as those who have been chosen of God, holy and beloved, put on a heart of compassion and kindness Humility, gentleness, and patience. So kindness is being benevolent, being friendly, being pleasant, being good, being useful. In the reconciliation class, I define kindness as doing the right thing in the right way for the benefit of the other person. Uh doing the right thing in the right way for the benefit of another person. Kindness, of course, is one of the fruit of the Spirit. Galatians 5. 22. And the example that we have of kindness is God. In Luke 6, 35, it says that God was kind to sinners. God is kind to sinners. Not just by the gospel in accomplishing salvation through Christ, but he continues to be kind even to the ungodly and sinners, by causing the rain to fall, by causing the sun to shine, by giving good things even to uh unbelievers In Titus chapter 3, verse 4, Paul talks about the kindness of God appearing and saving us. Now, interestingly, Matthew chapter 11, verse 30 is a passage we all love where Jesus says, Come to me, all you who are weary and heavy laden, right? He says his yoke is easy and his burden is light. The word easy there is the same word elsewhere translated kind. That doesn't mean it it's it means exactly the same thing, but it's the same word which means there's at least overlap in meaning. That when when Christ leads us when when his yoke is on our shoulders and he is you know behind behind us in a sense leading us like a like an oxen, uh the way he leads us is kind. He's a kind and gentle leader. So kindness. Give me two ways in which we struggle with kindness. Just for the sake of time, t two two ways in which we tend to struggle with kindness. We don't feel kind? We we usually do the tit for tat like he wasn't kind to me, so I'm not gonna be kind of him type of thing. That's true. Okay. So when you say feel, do you mean you don't feel like being kind? Yeah. Yeah. Okay. And and the the tip for death that certainly happens a lot. Someone did something to me. Yeah You have trouble forgiving or you just feel that there is something like a shot. Right. Yeah. They did this to me, I'm gonna Yeah, that's right. Now again for the sake of time, what are two ways we can grow In our kindness toward one another. Linda. Realize that we are new creatures in Christ and we can't hold on to those the the mentality of Right. And know that this is what we were supposed to do. So view each other through the right lens of God's work in our lives. Okay, what's another way we can grow in kindness? Oh, yes, Susan. Humility and patience are another. Yeah. Be be humble and patient with one another. Yeah. Sure. In in a simple way. Right. Right. Right. Yeah. Yeah. So asking the question, would I want God to do to me what I'm thinking about doing to them or not doing. Okay, again I I hate to move on, but uh the next one is be devoted to one another. So uh in also in Romans Uh chapter twelve, Romans chapter twelve, verse ten Be devoted to one another in brotherly love. Give preference to one another in honor. So we're just focusing on the devoted part. This is uh what's called a hopp's legomena, which means it's the only time it's used in the New Testament, uh, but it's used in other Greek literature. Josephus, the ancient historian, uses this word to describe David's devotion. the King David's devotion to Absalom, his son, uh upon his death. How when Absalom was killed, you know, he had he had uh tried to um uh uh run a coup and overtake the kingdom. Uh he ended up uh being killed against David's wishes uh and David cried and mourned for him and so he uses this word being devoted. It it means to love tenderly. To love tenderly. Josephus also uses it referring to a husband's affection for his wife. So not in the romantic sense, not in in a sexual sense, but in the sense of just a a tender love that a husband has for his wife. Or uh he also uses in the context of a people's affection for their leader. I think most, if not all of us, have that kind of affection for Pastor Leek uh that there's there's a tender love for leaders. So be devoted to one another. And and when you have that tender love you say, well why is it translated be devoted and as opposed to have a tender love. When you have that That kind of love, there there is a devotion. There is this sense of, okay, you might not be a perfect person, you might not be sinless, but I'm devoted to you. I'm going to stick with you. I'm gonna pursue uh I'm gonna pursue you, I'm gonna seek your best, I'm gonna care for you. And so that's that's why it's translated devotion and the fact of course that he says in brotherly love. uh is the manner in which we are to pursue that devotion. So where do we tend to struggle in being devoted to one another? Just two give me two ways. How do we tend to struggle in being tenderly loving toward one another. Okay. So sometimes we can be but we can be inconsistent. Okay. What's one more? Pam? Oh our thought. Given our thought. Yeah. So just the the time that we don't give is a struggle. What are two ways we can grow? I mean I suppose you could say the opposites. But uh for the sake of creativity, let's think of two additional ways that we can grow in devotion, tender love for one another. Margot. Somebody you're close to lets you down. You have to forgive them in order to continue to be developed. Even if you're at call, you might be at fault. Yeah. So be quick to forgive so that you can maintain and grow that that devotion. What one more develop develop a habit. So you do it out of habit and then it's more often Okay. So so cultivate devotion. Um how how do you do that though? How how do you make it a habit? Sort of like seeing hi to your neighbor every time you see 'em, you know, and getting into that habit or asking them how they are, or kissing your wife before you go to bed every night or before you leave in the morning. Along those habits and It may seem like it's cold that it's a habit, but when you you do it without well, maybe if you do it without thinking, maybe it loses it's So you said something there that that I think is is that triggered a thought that I think is really helpful. You you used in the context of a husband wife relationship, kiss you know, kiss your wife before you go to bed. Now that's in the husband wi wife relationship. But there are things that we can do in our interaction with one another, those kinds of expressions of love and affection Uh whether it's a hug for some people, whether it's uh a handshake or just uh uh um a facial expression of Hey, it's so good to see you. Whether it's uh listening, uh really good listening, th there's those kinds of practices that we can cultivate, that we can make habitual that that grow our affection for one another. Alright, moving on. Yeah. I was thinking that devotion has to do with priorities though. Yeah. Right. Right. Because I feel like that has to be Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. Last word on this one. Um Yeah. And um think in advance of their possible needs. Yeah. Yeah, being mindful and thoughtful about needs people might have. Turning a little bit of a corner in terms of the sense of this, tolerate one another. Alright? Tolerate. Uh Ephesians there's several passages you could look to for this. Ephesians chapter four verse two. With all humility and gentleness, with patience, showing tolerance for one another in love. You see it in Colossians chapter three, verse thirteen. Paul uses this word asking the Corinthians to be tolerant of him to bear with him in 2 Corinthians 11, verse 1. So it means to tolerate, to bear with, to put up with, to endure. In Matthew 17, verse 17, Jesus says You unbelieving and perverted generation, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I, here's a word, put up with you? Bring him here to me. What's he talking about? He's talking about the disciples who couldn't cast out the demon out of a boy. And uh like, Jesus, we couldn't do this. And uh Jesus says, How long do I have to keep putting up with you? From the beginning to the end of his ministry, of course, he knew that the disciples weren't going to get it, right? He knew in advance, number one, that one of them would betray him. And the rest of the eleven would just miss the boat on everything because they were they were blinded. They were still, if you will, unbelievers. They didn't have the spirit uh that was giving them spiritual sight to truly and fully understand everything. And yet he was gracious and he tolerated their weak faith. So in the same way, we have to tolerate one another's idiosyncrasies, right? We we're all weird. We're all quirky. Uh we all have uh uh things that we like, things that we do, uh maybe our own way of speaking, uh that Other people just find weird. Yeah, and that's okay. Um What do you mean by tallowies? Do I have a face that's Yeah, I don't think it's tolerance. I I don't think it's the facial expression that should communicate tolerance. I think if we combine kindness, devotion, tenderly love love with tolerance. Right. We're we're showing kindness over the long haul. Yeah. That's right. Yeah. Yeah. We just we just understand, hey, this is how this person is. Doesn't mean they'll always be that way. But this is how this person is right now and You know, we're just gonna be kind and loving and and and not write them off, right? And not say that that's it, I don't wanna I'm gonna avoid them, I'm gonna you know, walk a a different path if I see them coming my way. Yeah. How is is there how is the word actually defined in scripture? Because When I see that in scripture, I know what it means. But because right now in our culture that word tolerance means something totally a magazine for teachers called Teaching tolerance, which I won't read. I read it once. Yeah. Um how do you if somebody comes back at you and says, Well your Bible says to tolerate one another, right? Without giving them a whole sermon. Yeah. Yeah. Well of course the culture of tolerance is celebrate, uh affirm, um even even uh maybe become like them yourself, you know, uh acknowledge uh acknowledge that the way that they're thinking is right. Biblically, tolerance always shows up in the context of another person's problems. These are the word problems that could be sins. Uh it could be uh like with the disciples, the fact that they just were uh uh clueless And so it's in that same list of of responses of uh humility, kindness, gentleness, compassion. It's that idea of there's something wrong with you, and I need to respond to that error or to that problem in a in a kind, loving, Christlike way. So maybe that would be one short way to say it, um, that it's not ever in the context of building up other people and affirming, you know, the way that they're thinking and and the actions that they're doing. Is that kind of what you were thinking of? Alright. One, give me one way in which we struggle to tolerate one another. Somebody who hasn't said anything yet, maybe. Everybody else is like, I want to say something, I want to say something. about let's say members of my um extended family who let's say maybe they have a name it in claim it interpretation of scripture and I don't and we're talking about spiritual matter and you know tolerating, you know, sometimes beliefs which I I clearly think the Bible doesn't teach. It's very difficult. These are family members who say they're believers. can be a town. Yeah. Yeah, so there are times when we just not need we we don't need to say anything, we just keep our mouth shut. Other times when we may need to speak up But times when we tolerate we put up with it and we just our hands we pray for them, you know. Okay. Well that's a struggle. That is a struggle. What's one way we can grow? Again, somebody who hasn't said anything. Minji, you look like you were gonna say something. I haven't heard you say anything. Yeah, okay. So humble ourselves to give them the benefit of the doubt. Good. And recognize that whatever you need to tolerate them with, other people need to tolerate you in other ways, right? All right. Now the next one is is the big umbrella, the big kahuna, love. I have a lot of passages, but we're not going to read all of them. Let's look at 1 John. So First John chapter three, there's there's several verses in First John that that we'll look at real quick. First John chapter three, we'll start there, verse ten. Man, I actually was so self-deceived I thought we might end early today. So 1 John chapter 3, verses 10 and 11. In this is love. So that's chapter 4. Verse chapter 3. By this the children of God and the children of the devil are obvious. Anyone who does not practice righteousness is not of God, nor the one who does not love his brother. Or sister. In Christ is the assumption there. This is a really significant If you do not love your brother or sister in Christ, John identifies you as a child of the devil. And he says it's obvious. It's obvious. This isn't like uh I don't know. This is obvious. It's clear, crystal clear. Chapter four, verse seven. Beloved, let us love one another, for love is from God, and everyone who loves is born of God and knows God. And then verse 11. I mean there's whole sections about it, but verse 11, beloved, if God so loved us, we also ought to love one another. You could look at John 13, 34, chapter 15, verse 12. I really wanted to look at that passage because of the context. uh being uh the fact that that Christ was headed to the cross and he was kind of giving his last You know, his his last instructions prior to the cross. Of course he taught them a lot more after he rose from the dead. But as he talked about the importance of uh of their relationships with one another, he talked about love. So many passages. Ephesians 5, 1 through 2, multiple passages. And then of course 1 Corinthians chapter 13. So just turn there real quick, 1 Corinthians 13. If you ever want to know what does love look like What are the what are the tangible signs of love? This is where you look. Uh I recited this chapter for my aunt and uncle's uh wedding when I was a teenager. But this is not a wedding chapter. This is not a romantic love chapter. This is how the church should treat uh one another. Love is patient, verse four. Love is kind and not jealous. Love does not brag and is not arrogant Love does not act unbecomingly, it does not seek its own, it is not provoked, does not take into account a wrong suffered Does not rejoice in unrighteousness, but rejoices with the truth. Love bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things. Where do we struggle loving one another Is there any one of these we don't struggle with? Oh Lord help us. Okay. How can we how can we grow in cultivating love for one another? Let's just end our time with that question. How can we grow and excel some more care? Spending more time in God's word is transformative and really changes the heart. Okay Good. What is it I mean there's many things I suppose you could say, but what is that one or two things that rise out of God's word that does transform us? Well tolerance that you've talked about, and that's one that I think so relate to because usually when you're intolerant you um you actually think you're better then, you're not exercising humility If you're thinking, you know, this person is and I what the you know. So when you are in God's word shows you my goodness, child. Look and that what you're thinking and then you s that word really literally can change your heart and and show you things that you were blind to Yeah. Yeah. Good. Be in the Word, let the Word of Christ richly dwell within you. What's another way we can cultivate loving one another? Margot. Remembering how the goore is above the givenness. Yeah. Yeah, John says that right there, you know, first John three four eleven. Uh we are to love as he has loved us, because he has loved us. And if he, the Almighty perfect, holy, righteous God can love worms like us, like me How much more can I love someone who's who's not any worse than me, who's just like me. One more. What's one more way we can cultivate loving one another? Ian. Praying for one another? Yeah. Praying for one another. What does that do? Well you have to initiate a relationship with someone once you learn more about them And it would be really hard to create for someone that you're not going to love because you're having to take the time to know them and uh see what's going on in real life. able to maybe pray on their half emotional, you know, that that relationship can cultivate more love for people. Right, right. And then when you see 'em again, then you ask for an update on what's going on and they're like, Wow, you're praying for me, you're thinking about me during the week? And that that grows the relationship. Good. Well, uh we can obviously spend so much more time. So I hope that you will take whatever notes you've written And that you will meditate on these things this week, and that uh you will consider Signing up for the mystery dinner and put into practice these things and we'll look at more next week. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. We are convicted And challenged by all of this. Lord, we confess that uh we are so self-oriented that we tend to just focus on our own lives. Lord, help us to have an others-oriented mindset. Even this morning, help us to interact with one another. with visitors, uh with longtime friends, by accepting one another and tolerating one another, being devoted and loving one another, being kind to one another. Lord, work these things into our lives. So that we might glorify you and and grow in our relationships in Christ's name, Amen