Heavenly Father, we are grateful to be here this morning, to be joining together, whether in person or online. to grow in our understanding of how we can pursue reconciliation with others in a way that is pleasing to you. Even as we talk today about keeping you at the center, Lord, we confess how difficult that is, that we tend to be so focused on the problems. Uh we are so focused on our own on our own desires and we tend to forget you completely and act as though you have nothing to do with the conflicts that we have. So Lord forgive us for that and help us this morning to learn, even if it's a reminder. uh on how we can think rightly about our conflicts and put you at the center of it. In Christ's name. Amen. Alright, so just as we get started, we're on page 17, keeping God at the center. And just to remind you of the paradigm that we're not necessarily following in the curriculum of this class, but That's a helpful paradigm to have memorized and you know you look at it enough times and hopefully you get it memorized yourself. Uh and it's just re- a good reminder of the process of reconciliation. And we call these the four G's. This came from Ken Sandy who founded Peacemaker Ministries. Now he's started another ministry called Relationship 360 or something like that. And uh and with these four G's, he walks through uh what are the biblical principles, what's the biblical process of reconciliation. So the first is glorify God. That's the first thing we have to be concerned about. We're going to talk about that. uh a lot today that as we think about our conflicts the the most significant uh element that distinguishes Christian the uh reconciliation principles from secular reconciliation principles is that we are God-oriented. We want to please and glorify God, making him the one who rules and guides us in the process. We want to please him, as it says in 2 Corinthians 5. 9. Again, we'll basically spend our whole time today talking about that aspect. But then as we think about how do we move towards someone that we're in conflict with, how do we Start the process of reconciling ourselves to them. The first thing that Jesus teaches us to do is to take the log out of our eyes. So the second G is get the log out of You're right. It's just that idea of acknowledging your own contribution to the conflict, whether if you started it or if you perpetuated it and escalated it. Whatever your contribution is, you want to acknowledge that, you want to recognize that. Uh in in a situation where you're confronting a brother and sister in Christ who's sin against you and and you're you've not really uh been a party to to that in the sense of your own sin, uh there can still be a sense of getting the log out of your eye by humbling yourself before them acknowledging to them as you come to them that you're a fellow sinner in need of grace just like them. And so rather than coming in judgment to them, you're coming humbly and graciously and acknowledging your own need for grace So that's the second G. Glorify God. Get the log out of your eye. The third G is gently restore. And this is the step of actually going to the person. As it says in Matthew 18, 15, show them their fault. Help them to recognize what they've done that has offended, that has hurt, that has been a sin against you. Galatians 6. 1 talks about if you see someone who's trapped, in a trespass who's trapped in their sin, go to them and restore them, help them out, and have that difficult conversation out of love and in a gentle way. So that you can minister to them and hopefully bring them out of that sin. And then the final G, go and be reconciled, is the recognition that this Process is critically important. That if we're going to live as those who have been reconciled to God, our life should be defined by reconciling ourselves to others that we're in conflict with We will be in conflict. If you if you're married, you will have conflicts, you'll have disagreements, you'll have you'll have fights of various degrees If you're in the workplace, you're going to have conflicts with coworkers. If you're in the educational system, you're going to have conflicts with teachers or with students. If you're in the church, which we all are, you're going to have conflict with people in the church. And conflicts are not opportunities to run away from that situation. They are opportunities to glorify God, get the log out of your eye, and gently restore. And it is what it means to be reconciled to God. to reconcile ourselves to others. We are, as it says in 2 Corinthians 5, ambassadors of reconciliation. Again, having been reconciled to God, we are ambassadors. We are going out. Yes, on the one hand, that's that's a primary reference to evangelism where we're pleading with people to go and be reconciled or to be reconciled to God But in a sense, and we'll talk about that a little bit today, uh when we're in conflict, uh, and especially if I've sinned, I'm now in conflict with God and I need to be reconciled with God. And if the person who has sinned if the person has sinned against me, they're in conflict with God and they need to be reconciled with God. And so the pr principle applies. Our lives should be defined by being ambassadors of reconciliation. There's that unity in the body of Christ that Paul talks about in Ephesians 1 through 3, which we are then called to preserve. We are called to preserve the unity of the Spirit. in the bond of peace. So glorify God, get the log out of your eye, gently restore and go and be reconciled. Again, as we walk through this material over the next What are we now? Ten weeks after today. We're going to walk through each of these principles, not necessarily stated in these ways, but but this is what biblical reconciliation looks like from a 50,000-foot view. Today, the three sections in our notes we're going to cover are what does it mean to have God at the center? We're going to look at five principles of how to please God in conflict, and then we're going to look at nine implications of pleasing God. in conflict. So that's a quick preview of what we're going to talk about today. Again, the the overarching principle is that we are to glorify God. Last week we saw, you see this in the notes here, we saw that one of the opportunities that conflict provides is to trust, obey, and glorify God. Today we want to narrowly focus on how to maintain the goal of glorifying God in resolving conflicts. So we have these two passages here, 1 Corinthians 10. 31 and 2 Corinthians 5. 9. 1 Corinthians 10. 31 says, whether then you eat or drink or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God. Now, that particular passage, if you look at at it in your Bible, it's the last verse in a chapter, chapter 10, and the preceding chapter is all about the question of whether or not believers should eat meat that sacrifice to idols. And this was, as you may know, a conflict within the church. There were believers who said, No, we came out of paganism. We know what was involved in sacrificing these these animals and to to false gods. We don't want to ha we don't want to have any part in sacrificing uh in uh eating this meat because it it associates us with those pagan practices. They were convinced in their conscience that it was a sin to eat this meat. And then there were other believers that said, no, there's no such thing as a false God. They don't exist. It's all in the imagination. So eating meat that's sacrificed to idols is of no consequence. Then there's nothing in the meat itself that's going to defile you. It's just as Jesus says, whatever you eat gets processed and gets uh uh put out and so there's there's nothing that's going to defile you in the meat itself. And just going to the to the market and buying this food it's not going to associate you with a practice of of devil worship or demonic religions, so it's not a big deal. It's cheaper meat anyway. It's more economical. It's it's good stewardship So they had all these different reasons either for not eating the meat or, on the other hand, for eating the meat. So this was a significant conflict in the church. And the conclusion that Paul gives of he gives other principles of how to resolve this conflict, but the conclusion of it is this verse: whatever decision you make, Whether you choose to not eat meat, whether you choose to eat meat, whether you choose to drink wine or not drink wine, whatever you do. Do it all to the glory of God. Make sure that in your decisions and your choices, what's utmost in your mind, what's really the determining factor of your decision is The glory of God. And so it should be in our conflicts, no matter what we are in conflict with, as far as what the issue is between us and another person. What determines our response, our actions, how we go about resolving uh conflict, how we go about seeking a solution. What should really guide our actions and our words and our attitudes should be a desire to glorify God. In 2 Corinthians 5 9, Paul is talking about the fact that uh after we die This earthly body will go into the grave, and our soul will enter into heaven, and we will receive a new body And he says that here in verse 9, therefore also we have as our ambition, whether at home or absent, which literally means either whether we're on earth or in heaven, to be pleasing to him. So in effect, he says, whether you're in this life or in eternity, we have the same goal, to please him. That is our ambition. That is our goal. That is our aim. At least that ought to be our ambition. And so again, even in the midst of conflict, when you've been hurt, when you've been sinned against. uh when you've been uh abused or mistreated or unjustly uh treated Or when you've sinned yourself and you've contributed to a conflict, you've brought harm into another person's life. Whatever the situation is, once there's an awareness of this issue in your mind. the determining factor of how you respond should be to glorify God. We we can have secondary desires like I'd like um restitution to take place. I would like our relationship to be reconciled so that we can not be at odds with each other. You know, that there might be a host of, depending on the situation, of of things that need to get resolved. But chief among everything that we desire should be the desire to please and glorify God. So what does it look like to glorify God? Well you see there, we glorify God vertically and horizontally. Vertically, glorifying God means to live in such a way that our lives reflect back to Him that He is worthy to be worshipped and served and obeyed I like to think of it like as if we're holding a mirror. And the this vertical sense is first we're holding it up to God, like the sun shining down. You know, the it's getting reflected back to itself And our attitudes, our words, and our actions are showing to God, I care more about worshiping you, about serving you, than I care about whatever happens on this earth. I want to reflect your character. I want to reflect the qualities that you demonstrated in Christ. I want to show you that you are worthy to be worshipped, that even if I don't get my way, even if I get defrauded in some way. Even if this problem is not resolved in a mutually agreeable way, that I'm still going to worship. I'm still going to please you. That was really the goal that the Lord had when he allowed Satan to bring much harm into Job's life. The Lord wanted to prove to Job that no matter what Satan brought into his life, Job was still going to worship God. He wasn't going to reject God. He wasn't going to turn away from God. One of the things that we can sometimes do in the midst of conflict is respond in such a way that shows I care far more about getting what I want Then I care about pleasing God. We sin in response. We escalate a conflict. We demand our rights to the degree that we are now displeasing to God. That we don't worship God. In fact, we're showing that we're worshiping some uh something else than idol. We'll talk a lot about that next week. And so we glorify God by responding in such a way that we show he is worthy to be worshipped no matter what happens. In this life. That's vertical. Horizontally, we glorify God by reflecting who God is to others with our words and actions. On the vertical side, you can do that, certainly in your interaction with others, but you can also do that in your own heart, in your own home, in in in the privacy of your own room. You can glorify God, you can worship God vertically by just your own attitudes as you think about the conflict. When you're laying your head at night I guess you lay your whole body down. When your pillow lays down or when when your head lays down on the pillow and you're thinking about this conflict that you're in the midst of You can glorify God vertically by having and cultivating right attitudes that glorify God, showing him that you're going to worship him. You're not going to grow in bitterness, you're not going to grow in anger, you're not going to grow in malice toward this other person. But before the Lord, uh you you you want to have an attitude of forgiveness, you want to have an attitude of gratitude. You're worshiping him vertically even in the privacy of your own heart and mind. Horizontally is when we're interacting with others around us and we're putting God's character on display. So now we're kind of we're kind of tilting the mirror down and showing the character of God reflecting out into other people or toward other people. So that when they see us, what they're really seeing is the character of God on display. They're seeing that gentleness, that kindness, that compassion, that humility that Christ represented and lived out on this earth. So we glorify God horizontally by reflecting who God is to others in our words and our actions. Glying God is easy when our desires align with His and that of others. It's when our desires are in conflict that we have the opportunity to demonstrate who is really on the throne of our lives. Right? If you are working with someone at work or in the home and you have the same goal, the same purpose, you you agree on how to go about accomplishing this, it is really easy to do that. Hey, we can be kind, we can have fun, we can uh encourage each other, we can you know we work together in a in a in a good way uh because our goals are unified, our solution our our methods are unified, we're we're all together in this. But it's when there's a difference. Hey, I think we should do this. No, I think this is the right way to do it. No, that's the right way to do it. When there's a difference, that's when there's an opportunity to see, okay, who's going to control me? Is my flesh going to control me? Or is God going to control me? Paul Tripp in his book War of Words, which is an excellent book on communication, actually, scratch that. Wrong book. In his book, What Did You Expect he actually talks about in War of Words, but uh in his book What Did You Expect, which is a book on marriage, he has In chapter 4, a helpful discussion of this concept of a vertical war that's going on and a horizontal war. And he rightly acknowledges that so much of marital conflict, we tend to think of the conflicts that we have with one another as husband and wife. We focus very n very narrowly on our disagreements, on the past hurts that we've committed against each other, and we just assume, hey, this battle is between me and her or her him and myself And that's our focus. What we don't realize is when we are sinning in our conflicts, we are more significantly at war with God. We're saying I am more important, my desires are more important, my thoughts of the way to resolve this conflict is much more important than serving God. And so we actually are at war with God more than we are at war with the other person. So one of the things that we need to do is first of all repent. Repent of that idolatry. Repent of that false worship And say, God, I'm going to be at peace with you by confessing my sin, repenting of it, and I'm going to start listening and submitting to you and the commands that you give to me As I work out this conflict with my spouse or with this other person. So there is always, whenever there is a vertical war, excuse me, a horizontal war between us and another person There is always a vertical war. And our responsibility is to make sure that as far as we can can make it so that we are at peace with God, not just in the in our own sense of peace, like, yeah, me and God, we're good, but that we're actually submitting to God in the course of resolving our conflicts. Three five and six sesma. Yeah, can you quote it? But the diarrhous can be for him. Right. Right, Proverbs Dale was saying uh Proverbs 3, 5 and 6, delight yourself in the Lord and he will give you the desires of your heart. Which is also Psalm 37, 4, which I've been trying Yeah, it's those couple places. So that's why we have to keep God at the center because we have to recognize that He is involved in every conflict. He's not a party to it in the sense that he has sinned in the conflict or that he has contributed to the conflict, but he is involved because he is the one who establishes for us who have Trusted in him, who have submitted our lives to him. He's the one who establishes the rules of how we're supposed to duke it out, if you will. And so if we're going to ignore him, if we're going to violate his rules, then we're going to be at war with God. So we have to bring him back to the center. We have to submit to his lordship. And then we can work out our conflicts in a way that's pleasing to him. So that's what it means to have God at the center, to seek to glorify and please him In all things. Some principles, five principles of how to please God. First, we must make pleasing God our single, all-consuming life goal Our single, all-consuming life goal. We're familiar with the greatest commandment, just one of the many places it's quoted is Mark 20, verse Mark 12, verse 30. You shall love the Lord with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind. Those three words, heart, soul, and mind, are really repetition If you study those throughout scripture, we'll again talk about this next week when we talk about the heart of conflict. Those three words actually represent the same part of us. And so by repeating all three of them or using all three of them and saying all for all three of them, all your heart and all your soul and all your mind, there's just this abundant uh um sense of uh with everything that is in you, with all of who you are, there's this massive emphasis that this should be our all-consuming life goal. I tell people all the time, you know, when they get into a situation due to their own sin or the sin of others, where it's like, I don't necessarily know what the answer is for this moment The first and easiest thing we can always always say is, well, I know I need to glorify God. And we have to acknowledge that. We actually have to have that thought in our mind. I may not know what's the right thing to say in this moment. I may not know what's the right thing to do in this moment, but I do know one thing. I need to glorify God. That's the first and most important thing. And the wonderful thing about acknowledging that, just having that thought and maybe even saying it with your own words, is it takes a lot of things off the table. It removes a lot of options that your flesh might want to keep on the table. So as soon as you say, okay, I I I'm being attacked right now. This person has stolen from me, or whatever it might be. I don't know what to do. What do I do? I need to glorify God. So at a bare minimum, that means I'm not going to repay evil for evil. I'm not going to yell and scream. I'm not going to cuss them out. There's a whole lot of things that my flesh would want to do that all of a sudden I know I can't do. So I may not know which specific thing to do or what words to say, but I know all of a sudden, because my all-consuming goal is to glorify God, there's a whole lot of things I know I can't do. Second, we must seek to please God, not ourselves or others. Not ourselves or others. This really just flows out from the first. But if we are seeking to please God, then we are not to have thoughts about what can how can I get my way? How can I get them to believe my perspective? How can I arrange the circumstances to accomplish my goals and my desires? Or on the flip side, what do I need to do to make you happy? Sometimes people say that because they don't like conflicts. Okay, just tell me what you want me to do to make you happy. Well, that's not always a bad thing. Paul does say in Philippians, don't look out for your own interests, but also for the interests of others. So there might be situations where that's an appropriate response But the motivation should not be just to, okay, just I don't want conflict. Just tell me what you want me to do and I'll I'll do it. Our motivation, if if we're going to look out for the interests of others, should be, I want to glorify God So if we have wronged someone and they confront us of that wrong, we should say, brother, sister, you're right. That was wrong of me to do. What can I do? to to make up for it. How can I repay this wrong that I've done? So we must seek to please God as the motivation for how we pursue solutions. Pleasing ourselves or pleasing others should not be the first goal. Galatians chapter 1, verse 10 says, For am I now seeking the favor of men or of God? Or am I striving to please men? If I were still trying to please men, I would not be a bondservant of Christ. Paul's simply acknowledging there that as soon as we make pleasing God, or excuse me, pleasing ourselves or pleasing others our goal, at that moment we have stopped making pleasing God. our goal. We have stopped being a slave of Christ. You know, you think about a slave Anytime in history, just the concept of of someone who is owned, who is mandated by virtue of their relationship to do what their master says. If they, you know, if the master says, I want you to clean the house, whatever. Okay, yes, master, I'll do that. And then somebody else who's not the master comes and says, Hey, I want you to go out and meld the law, or I want you to do this or that. That's something that contradicts. And that person says, Oh, okay, yeah, I'll do that. Well, as soon as they submit to someone else who's not their master, then they all of a sudden stop submitting to their master. That's the point that Paul is making. And so again, we must seek to please God, not ourselves or others. Third, we must seek to please God according to God's word. We must seek to please God according to God's word This is simply the reality that we can't define for ourselves what it means to please God. Because that simply puts us in God's place. We're making ourselves God if we say, okay, I'm going to please God, but I'm going to do it the way I think I should do it. No, no, no. God is the master. God determines how we are to please him. So we have Psalm 119, 9, and 11. How can a young man keep his way pure? By keeping it according to your word. Your word I have treasured in my heart that I may not sin against you. Now we typically identify this passage in terms of sexual purity, but it is by no means limited to that. Purity of heart is simply the heart that is purely devoted to to the Lord. And we know what devotion to the Lord looks like by uh uh p uh deriving understanding out of God's word itself. If we want to not sin against God, then the only way to do that is to take in His Word, to digest it, to receive it. And to treasure it, to value it. Yes, to memorize it, but even more than memorize, to meditate on it. To have it fill our minds and our hearts, so that when we get into those difficult situations, we have God's word guiding us, showing us the way of how to please Him. So God's word must be the guide of what it looks like to please God We must seek to please God by depending on his power, is the fourth point. We must seek to please God by depending on his power. Ephesians 6, 10 and 11. Finally, be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might. Put on the ho the full armor of God so that you will be able to stand firm against the schemes of the devil. We all know how difficult it is in the midst of a conflict, especially in that intense moment of argument, how difficult it is to please God. You know, we we lose we we feel like we lose control of our minds, of our bodies sometimes, uh of our emotions. You know, our there's physiological reactions that are going on. Your heart is beating faster, so blood is pumping through our our body, the the veins are popping out. Our face is turning red, you know, we kind of clinch up our muscles. There's that physiological response which almost makes us feel compelled to respond accordingly. So we can't just say in a moment of calmness, okay, when you get in that situation, here's what you do, and use some kind of just uh practical tips, you know what to do in the moment. Now you you could do that. You know, you could say, okay, whenever you find yourself starting to heat up internally, Take two steps back, you know, breathe, take long breaths for for one minute or something. You could come up with steps like that, but that's just a behavioral change. That's not glorifying God. Now you might need to do those things just for the sake of your own self-control, but again the question is what's the motivation? If we're actually going to glorify God, which Our responses in the midst of conflict are always going to be counter-cultural, counter to what the flesh desires, counter to what the culture says is right. Then we need the supernatural strength and power that the Lord provides. Obviously he goes on in in that section, verses twelve to sixteen I think it is to talk about the armor of God that If we're going to resist the evil one, if we're going to resist temptation, if we're going to resist our own flesh, then we need to be armed with the weaponry and the protection that the Lord provides Because we can't do what God calls us to do on our own strength. He doesn't ask us to do that. He doesn't expect us to do that. He's fully equipped us with everything we need. in order to be godly and and to live life and to handle conflict. Our problem is we just tend to set it all aside. We tend to be like The anti-David who tried on Saul's armor and said, no, you know, I I can't I can't use that. Um we we think we can do it on our own. David recognized that that particular armor was not suited for him, and so he said, I'm going to go in the strength of the Lord. He knew what he needed, and what he needed was not the things of the flesh. And so we have to rely on the Lord. So we need to be in prayer, we need to be in the Word, we need to have the truth of God's Word again flowing through our mind, the sword of the Spirit So much of the armor, you know, we tend to think of the sword of the spirit as the aspect of the Word of God, but so much of the armor is truth from the Word of God. the breastplate of righteousness, the helmet of salvation, the gospel of peace that are the the shoes, the belt of truth, all of those things are aspects and truths that we have to have in our mind so that we are equipped and ready for the battle. You know, in uh Ephesians 4, Paul says, be angry and don't sin. Don't let the sun go down on your anger lest the devil, lest you give the devil an opportunity. Well, when we found ourselves in an ongoing conflict because we've allowed the devil to come in, we need to employ the armor of God and not rely on ourselves. And then the the fifth aspect of how to please God is To recognize that Jesus alone has fulfilled this God-pleasing goal perfectly. There are two times in Scripture where we are told that the Father expressed his pleasure with the Son. There's no other person that we are expressly told that God is pleased with in the New or Old Testament. And so we can trust that if we're going to please God, then what we have to do is imitate Christ. We know, okay, that guy pleased Christ or pleased the Father. So therefore, if I'm going to please the Father, I need to be like him If we reject that model and find some other way, we have no guarantee. In fact, we're almost guaranteed not to please the Father. So we need to look at Christ and and follow him. We'll talk about that more as we move along here. Recognizing that he is the model is massive in this process. So those are five principles of how to please God in conflict. Now let's look at implications for pleasing God. This really just again continues to flow out of these principles. The first is failure to please God, whether our own failure or the the other person's failure, or both of our failures. is the ultimate cause of relational conflict. We have acknowledged already that uh If two people disagree about something, you know, I prefer the Chick-fil-A chicken sandwich, another person prefers the Popeye's chicken sandwich, uh we can live happily ever after without ever having a conflict. It's only when that difference of opinion, purpose, goal become at odds with each other. You know, we're riding in the car on a long car ride and we're trying to decide where we want to stop for lunch. And I say, hey, I want a chicken sandwich, let's go to Chick fil A. And you say, No, let's go to Popeyes. And okay, now we have potentially a conflict. But the even then, the only way this is going to become a conflict is if you or I choose to not please God and instead please ourselves. You know, if if if I please God and say, you know what, that's fine, let's go to Popeyes. It's not that bad. Or if you say, you know what, let's go to Chick-fil-A, it's not that bad. Boom, conflict you know, there's no conflict. It doesn't even start. But it's when one of us says, No, we must do this one. That's when conflict starts. Genesis six reminds us why the Lord uh brought the flood. to destroy everyone. It says, then the Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great on the earth, and that every intent of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. Now the earth was it's then verse eleven, now the earth was corrupt in the sight of God, and the earth was filled with violence. And I wrote in there see also eight twenty-one, which is after the flood, where the Lord reaffirms that this reality, this principle is still in place. So even though God destroyed everyone except for Noah and his family, that tendency, that sinful nature, still resides in the human heart. That's why We have violence. That's why we have shootings like we heard about this week. Because the thoughts of man's heart are only evil continually. That's why we have these just almost daily conflicts, which are born usually out of the silliest of things. Because our hearts are evil. And we choose not to please God. Second Corinthians five fourteen-fifteen, Paul writes, For the love of Christ controls us, having concluded this, that one died for all. Therefore all died. And he died for all, that they who live might no longer live for themselves, but for him who died and rose again on their behalf. The implication of this passage is prior to Christ dying for us, we live for ourselves. And certainly we could go to Ephesians 2 and Colossians 2 and uh Titus 3 and see that repeated refrain that those who are unbelievers, which all of us were at one point, we live for ourselves. We live for the passions of our flesh We live for the things that we desire, and Christ came to save us from that. So why do we have conflicts? Because me or you will choose to please ourselves Titus 3, I mention that passage. James 4, which we'll look at in detail next week. He ends that passage by saying, Therefore, whoever wishes to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy And there we bring in that principle that when we are at war with another person, when we're desiring the things of our flesh, when we have the goals, and we prioritize those above, pleasing God, that Not only are we not pleasing God, but we're actually making ourselves an enemy with God in that moment. So again, why do we have conflicts? Well, ultimately, it's because we fail to please God, either ourselves or the other person, or both of us. A second implication is that the goal of pleasing God keeps our focus on God, not on the conflict issues or the other person. The goal of pleasing God keeps our focus on God, not on the conflict issues or on the other person. Now that's not to say that we ignore the conflict issues or that we ignore the other person as if they don't exist. But that is to say, if our goal is to please God, then that becomes the central issue and the issues of conflict in the other person or persons involved. are in the background and have less significance. They have less determining factor of of what's going to uh what our response is going to be So Paul writes in Colossians 3, 1 through 8, Therefore if you have been raised with Christ, keep seeking the things above, where Christ is seated at the right hand of God. And just a few verses later he says. Therefore, consider the members of your earthly body as dead to immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and greed, which amounts to idolatry. Anger, wrath, malice, slander, and abusive speech from your mouth should be put away from us, he writes If our minds are set on Christ, if we're seeking to glorify God, then all of the things in this life are flesh, our desires. Our attitudes, our anger, wrath, all of those things, all of those things tend to fall away on their own because the things of this world are just less important. The more credence we give to the reality of eternity that this life is not all there is. In fact, this life is the the most insignificant aspect of our eternal life. And the the experience of our life in this world is of little consequence because of the length and the quality of eternity. If we actually live as if forever existed, and that we will live forever in the glory and the presence of God, then we will be able to endure any form of suffering in this life. We will not respond in a way that's displeasing to God. In fact, first John The Apostle John writes in 1 John that when we recognize that when we see him face to face, we'll be like him because we'll see him as he is. He said, He who has this hope purifies himself. The more we see Christ, the more we recognize what is to come to us in eternity, the more we will recognize, man, it's just stupid to argue over. Literally we're arguing over burnt toast. Why are we fighting about this? You know, a dying person. A person who has significant clarity on the end of their life tends to care a whole lot less about things that are important. Things that for most of us are are significant because of the impact on our lives or or the even the impact on another person's life. Things that we would give attention to, things that we would devote time to pr promoting or pursuing. Whatever it might be, but when you when you're on your deathbed, all of a sudden all of those things fade into the background and become unimportant. You know what? I'm not going to worry about that. Why? Because you recognize, number one, you're going to spend eternity and that's not going to matter to you anymore. But perhaps even more importantly Because you recognize that you have no ability to deal with those things. You have no ability to fix other people or situations. God is the only one who can really handle those things. And so if we were again to cultivate that eternal mindset that would put all of our conflicts in a proper context. so that we can respond in a way that's pleasing to God. Paul says in 2 Timothy 2, 3 and 4, suffer hardship with me as a good soldier of Christ Jesus. No soldier in act of service entangles himself with in the affairs of everyday life, so that he may please the one who enlisted him as a soldier. Again, the same principle. When you see yourself as an ambassador for Christ, then the things of this world are put in a different light. And that's what helps us to please God because the things that we used to think were so significant, so important. all of a sudden become of little importance. Well the next implication is in Christ, this goal is always doable, regardless of how the other person behaves. Pleasing God is always doable if you're in Christ, regardless of how the other person behaves. 1 Corinthians 10 13, no temptation, no trial has overtaken you, but such as is common to man. And God is faithful, who will not allow you to be tempted beyond what you're able But with the temptation will provide the way of escape also, so that you will be able to endure it. There's a lot we could say about this verse, but just for now, let me just highlight that middle phrase that you see bold in. The implication, the teaching of this verse is God will never, ever put you in a situation where your only option is to sin. Where your only option is to sin. There will always be a way to glorify God. That's the way of escape. That's the way of endurance. No matter what another person is doing to you, whether it's uh a prison guard in North Korea or uh a a a policeman in China or your neighbor across the street or your spouse, no matter what they're saying to you, no matter how loud they're screaming at you, or or what somebody is doing to you physically or emotionally or financially, God will never put you in a situation where the only response available to you is to sin. You know, sometimes we think, man, this other person is so out of control. We have this quick thought in our mind, they're so out of control. The only way for me to respond right now is to scream right back. so that they can see that this is not the right way to treat me. Or to just kind of slap them in the face and get them out of their tantrum. Wake up, what are you doing? Well, God will never put you in a situation where your only option is to sin. That doesn't mean that you'll be in situations where you'll never get hurt. Uh where y where you'll never be um emotionally hurt, uh physically hurt or or other things It means that if your goal is to please God, you will always be able to please God somehow, somehow. And on the next page, we'll see how Christ did this, even to his own hurt, as a model to us of how to respond in a way that's pleasing to God. But even here in 1 Peter 4, we see, Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery ordeal among you, which comes upon you for your testing, as though some strange thing were happening to you. But to the degree that you share the sufferings of Christ, keep on rejoicing, so that also at the revelation of his glory you may receive with exalt you may rejoice with exaltation. If you are reviled for the name of Christ, you are blessed, because the spirit of glory and of God rests on you. If anyone suffers as a Christian, he is not to be ashamed, but is to glorify God in this name. Again, if you're being persecuted for your faith, no matter what that persecution looks like, if it's mocking, if it's ridicule, if it's rejection, If it's getting fired, if it's not getting promoted, or if it's physical abuse, torture, and death. Our response should be a response that glorifies God. We should show by our response that we're actually Christians. As opposed to responding in such a way that that our life says, no, he's not actually a Christian, he's just like everybody else. So no matter what the other person is doing, we always have the ability to glorify God. Next is this goal will help us prioritize our efforts. our timing, our energy that we give to it, the risks that we take. Again, if our goal is to glorify God, we'll be able to better evaluate what will it take, what is the right approach How quickly should I deal with this? Jesus says in Matthew 3, 23 and 24. Therefore, if you're presenting your offering at the altar, and therefore remember that your brother has something against you, leave your offering there before the altar and go. First be reconciled to your brother, and then come and present your offering. The one who has the right priorities, who has the priority of glorifying God, recognizes that to God, what is more significant than bringing your offering at the altar is that you be reconciled with your brother. That's of utmost importance in God's eyes. And so if you're not reconciled, Then deal with that, give importance to that, give priority to that, deal with it fast and quickly. Jesus goes on to say, you know, even while he's taking the court, try and deal with it so that you don't have to stand before the judge. Put forth whatever energy is required. Take risks even, because glorifying God is critically important. The next principle is that God might bless our efforts by bringing about reconciliation. If we are truly seeking to glorify God and we're responding in humble, sacrificial, loving, gracious, gentle ways, God may bless that effort by bringing about reconciliation. Proverbs 16, 7, when a man's ways are pleasing to the Lord, he makes even his enemies to be at peace with him. Is this a good reason to not pay Oh, you thought on the previous point? Uh I think the the way that I would say that the question for those of you online is uh is is the previous point in terms of prioritizing efforts the a reason to not pay your tithes and offerings? But I think what Jesus is saying is give priority to being reconciled, but then go on to to give your sacrifice, whether you know tithes and offerings or or you know whatever it is that that God has has called you to do that We are to worship him, certainly. And one of the ways we worship him is by living a reconciled life. So we pursue that. while also uh pursuing our offerings. Now obviously in the context here Jesus is talking to people who literally were bringing like an animal to sacrifice for the sake of sin offerings. He's kind of hearkening back to the Old Testament where God says, I don't care about your offerings because you're living in a way that shows that you don't even believe what I say. You know, you're worshiping with me with your lifts, but your hearts are far far from me. So I could care less about your sacrifices. Because you're not worshiping me with your life. So what Jesus is affirming, same thing that God affirmed in the Old Testament, is worship me with your life as well as with your lips and with your offerings. So in a sense, in the New Testament context where we don't uh our where we're not bringing our our animals uh as a sin offering We are to do both, but he is just giving a principle of priority that we can't come worship, sing, listen to the word, give our tithes and offerings participate, serve in ministry. We can't do those things at the same time as living an unreconciled life. where we're allowing conflict to continue without even trying to reconcile it. Now later in the class, you know, we'll talk about what do you do when the other person doesn't want to reconcile? Scripture says As far as it depends on you, be at peace with all men. So kind of putting that together with this, we ought to be making efforts. We have to try to please God by reconciling ourselves to others. But if the other person refuses. If if they're dead, uh so we can't reconcile with them, or whatever the situation is, if we've put forth our effort and yet we're still not reconciled, we can still you know, worship and serve and and and do all of those things because we've done what God has called us to do. Does that So in other words, Jesus is not really saying don't don't don't give an offering, don't give a tithe until you're fully reconciled with others. He's just ensuring that we we live a life of reconciliation, that we live a life of worship in addition to uh doing the the rituals again in in in his day uh of what uh Gather gathered worship look like. Karen, did you raise your hand or was that Becky? again with before you know any further thing right it's higher you know it's would this be more related to coming towards cable Right, so so uh uh Karen's saying that ties what I'm saying is um she's trying to confirm, am I saying that ties are not the same as sacrifice Could this more be related to the Lord's table? I think that's probably a helpful way to think about it. Because at the Lord's table, obviously we're not sacrificing, we're remembering the sacrifice of Christ. And Paul says in 1 Corinthians 11, don't come in an unworthy manner, which we take to mean that don't partake of the sacrifice of the of the sim symbol of Christ's sacrifice. while harboring unrepentant sin in your own heart. And so, you know, for some it might be that because of a conflict they're in where they have sinned or where they they know that there somebody else has something against them. uh but that w whether or not you know you've sinned but you know you're you're not unified with a a brother or sister, that you may need to pass in order to pursue reconciliation, pass on the Lord's Supper to pursue reconciliation. uh to at least put forth the effort. Now again, if if you put forth the effort and you know the other person refuses or or whatever, then then I think we can take the Lord's Supper with a good conscience. But I think that if I were to just bring it down to that core issue of am I living a life of worship or am I just trying to do the rituals of worship? That's what Jesus is really concerned about. So sometimes the Lord will bless our efforts and bring about reconciliation. Our our humility may convict the other person. If we've sinned, seek their forgiveness, there can be reconciliation. If both parties, number six, if both parties seek to please God, full reconciliation is guaranteed. 2 Timothy 4. 11, at the end of his last letter, Paul writes, Only Luke is with me, pick up Mark and bring him with you, for he is useful to me for service. In Acts 15. 38, we read how Paul and Barnabas departed from each other. They went separate ways to separate missions Because they couldn't agree about taking Mark with them. Mark had previously deserted them on a missionary journey, and so Paul didn't trust that Mark was truly committed to the Lord. He felt that Mark could desert them again, and Paul wanted to give or excuse me, Barnabas wanted to give Mark another chance. And so disagreeing about that, and it even says they had a a a bitter disagreement They went separate ways, but at the end of Paul's life, there was something that happened where Paul and Mark were reconciled. To the point where they were actually able to serve together and Paul loved and benefited from Mark's service. I would assume, and this is certainly sanctified imagination, that Paul repented of his stubbornness to not take Mark, that he recognized his own error and not not trusting Mark once again, not trusting the Lord's work in Mark's life. And that Mark, for his part, overcame whatever bitterness was in his heart. Man, why why doesn't Paul trust me? You know, I've yes, I I did that one thing in the past, but I've tried to be faithful in the present. Why doesn't Paul trust me? I'm sure Mark struggled with bitterness. Whatever it was, they overcame what divided them, and the Lord brought about that reconciliation. And so it is with our lives. When Each one of us is humble when we're seeking to please God, when we're seeking to be loving and gentle and kind and gracious and forgiving. And you can't help but be reconciled to that. It's like two magnets just being forced to come together It's when we have uh different purposes and goals and someone is seeking to please the flesh that makes reconciliation difficult. Number seven, even if the other party does not please God, we can experience God's blessing and comfort. So in those situations where we've s sought to make efforts to to reconcile, we've done what we can. to be biblically faithful and honor the Lord and for whatever reason reconciliation has not taken place. We can rest in the the knowledge that God is sovereign over Isaiah 26 says, the steadfast of mind you will keep in perfect peace because he trusts in you. Trust in the Lord forever. For in God the Lord we have an everlasting rock. No matter what situation you find yourself in, if if you are truly seeking the Lord, you will have peace. You can have confidence that you've done what you can and leave the results to the Lord. Or Matthew 7, at the end of the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus says, Therefore, whoever hears these words of mine and acts on them may be compared to a wise man who built his house on the rock. And the rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and slammed against that house. And yet it did not fall, for it had been founded on the rock. If you kind of take that verse and you superimpose it on the rest of what Jesus said there on the Sermon on the Mount, you take every print principle, every truth that he taught. You know, the principles of loving your enemies, of praying for them, of doing good to them. And Jesus would be saying, okay, you have an enemy, you're loving, you're praying for them, you're doing good to them. Well, if that wind keeps blowing, if that rain keeps falling, that's okay. You'll be safe, you'll be secure because you're you're following my wisdom, you're following my principles, your your life is founded on the rock And so you can be secure. Principle number eight, we must continue our efforts to please God. Even if the other person doesn't, and the relationship gets worse. This can certainly happen because of the destructive power of sin. Sometimes uh we make an effort to reconcile and it doesn't work. The person doesn't respond rightly, they don't receive our apology, they don't forgive us, or they don't recognize their own sin, and they don't confess their own sin. And the temptation that we have is, well, I tried pleasing God, it didn't work. I guess that's not uh worth it. Now I guess I need to do something else. I need to please myself. I need to protect myself. I need to, you know, whatever it is, fill in the blank. But the truth is, no, if if pleasing God is our goal, then we need to keep pleasing God no matter what the outcome is. Even if the relationship gets worse, even if they retaliate even more, even if they take advantage of our humility and our efforts. We don't stop pleasing God because the outcome is somehow unpleasant. First Corinthians eleven, eighteen and nineteen, for in the first place we're speaking of the uh Church coming together. When you come together as a church, I hear that divisions exist among you, and in part, I believe it. For there must also be factions among you, so that those who are approved may become evident among you. So this kind of harkens back to The first chapter where Paul says, you know, what's going on? You know, you got I the I of I'm of Apollos group, I of I'm of Paul group, the I'm of Christ group, I'm of Cephas group. You have all these factions that are taking place in the church, and certainly as you move through the letter, you see the different theological disagreements and debates and the lifestyles that the church was was uh allowing to persist. And Paul says, it's okay that there's ongoing division because that ongoing division kind of allows the, if we can use this analogy, the cream of the crop to rise to the surface. Those who are true believers will prove themselves by how they respond to these factions. And so again, if if you make your efforts to please God, you humble yourself, you ask forgiveness, you acknowledge your contribution to the problem You lovingly and gently try and help them see their sin if they're not seeing it. And they responded by attacking you, by slandering you, by rooting your reputation, by taking advantage of you, defrauding you. Now, again, how you respond in that new situation will determine, okay, are you are you actually trying to please God? Are you actually a believer? Or are you just trying to do whatever works? Continuing to please God will prove whether or not you're Your true motivation is pleasing God. It's like they say, we heard this yesterday in a leadership seminar again. I've heard it so many times. We are to be servant leaders And you know, nobody nobody no true believer would ever say, no, that's not right. You know, I don't I don't want to be a servant leader. Uh that's basically saying I don't well I don't want to be like Jesus But what happens, what can happen is people treat us like a servant, and we respond negatively to that. And so the saying goes You know, you know you're a servant leader by how you respond when someone treats you like a servant. So same here, as if if things get worse, the proof is in the pudding of whether or not we're truly pleasing seeking to please God. And then finally, when the goal of pleasing God governs us, the other person's sins and failures become opportunities, not obstacles, to please God more and more and to grow as a Christian. So just following on from the previous point, when the goal of God of pleasing God governs us, the other person's sins and failures become opportunities, not obstacles. To please God more and more. This is what we talked about last week. Every conflict is an opportunity to please God, to grow in Christ, and to serve others. And so just because a person doesn't respond well or even responds in a in a more sinful way to our attempts Doesn't mean we throw away the desire to please God. No, we press forward saying, okay, this is now a new opportunity to please God and to grow in Christ. Peter writes there, 1 Peter 1 5 and 7, 5-7. You are protected by the power of God through faith for salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time. In this you greatly rejoice, even though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been distressed by various trials, so that the proof of your faith being more precious than gold, which is perishable, even though it is tested by fire may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. So the more trial you go through, the more attack that that comes upon you, and the more you re- continue to respond in a way that's pleasing God, the more your faith is proven and demonstrated and assured, and the more praise and glory and honor will come to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. 1 Peter 2. This is where we read the model of Jesus: for you have been called to this purpose, for this purpose, since Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example for you to follow in his steps. who committed no sin, nor was any deceit found in his mouth, and while being reviled, he did not revile in return. While suffering he uttered no threats, but he kept entrusting himself to him who judges righteously. With every punch that Jesus endured, with every pluck of the beard, with every mocking word, with every beating of the crown of thorns on his head. With every nail that pierced his hands and his feet, he could have said, that's enough. I've pleased God long enough and it didn't work. They're not believing in me, even though I'm doing everything to please the Father. No, he knew that continuing to receive this abuse. And unjust treatment was, and doing it in a way that was godly, was how he kept glorifying God. It was God's purpose. He glorified God through it all by continually, moment by moment, entrusting himself to the Father. Say, Father, this is very painful. This is very hurtful. This hurts. But I trust you. God, I don't want to experience this, but I trust you. And so it is in our lives that when we're on the receiving end of abuse, when others sin against us, or when other purposes are crossed with our purposes. We can say, Lord, this is difficult, this is unpleasant, but I trust you. I trust that this is an opportunity for me to humble myself, to glorify you. In 1 Peter 3, he writes, For it is better, if God should will it so that you suffer for doing what is right rather than for doing what is wrong. For Christ also died for sins once for all, the just for the unjust, so that he might bring us to God, having been put to death in the flesh, but made alive in the spirit. You know, there's a sense in which in in our fleshly thinking, when we're not thinking rightly, we can be like, you know, I can endure prison if I do something wrong. But if I if I go to jail for not doing anything wrong, I I can't handle that. If I'm treated unjustly That's it's not worth it. If I'm gonna go to jail, I should deserve to go to jail Well, what Peter is saying here, at least as it relates to our Christian testimony, is it's better for suffering, it's better to suffer for doing what is good than for doing what is evil. Why is it better? Well, verse 18 is there to remind us because that's what Christ did. He suffered for our sin. He suffered despite his perfect righteousness. He suffered for our benefit, so we're we're following Christ when we suffer for doing what is right But also it's not stated in this verse, it's actually in chapter two, verse I think, eighteen. Peter writes that when we suffer for doing what is right, he says it is a gracious thing in the sight of God. Or maybe more explicitly It is a grace from God. We receive grace from God when we suffer for doing what is right You know, there's no reward for sinning and getting punished for it. You know, you murder someone out of your anger And you get punished for it. There's no reward in that. That's what you're due. But there is reward from God for eternity when we suffer for doing what is right. Well, we have a number of additional passages there. I'll let you read those on your own. One of the Beatitudes, yeah, that's right. Jesus said at the end of the Beatitude, Blessed are you when you suffer for righteousness' sake. Thank you. It's a good one to include here. The one with the red carpeting and blue carpeting. How about I don't care, like I don't care if kind of carpeting is carpeting, you know. Yeah. Made a big production out of it. Okay, whatever. I you don't care Yeah. Well you can tell what Archers chose, the blue carpeting. from one of the guys on the building committee. Uh uh they were showing me some carpet the other day of uh when we finished out phase two and Very different from this. And you know, my opinion was, yeah, they look nice. That's why we don't vote on those things because uh that can create a lot of conflict. But even if it did create conflict, it would be an opportunity to glorify God. Well, if your goal is to please and glorify God, and your efforts are primarily motivated by that goal, then you will experience peace, joy, peace, and the world. and comfort regardless of the outcome of the situation. And most important, you will be pleasing God. Now, I understand that it's not necessarily automatic. Hey, I pleased God, therefore I experienced peace and comfort. The way to experience peace, joy, and comfort is to be meditating on the truth, to be uh r re meditating on the on the gospel. And so it's it's uh more involved than just saying, please God, and you'll feel good about it. Uh but the opportunity is there as opposed to not pleasing God. And suffering the consequences and then struggling with all the guilt and shame that that comes with that. Are we still centered? I don't know if it's practical. I don't know if I'm not sure. Guaranteed in the sense that if both parties are truly seeking to glorify God, I mean you you're just gonna naturally you're you're gonna be reconciled, no doubt about it. It's when one person isn't seeking to glorify God that it may not be possible. Yeah. All right, any other thoughts or questions online or anyone else? Okay, well let me pray. Father, thank you for this time. I feel like it's just flown by And uh again, Lord, we just reading through these notes is just a reminder to me of how far short I fall. And how much we need your spirit to teach us, to remind us of the things we know to set our priorities aright, to empower us in moments of difficulty to please you and to make that our aim. Uh Lord, we I I pray that our church would uh over time as as you pour out your grace and mercy on us that we would be a place where conflicts are handled well and quickly and most of all in a way that's pleasing to you that we would be a place of grace uh where uh we are not surprised by the sins we commit against each other or we're not surprised by the differences of opinions or purposes. but that we respond to them uh in a way that promotes your glory, that promotes the unity of the church. And that glorifies the Lord Jesus Christ, showing him to be preeminent. Thank you for sending him to endure such suffering on our behalf so that we would not only be saved, but have a model of what it looks like to please you. Lord, as we now transition to corporate worship, I pray that you would prepare our hearts uh in our minds to uh sing songs of praise that we would reflect on the lyrics as we sing them, that they would truly rise out of our hearts and not just be uh words on a screen And Lord, prepare us for the message, for the Word of God, that we might receive what your Spirit has to teach us. In Christ's name. Amen.