So today um this class this is week six and we're going to be discussing Confessing your sins to others, Andrew. And um how do we do that? Is this so this this class is gonna be kind of practical In a sense, you know, how do we confess our sins to one another? The Bible has quite a bit to say about confession. And often when we think about confession, we think about what? Confessing our sins, right? That's kind of the normal thing that we often often think about when we uh think about confession. The word confession or to confess means to admit, to acknowledge, or to confess. It's a declaration to confess means to agree or to promise. There are two types of confessions that occur in the Bible. One is the confession of sins, which we were really familiar with, but I think it's one that we do another thing we do all the time that we don't don't probably don't think about as much. And that is the confession of faith. Both are equally important to the life of the believer. As Christians, we confess our faith. We confess or declare as a matter of our conviction to the world that Jesus is the Christ and we belong to him. So we we confess those things to the world. Jesus says, Whosoever therefore shall confess me before men Him I will confess also before my Father, who is in heaven. Matthew ten thirty-two And the Christian life begins with a confession of faith, a public declaration before witnesses. And we often see this It's part of baptism where we are confessing to the world and to others that we are Christians. Paul says in Romans 10, 9 If you confess with your mouth Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. So this is ways we can we we we we confess our faith You know, letting the world know that we are Christians, this is what we believe, we believe in Christ, and on and on Sharing the gospel is a way of confessing our faith. How we walk among the world as Christians is a way of confessing our faith As Christians, we also confess our sins. We confess our sins to God, and we are commanded to confess our sins to one another. When we confess our sins, we admit and agree that we have broken God's law. We admit, acknowledge, and we agree with God, with his word, that we have broken his law. And in some way we have Not met his um standard of holiness. So we confess our sins you know, in that in that way. And we know that confession also leads to forgiveness 1 John 1. 9 says, if we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Jesus also teaches us in Luke 17, 4 that if your brother sins against you seven times In a day, which is a lot, and returns to you saying, I repent, you must forgive him. Indicating that we will confess our sins to our brother. How many other times we sin against our brothers, we must confess our sins. to him. So the two types of confessions are often all you can see these two types of confessions combined in the Bible as well. Right, you can see if you read the Psalms, you will see in the Psalms where the psalmist may begin by admitting his sins. The confession of sins. And as you read through some of these Psalms, then you will see his confession of faith, of his declaration of God's grace. You can see that. Like in Psalms 22 or Psalms 30, 32. So you see that these two types of confessions combine in the scriptures. So when we confess our faith and our sins, it is one way of glorifying God. So confessions of sin is what we're going to talk about today and how we should do that with one another. It's vital to biblical reconciliation. Biblical reconciliation and how we reconcile conflict Is vital to the unity of the body of Christ. It is how we glorify God. We're God's people And we're not like the unbelieving world where we just break relationships and it doesn't matter. No reconciliation is what God does, and it was Christ, and it's what Christ does. Remember, while we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death. of his son. And through God or through Christ, we are reconciled to himself and he has given us the ministry of reconciliation. So reconciliation is part of who we are. It is what we do. Okay, we don't we we don't leave relationships hanging in the balance. Right? We reconcile relationships. It is what we are called to do, it is it is it is what we do. It's what God has done for us, it is what He calls us. calls us to do. Now, I don't know about you, but confessing sins to God is Is a bit different from confessing sins to one another. And what I mean by that is So when we confess our sins before God, there's this expectation that we know He will graciously forgive us. Right? He says this in his word. We know that he is gracious and he will forgive us. But when it comes to confessing sins to one another, to someone else, right, that we've sinned against, it is much different, right? While we want to be forgiven, we're not sure if the person will forgive us. We're not sure how that person will respond. So there's a a lot of uncertainties when we approach someone that we have sinned against. We are hoping that they forgive. And uh so it it it can kind of cause a little fear when we have have to do that. It takes a lot of humility to say to someone, I have sinned against you. Because it is difficult, and we need to rely upon the grace of Christ and the power of the Holy Spirit. We move toward one another to confess our sins in understanding the grace of God and the power of the Holy Spirit. That he would enable us to do that which is pleasing to God. And confessing our sins to one another is pleasing. To God. So last week we considered how to identify the law in your own eye. We also mentioned that if after following that process you simply can identify what you may have said or done to contribute to the conflict The next step is to ask someone. In addition to the passages we saw on this point last week, James four uh five fourteen sixteen first Thessalonians five fourteen and Galatians uh six one um One of the ways uh our hearts deceive us is by causing us to think I'm not as sinful. Um I'm not a sinful thinker of my my Okay, no. Let me go back here Consider this one passage, I'm sorry, and that would be Proverbs 27, 5, and 6 So when you take these passages we talked from from last week, James passage, 1 Thessalonians, and Galatians. And you still have trouble. Think about Proverbs 27, 5-6. And it says, better is an open duke than love that is concealed. Faithful are the wounds of a friend, busy but deceitful are the kisses of an enemy. Having gone through this process and you're still unable to um identify your law if you will. That's where we want to go ask another brother or sister in Christ. Right? And this is a proverb about friendship. Speaking the truth in love is an essential part of Christianism. Fellowship or friendship. However, to speak the truth of love or to rebuke a friend can hurt sometimes. Right You telling me the truth in love might be hurtful to me. It it might cause me some pain Right? You know the old saying is the truth hurt but it first set you free. Right? So it can cause some pain Right? But to speak truth in love or to rebuke a friend may hurt him and we won't like it. However, he who rebukes Who is the rebuked should receive it as a mark of love. I should receive what Carrie says about me about my sin as a as as a f as a friend telling me something out of love. Does that make sense? Okay So as a friend, rebuke is meant to, is not, is, is meant to correct. I need to know that If Andrew tells me something, no Mike, this is sin. Here is I need to know that this is about correction. He's trying to, he's he loves me He's correcting me. It is not made to put me down or to destroy me. Does that make sense? Okay. Now One of the ways our hearts deceive us is by causing us to think I'm not as sinful as other people think I am. Have you ever been there? Right? The average John Doe walking down the street and the person on death row share this common uh self-evaluation. I'm not as bad as people think I am Right, and that's where the friend comes in. No, you're pretty bad. What you tell us, you know Not so good there. Right? So it's it's true that we can often minimize our sin in any conflict Right? I've done it, I'm sure you've done it. I wasn't that bad. Right. We might even say we're open to feedback from others But often when we hear it, we find ways to justify ourselves or discount the accuracy of their feedback. And here's where Proverbs twenty-seven five comes in, that it reminds us that when people who love us Tell us things that are hard for us to hear, we should listen and take it seriously. So it's I'm not sure if you've ever tried to speak to someone about their sin, right? And they often justify why they do What they do. You know, it no matter what they have, they have a justifiable reason why they're doing what they're doing. And it really makes sense to them. Right? Rather than listening and taking to heart what a friend tells us, you know, we often try to justify why why we do what we do And we need to move away from that and just listen to the truth from our Christian brothers and sisters, out of love, understanding that What they're saying, taking into consideration what they're saying about my sin or what I have done. You know. Um Asking questions about what they tell me. Do you really see that in me? Because I might not be able to see what what they see. You know, it's hard to see my own sin sometimes And that's why we need to ask people about our sin. So asking the person can be risky when you go to ask someone uh to examine me in a in a in a sense. But if we truly but if we've truly exhausted every avenue And we cannot phantom what we could have possibly done in this conflict. We should go to the person and humbly ask them to help us identify the log in our eye. In other words, this is saying that maybe we should we should go to the person that we have harmed or hurt, right? And um We can say something like, I sense that our relationship has felt strained lately. And perhaps I'm misreading this situation, but we've we've not been communicating well And I feel like uh you've been upset at something I've done or something I've said. I I've tried to examine myself and even ask someone else if they can help me think through uh this conflict that we've had And um so can you please help me identify what could be what could I have done to hurt you? See, I'm sorry if it's not as obvious as you might think it should be to me, but it isn't. Can you help me understand how I have a fenced that you. I really want to make things right with you. And that's kind of the example. You don't have to, you know, in your own way, what you want to do is approach the person Right? And in a humble and loving and caring way, showing that person that you really want to reconcile this difference with the b between you and them. Right? And so you you go to 'em to so that they can help you see, you know um what you may have done because you're unable to see it. The idea if you see it is the focus is on the other person and not so much you. The focus is Right? And Sometimes, you know, people may tell you something. I I've got to tell you. You hurt me by what you said And if you don't if you don't go to the person, right? If you have to look at yourself, right, pray them out. You can bring that sound What do you mean what I say? I didn't say that. Well you gotta can you prove it to me? What what do you mean and I say it this and I say it that It is almost like you put the person on trial. Now you you come to the person saying, how did I hurt you? Well this is this is what you did, and then you go into this whole justification So putting them on trial. And now they got to prove to you that this hurt uh what you did to them hurt them. And now they got to prove to you that it is that really is just about saying understanding that you hurt someone Right? And just take that and to heart and listen to them how they've been hurt. Right. It's not a matter of being right or wrong. I've I've I've caused some pain. Right? I've caused some pain And and often trial we do that to justify the person on trial to prove that I really did hurt them. That's a terrible way. to to uh approach some wrong. Um I know that I've I've been, you know, guilty of that Before um, have the audience. Hey Mike. Mike Hey. Um those of us that are online, we're having trouble hearing you sometimes. Can you turn away from the uh microphone? We're having difficulty hearing what you're saying. Okay. Is that better? Yeah, much better, thank you. Okay. Stand flat footed and don't move. Okay. Um so what if someone has something against me That I want to confess my sins to right. Unity in the home, we have a pretty good idea if we have offended a person. In my case that is very true. But outside those closed wars. Maybe have words with friends. It's possible that we might say or do something and not realize or remember that someone has been offended. I as it says, I have a good, very good You know, 100% of the time sure that I have offended my wife in some way Right. I I know that. Right. Sometimes I don't want to believe it Push it away, but I know. Right? I 9% of the time I don't have to come and ask you if I have offended Lenders. And especially during COVID where we both have been at home almost twenty-four seven. Yeah. Yeah. But sometimes outside of the home, I may not always know when I have said something or done something to someone that has offended them But Jesus has a uh scenario about that. He says, therefore, in Matthew 5, 23 and 24, he says, therefore, if you Or presenting your offering at the altar. And then remember that your brother has something against you. Leave your offering there before the altar and go. First be reconciled to your brother, and then come and present your offer Think about what you just say. I kinda think it in terms of whatever we're gonna have. Right And you hear that. How many of us do that Right. How how many of us think about I have offended someone and I need to go and reconcile prior to um going to the altar. Right? I I need to y you have a kind of w w when I hear that right, look around the church and see if anybody's gonna leave to to to go out. You know I have I have thought about do I need to go Reconciled to my brother. Um before presenting my offering at the altar. You know, is there someone I have um harmed or hurt Right. When I before I even like take communion or something like that. That that's kinda how I look at it. How how I've done it Right. Um and so Jesus here gives us this scenario to show us that being reconciled with one another is very, very important. Right? And he puts it above. What's most important is before presenting your offering to the altar, he wants us to go and be reconciled to them. And then come back and present uh your offering. So I like the first scenario when you feel the tension in the relationship Hear the idea i in from Matthew uh five, what Jesus is saying, the idea is that conflict is not affecting you personally, but it is is affecting someone else. The reason you don't remember can be very. Okay? But The idea is if you notice so far we're thinking about the other person and not ourselves Okay. So perhaps you don't see the person often, so you don't feel the tension in the relationship regularly. And you may not see this person often. And and and so obviously you you you you're probably not in touch with the harm that uh you have an offended somewhere. Perhaps the incident was far known in the past that you didn't think it was still an issue. Right? You said something about some some to someone. It's still stained to them, but to you y y you don't think much of it. Um Here's a case of point. Um let me put a disclaimer I always tell them that when I'm going to teach, I'm probably going to bring up some examples in my okay. It's the kind of sign on the gala. Bye, are you okay with that? So early in our marriage we had this argument. And um Um this is way before I came to the first time. We were both Meliews, but entirely in our marriage. And so um I was always head of the house keep. And so we had this argument in the I don't have a whole table. Right. And I have some sense to call a couple of guys at the church. So you need to go back home. Okay. That'll be okay, well. We're back home. Okay. Uh I guess about a week or two ago. We were talking about something a married couple of something in. One of the spouses of this couple was saying they were gonna leave or something. Something like that. Right. And it just like cut me in the heart. Obviously I have a wrong I didn't even know what biblical reconciliation was with when I did it. And you know, it was just saying I'm sorry, uh apologize. God at that time. But but for her to remember and bring it up, you know, God wasn't really the key. You know, I I think he said Well, you know, if you would give me God said, Oh, ever bring it up and all this kind of stuff. That's not where where the Lord took me to. And I And I thought about what I had done, right? And I realized I had not thought about how it affected her and how much it probably affected her You know? And I began to think I often say we kind of have some conflict. I'm going to take a ride and cool off with it, babe. How many times you probably thought, you know, here's exactly happening again. You know? And I know And um so that's just kind of an example that that we need to really think about the possibility, the harm that we can cause when we offend someone. How how deep it can go, you know? And so the It was it was kind of strange, you know. And and I went to tell her, you know, you know how to do something. And I just thought how how it must have uh really hit her heart and causing fear of whatever it was that I could possibly want it. Just leave her. Right? And so um I that that was one incident that happened a long time. You know, it was such an issue. Did something wrong but you didn't think it was that significant, right? But to the other person it was. Right? If you know, oftentimes we are hurt by what someone says but It my I I don't know how much it hurts you unless you communicate that to me unless I I ask you. You know, at first I could think of me thinking of you to even ask you. So or perhaps you weren't even aware that some Right? You know Andrew um My guy was talking and you know, he was tolding how you know really offended him. about what you said. Alright. Well what did I say? Alright. Uh he he just he just meant to get thick skin Right. Something something to that. No, we we we we we need to take in consideration, right, the other person. Right? The other person It's it's not just about me. It's about the other person. Right? Okay. Um Whatever the case, it doesn't matter. What matters is that someone has something against you. And whenever someone has something against you, Jesus calls us calls us to go and be reconciled We are to pursue peace. That's what we are we are to do. Paul says, if possible so far as it depends on you be at peace with all men. So what do you do? Go to the person humbly. And graciously and seek to understand how you have offended him so you can move on to the next step in reconciliation After identifying the log in your eye and confessing sin to the Lord, you are now ready to confess sin to the other person. And as I said, that can be um quarter for um quarter. Can you put yourself on mute? Anyway. So um Go back to the Yeah. Comparative sphere can can be tricky, it can be fearful, it can be can be uh and we can you can really uh just use where screw it up sometimes right we can't. Yeah. And um I've learned as I've grown in Christ to I've I've I've moved away from saying I'm sorry. I'm not saying that you know I understand what you say, I'm sorry. I say Um and so we can be really bad at professional things when we say things like, you know, Sorry. Yeah. What it has done for me is when I say I knew what you're gonna give me. Right I am taking you to account her in Christ. You know? Just that word of forgiveness. Will you forgive me It it it it has now been I'm I'm thinking more about how I have offended the other person Right. How did you say our star? Uh you know, that's what we teach I keep as we say, you know. And I understand you know what it is, you know. Uh but I can use it as a manipulation kind of kind of thing. I'm really thinking about myself. You know, I'm sorry, you know, I'm sorry. But the real deal is, you know, I I just I just want some peace. Uh we can say I'm sorry you were hurt or offended. Right Yeah, I I'm I'm I'm sorry that I hurt you or offended you and that's it. Yeah, I haven't thought about it what it is, what it hurt me has Hello? Howlida. Hello. Hello. I have a question. I'm so sorry. Um, is it possible that you could sit a little bit to your right? We're losing you completely. Okay. This is my right. That is your right, yes. I b I it the audio goes in and out, but we have we have lost to I mean, it's very hard to hear. Oh wow. Okay, I think it's probably this microphone on his computer. Yeah, we still can't hear you. You're talking and we can't hear you. Okay, so That this is happening today. Um wait a minute. Wait a minute. Okay, I've got a move around and had a mic. I think I have uh like hold on guys. See if this uh helps Is that better? Yes, so much better. Thank you. Try saying something else just to just to check. Confession. Yes, thank you, that works Okay. Okay, we say uh I'm sorry. And um I don't know what I did here. There we go. Okay. Uh I'm sorry you were hurt or offended. I bet you are. Right? How did that hurt you? How how were you offended? You know? And that's that's what we have to think about. How how how did the person how was the person hurt? How did I offend them? Rather than just saying, I'm sorry or hurt you were offended, it's much more to it than that. Right? And if that's all you you you confess is is that's all all all the way you confess your sin, you haven't even thought about the possibilities of how that person was offended um or was hurt. And here's another one. You know, I'm I'm sorry, but I'm sorry if. Right? I'm sorry, but if you hadn't done this, then I wouldn't have not have done that You know, I'm sorry if you misunderstood me, right? Had you just you know asked me some questions, then you know we wouldn't be in this situation Right? So you you you you you put an onus on them. That's you know I'm sorry, but is is is really blame shifting Right? If you understood we wouldn't be in this situation. So um We have to be very careful about using these words, I'm sorry. But more importantly, excuse me, we need to really be thinking about the person that we have offended. Our apologies tend to be minimized, minimized. Okay, I'm guess that's it. Let's look at the seven um A's of confession. We looked at, I'm sorry, I'm sorry you were hurt or offended. I'm sorry, but So oftentimes our apologies tend to minimize our contribution to the conflict We can even, like I said, blame shift the uh blame put the blame on the other person. But the following principles, these seven A's of confession, Or something that we can follow when we confess our sins or what we should follow. Address everyone involved Right? The extent of confession should be as broad as those who were involved, and sometimes even those who are aware of the situation. Right? So if we we we've seen this kind of like when let's say uh a pastor Right, uh commits a horrible sin. Right? We've we we've known pastors who have committed adultery and things like that. Right? That confession should also not only be with his family, but with his church as well. You see what I'm saying? So so all those who are involved, um, if you um If your wife is in conflict and you know, you say something really mean and the kids are around. Right? Not only should you confess to your wife or your husband, but you also need to bring to the kids involved as well You see what I'm saying? If you're having dinner with Linda and I, right? And I say something, you know, offhand, mean, and kinda make the guests go, hmm You know, and I see on her face that this it probably wasn't right what I said. It's probably hurtful, right? I need to, you know, confess that to her and I need to go to my guests You know, maybe the next day and say, hey, you know, uh forgive me for how I spoke to my wife and da-da-da-da-da Yeah. So we want to involve um we want to uh address everyone that is involved Obviously we want to avoid if, but, and maybe. Right? I think we we we talked about this. If you had not done, I would not have done Maybe you misinterpreted me. You know. Um so those kind of things. So we want to avoid uh If, but, and maybe. We want to take full responsibility without including the other person's contribution It's not is it's not so much about what they did. It's it's it is is more about what we have done. So We want to take full responsibility without including the other person's contribution to the conflict. That doesn't mean that we can't talk about what the other person has done or contribution to the conflict, but we need to be focused more on what we have done And not so much what someone else has done. We also need to remember that no one can make a sin. Right? People can make it easy for us to sin, but no one can make you sin. Sin is the outflowing from your own heart. Okay, and we have to uh be mindful of what's going on in our hearts. You know, I think that's very important. when we are able to go and confess and know how we may have harmed someone. We have to ask ourselves, so what was going on inside of me for that causes me to say something or do something to offend someone? Right? What what's happening in my heart that causes me to do that? Um Admits specifically, right? Don't don't sugarcoat it like like I call it. Don't don't use the culture's language. Use biblical language. Right? I didn't have an affair. I had I had I it was adultery. Right? It wasn't, you know, a fib. It was a lie Right? We we use biblical language when we um are confessing our sins. Um And we are specific. Like I say, you don't have to get into so much of the gory details in a sense of maybe, you know, depending on the sin. But we want to be specific and use biblical language. Say what the Word of God says and not what the culture says because the culture has a way of glossing over and and uh not making it you know as deep uh to the heart as it really is. It's sin Right? And that's what I did. Right. Um and we should not use as I said not use the same language that the culture used Um we should also acknowledge the hurt. We need to think about how we have harmed someone and what that what that could possibly what they could possibly going be going through. Right? Affirm the effects of your words or actions on them, regardless of whether you regardless of what whatever you think, you want to confirm those things. Right And we need to think about how our sins affects someone else. We also have to accept the consequences of our sins. Some offenses may require a form of restitution or justice. Some offenses may entail a loss of privilege. Some may require time and effort to regain trust and unity, especially when the marriage covenant is broken. um is in can be an example that trust may take some time, a period of time. So it it it it depends and we need to understand and know that There are consequences for sin, right? Even though God forgives us for our sins, sometimes we still have to. There are consequences for our sins. And we need to understand that when we have harmed or offended someone, that could very well be consequences. Okay Um we need to maybe alter our behavior. If it's a uh a pattern of sin. is is if it's uh something we we're doing all the time, you know, um we may explain that some areas we want to work in, right? If it's counseling maybe, if it's a getting the getting a an accountability person, you know. Um I'm um I probably need to go to men's ministry more, you know, to get with the men. So I can understand what it means to uh walk as a Christian man, to to understand how um to be a godly leader of my home. You know, I g I need to do something different than relying upon my own self. Does that make sense? So, you know, I I need to do that. Um And when we ask for forgiveness, we have to allow time. And I know this can be uh difficult sometimes because When we ask for forgiveness, we want forgiveness on the spot. Right? We we we we we don't want it to take a long time for someone to forgive us. You know? So we must give the other person um Time to forgive, the other person and time to have an opportunity to respond. Sometimes we don't know we d we actually we don't have really a say so in how long that might take. Right? We don't know. What we are to do is to glorify God in taking in in uh confessing the sin. And that's what we have to do and asking for forgiveness. And be sincere in our confession and repentance and moving away from that sin. It is now up to the person to go through that process of forgiveness. Right? Okay. Um Like I said, if the person doesn't forgive you right away, keep in mind the central goal of biblical re reconciliation, which is to glorify God. Uh-huh. Sorry, guys, this is really uh So what if the person doesn't uh forgive? Like I say, if the person doesn't forgive you right away, keep in mind the central goal of biblical rec reconciliation, which is to glorify God. So often we get frustrated and angry when they've done every when you know when we've done everything right and the other person doesn't respond well Why do we get angry? When it takes, you know, why are you taking so long to forgive me? What you know, what is it about me? So we we're now getting angry about that And this anger is always produced when our motivation from the very beginning was to manipulate the other person or situation rather than glorifying God Right. I I y you know, manipulating you into forgiving. It's it's still more about me. Right? And so that's really where the anger comes from We should pray for the other person on a regular basis. That's what we should be doing. We can also ask him if there's anything you have yet to acknowledge. Is there anything else that I need to say to help move this, move you on into forgiveness. Is there anything else I can do? In humility, you must continue to do good to them. Right? You don't just you you you continue to love them and to g to do good to them, even though they haven't come to that place of forgiveness yet. Ask if they would be willing to meet with someone who could mediate the conflict. This is showing how concerned you are and how much you want reconciliation. They may be or they may not be. And if they continue to refuse to forgive and they are sinning in their interaction with you, seek help from a more mature believer who knows both of you or a pastor who can help. Okay. Um Matthew six fifteen says, if you do not forgive others of their sins Neither will your Father forgive you of your sins. We need to remember also that we're all sinners Right? And we all fall short of the glory of God. So in our in in this forgiveness process, we need to remember that Right? We talked about that in the early part of this lesson uh last week, that we have to remember that we're all sin and f fall short of the glory of God. I have a log, they have a log, you know, we're all sinners. And we need to remember that. And so in our process of forgiving someone, we need to remember that as well. So um we're pretty much out of time. I don't know if there's any questions or comments. Um sorry for Um the audio and some of the things that has taken place with the slides. But if there's uh no comments or questions Oh, I'm sorry. Yes. And we were out of town last week, so this might have been covered with the take a lot out of your MI pattern. But I want to know if you have any thoughts on teaching reconciliation to kids particularly when it comes to requiring an apology when they don't feel like it yet and they know they are conscious of the fact that they're not starting. And then we make some to it which feels hypercritical. And then the older they get, they see it as hypercritical. Oh thoughts on how to now That's a that's a a gay question. Uh I don't know. Um Yeah, that that is a very good question on on how to teach kids um to reconcile. Um I think the hardship is just finding the balance Between sometimes you have to teach kids to form a habit and then the heart will follow. But eventually Like teams are hard when finding out. Um, it just gets difficult when they know the difference between right and wrong and they recognize where they're own heart attack and to force them to do something that is against where their heart is act just feels like just teaching them to be a Pharisee But at the same time, we also want to teach them good habits, good spiritual habits. So that's where it's like where's the line between the two So I don't have a good answer yet Um I I'm thinking of a couple of books I have at home that I think may address that. And um next week I'll I'll um make sure I remember to um either give you some information or, you know, to to speak to it. Yeah. There are some Either articles, I I know definitely articles or books I have at home for counseling kids in in in in some of those ways that that may be uh helpful in there unless anyone has any comments to that. Okay. It was a very good question. Right? Yeah. But I agree. I'm glad someone's pointing out because there was my point. I wasn't gonna just make a comment, just general observation comment, even as an adult, even now you know, as I am you know, the reconcili I will do it. I'll do this this what you call it, this kind of outwardly gesture of reconciliation by thinking my heart, I'll be drunk with Yeah, I usually want to do it. I really don't think I but I just want to honor the Lord. So I'll do it. It's cool. So the good thing is, and and she was uh for for those who are not um who are offline, you know, the grumbling and the battle in your heart To confess, right? To confess, right? One, it is a good thing to know that I'm grumbling and I'm having this battle in my heart. Right? And and and from that you can you you can seek God's word, you can go through some of these and you know you know, get getting help from someone else, but it it it it really puts you in that place where you do want to search your heart. And so where does the grumbling come from? What is it that you really, really desire? And then you can address that. Right? Then you can address that And that will help, you know, moving forward. But you got to get to the core issue of what's causing me to grumble. Too often I think we look at the what and not the why. You know, why do I grumble? Why do I do not want to confess these things? What is it about what's going on in my heart that's causing me to not move in that way And we also need to remember that we're gonna have this battle within us with this flesh and the spirit. We we also Need to understand that that there will be this battle, there will be this pull away from doing it God's way. And we need to recognize that. Right? Um a lot of times when I get to that place and I have to step away and I have to ask myself the hard questions. No, Mike What is it that you really, really want? What is it that you really want? I had to do this, you know, a couple of times for me to get to To get through all the other stuff and then to get to the core of what's happening in my heart. Right? It could be pride. I want to have it my way. Right? Um You know, even if I say, you know, I'm the head of the house Right? That's pride. You know, it's it's not being the head of the home, it's pride, and it's also not even understanding what God means when you say you you're the head of the home Y y you know what I mean? So it's it's really uh thinking and that's a good thing to know, but now is to address why do you grumble? You know, what is it that that that you really want Any other questions or comments? Okay. Um let us pray.