All right, so we have gone through a few principles so far in the class, really thinking about how do we conceive of conflict, how should we frame it in our own minds? What are the different factors to consider of just how do you how do you think about conflict and and approach conflict And then of course the first major thing is self-examination. Take the log out of your own eye, consider your own heart, what are the heart issues involved that has has brought you as a party into a conflict Uh and then last week Mike talked about the uh aspect of confession, the seven A's of confession. So once you recognize ways in which you've contributed to a conflict uh how the how do you go about confessing in a full, complete, helpful way. And so I would really just commend that you review that material. from time to time, especially when you're in a conflict, uh especially when you're in a major conflict, uh just to think through how can I confess, how can I speak, how can I humble myself and communicate to the other person uh my sorrow over my sin, my my contribution, my understanding of the role that I've played in this situation, uh and really set up the the most uh conducive environment for them to um be willing to acknowledge their own sin as well. In fact I would say this that if I if we confess well, if we're humble and acknowledging our sin, that in and of itself often uh dis um arms I was trying to think of the right word, disarms the other person and causes them to say, you know what You're right. I was wrong too. In fact, no, it it was really me, it wasn't you. Like like sometimes people just want to confess and imitate your own confession. And so that's one way that we can minister to others, which as you recall is an opportunity for conflict. So we've talked about those things, and today we want to talk about before we get to the point of confrontation and uh uh speaking to the person, setting time aside, we want to think about what kind of person ought we to be in order to uh handle that situation well. Uh what's the character that we should be uh um uh building into our life that we should be um oh come on what's the C word that we should be cultivating uh in our life Uh and th this is particularly difficult because it it's uh I'm I'm basically encouraging us to stop and think. How can I uh uh live and engage with this person in terms of personal character? You have two passages there Uh that are really the the key Ephesians and Colossians are two parallel letters by Paul that he wrote at around the same time. And so his thoughts were um uh probably running along the same parallel lines as he was writing to d two different groups of people. But he says this in Colossians three twelve to fourteen. So As those who have been chosen of God, excuse me, holy and beloved, put on a heart of compassion, kindness, humility, gentleness, and patience, bearing with one another And forgiving each other, whoever has a complaint against anyone, just as the Lord forgave you, so also should you, beyond all these, put on love, which is the perfect bond of unity. And in a similar way in Ephesians four he says, Therefore the I, the prisoner of the Lord, implore you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling with which you have been called, with all humility and gentleness, with patience, showing tolerance for one another in love, being diligent to preserve the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. Now it would be uh easy for us to just dive into those character qualities and say, okay, I gotta learn how to be gentle and humble and kind and loving and forgiving and patient and tolerant and all those kinds of things But what we would do to ourselves if if we started and launched right into that approach is we would find ourselves striving to cultivate these qualities and realizing this is really hard It is really hard to be kind to someone who is not being kind to you. It is really hard to be humble towards someone who is prideful and says, Yeah, you should be humble. It's really hard to speak words of love. and grace and do acts of kindness to those who don't reciprocate and don't acknowledge your own attempts. And so in the wisdom of God, the Holy Spirit inspired Paul in both of these letters to front the admonitions of of cultivating these character qualities with a reminder of who we are in Christ. And so we have to start You see in both passages how Paul starts before he gets to the qualities. In Colossians 3, he says, so as those who have been chosen of God, holy and beloved. He emphasizes that we, as believers in Christ, have been chosen by God. And of course, in his mind is the full teaching of the doctrine of election. Which is he which he just summarizes there as been chosen of God. That before the foundation of the world for no reason of our own, in terms of our own actions, it's not because of anything we've done, good or evil, that God chose us for salvation. We were his enemies. And yet God selected us in in his mysterious uh goodness and kindness. And then he says that we are holy That we have been sanctified, we have been set apart, we have been reserved for God's special purposes to serve Him. We've been taken out of the world. Taken out of the kingdom of darkness and transferred into the kingdom of his beloved son. And now we belong to God. That's what it means to be holy. And then he says that we're beloved, that we are loved by God. That we who are full of sin and weakness and uh frailties and constantly sinning against the Lord, that He continues to love us and pour out His love on us He's given us his greatest demonstration of love in the person of Jesus Christ. And then on top of that, he continues to pour out his love and his faithfulness toward us. And then in Ephesians, Paul says, therefore I implore you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling with which you have been called. By making that statement, he's really referring back to the first three chapters of Ephesians where he talks about uh the the glorious grace that Christ has demonstrated in pre uh predestination and and the calling and all that is ex explained in Ephesians chapter 1 of God redeeming us and forgiving us He he is reflecting back on chapter two where he talks about how we were dead in our transgression and sin, and that we followed after the ways of the world. But because of the great love with which God loved us, he saved us. He made us alive together in Christ. He's prepared us, uh He's prepared for us good works that we should walk in. He's united us to the full people of God, you know, Jew and Gentile one in Christ. And he's revealed this mystery which was hidden for long ages, as he talks about in chapter three. So all of all of these realities are in Paul's mind of who we are in Christ, what God has done for us. before he says, now here's how you ought to live in response to that. As you see it says there far too often professing Christians have a works, righteousness, theology, and identity While they say they are saved by grace, they live and think as though they are saved by works. They work to obtain God's favor, forgiveness, or sense of adequacy. And by having that mentality they're striving and striving and failing and then being beaten down beaten themselves uh up over their failures and Really what we need is to recognize who we are in Christ. And so just as a reminder, we'll walk through this quickly. Um if you want to consider this further, I would just commend these passages for you to study But uh just as a summary of w some of the things we can identify is what the Spirit has done for us, as explained in Colossians and Ephesians, uh we have been rescued from Satan's kingdom. Right, when we're born into this world, yeah. Right. Well, yeah, so tolerance would be a totally different um definition than what the world would would uh uh apply to it. Um We're going to walk through each of the character qualities so when we get there, if I don't answer the question, can I ask you to raise it up again? Okay, perfect. We've been rescued from Satan's kingdom. When we're born into this world, we're born into Satan's kingdom, right? We're born as sinners. We are uh slaves to sin. Uh we are imitators and followers of our father the devil. Uh we are murderers and liars and deceivers. And uh and that's where we happily live, right? We we were glad to to live in the kingdom of darkness. We we didn't see a problem with that. We weren't trying to escape it, right? We weren't trying to to go up to the borders and pound on the on the walls and say, somebody get me out of here. No, we we were we were gladly living in Satan's kingdom because it was consistent with our flesh. It it's what we wanted. But Christ in his mercy and his goodness You know, if you will, he he plucked us up out and took us out of the the kingdom of darkness. And he did that by showing us how uh depraved and how wicked and how sinful and how destructive Satan's kingdom is and how how awful it is to live in the flesh. He opened our eyes to the the beauty of Christ, to the light of Christ, to the goodness of God's design for life, showed us the ugliness of our sin. and thus gave us a desire to be free from Satan's kingdom and and he rescued it from it. He c cut off the chains of of sin so that we're no longer bound to the power of sin. And he set us free. is also redeemed us from the penalty of sin. Where not only have we been ri rescued from the uh the the bondage to sin, but we're also redeemed from the penalty of sin such that we no longer are bound to receive the punishment that is due to us for our sin. Christ has paid our penalty. He's died on the cross for us so that there's nothing left for us. But grace, mercy, compassion, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, love, all of those attributes come to us from God. There's no wrath. There's no anger, there's no punishment from God. And even as we continue to sin in this life after we are saved, those ongoing sins have been paid for already by Christ. So God doesn't look to us as his sons and daughters and say, Man, how many times do I have to tell you? No, he's continue he continues to exhibit patience and love toward us, having already forgiven us. We've been reconciled to God. We were far from God. We were alienated from God, as it says in Colossians 1. 22. And we have now been brought nearer to God so that we have a new relationship with Him. We've been recreated in holiness where God has worked a regeneration in us, where He's given us a new heart and a new spirit Which produces new desires and new abilities to please God that we didn't have before. New longings for holiness that we didn't have before And new eyes to see the world in ways that we couldn't see it before. A new mind to understand the Word of God that we didn't have before. He's completely recreated us in holiness. He's reserved us for heaven. We have our name in the Lamb's Book of Life, and so when we get to heaven's door, whether by an unexpected death or old age or whatever reason, Or Christ comes back and we find ourselves in glory, our name will be there on the roster as those who are allowed to enter. Because of what Christ has done. And then finally we've been recommissioned to serve Christ. In saving us, God did not leave us unto ourselves, just okay, now do whatever you want. But now he says, I have a mission for you, I have a purpose for you. And your mission and purpose is to be my ambassador in this world, to be my witness, to tell those around you of what I have done and who I am. And so we are to proclaim Christ and to live for him, doing good deeds, as it says in Ephesians 2. 10, that God has prepared for us to do. When we have these realities, and we could add to this list, but when we have these realities in our minds, and someone is at odds with us, or we're at odds with others This will shape how we think about that other person. And it will shape how we think about ourselves. It will shape how we think about God's desires for us in the situation. It will empower us to die to ourselves. It will enable us to be honest about our own sins and contributions to the conflict. Because it's not about us. It's about glorifying Christ and serving Christ and living out the purposes of Christ in my life So it's essential that as we think about the life, the qualities, the character that God would have us to live, that we have these realities. uh these indicatives as it as it were, these uh statements of who we are in our minds These are accomplished realities. These are not things we're trying to achieve. These are not things that we're hoping someday will be true of us if we're just good enough. But these are true of us already. Not because what we've done, but because what Christ has done. And so it's out of these realities that the following qualities can be exhibited in our lives. I don't have a slide for the next uh paragraph Uh it has a blank in it, so let me just read it to you. Even more specifically, we are to exhibit the following characteristics, not only because of what God has done for us, but because this is how God has what do you think the word this Sorry? Oh I'm sorry. Reveal. This is how God has treated us. This is how God has treated us. Okay, yeah. I mean in a sense it's true, right? We're made in his image. But uh first and foremost, this is how God has treated us. And we'll we'll see that as we walk through each attribute. So let's begin with compassion. According to one theological dictionary, compassion is a display of concern over another's misfortune. It's often translated mercy or pity. But compassion, which we typically think of as just a feeling, oh man, I really feel bad for this person for what they're going through. But biblically it's a feeling that leads to action. A feeling that leads to action. And we see some examples here. Matthew 9. 13. But go and learn what this means. I desire compassion. and not sacrifice, for I did not come to call the righteous but sinners. In other words, Christ is saying, in my compassion I moved towards sinners to save them. Or 2 Corinthians 1, 3, and 4. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of all mercies, it's the same word, and God of all comfort, who comforts us in all our afflictions. So the idea there is that God has not only had compassion, had mercy toward us, but He then moved toward us and comforted us to the end that we would comfort others as well. Nehemiah nine thirty one nevertheless your great comp in your great compassion you did not make an end of them or forsake them, for you are a gracious and compassionate God. So his compassion did not destroy Israel completely But in his compassion he saved and he uh allowed some to serve as a remnant. You can see other examples there. What's remarkable about compassion The compassion of God is that the sad condition of mankind is not something that came to us as a result of things outside of our control. The the situations we find ourselves in, the suffering we experience often, granted not always, but often is the result of our own sin. So it's when someone you know does something completely foolish and then they hurt themselves, you know, part of us wants to say, well, there you go. You play with firecrackers in your hand again. Of course you're going to blow your hand off. But God moves toward us in compassion even though so much of the suffering we experience is the result of our own sin. You know, we w uh we we can think in in particular situations, but in terms of salvation, God is thinking about the whole, the whole of humanity and all of the suffering and all of the the sin and destructive power uh and and difficulties that he moves toward us. And so despite the severe personal offense we have committed against him, God showed us compassion and he continues to show us compassion. So, therefore, we must show compassion toward others regardless of what they have done to us. If they have sinned against God infinitely more than they have sinned against us, and He can show compassion on them, so we can do the same. Kindness. Kindness is obviously a fruit of the Spirit. It's uprightness in one's relationship with others. The quality of being helpful or beneficial. BDAG is a Greek lexicon, basically a dictionary. Kindness is doing the right thing in the right way for the benefit of the other person. Luke six thirty-five, belove your enemies and do good and lend, expecting nothing in return, and your reward will be great, and you you will be sons of the most high. For he himself is kind to ungrateful and evil men. As God looks at the world of Us sinners, uh he uh he does kind things to us. He he does things like cause the sun to come up every day, of course, causes the earth to revolve around the sun every day. Uh he causes the rain to fall so that the the harvests grow and food is produced. He allows uh even the worst of unbelievers Whoever you might conceive of to be that worst, he allows even someone like that to experience love and joy and happiness and delight. Uh positive emotions and joy and happiness in various degrees. Ephesians 2, God demonstrated his kindness, uh salvation, so that in in the ages to come he might show the surpassing riches of his grace and kindness toward us. in Christ. As we've seen in Titus, it's the kindness of God and his love for mankind that appeared which resulted in salvation All three of these passages explicitly say that God's kindness was expressed to evil, sinful, wicked sinners. Scripture does say in Psalm 1825 that God is kind to those who are kind, but His kindness is displayed in all His glory toward those who don't deserve it. So To say that God is kind is to say that God comes to those who are least deserving, least deserving, and meets their greatest need. So kindness is going to someone who doesn't deserve something or irrelevant whether or not they deserve it, we could say that. And meeting a need that they have. Not necessarily a desire, but a need. And so again, if he has done that for us, should we not meet the needs of those around us, regardless of whether or not they deserve it? I'll just read first John three seventeen. But whoever has the world's goods and sees his brother in need and closes his heart against him, how does it the love of God abide in him. And so since we're talking about conflict, if you are in a conflict with someone and you see that they have a need of any kind. They have a need for a meal, they have a need for finances, they have a need for a ride somewhere, they have I don't know, some other kind of need. Don't think, well, somebody else is better in a better position to meet that need because, you know, we're at odds with each other and I don't really feel like doing anything nice to them and they've really hurt me Or they might not receive it from me, or I might offer it and they'll reject it and that'll just make things worse, you know, whatever. No. Thing how can I meet the need of my brother or sister that I'm at odds with? How can I minister to them in a practical way. The peacemaker is someone who, like their father, is kind to those with whom they are in conflict and meets real and practical needs. Romans 12, 20. If your enemy is hungry, feed him. If he is thirsty, give him a drink, for in so doing you will heap burning coals on his head. Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. The next quality is humility. Humility means to be low. To be low Of course, there's many situations and context in Scripture that you could use the word humility. Somebody uh uh is humble financially, they have low finances, somebody is humble in terms of social influence. They're not a a powerful and influential per uh person. Uh they're humble in terms of their station. They they are servant But as we relate to God, to be humble means to think of ourselves rightly from God's perspective It's not to to be humble is not to try and lower yourself as much as you can and and and put yourself below everybody else as much as you can. It is rather to look at yourself from God's perspective and say, who am I? Well, I am not God. I am not God. I am a sinner saved by grace. And who is this other person? Well, they're not God, and they're a sinner saved by grace And so we're in a in that sense before the Lord, we're on the same playing field where we might naturally tend to think, I'm above them Right. I'm I'm the more righteous one. Uh I I'm the victim here, which puts me above them. But no, we're to be humble uh in and think of ourselves in relation to God We are made in God's image and thus have inherent dignity and worth, so we don't want to just keep cutting ourselves down and quote unquote hating ourselves. But we are sinners, and thus there's no place for pride or haughtiness. James 4, but he gives gr he gives a greater grace. Therefore it says God is opposed to the proud, but gives grace So the humble, humble yourselves in the presence of the Lord, and he will exalt you So as that's in terms of our relationship with the Lord. As we relate to others, humility means to think of others as more important than ourselves, regardless of the position that we hold relative to the other person. That's important. Right? So we we think of ourselves as less or the other person as more important than ourselves regardless of the position. So I could be their boss Or I could be their supervisor, or I could be their parent, or I could be someone who has authority over this person, and in that sense I'm not quote unquote humble because I'm actually above them, but the reality is in my heart I'm preferring them. I'm considering them as more important. So rather than grasping onto my position and saying, well, you know, I'm I'm more in authority here, they have to do what I say. We need to humble ourselves to consider how can I minister to them in their need. And of course the example there is Christ Philippians 2, do nothing from selfish ambition or empty conceit, but with humility of mind, regard one another as more important than yourselves. Do not merely look out for your own personal interest, but also for the interests of others. Have this attitude in yourselves, which was also in Christ Jesus, who although he existed in the form of God, did not regard equality with God, a thing being grasped But emptied himself, taking the form of a bondservant, and being made in the likeness of men, being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. I mean just imagine You know, of course we'll be talking about uh the death and resurrection of Christ in in the message this morning, but imagine Christ walking through his sufferings, the trials, the torture, of course, as he hung on the cross He could have thought to himself, what is going on here? Don't these people know who I am? Like I could just say a word and they would cease to exist. Uh he was the he is the high and exalted Lord of all. He is the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. And and who are these people to think that they can treat me like this and say these things to me? But no, he humbled himself because he was seeking their benefit. He was seeking to pay the penalty for sinners. And so we can consider what that might look like in our lives. Jesus did not humble himself because it was right Or because it was necessary, or because we deserved it, or for any other reason than simply that he chose to exemplify his gracious Character. It would have been right for him to judge us. Certainly was necessary for him to pour out his wrath on us. That's what was necessary But he chose to humble himself to reconcile us to himself. So again, since Jesus has done that for you, is there any level at that you are unwilling to stoop for the sake of a person you're in conflict with? You might be in the right in a situation. You might have the right opinion. You might have been the one who was primarily sinned against, if not exclusively sinned against. But how can you humble yourself like Christ? who had no sin, there was no deceit then in his mouth, and yet he was mistreated and he allowed himself to be killed. He gave his life up to reconcile us to himself. That's the model that we're to follow. Gentleness. Yeah, Kirk. So I would answer that in two ways, yes and no. Moving on. If we think about can we find ourselves in a to to go from a um a hindered relationship with an unbeliever to a positive relationship, let's put it Where we can in interact with one another, you know, be happy and be friends and you know even love one another. Yeah, I think that it's totally possible to be reconciled with an unbeliever. Um that uh in the grace, the common grace uh of God that unbelievers are able to recognize their own wrongs uh they they um are able to forgive not necessarily on the basis of God's forgiveness of them, of course, because they have not been forgiven by God. But they are able, they have the capacity to overlook sin, to look past sin, to say something like, you know, thank you for acknowledging that. Yes, I do forgive you. And to not allow it to hinder the relationship. So I I don't think from a a spiritual capacity perspective that the the fundamentals of what it means for two people to live in harmony with one another. There's nothing that hinders reconciliation between a believer and an unbeliever. Where I would say the no comes in is when we think about the the the full definition of reconciliation that we can Which is not just two people living in harmony with one another, but two people living uh with God at the center of their relationship and serving the purposes of God as a result of the reconciled uh relationship that they're in So the when two believers reconcile, I think in in a godly way, there will be an uh overt and explicit um spiritual, gospel-centered, Christ-glorifying dynamic of the reason we're able to reconcile together is because God has forgiven us as individuals and He's brought us together and you know we're imitating the the character of Christ and so we're glorifying God in all of these things. That's not going to exist in a relationship between an unbelievable Now the believer could could do their part on in those things, but the unbeliever, of course, is not going to care less That's why we've said, um, I think we said it in terms of ministering to others, that there is a gospel opportunity for in for a believer to say, listen You know, I know you said that you forgive me and I'm so grateful for that, and I forgive you too. I don't know what you mean by forgiveness, but let me tell you what what I mean by forgiveness. Let me tell you why why I am more than willing and happy to forgive you Uh so there's opportunity for the gospel there. So just you know depending on your definition of reconciliation, if it's kind of a temporal just Personal uh relationship that I think that it is possible. Um I mean spouses who um Uh I've counseled a believing spouse and an unbelieving spouse, and it is possible for them to you know stay together and work through their differences Um it's not going to be as um fully reconciled as maybe two believers might be, but it is possible for them to continue to live together. Um and in my experience that has usually required the believing spouse to act like a believer because they weren't previously. Um and the unbelieving spouse just kind of comes along uh with Um so does that answer the question? Any other follow-up? Yeah, Chris. Okay, thank you. Yeah, and and that's just a reminder of like you just said, our ultimate goal is to glorify God. Uh whether or not it's possible depends on both parties um doing what needs to be done for their contribution. And so if there is a situation of a unbeliever or even a believer who's being violent or threatening or continuing in sin, then um it's not likely going to be possible until they repent. So any other uh anything else to follow up with that? Alright. Gentleness Gentleness can also be translated as meekness, but uh I trust you know it's not the idea of weakness or frailty. Gentleness in Scripture is exhibited by those with power, influence, and strength toward those who are weak, poor, and vulnerable And so the focus of gentleness and meekness is the attitude and the manner in which we interact with others. You know, I I've mentioned that the conference we're ha we're having this coming weekend, Friday and Saturday, World uh Christianity and Culture put on by a ministry called Worldview Academy that I was a part of. um twenty years ago. Um and one of the speakers there unfortunately not one of the speakers that's going to be with us, but one of the speakers at that in that ministry He used the illustration of uh a a a young um you know ten year old girl uh who was controlling a horse. And how uh when you saddle a horse, uh horses tend to kind of bloat themselves So that when you cinch up the saddle and they let out the breath and now the saddle's loose, right? They they're smart like that. And so when you notice a horse doing that, you gotta stop the horse from taking a breath. And so how do you do that? POW! You know, it's just hit the horse, obviously it's a big animal, they're not it's not hurting them. It's just like oh you know and so they let out the air, cinch it up and you're good to go. And so he just had that picture in his mind of a you know, a ten year old girl on this You know, or b getting this big horse ready and you know, she she does that, controls the horse and then of course is sitting on it and and the horse in that situation is the meek one. you know, this incredibly powerful animal who allows itself to be controlled by a small human being who probably, you know, couldn't do uh much to it if it wanted to Uh but that's that's me because one of my favorite il illustrations is a big you know lineman in football, you know, three hundred pound man Uh I just imagine, I've never seen this, but I just imagine in my mind, you know, him walking off the field after exerting incredible strength and holding this what would for him be like this little baby, you know, like one hand or or whatever, and just like gently cuddling this little infant and exhibiting incredible r uh uh restraint and and care, even though he has the great capacity uh for strength and force So that's that's gentleness, that's meekness. It's those who have power and influence and authority who uh exhibit care toward those who are vulnerable. When God interacts with us, of course, he is Not harsh, mean, or overbearing, crushing or sharp, but rather he is gentle. And you just think about who God is Right. The heavens cannot contain uh the glory of the Lord. He he is uh all powerful, he can accomplish anything according to uh that's consistent with his character And so he uh in his just wrath could uh just wipe us off uh the the earth But yet he is gentle toward us. In fact, Isaiah 42 says of the Messiah, Behold my servant, whom I uphold, my chosen one in whom my soul delights. I put my spirit upon him, he will bring forth justice to the nations, and then this, he will not cry out or raise his voice, nor make his voice heard in the street. A bruised reed he will not break, and a dimly burning wick he will not extinguish. And he goes on from there Of course, Jesus says, take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and humble in heart, and you will find rest. for your souls. So you think about Christ and how he lived on this earth, how he walked, it wasn't his strength, it wasn't his power, it wasn't the volume of his voice that that attracted people to him You know, people were attracted to Saul, King Saul, because he was head and shoulders above everybody else and he needed head and shoulders for his n long hair, right? You didn't I didn't go over well. Okay. Sorry. Um and uh and you know he was the most handsome in the land, so on and so forth. Uh Jesus was uh people were drawn to Jesus for different reasons. Well obviously we don't know how tall he was, we don't know what he looked like, but he was uh attractive because of how he engaged with people You know, he stopped and ministered to individual people. He looked them in the eyes and he spoke to them with gentleness and care. He he touched them. Not with harsh, you know, like you see sometimes on TV, you know, these charismatic preachers just pushing people around and, you know, going crazy. No, Jesus was gentle with with people He cared for them and loved them. And so again, if he treated us that way, as those who have been gently ministered to by our Lord, we ought to gentle to be gentle in our interactions with those who are in conflict with us. So this might not be in a physical way, right? Obviously we're not to be uh physically violent toward others But we have to think, okay, if I'm in a position of power and influence over this other person, maybe I'm a husband toward a wife, maybe I'm a parent toward a child Maybe I'm a boss toward an employee. How can I exhibit gentleness so that they are not threatened by my attempts to reconcile with them? And you can see those passages there. Patience is the prolonged restraint of anger. The prolonged restraint of anger. Romans 9, 22, what if God, although willing to demonstrate his wrath and to make his power known, endured with much patience vessels of wrath prepared for destruction? Right? That's who we were as unbelievers. We were vessels of wrath prepared for destruction. There was nothing demanded of God to not judge us, not to destroy us, but He exhibited patience toward us. And the reason for that, as it says in 2 Peter 3, is for the purpose of salvation. The Lord is not slow about his promise, as some count slowness, but is patient towards you, not wishing for any to perish But for all to come to repentance. Regard the patience of our Lord as salvation You know, we we all know unbelievers. Perhaps it's someone in our home, perhaps it's someone in our extended family or others that we've known. that, you know, we've been praying for them for five, ten, fifteen, fifty years and we've just not seen God work in their life. And we wonder, God, why aren't you answering my prayer? Why aren't you saving them? And of course, we don't know the mind of God in every situation, but what we can be certain of is that God is patient And we should never, ever come to the conclusion that because he's taken as long as he has, well, I guess that means he's just never going to save them. He might have purposes beyond our understanding as to why he wants to wait to save them, if indeed he chooses to do so. You know, he is orchestrating the whole globe, all the circumstances, every life, every detail of every life, all of the relationships. People coming and going, and you just never know what God is doing, how he's moving things in order to bring about his work in a person's life. God's patience toward us is seen in the fact that He doesn't rain down on us the just punishment of our sin the first time that we sin, right? Depending on your view of the age accountability uh issue, you know, whenever that first time of culpable sin uh occurs, God will be just. Just say that's it, you're done He made that wrong choice once, but he is patient toward us. A thousand million times over Unlike the earthly judges who can only count down excuse me, who can only hand down punishment when they when we are caught And only after we've gone through time-consuming legal processes, God knows instantly when we sin and knowing all the facts that there's uh there is no need to hold a trial So consider this. He would be right and just to immediately and without reservation allow us to experience his holy wrath the moment we sin the very first time, but he doesn't. He is patient. I have there uh consider Matthew eighteen twenty-one. We won't in the in the uh effort to try and get through all the notes uh this year, uh I'm not gonna go there uh because we'll talk about that um next week when we talk about forgiveness. But um If you recall these uh the slave who owed the master ten thousand talents He pled, he didn't say, please, please forgive me, you know, wipe away my debt. He said, please have patience with me, and I will pay you everything. And you know, Master didn't say, okay, I'll have some patience. He just said, it it's gone. It's done. You're forgiven. It's wiped clean. And then that slave went out to the other slave and said, Pay what you owe. You know, it would have taken him, you know, perhaps a few years if he was a day laborer. And that slave also said, have patience with me, and I will pay you back. And he did not have patience. Um and the end result of this story, it's even though it's mostly about forgiveness, patience is is certainly tied into that, uh, is that if we don't have the same patience that that God has had toward us uh that God will not exhibit patience toward us either, because with a measure we judge it will be measured to us. So we ought to be patient toward those. You know, when when we're trying to make effort to reconcile with someone and we're trying to confess our sin and we're trying to communicate with them and and they're just not responding Our temptation is to say, well, forget it then. If they don't want to talk to me, if they don't want to reconcile, I'm just going to stop. But we need to be patient And maybe give it time. We don't have to press the issue and just keep, you know, texting and calling and r emailing and whatever. We can just okay, let me let me take a step back. Let me give the Lord time to work and maybe in a little bit I'll re- re uh restore my efforts. We just need to be patient toward others. Alright, forbearance or tolerance. This is uh the idea of tolerance here. The idea encompasses a number of words such as bearing with one another, putting up with others, enduring or intolerating. There is significant overlap between forbearance and patience, but the difference can be summed up as patience being more related to short-term and changeable situations. Whereas forbearance or tolerance is more related to long-term and fixed situations. So that's that's one way to distinguish the two. Don't want to be too hard and fast about that, but that's one way to think about it. Matthew seventeen, seventeen, Jesus answered and said, You unbelieving and perverted generation, he's talking to his disciples here. Matthew seventeen, seventeen is Right after he's come down from the Mount of Transfiguration, the disciples have failed to cast a demon out of a boy, that the demon keeps throwing the boy into the fire, and they say to Jesus, Why could we not cast it out? And so Jesus says, you unbelieving and perverted generation, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I put up with you? Bring them here to me. And the disciples came to Jesus privately and said, Why could we not drive it out? And he said to them, Because of the littleness of your faith. You remember also when Jesus had fed thousands of people and uh the disciples uh are with Jesus after that they're traveling to a a new place across the lake and the disciples are looking around, they're all checking their pockets, they're like, We forgot the bread. We forgot the bread. What are we gonna eat? And Jesus is like, guys Cot, don't you remember that I just fed thousands of people with virtually nothing? And uh and so Jesus had to tolerate these disciples. Why? Because they were even though there was a measure of understanding that they were given, uh unlike the the rest of the people who were blinded and and and um uh giving deaf ears so that they would not believe. Uh there was a measure of of understanding the disciples were given by Jesus, but there were there was also stubbornness and littleness in their faith. And so Jesus is living with these guys. for three years and as we for those of you who were there on Friday night as we talked about Jesus told them over and over and over about his death and burial and resurrection and what to expect and he you know he's teaching all kinds of things And so much of it just kind of hit a brick wall and just not penetrating, they're not understanding what he's saying, and so he's uh he's just having to tolerate that And so I say here uh we should not read sinful anger or frustration in Jesus' words. You know, when we say something like how long shall I put up with you You know, we we say that out of exasperation, like how long or how many times that it's tell you to clean your room or to brush your teeth or you know, whatever Uh getting in you're getting inside of our family, of course. Um but uh Um but Jesus wasn't sinful, he was just acknowledging, guys, don't you get it? He was tolerating their their weakness of faith. In the same way, let me mark that typo there. In the same way, uh we are to tolerate the idiosyncrasies that people have. You can put it that way. Uh idiosyncrasies can be like uh things like social awkwardness or mannerisms, uh learning challenges, preferences. So on so forth. We all have idiosyncrasies. We all have those weird things that uh we look at others and we're like, man, that's weird. Why do they why did they do that Uh I won't tell you what what one of my sons tells me is my idiosyncrasy while I'm preaching because I don't want you to be distracted by it. So you probably already know what it is because you you watch me preach, but Uh but we all have idiosyncrasies and we're like, why d why does he do that? Why does she do that? I shouldn't have brought it up. I'm I'm working on it. I'm trying to to stop uh stop doing that. Um but uh you know we all have that, right? And so Uh w what happens is when we're in conflict with another person, those those little things that we with a quote unquote normal relationship, we would just well whatever, that's just how that person is But when we're at odds with someone, now that all of a sudden that gets to be a big deal. Well, I hate that. I hate it when they do that. Right? It's like we've got to tolerate that We gotta put up with those things because we're not talking about sin issues here necessarily. Um Uh some people, as it says their struggle to grasp biblical truth more than others. Some struggle to trust in the Lord when hard times hit. We should not get fed up with people in their weakness that tolerate And bear with them. Paul's preferred word for forgiveness comes from the same root word as grace, uh charizumai. Uh in the so the word for grace is kir uh charis and so the the word for forgiveness uh that Paul prefers is charizumai. uh just because that's the verb form caris is a noun anyway. Uh in the New Testament it's the late least common word for forgiveness. So it's interesting as you look at how many times the word forgiveness is used in the New Testament Paul uses it less than certainly than it's found in the Gospels and in other epistles. Which is just interesting thought there, but um the most common word in the New Testament is aphiomi. which focuses on releasing the data. Now we'll we'll spend all of next week talking about forgiveness, so this is just a little introduction here. Uh a VME means to release the debt, that when we forgive someone, it's as though they owe us a debt, and we're saying I let that go. I I'm wiping away that um certificate of debt. Uh another way to think about it is um we are holding them in our minds W especially when we're angry and bitter towards someone, we're holding them in the prison cell of our mind and we're basically saying until they tell me what I want to hear, you know, they apologize, they acknowledge their sin You know, they fall on their knees and plead for forgiveness. Until they do something like that, I'm gonna hold them there and um maybe give them some food and water. But uh they're gonna be frozen in my mind and until they do what I want them to do, they are stuck And we neglect the fact that the Lord is working in their life and that they could be changing and maturing and you know all kinds of other things. And so forgiveness is saying I'm letting them out of the prison cell of my mind I'm not going to hold them there. I'm not going to think of them primarily or exclusively as a sinner who has sinned against me, but rather as another person made in the image of God who needs To be treated with kindness and love. And so forgiveness is a releasing, releasing of the debt, releasing of the person, giving them over to God. Uh charizumai has more of a focus on the character of the person. Character of the person. Or the nature of the act of forgiveness, the fact that it rises out of a gracious heart and is a gracious act. Okay, so again, uh a fiemi, the common word is is a releasing, and Kerizumai when Paul talks about forgiveness he's emphasizing the fact that out of a character of of generosity and not because another person deserves it, but out of a gracious heart, this gracious act is is being done. Unlike what some claim, God didn't become a forgiving God in the New Testament. You see there multiple passages. where God is um described or where really he reveals himself to be a forgiving God. Right in the middle of Exodus 34, I'm a God who forgives iniquity, transgression and sin. Or Psalm 130, the Psalmist praises them. If you, O Lord, should mark iniquities, O Lord, who could stand, but there is forgiveness with you that you may be feared. Or Isaiah the prophet says, Let the wicked forsake his way and the unrighteous man is thoughts, let him return to the Lord, and he will have compassion on him and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon. So all the way from Moses to the Psalms to the prophets, God reveals Himself as a forgiving God. The people of God proclaim God as a forgiving God. And so that cons that is consistent with uh with uh what we read in the New Testament. So as I said there we'll discuss forgiveness in detail next week. Um and I'm going to skip over Matthew 18 again, uh, because we'll do that next week. So for now, let's simply say that we should be willing to forgive the same way and to the same extent that we have been Forgiving. You see that Ephesians 4. 32. Be kind to one another, tenderhearted, forgiving each other, just as God in Christ has also forgiven you. When we think about forgiveness, we'll look at this more in depth next week. The singular issue is God has forgiven me, therefore I must forgive others. God only calls us to do that which He has already done toward us. He doesn't say, hey, here I am in heaven on my throne. I just get to sit here, lay back, eat grapes, while the rest of you do all these other things that I want you to do. No, no, no. He he got off this throne, he loved us, he poured himself himself out for us, he forgave us And he says, Now go and do likewise. Final one here. Love is the commitment to use your energy, time, resources, and abilities for the benefit of another person. It's not primarily a feeling, but it involves feelings. It's not primarily romantic, but it can involve romance. Love is others centered, not self-centered. That's a very good definition. Well it's not intuitive you do to understand that. Yeah, right. Apart from God's revelation, where do we go to find definition of these things? In a materialistic, naturalistic world where there should be no such thing as philosophical concepts concepts like love because it's not material, it's not something you can study on under a microscope. Where where do you go? You just come up with stuff out of your own mind Um it's only because of what God has done for us that we can come up with a definition like this, how God has given uh uh c committed Himself to love us with all that He is and all that He has So it's a commitment, it's not a disposition, or it's not an emotion, it's not a well here's what I feel like doing. It's a decision, it's a volitional commitment. To use your time, energy, resources, and abilities for the other person. Right, our the the cultural understanding of love is uh I love how you make me feel. Uh or I love that you love me as much as I love me. I didn't come up with that. Um you know when when we say I've fallen out of love with you, what that really means is you don't really love me the way that I love myself or you don't make me feel loved. Uh you don't make me feel the way I wanna feel anymore. That's what we mean when we say I've I've fallen out of love. And so that's that's a fickle uh self-oriented kind of love. Here is love. John 3. 16, for God loved the world in this way. That's what it's what the word so means there. For God loved the world in this way. I remember uh many years ago uh b when I was um before seminary days, uh I was at a church and uh somebody was doing a uh prayer and the service and and they were like, thank you that you so love the world. You know, and obviously there's a right expression there of the magnificence and the um grandeur of God's love. So it's not that they said something wrong, but that's not what this verse is saying. This verse is saying here's how God manifested and put on display his love for the world. that he gave his only begotten son, that whoever believes in him shall not perish, but have eternal life. Or Ephesians 2. 4, but God being rich in mercy, because of the great love, his great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our transgressions, made us alive. Together with Christ by grace he had been saved and raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places. What motivated The raising, the the giving life, the raising us, the seating us, it is his great love. Or 1 John 4. 10, in this is love, not that we love God. but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. The means to to satisfy his wrath for us, for our sins. Took all of the wrath that we deserved. You know, Romans says we're storing up wrath for ourselves until until the day of wrath as an unbeliever. All of that stored up wrath Which not only is our lives before Christ as unbelievers, but all the sin that that we are uh going to commit until the day we die Christ took all of that sin, all of that wrath upon himself and satisfied it till it was empty. So again I say love is giving of oneself for the good of another, not because they deserve it or they have earned it. In God's case, he loved because it is his nature to love. In our case, we love because we have been loved infinitely by God. You see that in 1 John 4. Beloved, let us love one another, for love is from God, and everyone who loves is born of God and knows God. The one who does not love does not know God, for God is love. If someone says, I love God and hates his brother, he is a liar. For the one who does not love his brother, whom he has seen, cannot love God whom he has not seen. And this commandment we have from him that the one who loves God should love his brother also And so Paul writes, Therefore be imitators of God as beloved children and walk in love, just as Christ also loved you and gave himself up for us, an offering and a sacrifice to God. As a fragrant aroma. And then Jesus says, You have heard that it was said, you shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy. But I say to you, love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you, so that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven. For he causes the Son to rise on the evil and the good, and sends rain on the righteous and the unrighteous. So there we have love. God has loved us, though we were undeserving. He has poured out his his uh resources, you know, he's poured out his beloved son. He's He's entrusted not only his beloved son, but he's he's poured out the uh all the spiritual blessings in the heavenly places in Christ Not because we deserved it, not because we asked for it, not because we begged for it. He did it while we were his enemies. While we were hostile to him, while we were hating him, while we were living our life in rebellion against him. And so as we look at the person Either physically at their face or in our mind's eye that we're at odds with, we ought to be thinking, how can I love this person as God has loved me? Even if they're actively involved, actively pursuing sin against me, or they're they're rejecting me, or they're they're not um uh reciprocating my attempts to reconciliation. How can I love them like Christ loved me And if we find ourselves in that position where we're feeling hate disgust, anger, bitterness toward another person. We need to repent. That's a sin that Christ says Y you can't feel that way toward another person. You can't think about another person in that way and legitimately claim that you love God If you love God, you will love even those who are at odds with you. And so, in conclusion Here are eight characteristics of peacemakers. Compassion, kindness, humility, gentleness, patience, forbearance, forgiving spirit. And love. Of course, some of those are listed in Galatians 5 as the fruit of the Spirit, but all of these are attributes of God which He has uh which He produces in our life as we seek Him. Alright, well uh yeah, that final paragraph there, do you struggle in one, two, or three of these characteristics for all of them? Here's how you can grow. Colossians one For this reason also, since the day we heard of it, we have not ceased to pray for you that and to ask that you be filled with the knowledge of His will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding, so that You will walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, to please him in all respects, bearing fruit in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God. Strengthened with all power according to his glorious might For the attaining of all steadfastness and patience. And so the more you increase in the knowledge of God In spiritual wisdom and understanding, right? This is not about getting facts in your head, but having spiritual wisdom and understanding. The Spirit will empower you to imitate God. and bear f this fruit in your life. I mean if you ever find yourself struggling, Lord I I'm really hurting. I don't know how to exhibit. I don't I don't know that I have the the will to exhibit these qualities towards this person Just take time and think, how has God exhibited these things to you? How has God treated you? How has he loved you? How has he forgiven you? How has he been gentle towards you? And that will help you as you treat others. Let me pray