Heavenly Father, I thank you for this morning. Thank you that you have given us life and breath, that you have given us sufficient grace for what we will encounter today. Lord, I thank you that we can gather together as your people to fellowship, to share life with one another, to bear one another's burdens, to sing the praises of our great God together. and to hear from you uh as as we submit and sit under the teaching of your word. I pray that you would work in our hearts and our lives today and cause us to Love Christ more and walk closer with Him as a result of the time that we spend today in this class and in the corporate worship service. In Christ's name. Amen. Alright, so we are talking about forgiveness today. As I mentioned, we're we're uh I decided not to do a uh session on conflict, uh in part just because of the the identity thing took two weeks and since I teach a whole class on conflict um y we'll get uh y uh all that content there if uh if you are in that class or we'll take that class. Uh it is online by the way if you're interested in and listening to that class. It's on our sermon audio page so you can you can listen to it. Um and uh And yet forgiveness, which uh which is obviously a part of conflict resolution, is so important that I didn't want to skip this one. Uh because if there is anything that will destroy a friendship It's not conflict, it's the lack of forgiveness. Because conflict will likely happen. I mean sure there's a lot of relationships we have where we don't tend to have conflict just because we interact on such a infrequent or maybe surface level so we don't we just don't have conflict. Um but if you interact with anyone to any degree there will be differences of opinion, there will be maybe words that were said that were uh hurtful, there will be misunderstanding, miscommunication, and uh and and those can drive people apart and and that's that's just gonna happen. So the question is What do you do about it? How do you maintain a relationship and prevent it from blowing apart? And the answer is forgiveness And of course Scripture has a lot to say about forgiveness, so I don't want to pretend that we'll be able to cover all of it today. If you were in that class on conflict resolution, uh the notes that I'm going to use, at least my notes that I'm using, are the same notes from that class. Uh it just so happened that when that uh session was taught in that class Thomas Rhodes was uh s stepping in for me so I haven't had a chance to teach them here at at Hope. Um but the notes that you have is basically a pared down version And there are just a few things that I really wanted to make sure that you had concretely. So that's why I put some some more details in in your handout notes. So you can have those clear and and for future reference. Um so what we want to do is we want to start with what forgiveness is not. I think one of the great challenges to forgiveness is misunderstanding it. Uh people say, Oh, I I can't forgive. I'm having such a hard time forgiving. And part of the reason for that is because they just they they misunderstand what forgiveness is. Uh and so we want to make sure that we identify wrong views that are common and set them aside as as as incorrect. And so if you have any of these views, um I just encourage you to to identify it in your own heart and think, yeah, that's that's what I thought. And recognize that that's that's wrong and hopefully when we talk about what forgiveness is, it'll be helpful to you. Um so let's let's consider some misconceptions of forgiveness. W what are some ways that we tend to think about it wrongly? One is that forgiveness is sweeping something under the rug. Right? Uh that if I forgive someone, if I say to you that I forgive you, what I'm doing is I'm just sweeping what you did under the rug. We're just gonna pretend that it didn't happen. Um we're not gonna talk about it. Uh we're we're not gonna address it. I'm just gonna swoop it under the rug. I'm not gonna think about it. Um but what happens when you do that? Somebody w what happens when you do that over and over and over again? Yeah. It builds up in your heart, right? That pile under the rug gets bigger and bigger and bigger. Before you know it's shaped like an elephant. It's the elephant in the room, if you will. And uh and all of a sudden it it explodes and Uh and bad things happen. Are you saying this is the person that thinks they're forgiving someone by just brushing it under the rug? They're the one that's building up the best Right. Yeah. And and the way the Margot phrase it was really good because it's not just that it's off to the side, it's it's in your heart. And it it ends up producing bitterness. That tinge of each time there's a little dagger that you feel is is is put into your heart, you're like, okay, I'm just gonna ignore that, I'm gonna ignore that and eventually uh it it it causes a blow up because the pain gets too much because you haven't dealt with it. So sweeping uh sweeping it under the rug is not how scripture would have us forgive. Another common way to think about it is, well forgive and forget. the idea that somehow we we can forget the offenses that other people commit against us. What's wrong with that? I mean just even fundamentally. Sorry? I wouldn't say this just not realistic that we're going to forget in a sense happens. Exactly. uh anything that's of any significance is is not going to be forgettable. Um our our memories are strongly connected to our emotions. And so when something has affected us emotionally, we tend to remember it. There tend to be a common word as triggers, where, you know, you see something, you smell something, you're in a similar place, and all of a sudden you remember uh what happened. And uh and we just can't forget. And scripture doesn't call us to forget uh what someone does against us. Uh so it's it's just unrealistic. Another thing to do is minimizing the offense, is to say, well, that's okay. It's not a big deal. That didn't really hurt me. When in reality it is a big deal and it did hurt me and that kind of created a rift, but I'm gonna I'm just gonna try and minimize it and pretend like it's not that significant. Uh w uh one man that I I know struggled with the idea of forgiving his father or stepfather because he thought, well if I forgive him that means that I'm I'm acting like it's not a big deal the things that he did when he was young. Well no, that's not what's going on. That's not the reality. Um so don't think that forgiving means minimizing the offense. Another misconception is letting the person off the hook. That uh if if I forgive them that means that they don't have to deal with the consequences, that they're just gonna get scot free off of this uh offense. Um and that's obviously not true either. I mean there might be some consequences, we'll talk about that in a a little bit later, some consequences that aren't uh th that they get away with, but other consequences not necessarily. For example, if someone commits a crime, you can forgive them legitimately, but they still pay the consequences for their crime. They're still uh legal issues to to deal with. And so when we forgive, we're not just letting someone off the hook. Another misconception that is is really dangerous is this idea of forgiving yourself. You just have to forgive yourself. And this this is more in the area of personal guilt and shame. And I just can't get over what I did. And people will say, Oh, you just need to forgive yourself. Anybody have any thoughts of why that would be unbiblical? Christ the witness isn't enough. Explain that a little bit more. uh being on these self-help groups and that was always the same. I was I was saying a lot of that I think we're uh 12 up recovery groups that you have have to forgive yourself of the offense. But as Christians, you know, God has forgiven me of my sins and the sins that I've done. But if I'm saying I still need to forgive myself, I'm actually saying that his forgiveness was not Mm-hmm. Right. W when we sin, who are we sinning against? That's right. We're sinning against God. God. David said Psalm fifty one, against you and you only have I sinned. Now he sinned toward Bathsheba, toward Uriah, and in in a sense sinned against them. But ultimately, the law that we break when we sin is God's law. It's not my own law. And so therefore, I I can't forgive myself. I'm not the judge of myself or of anybody else So it's it's just wrong headed. It it's just categor categorically incorrect to to think that I can forgive myself. Um and again as we talk about what forgiveness is, then it'll become a little bit clearer of why that's that's just a a wrong way to think. And then the worst con misconception that is blasphemy is well you just need to forgive God. Yeah, you this terrible thing happened in your life, uh, and I know you're mad at God, but you need to forgive God. What what's the implication when someone says you need to forgive God? Yeah. Because of our sense that you know life should go well and life should be easy, that if there's pain and suffering in my life, then that means God messed up. God did something wrong. It's not my fault, it's not anybody else's fault. It's God's fault. And and so therefore we need to forgive God and that's absolutely blasphemous. God never does anything wrong, God does not sin. So these are all misconceptions and and we kinda hear those from time to time. And I would just encourage you just to set those aside. Just don't think in those ways. If you hear other people talk in those terms, any any of those terms, uh gently, kindly say, can we talk about that? That's that's not a helpful way to think. And so now let's talk about what is the right way to think. And I think this is this helps us tremendously as we think about practicing forgiveness in our lives with others. So what forgiveness is one thing we have to understand fundamentally is that if we're going to think about forgiveness and try and understand what it is Uh we have to have some kind of a uh a source of authority, some sort of a basis for understanding forgiveness. We have to know Uh where does this concept even come from? How how do we even begin to understand what forgiveness is? Who who made up this idea of forgiveness? Because if we have the wrong source, we're going to come up with the wrong answer And the reality is there's only one source, one objective source that we can truly under understand forgiveness from, and that's who? God, right? We we have to model forgiveness after God's forgiveness of us Because if we don't model after that, well w what other model is there? Uh th all you ha if you if you take God out of the equation how He has forgiven me, if you set that aside, then all of a sudden you have no standard By which they forgive, and then you get all these wrong ideas. So fundamentally we have to think forgiveness is modeled after God's forgiveness. Human horizontal forgiveness is modeled after the vertical forgiveness that God has has um accomplished, that God has has practiced with us. And so as we think about forgiveness, that's what we're aiming to understand. How has God forgiven us? So Thinking about forgiveness, what's the context of this idea of forgiveness? Forgiveness involves sin and guilt This is perhaps a little obvious, but it involves sin and guilt. Forgiveness is the undeserved releasing of guilt. to someone who has sinned against God and toward us. Okay? Forgiveness is the undeserved releasing of guilt to someone who has sinned against God and toward us. Now only God can forgive someone judicially, right? The Lord said to Adam and Eve, The day that you eat of the fruit of the tree of knowledge of good and evil, you will die. And in the New Testament it says, the wages of sin is Death. So the judicial punishment for sin, whether it's murder or whether it's telling a little white lie, is death. And only God can forgive in the sense of releasing someone from that judicial punishment. And yet we still have the ability ourselves to forgive relationally. So God forgives judicially, we forgive relationally To release someone from the social consequences of sin and perhaps even other consequences of sin. So w again, when we think about forgiveness, we're not talking about making a judicial pronouncement. Uh well I'm gonna get up in the in the judges bench and hand uh lay down the gavel and make a pronouncement that you are now innocent. Only God can do that. We don't make those kinds of um eternal pronouncements. Forgiveness does not replace God's work in a person's life. Now we also have to understand that guilt is not a feeling. It is a status. Guilt is not a feeling, it is a status. We we often talk about guilt as a feeling. I feel guilty about this. And uh and we we understand what we mean by that. Um you know, we feel shame, but When we talk about guilt again, especially in the context of forgiveness, we're not talking about a feeling, so that we we can't ever say, Well, I don't feel like forgiving. Or I don't feel like I need to be forgiven or you know, whatever you might attach to feelings. It's not about feelings at all. When we talk about forgiveness, it's not about feelings. Uh w when we do think about the emotion or the feeling of guilt, what we're really talking about is conviction. Uh the sense of of uh inner conviction that our conscience has that the the Holy Spirit works to convict us of sin. That's that's the emotion of feeling of guilt. But guilt is a status. And as a status, what that means is either we are innocent Or we are guilty, you've actually violated the law, or you are righteous. So there are three three different statuses that you can have in in a sense of guilt. You can be innocent, you can be guilty, or you can be righteous. What's the difference between innocence and righteousness? Being innocent and being righteous. Innocent means you didn't do it. Right. And righteousness is mean you've been forgiven. Okay. It's one way to think about it. Any other thoughts? Sure. So that's interesting. I have a question. When you're saying righteousness, are you talking about the righteousness that God gives or are you talking about righteous living Righteous living. Yeah. So what's the difference between innocence and righteousness? Could be the same thing, I suppose, Elias. Military analogy, innocence is like zero dollars, not negative, not positive. And then righteousness is a plus balance. Yeah So i I I think that that's a good way to think about it. If you think about Adam and Eve when they were created, they were innocent. They hadn't done anything. They hadn't had opportunity to to do anything. There was there was no temptation again w before they actually were tempted. But for those first few days, weeks, whatever it was, they they were innocent. But all of a sudden temptation came, and they uh fell to into that temptation, or I should say they walked right into it, they succumbed to it, and all of a sudden they're guilty. Now imagine if they had not. Succumb to it. They would have been righteous because now not only have they uh not done what they weren't supposed to do, but they've proactively accomplished the law. proactively obeyed. So the reason we talk about Jesus as righteous and not innocent is not because he never broke the law. necessarily, but more than that because he proactively lived accomplishing the law. You know, he says, not I didn't come to abolish the law, but to fulfill the law. Jesus was baptized not because he was guilty, not because he needed to repent, but because it was a fulfillment of the law. So he was proactive. So again it wasn't just Okay, I'm gonna stay in my little closet and and not gonna sin toward anybody, but I'm gonna live life and I'm gonna live out the law of God. I'm gonna proactively obey, not just Avoid sins of commission, but I'm going to avoid sins of omission. I'm going to proactively obey. I'm going to proactively obey the law of God. So It's not just that you haven't broken the law, but that you have perfectly obeyed the law. And of course that's impossible for us, right? Uh because we're sinners. We're already guilty from from the start. So guilt is a status, not a feeling. That's critically important. Another thing we we want to understand is that forgiveness Is not the absence of justice. Again, going against that idea that I'm just letting the person off the hook Forgiveness is not the absence of justice. When God forgives us, and thus when we forgive, justice is not thwarted. God is perfectly just. He's the perfect judge of the universe. And he cannot allow sin to go unpunished lest he become unjust. So whether God forgives us or we forgive someone else, we get We can never think in terms of, well, they're just getting away, Scot Free. This is this is unjust. Injustice happens all the time in the human system. In fact, I would argue it happens every time. There's no such thing as true justice in the human system. There are things that we like more than others, uh, but there's never true justice in the in the human system. Only God can accomplish true justice. But justice is accomplished one of two ways, always. Either God will execute justice on a sinner by pouring out his wrath on them. Eternity in hell, or he will have executed justice for a sinner by pouring out his wrath on Christ at the cross. Okay, so either God will pour out his wrath on a sinner in eternity, or he will have executed justice by pouring out his wrath on Christ. So we can say some, in terms of their own personal re- uh receiving of justice, some receive justice Some receive grace, but no one receives injustice. I was speaking to someone recently, uh an unbeliever, who I was trying to explain the gospel and They had experienced an immense amount of suffering from at the hands of others. And as I'm explaining the gospel, the light bulb kind of turned on and they said, Well, wait a minute. What you're telling me is, I'm paraphrasing here, what you're telling me is if I repent and turn to Christ, I will have my sins forgiven, yeah. But that also means that if this person who has hurt me and abused me and done all these evil things against me, if they get to the end of their life and they turn to Christ, they get forgiven too. Is that right? Yeah. Well for an unbeliever that's that's not very that's not a pleasant thought. Right. But you know what? I'm grateful for that. I'm grateful for that reality of of forgiveness because if that's not true, then I can't be forgiven. And we have to come to grips with the reality that justice is not based on what I think is right. What I think is best, what I think they deserve. Justice is based on God's standard. And if I'm gonna accept that Christ has paid the penalty for my sin, then I have to exp accept that he's paid the penalty for anybody else regardless of what sins they've committed. And this is huge because if if you if you think this way, if you understand that That apart from someone else being able to receive forgiveness, you cannot receive forgiveness. Um If you if you uh I I said that the wrong way that I was intending. If you accept the fact that someone that you can be forgiven, therefore anybody else can be forgiven, you will be freed up to be able to forgive others. But if you have this sense of, no, I I I need to see other s people suffer for the sin that they commit against me then you're in that position of the uh unforgiving slave, you know, in in Matthew eighteen that Pastor Lake preached on several weeks ago. That yeah, I'm glad to receive forgiveness, but they don't deserve it. Carol. I think one put in factor here is when someone has truly hurt you in a horrible way. And want them to be safe and you want to pray for them I think that is so so very effective in your ability to forgive them I agree. Because for me that is What part of the thing to get to that point. I want to see that person safe, especially someone who's just hurt you deeply. Yeah. And if you can pray Yeah. Yeah absolutely. So praying for our enemies, right? Praying for those who persecute us. That's what Jesus told us. to do. It's what separates us from unbelievers. He says unbelievers can be nice to everybody, or can be nice to those who are nice to them. It's believe believers who act like God, who are kind to those who are uh to to those who are wicked. You made a statement about three things about justice and forgiveness before we started talking. And I would like to quote it again. Do you know which one? Something about if somebody's received the in grace. Some receive justice, some receive grace, but no one receives injustice. God. Right. Okay. Right. Because the world and people in general. Yeah, and again I would argue that that there is no just true justice in this world. You know, um the example I uh like to use because it's so to me it's so stark is how is it that uh someone who let's say is a serial killer, you know, they've killed dozens of people. How is it that the worst that we can do to them is just take their life? And of course in this day and age, in a very painless uh way. Um You you look at the the world leaders who you know some of whom in the past are responsible for millions upon millions of deaths. There is no justice that that we can do toward them. There's nothing that we can do. Only God can truly meet out justice. And so, you know, we might think to a lesser degree, uh, you know, someone who steals or someone who's committed some kind of crime or theft that okay, they they can have justice Because they have a lesser crime, maybe they pay back uh the the money that they stole or something like that. Yeah, that's true. But but sin, especially the the deep egregious sins uh don't reach receive true justice in this world. And uh ev even when we do see someone experience justice and there's a measure of gratitude, a measure of of satisfaction in that, there's still the reality that they the crime that they've committed from our perspective is limited, but from God's perspective it's infinite. And so unless they experience God's judgment, then they really haven't experienced true justice uh for their sin. And uh the more we think about that, the more it should cause us to be grateful for the forgiveness that God has granted us because no matter what you or I have done Uh we deserve death. We deserve eternal punishment from God. No matter how much of a sinner you are or how s little of a sinner you think you are. Your sin is infinite against God, and yet He has forgiven you. So let's talk about four ways that God has forgiven us. What does it mean on a practical level relationally between God and us that He has forgiven us? First, I think this these uh points are on your outline. When God forgives us, he does not remember our sins. Okay? He does not remember our sins. Isaiah forty-three twenty-five The Lord says, I, even I, am the one who wipes out your transgression for my own sake, and I will not remember your sins Kind of sounds like forgive and forget, doesn't it? Jeremiah thirty one, thirty-four says, They will not teach again this is the new covenant, each uh they will not teach again each man his neighbor and each man his brother, saying, Know the Lord, for they will all know me from the Lord. Least of them to the greatest of them, declares the Lord, for I will forgive their iniquity and their sin I will remember no more. Now, how does the omniscient God of the universe not remember something? The word remember Translates the Hebrew word zakar, Z-A-K-A-R, which means, this is a quote here from a Hebrew dictionary, the root and its derivatives have crucial roles in the Old Testament. On the human level, the words embrace Reflection, especially on what is in the past. Some reflection may lead to regret or relief, or more actively, appreciation and commitment. God's remembering has to do with his attention and intervention whether in grace or in judgment. Let me read that last part again. God's remembering has to do with his attention and intervention, whether in grace or in judgment. So that means when God says, I will remember your sins no more, I will not remember your sins, what he means is I am not going to actively think about your sin and intervene or act So that's also a model of how we forgive others too. Yeah, that's right. That's right. So God does not activ you know, he he knows the information is is within him. He knows that we're sinners, but he does not dwell on our sin. He does not actively think about our sin, and he does not treat us in light of our sin. So God does not remember our sin. Second, when God forgives us He does not remind us of our sins and use them against us. So kind of following on from the previous point, he does not remind us of our sins and use them against us. Psalm 103. Psalm 103, verses 10 to 12. He has not dealt with us according to our sins, nor rewarded us according to our iniquities For as high as the heavens are above the earth, so great is his loving kindness toward those who fear him. As far as the east is from the west, so far has he removed our transgressions from us W when uh we were in the biblical reconciliation class, um uh uh w uh I don't remember what the week was, but Ann Kane said something that I'll never forget. I had not heard this before and it was really helpful, so uh I pass it on to you because if I had never heard it f before, maybe others haven't either. She's she a ra raised her hand. She didn't have a question. She had a statement as is often the case. And she says, Do you know why it says uh East is from the West, you know, as far as the East is from the West? I'm like Well obviously he's trying to say, you know, how far Sindh or separated from us. And she's like, Yeah. And the reason is because east to west, you know, you can go west and you can go east. in infinitely and you'll never meet uh the other side. Right? If God would have said, I'm gonna separate your sin as far as the north is from the south When you start heading north, you hit a point where you start going south. And so that would indicate that there's a limit to the separation from sin. So by get by using east and west, God in his infinite wisdom is saying there is no way that you will ever uh have your sins brought back upon you because they are removed from you in an infinite way. I th I just thought that was really helpful. Colossians chapter two, verses thirteen to fourteen say, When you were dead in your transgressions and To us and ye He has taken it out of the way, having nailed it to the cross. The phrase I want to point out there is where he says, having canceled out the certificate of death. Under this thinking that he does not remind us of our sin, this passage in Colossians talks about sin as being a debt. And uh in the ancient times when you had a debt because their writing uh implements were uh more primitive than they are today, they had l limited paper production. They would reuse their paper or papyrus or tablets regularly So what they would do is on on that tablet of whatever substance it was, uh they would write out what the debt is, you know, who who is owed, uh uh what the stipulations are regarding that debt repayment And also what are the consequences for not paying back that debt? So just like we would have today in our contracts when you take out a loan and get a mortgage or whatever else, they had contracts for when you had a debt with someone. And that's the illustration that God is. is using here in this passage. And what he is saying is when when he writes having cancelled out the certificate of debt What he's saying is that he has wiped it away. He has wiped it clean, as if as if it was all written on the whiteboard and it's just covered in black and God just took out the eraser and wiped it out. And not only did he wipe out the the debt, but the consequences of not repaying the debt have been removed. So for us, again the wages of sin is death, so when we sin, the the consequences are hanging over our heads. The wrath of God abides over us as unbelievers, for any unbeliever. And God not only takes away the the contract, but he removes that that uh that punishment that is coming. Uh, you know, he he stops the debt collectors from from calling and he stops uh he reverses the the stopped b uh bank transactions, you know, that forced payment of the debt. He does everything to take away the consequences. of our debt. But I think though God God um the older thing people Yeah, see that's the beautiful thing, Sarah, is that from God's perspective When Christ paid for our sin He paid for He paid for our sin two thousand years ago, you know about there. And when when God forgives us, He doesn't just forgive us of our sin before we were saved. And then okay now now that you're saved, now I'm gonna start keeping track, I'm gonna start the ledger over. He doesn't do that. He forgives us all of our sin, past, present and future. So that we never have to worry that, oh, what if what if I die and I've committed some sin after I've gotten saved? Am I really going to be saved? No. We're completely forgiven. Our sin is paid in full. That's why Paul can say in Romans chapter 8, there is no condemnation For those who are in Christ Jesus. All of our sin is paid for. Now, does that mean that we don't still have to repent and ask for God's forgiveness when we sin? No, we still need to do that because when when we sin against our now Heavenly Father as believers, there is a relational break, just like there is in human relationship. And it is good and right and necessary for us to confess our sin and to ask for His forgiveness to repair that relationship. So God has paid all of our sin, and He doesn't or He doesn't remind us of our sin again, and He doesn't use them against us. I think he kind of answers the question I was. I'm bringing up that she wrote. Because definitely there's a sense before getting saved where it would be troubling before and then afterwards it's sort of like a distant memory type of thing But then sometimes now committing a sin, the not reminding us part, it's almost like has my conscience been seared that This doesn't bother me anymore. Like or I you know, at times of committing it or afterwards, yeah, oh that was a sin and I asked for forgiveness. So there there's a certain point of maybe not remembering but at least recognizing that you've sinned. Are you talking about past sin from the w when you were an unbeliever? He does not remind of us uh of our sin. Right. I think there's a or maybe a discrepancy or a certain amount of Okay, well we have to at least be cognizant of our sin that we've committed this sin so we can ask for forgiveness of it. So I guess maybe we haven't Right, so yeah, so the way that I would uh explain that is that when we do sin, part of the work of the Holy Spirit is to convict us of sin. Uh and yes, even though it's paid for by Christ on the cross, again there is that relational break. But um but even even that is not is not a judicial reminding. It's not like, oh you sinned, now you're bound for hell again. Uh it's a fatherly kind of Yeah, it's a sanctifying reminding of sin, of of repent, turn to me. You know, let's restore this relationship. Uh it's more of a loving, fatherly, gentle reminder of sin, not the crushing judicial conviction of sin. Um So that's the way I I would tend to think about it. Uh third thing here, oh dear, time is flying by. Uh when God forgives us, he does not receive accusations from others. In other words, he doesn't receive accusations against us from others. This is so beautiful. Romans thirty eight, thirty-three to thirty four. Romans eight, thirty-three to thirty-four. Who will bring a charge against God's elect? God is the one who justifies. Who is the one who condemns? Christ Jesus is he who died. Yes, rather who was raised, who is at the right hand of God, who also intercedes for us. If anyone tries to talk to God and say, Hey God, do you know what so-and-so did? Uh go get 'em. You know, go after him. God doesn't listen to that kind of prayer. Revelation chapter twelve. Verse 10 says, Then I heard a loud voice in heaven saying, Now the salvation and the power and the kingdom of our God and the authority of His Christ have come. For the accuser of our brethren has been thrown down. Who's that? Satan. Satan. He who accuses them before our God day and night. So just like Satan talked to J talked to God about Job and said, God, he's only faithful to you because you're so good to him and you've pro prospered him and all these things. Same thing with us, Satan is constantly accusing us to to against us to God He is is tr he is trying to remind God of our sin and our uh faithlessness and and on all the struggles that we have, and God says, I'm not listening to that. That's why it also says in Scripture that Christ is our high priest, he is our intercessor, he intercedes on our behalf. So as in a courtroom scene, Satan is the prosecutor trying to convince g God the judge of our sin, and Jesus is there as the defense attorney saying, No, God, you already forgave them of their sin. I I paid the penalty, here are my scars There's not any guilt in this person because they are righteous. You have declared them righteous. So God does not listen to accusations from others against us. And then fourthly, when God forgives us, he removes the barrier that our sin created in our relationship with Him. He removes the barrier that our sin created in our relationship with Him. In Romans chapter 5, verse 10, it says, For if while we were enemies we were reconciled to God through the death of his son, much more having been reconciled shall we be saved by his life. Ephesians chapter 2, that was Romans 5 10. Ephesians chapter 2, verse 13 to 14. But now in Christ Jesus, you who formerly were far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ, for he himself is our peace, who made both groups into one and broke down the barrier of the dividing wall. So we were God's enemies. We were separated from Him. There was a wall of division. And God, in forgiving us and redeeming us, broke down that wall and drew us near to Him. Colossians 1:21-22, and although you were formerly alienated and hostile in mind, engaged in evil deeds, yet he has now reconciled you in his fleshly body through death, in order to present you before him holy and blameless and beyond reproach. Again, we were alienated and he has reconciled us to himself So God doesn't say to us, man, you've lived your whole life in rebellion against me. I'll forgive you, but you can just stay over there. It hurts too much for you to to be in my presence. I'm just reminded of your constant rebellion. So just stay over there. Don't call, don't write. No, right? He welcomes us into his home. He invites us to cry out to him. He invites us into a close relationship with him. And so he doesn't allow our sin to be a barrier. Now again there is that relational sense where Uh when we sin against God there is a a break. You know, in 1 Peter 3 7. Uh Peter writes to husbands, you know, dwell with your wives in an understanding way, so that your prayers will not be hindered. So if you're living in a way that is against God's plan, God's design, then God's gonna say, I'm not gonna be listening to your prayers right now because you're rebelling against me I'm not going to bless you while you're living in sin. So uh there is that kind of a a relational break, but it's not an eternal, it's not a salvific break it doesn't r destroy our salvation. God restores that when we seek His forgiveness. So, having said all that, how can we forgive like God forgives? And uh as our friend said, what was your name again? Kevin. Kevin. As Kevin said earlier, uh we forgive just like God forgives, because our forgiveness is relational, not judicial. Our forgiveness is a volitional choice of how we will relate with the other person. It's a volitional choice. It is saying, I'm going to choose, regardless of how I feel, to relate with you in a particular way. By forgiving you, I'm gonna make a conscious choice to interact with you in a in a particular way. And that particular way Is corresponding to how God has forgiven me. And so the way it's often phrased is that biblical forgiveness between people is four promises. It's making four promises. The first promise, corresponding to the first way we talked about, is that I promise that I will not dwell on this incident. Okay, I promise that I will not dwell on this incident. Now that's that's not saying forget. I'm not promising that I'm gonna forget what happened. Uh it's not promising that this this thought is never going to cross my mind of, oh, d do you remember what that person did and oh do you feel that tinge of of pain and hurt. I can't promise that, but what I can promise is that when those thoughts come to my mind, I'm not going to dwell on them. I'm not going to think about them. I'm not going to let them ruminate in my thinking and cause them to simmer in my mind. I'm not going to relive that situation every time I think about you. I'm not going to become embittered toward you because I'm just constantly thinking about it. So, what does that mean on a positive way? Because how do you do that practically? We're promising that when we when when that incident comes to our mind, we will re- redirect our thoughts according to Philippians 4. 8, right? Whatever's true, right, noble, just pure, lovely. I don't remember what all the words there are, but I will change my thinking. So when when the thought comes into my mind of what you did against me, I'm going to maybe pray for you. I'm going to thank God that you know you repented, that you sought forgiveness, that you reconciled. I'm going to thank God for the change He's worked in your life. I'm going to pray that the Lord continues to bless you and cause you to walk closely with Christ. I'm going to pray for the Lord's help to interact with you in a way that that is kind and gentle and and loving. I'm going to use those reminders that my my fleshly mind has of your sin and I'm going to think well and I'm going to think about other things or I'm going to turn those thoughts uh into uh a prayer. Transactional forgiveness? Certainly if someone has not asked for forgiveness And again we'll talk about this, as you said, jumping down the page. But if someone has not asked us for forgiveness, um we don't have the opportunity to make that promise, but we can still in a sense practice that promise and pray specifically that the Lord would bring them to repentance. But the Lord would bring them into conviction and help them to realize that that they've sinned. The Lord would give me wisdom and do I need to confront them? So it's again changing my thinking rather than just uh thinking and uh being self-focused in my thoughts about that person and how much they've hurt me and uh becoming embittered against them. The second promise is: I promise I will not bring this incident up to you to use it against you. I will not bring this incident up to you to use it against you. Uh by the time you have reached the point of granting forgiveness, hopefully you've dealt with the issue. Hopefully you've had a conversation with the person to talk about what happened. uh to acknowledge the hurt that was done, to acknowledge the sin that was done, and that you've brought it in a sense to to full resolution. And so you no longer need to bring it up to them again. You no longer need to talk to them and remind them about what they did. You're not going to bring this up and and and condemn them. Remember when you you know and and use it to to bring pain and and um shame into into their life. Now that's having said that, there may be times when you need to bring it up again. If there develops a pattern in their life where they repeat that sin, you may need to raise it up and say, you know, I'm really concerned because I know we dealt with this in the past, but I'm starting to see this become a pattern. And in that case, you're you are bringing it up, but you're not using it against them, right? You're using it for them. You're using it in a gentle way to help them learn and grow. And so we don't want to br raise up someone's sins to pile on shame uh in their life, but we do, if necessary, um want to Bring it up so that we can help someone grow. And we talk a lot more about that in the reconciliation class. The third promise is I promise I will not discuss this incident with others. Okay? I'm not gonna call my mom or my dad and tell them about what you did. I'm not gonna call my girlfriend or my guy friends while we're It d uh hanging out. I'm gonna I'm not gonna tell them, do you know what so and so did, or do you know what my husband did, my wife did? Uh I'm not gonna bring it up as a small group. You know, for prayer. With with others because we've dealt with it. We we've talked this through. You've asked for forgiveness. I'm granting you forgiveness. I I I don't need to talk to anybody else about this Now are there exceptions? Yes, there are exceptions with this again. The authorities need to be uh involved. Um you know, hopefully that individual who has broken the law will be the one to to turn themselves in, you know, depending on the situation w as far as what their actions need to be. But perhaps if th there are lasting consequences that uh further help is needed uh whether it's um you know medical help, whether it's you know further counseling, uh whatever it might be, there might be situations where you bring someone into the situation Not to again pile it on and use them against use it against them, but for the purpose of bringing and and promoting healing and more fully resolving the situation The fourth promise is that I will not allow this incident to stand between us. I will not allow this incident to stand between us. The majority of the conflicts that we experience in our lives. You know, the the the um bickering we have with our spouse, the miscommunication, misunderstanding we have with people in the church, uh things that go on in the work. place the vast majority of the sins that we commit against each other, you can make this promise. You can say, you know what You've asked for forgiveness, I'm granting you forgiveness, it's done. We can continue and engage in this relationship without any thought of of uh of uh stepping back from the relationship. Uh in fact we can even grow in our relationship. But there are obviously some sins that have natural consequences that do create a barrier, uh but these these are rare and these should be uh uh These will likely involve other people to help us deal with them. So for for example, significant acts of broken trust may require a lengthy period of rebuilding trust Which involves extreme transparency not needed in most relationships. So adultery. You know, if one spouse commits adultery. You can say, okay, I'm not gonna let this to hinder our relationship, but at the same time that the character of our relationship may need to change, at least for a time, because The way you've sinned is you've you've broken this level of trust, and now we need to work toward restoring trust. So we may need to do things uh and interact at a level that we didn't have to before You may need to tell me where you're going and when when you're planning on being home and kind of give me a more up-to-date uh information about your schedule that you didn't need to before because I just I need to know where you are Uh you need to be open and honest. You know, may maybe uh you need to give me the freedom to look at your phone, to examine your phone call records, uh, so that I I can know that that you are trustworthy Um and of course how you go about that, there's there's good and bad ways of going about that. And so that's why, you know, it it can involve others like a counselor or pastor. uh to help in those situations. Another example would be significant harm, physical or sexual, may make it wise and necessary for a complete separation. You know, if uh if a one person has raped another person. Uh you don't want to just say, okay, let's be friends now. That's not wise. It's wise for there to be separation. And and again that kind of goes back to the the where the law gets involved. Maybe there's a and necessary separation because of of jail time and whatnot. But um if someone, you know, has uh been convicted of child molestation Uh they shouldn't be entrusted uh with uh childcare. They shouldn't be serving in the nursery. You know, a a church can forgive them, but no longer are you allowed to engage in this ministry. Failure of integrity may make it unwise to continue working relationships. For an example might be firing someone who mishandled finances. One of the previous companies I worked for had an accountant that made a mistake. They didn't sin, but they made a mistake, a very costly mistake. And they tried to cover it up. Hope no one would find out. And years later, just again through auditing and the normal things that happen in the accounting office it came to light. And the person repented. Again, they didn't they didn't sin in the original mistake, but they sinned in covering it up. And so the company the the leader said, We forgive you, uh, we love you, but you can't stay in this position. That that would be a breach of of responsibility. uh on our part uh that you can't compl you can't continue in this uh in this position of trust. So so there are times when there is a a break or a a change in the relationship, but again The most cut uh relationships that we engage in, the most sins that that we experience, uh you can forgive and just continue on without any break, Dory? I'm wondering, so what comes first? The process Of forgiving and then I'm gonna work on these four steps or okay, I think I can do these four steps and then I forgive So, do you uh let me rephrase the question and see if this is what you're asking. Are you are you asking, do I need to be, uh do I need to feel ready to forgive? I think the answer is no. In other words, I don't need to have gotten over my pain and my hurt before I can make these promises. That's why I said that Forgiveness is a volitional choice of how I'm gonna interact with you. These are promises uh that that I'm gonna that I'm making and that I'm gonna work hard to keep. And it can be very difficult to keep some of these promises. It can be very, very difficult. Again, there are some times when it's really easy and other times when it's very, very painful and difficult. You know, just that first promise of I will not dwell on this incident. Adultery is one of those situations where if a husband has committed adultery, uh or it doesn't matter which one, the the uh if you will, the innocent spouse, uh has a very hard time not thinking about that and not allowing it to to uh ruin their day, you know, when something reminds them of it, even after they've they've dealt with it. And so uh you don't have to feel ready, but you do have to be committed to making the promises, right? So you don't you don't make these promises uh in a glib way like you say, I'm sorry. Uh you do have to consciously think about it and understand this is what I'm doing. And I think that's one of the things that um especially in significant conflicts makes reconciliation so difficult is we tend to reconcile in a very surface level way. So we we might even say, we might go beyond I'm sorry and say I forgive you. Or I f yeah, I've will you forgive me, I forgive you. But we still might not really understand what what we're actually saying. We're not actually forgiving like God forgives. And so even though that has happened, sometimes that you need to go back and do it again. when there's fuller understanding uh so that those promises can be uh kept in mind in and practice. We're doing feedback on the board set. Working through this Um while I'm still in a from the pain that you call I I I have pain, I I have hurt. I still need to work through this in my hurt. Yeah, and uh honestly I think that if we're thinking rightly about what forgiveness is, that the the process of of understanding of growing in our understanding of forgiveness, which involves understanding how God has forgiven me So it's not just what do I need to do, but it's I need to do this because God has done this toward me. That just that process of of personal growth Helps doesn't make it easy, but it helps make those promises. Uh, you know, like again, the the slave in Matthew 18 that was forgiven. Uh He didn't allow the forgiveness that he had experienced to impact the his relationship with with a fellow slave. And and Jesus is saying, No, that's wrong. If you have been forgiven, that should have a dramatic impact on how you forgive others, how you interact with others. So I think it's okay to still struggle, to still feel that pain, to still feel the hurt. But To do it in a way that um submits our thinking, submits our emotions to the Lord and allows God to have his role in working in the other person's life and uh and then just making these uh keeping these promises, being proactive in keeping these promises. Um yeah. It it it's it's not difficult it's not it's not easy, it's difficult Uh in in many cases. But is it yeah, like you were saying, and I guess I just went on Marco or whatever, but uh this is really a time for us. This is these are opportunities You have to really cling to God and it's uh Yeah. Yeah. It's not gonna happen. Right. Sometimes we knuckle down and and get into Right. And again, all these uh scriptures, you know, what are the promises of God? What he gave. Right. Yeah, the danger of not taking these steps of obedience, and I I think that's what they are, is that bitterness can grow in our hearts. So if we say, Well I'm not ready to forgive yet because I'm still still hurting so much The longer we delay, the more the bitterness in our heart grows, and the more difficult it becomes then to practice these promises later on. Now just real quick, we're not going to be able to get through what the notes that I have here, but attitudinal and transactional forgiveness. Very simply, what's what are we talking about here? Transactional forgiveness is when there is a verbal transaction between you and the person who has sinned against you, or or if you've sinned against the other person, where one person says, I have sinned against you, will you forgive me? many terms. And the other person says, Yes, I forgive you. So there's been a two-way interaction of acknowledging the sin, confessing the sin, asking for forgiveness, granting forgiveness. That's a transaction. That's transactional forgiveness. So that's been what we've been talking about There's also what you could call attitudinal forgiveness, which is having an attitude of forgiveness. So If someone does not ask for your forgiveness, if they don't acknowledge their sin or they don't care, uh you know, whatever is going on that they have not asked, or maybe maybe they don't have the ability to forgive because they passed away or they're just in a p position where they're not able to communicate with you or to work through the issues, whatever, for whatever reason they haven't asked for forgiveness. You can't have that transaction, but you can and should have an attitude of forgiveness. That is, an attitude where you are essentially practicing some of the promises and praying that the Lord will bring about reconciliation and In your own heart, you situate your your thinking and your attitude so that when, if it's ever becomes possible that they ask you for forgiveness, that you are ready to forgive. In the sense that you are you are well prepared in your heart to forgive. So the the what I what I see is the opposite r reality of attitudinal forgiveness. If you don't practice attitudinal forgiveness, then what you're doing is you're harboring Bitterness. That's why this is so significant. Uh what we're trying to avoid is bitterness of dwelling on sin uh becoming focused on the sin, allowing it to uh penetrate and and saturate our thinking and becoming bitter toward the other person. Instead what we should be doing uh is uh remembering that while they have sinned and uh sinned against us and hurt us, that their sin is first and foremost against God. Right? No matter how small, no matter how big their sin against us, it is first and foremost against God. Genesis 15, 19, Joseph said to his brothers, Do not be afraid, for am I in God's place? They didn't even ask him for forgiveness. But he he knew that they were fearful and said, it's alright guys. I'm not in God's place. Jessica? So Matthew six, fourteen and fifteen is something that's helped me over here to forgive transgressions. But I want to make sure I'm thinking rightly about it. Um as Christians, if we choose to not forgive or we're just not ready to forgive to go through that transaction. Um According to Matthew six, it says that our Heavenly Father won't forgive us our sins, which happen on a daily basis. Am I thinking rightly about that? Our Heavenly Father cannot forgive me if I choose to not forgive somebody else. Yeah, so I I think the best way to understand that passage is connecting it to Matthew eighteen, you know, where Jesus tells that parable. That if we refuse to forgive others because of the bitterness in our heart, uh that we are reflecting a reality that we have not um We have not truly been forgiven, in the sense that we have not allowed God's forgiveness of us to transform our lives. That m we may have repented of our sin, we may have begged God for mercy, uh, but we haven't truly repented. We haven't truly turn our life to serve Christ. So we would then not be a Christian. Potentially. Now another way that it's often been translated or uh interpreted is that God's unforgiveness of us is more in that fatherly relational forgiveness. That if again like first Peter three seven, if we're living in a way that is in rebellion where we're harboring sin in our life, then God's not gonna actively uh just keep on blessing us and forgiving us and doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. Uh so it it is a little bit of a trickier uh passage of kind of which of those two is Jesus intending, as he's saying you're not a a believer if you're not forgiving another Or is he just saying on a relational level God's not gonna forgive you? Um but those are the the two ways of thinking about it. We're out of time. I'm really sorry that we couldn't get through this last part, but I think the the biggest thing to take away is when others sin against you How are you to treat them? In a sense, they are your enemy. And Jesus says, pray for your enemy. Do good to them, bless them, and uh of course according to Matthew eighteen, if someone sins against you, go and show them their fault. Uh so there there's a lot more that we could say about that, but um but forgiveness is is critical. Uh if you want to resource John MacArthur's book, uh The Freedom and Power of Forgiveness is excellent. There's a book by Chris Braunz called Unpacking Forgiveness. Braunz is B-R-A-U-N-S. A number of other things as well. Feel free to talk to me afterward if you have any questions Heavenly Father, we thank you for uh this brief time that we've had to reflect on your forgiveness of us and what impact that should have in our relationships. Lord, we all acknowledge that relationships are difficult, that they can be painful because of the ways in which we sin against one another. But Lord, I pray you would help us as those who have been reconciled to you, as those who have been redeemed and forgiven that we would in turn treat others the way that you have treated us. That we would not um remain in a mindset of vengeance and a mindset of bitterness, but that we would be washed of those sins that we would be reminded of the glory of the forgiveness that we have experienced. The infinite forgiveness that we have experienced and thus be free to grant forgiveness towards those who sin against us and in small ways in comparison to the ways we've sin against you. Help us, Lord, because this is so difficult for us We need the power of your spirit. We need the truth of your word to enable us to do this. And we thank you that you have given us those things and that you will work in us as we seek you in Christ's name. Amen.