But just to recap, by way of introduction, recap the uh the definitions we identified last week. uh of uh various words relevant to reconciliation. Remember we define peace as a state of well-being, harmony, and love driven by unity in goals, desires, goals, and purposes. And then conflict on the flip side is a state of impaired thinking and relationships driven by competing desires, goals. and purposes. When we're at peace, there's uh the ability to work together, to function according to our design, to be productive. uh in life and the things of the Lord. You know, you think about a church, uh, we often use this phrase, a well-oiled machine. When there's peace, we can function. Each part of the body is using their gifts, is engaging in one another, fellowshipping, serving. evangelizing, worshiping, everything is happening. There's joy, uh there's movement, there's activity. Uh the gospel is being proclaimed, people are being saved, people are being sanctified. It's just it's a it's a an encouraging thought of of how that can look. But as soon as you s insert conflict into that equation, all of a sudden the the gears get uh worn and the heat builds up, there's tension, there's pressure, and all of a sudden things start to slow down and And you see the hindrance that conflict can bring when we have competing goals, desires, and purposes. You know, we might have a group of people who are wanting to move this direction. And another people wanting to move this direction, and that just makes it difficult for the church to move together in in a in an efficient, uh, God glorified way So conflict is a hindrance. It impairs us, not only in the life of the church, but in our own lives. You know, with with many conflicts that I've been in personally, that I've ministered to others who are who are trying to wrestle through. Uh it it slows you down. It forces you to give significant attention to this conflict rather than being able to be free to do the things that you would like to do, uh, to give attention to the things that you would rather give attention to. So conflict impairs us And that's when we know we really have to deal with it, when we see that impairment, when we see it slowing us down, when we see it hindering our ability to fully and freely serve the Lord and engage in good relationships with others. When we do deal with conflict, we arrive at reconciliation, that joyful state of thinking and relationships that have been reinforced. by bonds of love, increasing personal and corporate usefulness for the glory of God. As we uh come together, we humble ourselves, we seek each other's forgiveness. Now our real relationships are fortified because now we've gone through this experience where yes we were at odds once But we've stuck with it. We've loved each other enough to reconcile, to confess our sins, to forgive each other, and now there's that strength of relationship that wasn't there before. And that enables us to be used uh for the glory of God. So that's again just what we're talking about in this class, what we're aiming for. Hey I want to introduce this concept of the four Gs. I don't remember if I mentioned it last week, but I just want to do a quick overview. So this isn't in your notes. You can write this down in the margin or anywhere else. This comes from Ken Sandy and his book, The Peacemaker, and this is really just an overarching outline of biblical reconciliation. As we go through this class over the next 12 weeks, we're not going to follow this outline in terms of like spending a couple of weeks on each one But we will hit each one of these over the course of time. And myself and Mike will probably mention, hey, this is where we're at in the 4G, somewhere along the way. And um I would encourage you, if you really want to get the most out of this class, that you sit down over the next few weeks, just a little bit each week, and memorize these four Gs. Because these are just a very helpful way to think about what my responsibilities are in conflict. And next week, or today, we'll kind of talk about the first one, which is to glorify God The idea that as we think about conflict, what is the first thing that I'm supposed to do? What should be my mindset in approaching this conflict? It is that I am supposed to be glorifying God more than anything More than uh arriving at peace with the person I'm in conflict with, more than uh uh certainly achieving my own desires, the greatest thing I need to be pursuing is glorifying God. 1 Corinthians 1031 So then, whether you eat or drink or whatever you do, do also the glory of God, 2 Corinthians 5. 9, whether we're at home or away, whether we're on earth or in heaven, we make it our aim to please Him. As we'll talk in the class, there's um uh there's no guarantee that if we do everything right, that there will be reconciliation because wherever there's two parties uh there are two people who are responsible. And so if you fulfill your responsibility to do what God calls you to do in a conflict, that's good And that will make it easier potentially for the other party to pursue reconciliation. But if they choose not to, and there remains a state of conflict Then you can be confident that if you have sought to glorify God, then you have done what God has called you to do. And in that sense, it has worked. When we think about how do I resolve conflict, what works? Just tell me what works. Well in order to know what works, You have to know what the goal is. And the goal ultimately and primarily is to glorify God. If you pursued uh reconciliation in a in a God-honoring, respectful, humble way. then it worked, so to speak. You glorified God. That's what matters most. And sometimes, unfortunately, that's where we have to rest Because we don't always see reconciliation when others choose not to glorify God. So the first of the four Gs, the first thing that should be on our mind is that we should glorify God. The second G Is that as we approach the person we're in conflict with, our internal mindset should be to get the log out of our eye. We know that from Matthew 7, 1 through 5, where Jesus says You know, don't judge or you'll be judged. Uh instead take the log out of your eye. How can you see the speck in your brother's eye if you have a log in your own eye So there's humility that's required to recognize how have I sinned, how have I contributed to this conflict? Most of the time, because we're not perfectly like Christ, there is some kind of contribution we have made to a conflict. I was watching uh a counseling session of a another counselor from another state uh where he was counseling this couple and uh the situation had occurred where uh the husband had had been home with the kids in the morning Uh the wife had been out uh doing some things she she needed to do. She came home and the and the home was not clean as she was hoping that it would be. And uh and because of uh what was going on in her mind, uh, she kind of blew up and you know, was yelling and cussing and you know, uh promoting uh or just expressing her frustration, her anger toward her husband. Well at that point, uh he had not done anything. I mean literally he had not done anything So you could potentially say his part of the conflict was maybe he just didn't uh do what he was supposed to do in terms of cleaning things up. Uh I didn't catch whether or not there was an agreement that he should do that or whatever But he literally hadn't done anything. So he could legitimately say, I didn't do anything here. She just blew up at me. The problem was he responded to her anger by yelling and cussing and you know doing all the rest And so there was a volcano of conflict that occurred, and uh this counselor did a good job uh helping them work through that So sometimes it may not be your original actions like this conflict occurred because of something I did. That may not always be the case. But the question we have to ask ourselves, did I respond to the other person in a way that increased or that exacerbated the conflict, that that made it much more of a conflict than it needed to be So what whatever whatever role we have played, we have to acknowledge that. We shouldn't wait and say, well, they were primarily at fault. They did 80 or 90 or 99%. No, we have to take 100% for our responsibility. That's the first thing we need to do. We need to humble ourselves and get the log out of our eye first. And then once we've done that, we need to gently restore. We need to pursue this brother or sister or husband or wife or person that we're in conflict with. uh and seek to um to acknowledge them, help them see the the sin that they have committed, you know, Matthew 18, 15 If your brother sins against you, go and show him his fault. Or Galatians 6. 1. If you see someone who is caught, who's trapped in a trespass, then you who are spiritual restore such one. So we are to take responsibility if we're going to those who have sinned against us and gently confront them and seek their repentance. And then with that final G, go and be reconciled. Jesus says in Matthew 5, 23 and 24 You know, if you're there at the altar and you remember that your brother has something against you, leave your gift, go reconcile to your brother, and then come and offer your gift And the the the point of this, gee, is to emphasize the significance of reconciliation. That God cares more about our us pursuing peace and preserving peace, which is what he Paul talks about in Ephesians 4, God cares more about us preserving and pursuing peace with one another than he does our offerings of worship. As Paul says in Romans twelve, you know, we are not to be conformed to this world We're to be transformed, seek the will of God. We are to make a whole life and a spiritual offering to God. And so if we're In church every day, if we're serving every day, we're seeking to honor the Lord every day, but we have a massive conflict behind us that we're ignoring and allowing to fester, we're not dealing with Then we're not actually worshiping the Lord. We're worshiping with our lips, but not with our lives. God says, no, take care of the conflict. That's how significant it is. I don't care if you have to miss out on a ministry opportunity. Deal with the conflict. And then give your service to the Lord, because that is an act of worship, to imitate Him by reconciling yourself to those with whom you're in conflict. So glorify God, get the laga out of your eye, gently restore, and go and be reconciled. Just again a helpful uh outline to think about conflict resolution So today we want to talk about what causes conflict, just some common reasons that conflict exists. This is kind of be obvious a little bit, but it's it's helpful just to remind ourselves how easily conflict can erupt. And then we're gonna look at how I should think about conflict We're going to see that conflicts are inevitable, so we should expect them. Conflicts are sinful, so we should resolve them. And conflicts are opportunities, so we should seize them. And then we'll end with a couple uh questions we can ask ourselves even in the midst of conflict to prepare ourselves for uh what we'll be talking about in the next few weeks in terms of the heart. So that's what we're going to cover today. Alright? Any particular thoughts or comments at this point before we dive in? Okay. So what causes conflicts? This is where we jump into your notes on page 11 or so. Doctrinal differences in the context of the church, and I suppose you could say throughout the world with different religions, doctrinal differences is a huge source of conflict. This is not new. This is not a modern phenomenon. This has been going on since the early church. In Acts 15 We read this. Some men came down from Judea and began teaching the brethren, unless you are circumcised according to the custom of Moses, you cannot be saved. And when Paul and Barnabas had great dissension and debate with them, the brethren determined that Paul and Barnabas and some others of them should go up to Jerusalem. to the apostles and elders concerning this issue. So we're familiar with the teeth the Judaizer teaching that They would say that circumcision was required, uh, that to some degree the Mosaic law had to be followed by these Gentiles, if they were truly going to be saved. And so they were trying to spread their teaching, and when Paul and Barnabas got her got wind of it, they said, No, that's not right. They had a debate. Uh and so there was a collective decision, okay, we don't n necessarily know uh what the truth is. So let's send uh these folks back to the elders and the apostles in Jerusalem, the mother church, if you will, and have them determine what is right and what is true. And so uh that took place. They went and and of course as we know they uh agreed they um They determine the Holy Spirit's will is that circumcision is not required. Uh, but they ultimately determine that, you know, uh Uh the Gentile should uh should abstain from eating of blood and uh I think meat sacrifice idols or something like that. But uh so they they limited what what they wanted to impose from the Mosaic Law on Gentile believers. But there was significant debate within the church, within those who would call themselves believers. And certainly we see that uh today. Um, you know, the the uh denominational system, the very splintered churches exist because there's doctrinal differences. And uh and in some senses that's not necessarily a bad thing to divide over doctrine Uh you know, those who are truly committed to uh scripture, to the inercy and authority of scripture, those who are committed to a biblical gospel, uh there's differences among us, right? We we have brothers and sisters in the Lord whom we love, whom we respect, who differ on maybe whether or not infants should be baptized, uh who differ on, you know, when the rapture is going to take place, or whether or not there is going to be a rapture Uh whether the millennium is going to be an actual thousand year reign of Christ, or whether we're in the millennium right now, there there are some differences within uh brothers and sisters in Christ who hold to the true gospel but have differences and it's um it's been the the better part of wisdom that those who have similar theology uh gather together in churches so that they can worship without the conflict, without the constant uh fights and arguments Of course there are those churches who say, oh, we don't really argue about those things. We can have people in our church who who disagree on a variety of things. And and that's okay to a degree. One of the challenges can be, though, that When the leadership says, okay, because there is disagreement on this issue, whether it's creationism or infant baptism or women in ministry or whatever it might be Because there are differences, we're just not going to take a position and we're not going to teach on that issue. And what that breeds, of course, is is potentially further conflict and and uh uh problems because then different views are being taught and and that really kicks the can down the road in terms of where the problems lie. Titus 3. 9 there says, but avoid foolish controversies and genealogies and strife and disputes about the law, for they are unprofitable and worthless. In other words, there are some things that are just not worth arguing about. Even as we look at scripture, you know, he identifies their uh uh Controversies and genealogies and disputes about the law. He's talking there about the Mosaic Law. They are unprofitable, he says. They're a waste of time. You know, there's uh one just one random example that comes to my mind is in Genesis chapter six, we have the sons of God uh that are talked about. And there's debate. Are these uh human, uh kind of supermen, not in the supernatural power kind of sense, but just very large men uh that that uh Moses is talking about are these angels uh or even demons uh that mo j uh Moses is talking about Who are these sons of God? Well there's discussion, there's debate about that, but you know what? Who cares It really, honestly, doesn't matter. It will not change anything about anything else in the rest of the Bible. It's such an isolated issue or question that it it just doesn't matter. It's foolish to get angry and have conflict over something like that. And there's a number of those kinds of things in scripture. And sometimes you you come across someone who's just so passionate about their position. uh on something. Uh you know, we call it a soapbox. And, you know, if you disagree with them, then oh my goodness, it's gonna be a problem. And Paul says, listen There are some things that are worth fighting about. You know, he talks about Galatians, and obviously the issue of circumcision was one of those things he felt was worth fighting about. But there are so many things that are just not worth it Just, you know, uh agree to disagree on on some things. It says the same thing there in 2 Timothy 2. 23, but refuse foolish and ignorant speculations, knowing that they produce quarrels. So now we're not just talking about uh past interpretation. We're talking about speculations for the future. And uh, you know, is the Pope the Antichrist or you know, different things like that. Well who knows There's no point in arguing about it because there's no way to know what is right and true. So don't fight about it. Anyway, doctrinal differences, a common source of conflict. And we need to recognize what is something that's worth fighting about or arguing about or debating versus what is foolish and unnecessary. Conflicts are also common over competition over limited resources. We see this in Genesis thirteen. Now Lot, who went with Abram, also had flocks and herds and tents, and the land could not sustain them while dwelling together, for their possessions were so great that they were not able to remain together. And there was a strife. And there was strife between the herdsmen of Abram's livestock and the herdsmen of Lot's livestock And so here we have a piece of land that cannot sustain, cannot hold, excuse me, the flocks and the possessions. of these two uh families. And uh and and so that's something that they had to deal with, you know. So Abram finally told Lot, listen, look around with all this land, you choose where you want to go and I'll go the opposite direction. Let's not argue over these things. Let's figure out how to how to get in a better situation here. Or an acts. Now, at this time, while the disciples were increasing in number, a complaint arose on the part of the Hellenistic Jews against the native Hebrews because their widows were being overlooked in the daily serving of food. So there was a resource that was being provided, food for those who were poor, especially those who were widows and destitute and needed the help of the church, and there was one group that was being neglected And that was not right. And so there was work that was done to address that discrepancy. Uh but that arose uh that that created a conflict and it needed to be dealt with. At that stage there was really the unity of the church was at stake because this they were the Hellenistic Jews, those uh those Jews who were from the Greek parts of that world. So they were not the the pure uh you know the the Jerusalem Jews. And so there was a little bit of potentially of of racism or partiality that was taking place. And so that had to be dealt with Or we see again in Genesis 26, when Isaac's servants dug in the valley and found there a well of flowing water, the herdsmen of Jarar quarreled with the herdsmen of Isaac, saying, The water is ours. So in a land where water is precious, there was a conflict, a division over who the water belonged to, competition over limited resources. You know, in in churches this might be a competition over the budget, fighting over the dollars, and how are we going to divide that? Uh it could be competition over the the space, the rooms, you know, who's gonna get the this room versus that room, who signed up first and what activity is more important and those kinds of things Um you know, um in your home, it it might be who's gonna be using the car. You know, if there's limited cars, more more drivers than cars and more activities all at the same time, uh arguing over those things Um you know, uh uh for a husband and a wife who might be arguing over their own budget of how is the money gonna be spent. I mean there's all kinds of situations where we have conflict over limited resources because we have competing desires. And then next we see differences in values, goals, gifts, priorities, expectations, interests, and opinions. So it definitely lumped a lot of things into this one But uh we see uh from the section that Pastor Lee preached on last week, 1 Corinthians 12 31, the I cannot say to the hand, I have no need of you or again to the feet I have no need of you. On the contrary, it's much truer that the members of the body which seem to be weaker are necessary than those members of the body which we deem less honorable On these we bestow more abundant honor. The point of using this passage is to say that sometimes in the body of Christ there are those who kind of make themselves more important and they they denigrate or they minimize the value and the importance of others in the church, and so there can be conflict because people aren't being used and and aren't having opportunities to minister according to their gifts Or 1 Corinthians 1 on the next page. Paul says, this now, I mean this, that each one of you is saying, I am of Paul, I am of Apollos, I am of Cephas, I am of Christ. Has Christ been divided? Was Paul not crucified? Paul was not crucified for you, was he? Or were you baptized in the name of Paul? You know, so this might be differences of opinion of who's the better preacher, who has the better theology, uh who who is the one that that we want to follow Of course, I think the the best group is the I am of Christ group. I think everybody should just jump into that group. But you know again we do that today. I am of MacArthur, I am of Sproull, I am of this guy or that guy. You know, this is my favorite author. Don't read that guy. I mean Uh w again, w within within reason we can have our preferred authors, our preferred preachers. And that's okay to have those opinions, those desires. That's not a problem. But we should not uh engage in conflict. We should not judge each other. We should not sin against each other. We should not divide over those kinds of things. And then finally in this list, conflicts erupt over sinful attitudes and desires that lead to sinful words and actions. So James 4, we'll talk about this passage in much more detail in a couple weeks. What is the source of quarrels and conflicts among you? Is not the source your pleasures that wage war in your members? You lust and do not have, so you commit murder. You are envious and cannot obtain, so you fight and quarrel. You have not you do not have because you do not ask The the short um explanation is the reason we fight and argue is because we have desires. When he says you lust and do not have, he's saying you have strong, compelling desires. That what you want is so strong that you're willing to fight for it. And uh it's not that these believers that James is writing to are actually murdering each other and there's homicides happening every Sunday But in their own hearts, of course James was a half-brother of Jesus, in their own hearts they were murdering because they were so angry and in conflict with each other And so they had varying and competing desires that were so strong that they were willing to fight and quarrel over them. Or in 1 Corinthians 6:11, 1-11, does any one of you, when he has a case against his neighbor, dare to go to law before the unrighteous and not before the saints? Believers were taking each other to court. They were suing each other. They were seeking various judgments from a secular court because of wrongs that were be committed being committed uh against each other. And that, Paul says, is wrong. He says, why not rather be wronged? Why not rather be defrauded? On the contrary, you yourselves wrong and defraud. You do this even to your brethren. It's interesting that he doesn't really talk about what the original offense was that led someone to take their brother to court He focuses on the response of taking their brother to court as the wrong and the defrauding And so there's an attitude there that drives someone to say, I want what I want so bad that I'm even going to go to a secular court to get what I want. And of course, uh in a larger context, I I cut out a lot there, but Paul talks about why it's wrong for us to go to the secular court, why we should uh deal with these things within the context of the church. He's not saying, you know, let people walk all over you, let people take advantage of you, if somebody steals money from you within the church uh just okay just let it go. He's not saying that. He's saying deal with it properly within the context of the church. And ultimately if it can't get deal with then It's better to be wronged, it's better to be defrauded than to take your brother to court. So it's sinful attitudes, sinful desires that not only cause us to initially sin, but to respond. to sin in a way that promotes conflict. Again, we'll talk a lot more about that aspect, especially James chapter four in in a couple weeks. So again, these are all just uh uh common reasons that conflicts come up. And so why is this helpful? Well maybe it's worth in any conflict you might be having right now or conflict you might might come across in the near future, asking yourselves why are we in conflict? What is it that we're actually arguing about? Is there a sinful attitude? Are we trying to argue over a limited resource One of the reasons that conflict doesn't get dealt with well is because we don't even know what we're arguing about. So we have to keep arguing because we're not able to make progress in our conflict. Once we can identify what the actual issue is, then maybe we can actually address it. So figure that out first. What are we arguing about? And then address that. Alright, so I want to move on. Let me pause there actually. And any particular thoughts or comments? Okay. So now we want to move to the NIST next section of Oh yeah, go ahead Bob. I just wanted to uh remind everybody that the notes for the class are in the file section for the class on Helpbook. Um I tried to uh put today's in the chat, but I wasn't having any any success with that, so I apologize for that. But if anyone needs the notes, um you can get them from the file section Great. Thanks Bob. Huh? Let me just try this real quick. I don't want to put the Alright, I just uploaded the uh notes to the chat there. S so in this next section, um and these next two sections really, um Want to think of uh think about uh how should we think about conflict. Uh because obviously none of us likes conflict Maybe some people do. By virtue of how often they get in them, you might think they like conflict. But no I mean really, none of us really likes to argue, none of us likes to be at odds, especially with those whom we love. uh our our family, our friends, our our co-worker, co-workers, our brothers and sisters in Christ. It's it's unpleasant As an understatement, right? It's it's icky. You feel that tension, that tightening in your stomach. None of us likes it. Uh and so because we don't like it, we find different ways to try and deal with it just to get rid of that feeling. We don't like how we feel in conflict, and so our response tends to be, how can I stop feeling the way I feel? rather than responding in a way that's that effectively uh or uh in a way that glorifies the Lord uh deals with the conflict, responds to it. So I think This section is helpful because it shifts our mindset instead of thinking about conflicts from the perspective of how we feel about it we can cultivate a biblical mindset about it. So first one, first way to think about conflict is to realize that conflicts are inevitable Therefore, expect them. Conflicts are inevitable, therefore expect them. When you think about the variety uh the many varieties of conflicts and the innumerable circumstances in which conflicts arise, there is no way to avoid conflict. I mean there just is No way you could be walking, you know, the happiest mood you've ever been in in the world, walking down the street, and all of a sudden You trip on the sidewalk, you fall, you skin your knee, and you get mad. Why? Why do you get mad? Because someone was lazy enough that they didn't fix the dip in the in the sidewalk, you know, forcing you uh to to trip Uh or you know you're you're walking down the hall at church and because we're all wearing masks and we can't see each other's facial expressions very well, you know, you kind of do what you think is a greeting, maybe you say hello but the other person doesn't respond, or at least you don't hear them respond. And you begin to think in your mind, are they mad at me? Did I did I do something wrong? You know, why are they offended at what I've uh you know, w and you start judging in your mind why you didn't perceive a response. There are so many ways that we can unexpectedly find ourselves in conflict that there's just no way to avoid them. So we should never be surprised by conflict. Right? We just shouldn't be surprised. Oh, yep, there's there's another one. I mean again, none of us wants to be in conflict. And nor should we, as the next point says, assume the worst in others like I know my husband is gonna do something that's gonna bring you know create a conflict today, or I know my my wife, my friend, or my co-worker They're they're gonna do something today that's gonna create a conflict. No, that's not how we should think. We we wanna assume the best, as it says in 1 Corinthians 13, 7. But again, just recognizing that we're all uh fallen creatures. Yes, we're saved by grace. Yes, we uh we've been renewed and regenerated, uh, and we're hopefully being sanctified But we still have sin in our life, and we still have ways of thinking that are not right, and so we shouldn't be surprised that there's going to be conflict in our lives. And even just the the reality of miscommunication, you know, where we don't hear uh what the person intended to communicate, we we don't receive the message that they were trying to send And so sometimes we get we because of what we did hear, what we thought we heard, we judge, you know, and we get angry over something that is just a point of miscommunication The mere existence of conflict should not anger or frustrate us. It should motivate us to take action. So re-realize that conflicts are inevitable, therefore expect them. We should recognize the the need to deal with them quickly when they arise The next way to think about conflict is that we should realize they are sinful, therefore resolve them. Conflicts are sinful. Therefore, resolve them. Now we said last week that not all disagreements are conflicts, and thus not necessarily sinful. Alright, I have my favorite sports team. You might have your favorite sports team. And just because we disagree doesn't mean that we're in conflict with each other. There's no sin there When we're talking about conflict in the context of this, we're talking about where two people are at odds, where they're not able to live harmoniously with each other or work harmoniously together uh where there's a a division in the relationship that makes you want to avoid the person rather than greet them and and love them and and talk to them. That's the kind of conflict that is sinful, where we're not as unified and harmonious as the Lord would have us be. Again, conflicts are defined by impaired thinking and relationships Which means that God is not being honored in our thoughts and our relationships. God is um perfectly He's in perfect relationship with us in the sense that he never does anything that would hinder our relationship with him. He responds to us with all of the right character, the love, the patience, the grace, the tolerance, the kindness and goodness. uh forgiveness. Uh he responds to us in a in a way that always uh would lead to reconciliation if we would would respond to that in in the right way And so um whenever there is a conflict in our relationship with God, it's our fault. Right? It's never God's fault, it's our fault. And you know, Paul Paul uh Peter says in 1 Peter 3, 7 that when he's speaking to husbands, husbands live with your wives in an understanding way. um you know recognizing that they're the weaker vessel and he says at the end of that verse why why is it so important that you do this? Because if you are not doing this, your prayers will be hindered There is a reality that in our own relationship with God, when our lives are not right. Now in that verse he's talking about a husband's relationship with his wife But I think that's a principle that can be broadened out. When our lives, when when we're cultivating or when we're harboring sin or conflict in our life then God is not being honored and He's not going to listen to our prayers the way He would if we were um pursuing peace and honoring Him in those things We are to be more and more like Christ. And when we're not following Christ's example of pursuing reconciliation, then God is not honored. And so therefore we're living in a sinful state. While we may not have overtly sinned in a conflict, there are likely ways we could have handled a situation differently, right? So again, you may have not done anything to create the conflict, and you may even have not done anything to exacerbate the conflict in terms of responding in a sinful way. Perhaps you were gentle and and and trying to respond in a kind way and and you know Proverbs 51, a soft answer turns away wrath. So you were very mindful of your tone as you responded to someone who was angry at you And you know, i in the tense uh moment and situation, you know, you were trying to think quickly about how to respond, and so you responded the best way that you knew how in the moment Well, as the next point there says, sin is lack of conformity to Jesus. Jesus was in constant conflicts, but he always handled them perfectly. Since we're not yet like Christ, we must acknowledge when we could or should have acted or responded in a different way. I mean you may have done the best that you could in the moment to respond And you know, it just it didn't go well. And sometimes you need to recognize, yes, I tried. I was really seeking to honor the Lord But now, five minutes later, ten minutes later, three days later, now that I've had to think about how I could have responded, I recognize, yeah, you know what, if I would have done something different, that would have been more loving, more gentle, more gracious. uh, you know, whatever else you might say about your your initial attempt at a at a good response. And so it's not that you necessarily sinned in that first response. If you're really seeking to honor the Lord, I I don't think that that would be a a sinful thing obviously but you can acknowledge you're right I could have responded even better than I do. There's a ness uh necessary humility that we need to have That says I wasn't trying to sin, I was really trying to honor the Lord and how I responded. But now that I've had time to think about it, I recognize that I could have done even better And that's just part of the growth process. But again, as I say, there sin is any lack of conformity to Jesus. And so we need to recognize when when we've not handled things the way that he he would have. Sometimes our role in a conflict is passivity Like Adam, sometimes we find ourselves in a conflict because of what we didn't do. Whether we played an active or passive role in a conflict, the presence of a conflict means that sin is present in one or both parties, that it's usually both. Again, I'm not saying that every you know, whenever you're in a conflict, you're always sinning in some way. I I can't say that. Um but it's very common that there is sin somewhere. And uh, you know, when the reference to Adam there of course was when Eve was talking to the serpent, Adam was passive. He didn't step in. And of course we don't know why. We don't know was he Standing there the whole time? Uh was he across the garden and made his way and so he only heard the end of the time? I mean we we don't know. But he was passive, he wasn't involved, he didn't he didn't address the serpent, he didn't correct Eve's thinking, uh, and so then he found himself uh in conflict with Eve and and with the Lord. And so we need to consider, again, in that interest of getting the log out of our eye, is there anything that I could have done differently? Should I have been more active? Should I have said said something? Should I have said something in a different way? And is there any sin there? And be ready to recognize that and acknowledge that. So wherever sin is recognized in thought, word, action, or inaction, we must It must be repented of. So again, generally, almost always, conflicts are sinful, therefore resolve them. And so in any given situation you have to you have to evaluate that. All right, the third point is that we must realize that conflicts are opportunities, therefore seize them. Conflicts are opportunities. In my book, this is worth memorizing and just really embedding in your mind. Conflicts are opportunities, therefore seize them. First of all, conflicts are opportunities to know, trust, and glorify God. To know trust and glorify God. Again, this is where we get the first G, glorify God in conflict. But first, the idea of knowing. Psalm 9, 9-10 says, the Lord also will be a stronghold for the oppressed. a stronghold in times of trouble, and those who know your name will put their trust in you. For you, O Lord, have not forsaken forsaken those who seek you. One of the things that conflict enables us, gives us the opportunity to do, is know God more, is to grow in our knowledge of God, to grow in our understanding of his character. And here specifically the the two uh attributes, or or excuse me, the one attribute that's repeated uh is the attribute that God is a stronghold That God is my protector. God is the one that I can hide behind, that I can seek shelter in. I can put my trust in Him because He's not going to forsake me. I don't have to be anxious or worried. I don't need to be concerned about the future because God has me. He's with me and he will care for me even in the midst of this conflict. Psalm fifty-five it says, In God I have put my trust. I shall not be afraid. What can man do to me? You can think of this in in relatively small terms in terms of uh you know just someone accusing you. d uh demeaning you, calling you names, and you can think in your mind, what can man do to me? I I've put my trust in the Lord. I have no reason to be afraid of this person that I'm in conflict with Or you can take it to a much more significant level where someone is suing you, whether it's suing for financial gain, whether they're even you know, pursuing uh divorce and they're wanting to take everything from you, including your own children. Uh people in the midst of conflict can do all kinds of of harm and seek to harm us, but we can say, if we have God, that we can put our trust in Him, that we don't need to be afraid. Right? Psalm seventy three, twenty five, twenty-six Whom have I in heaven but you? Besides you I desire nothing on earth. Even if my flesh and my heart fail, God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. So if I have God, the person I'm in comfort with cannot take anything of value, of ultimate value from me. And they cannot do anything to me. Even if they were to kill me, I would still have God. That's why Jesus says in I think it's Luke 12. Don't be afraid of those who can kill the body, but after that have nothing more they can do. If the worst that someone can do is is to kill me, then so be it. I will be with the Lord forever. I mean that's I know that's stated in in kind of a It's easy to say that, but that should be our attitude. No matter what is going on, no matter what this conflict is about, I can put my trust in the Lord I don't need to be afraid of the outcome. Even if the worst thing happens, the worst outcome takes place, the Lord is my stronghold. Conflicts are opportunities to know and trust in the Lord. Psalm 140, I know that the Lord will maintain the cause of the afflicted and justice for the poor. This may not be in this life. It might be in the next life. When God judges evildoers and ensures that all sins are paid for. But we can be confident that no one will ever get away with their sin. It will either be judged by that individu, excuse me, uh it will be Um either that person will receive the punishment for their sin, God will judge them, or God will have judged Christ if they are a believer or ever become one. But everyone's sin will be paid for And so we don't need to be concerned about is this person going to get away with what they're doing? Am I going to be left destitute? We just don't need to be anxious. I mean those might happen from an earthly perspective, but we can put our trust in the Lord. John 14, 15, if you love me, you will keep my commandments. The idea that if our greatest love in this world is the love of Christ, then we will follow his his precepts, we will follow his principles, we will obey him in the midst of conflict. And you know, we mentioned when we talked about the four G's, the 1 Corinthians 5-9, whether we're at home or away, we make it our aim to please Him. So conflicts are opportunities to know, trust, and glorify God. Now I know in the kind of the day-to-day kind of small conflicts that last a few minutes, maybe even a few hours. We may not think of these things in those moments. They might not be such life-shaping conflicts that we are growing in our knowledge of God But still, in the moment, you know, as soon as we recognize there's a conflict, Lord, help me to trust you with the outcome of this conflict Help me to imitate you, as the next one says, to become like Christ. Help me to honor you in my response to this conflict. And certainly in the larger complex, the ones that take days or weeks or months or even years, the ones that actually can bring significant difficulty into our lives for a long period of time and can Take things out of our lives. Those are lessons that we must learn. How to know and trust the Lord and glorify Him. The next point there is that conflicts are opportunities to become like Christ. Ephesians 5, 1 through 3. Therefore be imitators of God as beloved children and walk in love just as Christ also loved you and gave himself up for us, an offering and a sacrifice to God as a fragrant aroma. But immorality or any impurity or greed must not even be named among you as is proper among saints. You know, when Paul wrote Ephesians, he uh didn't write it in verse in a chapter in verse divisions. Those came much, much later. So really I should include uh verses 20 uh thir thirty-one from chapter four forward because that's where he says, you know, put off anger and malice and slander But instead be kind and and and forgiving and and whatnot. Um so inste so that's obviously in the situation of of conflict, of disagreement, of relationships. And so he says, in light of that, be imitators. of God and love like Christ. So we have an opportunity and conflict. Okay, am I gonna am I gonna imitate the uh the devil? Am I gonna act like the devil is my father, who was a murderer, who was a liar One who divides and destroys. Is he the one I'm going to imitate? Or am I going to imitate Christ, who loved me and reconciled me to himself? Of course, Philippians 2. Do nothing from selfishness or empty conceit, but with humility of mind, regard one another as more important than yourselves. Not merely looking out for your own personal interest, but also for the interests of others. Have this attitude which is also in Christ Jesus. So we're to cultivate that humble attitude, which is willing to even be destitute for the sake of honoring the Lord, right? He goes on to say how Jesus was not only born as a man, but he was born even to the lowest level, even as a slave to the point where as he ministered. He was not riding around in a Rolls Royce of the first century. No, he he walked He had sandals just like everybody else that he got from payless shoes. And uh, you know, when someone said, Hey Jesus, I want to follow you, Jesus says, hey, I don't stay at the Hilton. I I don't have anywhere to lay my head. I don't have anything to offer you. This is not a life of of uh ease Jesus was totally destitute and entirely dependent on the graciousness and the and uh generosity of others uh for his provisions. And so are we willing to even stoop to that depth where I'm willing to give up everything for the sake of loving this person and honoring the Lord? And then 1 Peter 2, 21 to 23, love this passage. For you have been called for this purpose, since Christ also suffered for you. leaving you an example for you to follow in his steps. While being reviled, he did not revile in return. While suffering he uttered no threats, but kept entrusting himself to him who judges righteously. As we've said before in other classes, the purpose of Christ going to the cross clearly was to accomplish salvation. No debate about that. That was the primary purpose, but it wasn't the sole purpose. Peter tells us here that the way in which he went to the cross was purposeful, that he modeled for us how he wants us To respond when we are reviled, when we are threatened, when we are suffering. And that model is Not reviling in return, not uttering threats, and instead entrusting ourselves to the Lord. So Christ models that for us, and it is our joy and our privilege to walk down that path that He has paved before us. to trust the Lord, as we said earlier, and trust ourselves to the Lord in the midst of even significant suffering. Of course he was being put to death there You know, if if we if it's right for us to imitate Christ, if the Lord ever gives us the privilege to be put to death for the sake of Christ, And to whether it's the gallows, whether it's um the guillotine or whatever whatever instrument a modern day person might use to kill a believer for the sake of Christ. If we should imitate Christ in that scenario, in terms of not reviling in return, not uttering threats then surely we should imitate Christ in the small conflicts that we have in everyday life. In the things where we're not going to end up with our head severed from our body. We can trust the Lord, we can respond in a humble way in the small things of life. Conflict reminds us of our need for Christ. Paul writes this in 2 Corinthians 12 because of the surpassing greatness of the revelations for this reason to keep me from exalting myself There was given me a thorn in the flesh, a messenger of Satan, to torment me, to keep me from exalting myself. Therefore I am well content with weaknesses, with insults, with distresses, with persecutions with difficulties for Christ's sake. For when I am weak, then I am strong. So when we're in a conflict that's making life difficult for us, that hinders our relationships, that hinders even our own ability to serve the Lord. It's just a reminder to us how much we need Christ, that we can't do it on our own Certainly we need Christ and his help to respond the way that he did to conflict. But just the existence of it reminds us that we're not all that. We need him in our life every day. Conflicts help us to see blind spots in our attitudes and habits. Psalm 119, 67 says, Before I was afflicted, I went astray, but now I keep your word. And then verse 71, it is good for me that I was afflicted, that I may learn your statutes When we're in conflict, we see what comes out of us. How do we respond? What kinds of words escape our mouths? What feelings and emotions do we have? What actions do we do with our bodies? That revelation which might be an occasional thing for us. Oh my goodness, I didn't realize that I respond that way. Or it might be a daily thing for us But whatever it is, th the existence of that conflict serves the purpose of uh opening our eyes to what's really in our heart. You know, we should never say, and we'll talk about this a lot more in a couple of weeks, but we should never say I don't know where that came from. You know, I I didn't mean to do that. I I didn't mean to say that. That is not me. Never have said that? That is not me Well the reality is if it was you, it was you. That is you. That is in you. That came out of your heart, or excuse me, that came out of your mouth because that was in your heart Your body responded that way, whether it's punching a hole in the wall or throwing things or whatever, because that is how that is the character of your heart. And so It helps us, conflict helps us to recognize those things so that we can root them out and get rid of them. And then conflict helps us practice self-denial Practice self-denial. But I but have nothing to do with worldly fables fit only for old women. On the other hand, discipline yourself For the purpose of godliness. The idea of discipline there is to exercise, to work hard, to give attention to, to train yourself And so again, in the midst of conflict, we tend to respond out of just what the the natural feelings and emotions of what's going on inside, but he says, no, focus. Train yourself. Don't respond in an angry way. Be purposeful in your practice of godliness. And that takes a lot of self-denial. No, I'm not going to respond that way. I'm going to keep my mouth closed for a little bit I'm gonna breathe carefully to to slow my heart rate down. Maybe I need to step outside for a moment to calm myself enough uh to not explode in this moment. Whatever you need to do, whatever intense uh and uh feeling you're having train yourself discipline yourself so that you can respond in a godly way So conflicts are opportunities to know, trust, and glorify God. Conflicts are opportunities to Become more like Christ. And finally, conflicts are opportunities to minister to others. Conflicts are opportunities to minister to others. Not only do we minister to the person we're in conflict with, but we can also have a ministry with those who are observing the conflict. And that could be children in the home, it could be other people in the church who are aware of the conflict. It could be coworkers who see you humble yourself and Seek reconciliation with that co-worker or your boss or whoever. So we can minister to others. We can serve, that's what the word minister means in scripture, we can serve others in the midst of conflict. So with regard to the person we're in conflict with, Galatians 1. 6. 1, brethren, if anyone is cut in any trespass, you who are spiritual, restore such a one in a spirit of gentleness. So we can serve the person who is sinning and maybe not aware of their sin or it's they seem trapped in their sin, they're having a hard time getting out of it. We can serve them by loving them well and pursuing reconciliation. Or, according to Matthew 7, once we've taken the log out of our eye, we can serve the person who we see sinning by pointing out to them in a loving gentle, humble way, the speck that is in their brother's eye. You see that at the end of the passage there. And then you will be able to just take the speck out of your brother's eye So we can serve others in that way. But with regard to those maybe who aren't the who aren't an immediate party in our conflict, we read this in first Peter three. But even if you should suffer for the sake of righteousness you are blessed, but sanctify Christ as Lord in your hearts, always being ready to make a defence to everyone Who asks you to give an account for the hope that is in you. What he's saying there is our response to persecution, our response to unjust treatment Whether it's for the sake of Christ or in any situation, should be such that people see it and they're like, that is not a normal way to respond to conflict or to persecution or to mistreatment or to injustice Why are you responding that way? Please tell me. I don't understand. This doesn't make sense Peter said, be ready to give an answer to that. That's the question that's being asked of you. Why are you responding the way you are? What hope do you have That enables you to not lash out, to not yell, to not get angry. Well, now let me tell you about Christ and what he's done for me And then 1 Timothy 4. 12, let no one look down on you for your usefulness, but rather in speech, conduct, love, faith, and purity, show yourself an example to those who believe. So again, we have the opportunity to to be a testimony to those who may not be the immediate party in our conflict, but who are observing, who are uh seeing. You know, the way as a husband and wife deal with conflict in the home when they have children will be observed. I don't care how much you try as parents to hide your conflict, to keep it in the master bedroom. Your kids know about it. Trust me, they know about it. They hear it, they observe it, they see the coldness when you're with them. They hear the way you speak to each other. They they know it far more than we realize. And so we have an opportunity to model for our kids how to handle conflict. So, with such significant opportunities comes responsibility, and with responsibility comes stewardship. With responsibility comes stewardship. So not only are we to be good stewards of the time that God gives us on this earth, not only are we to be good stewards with the money that God gives us on this earth. But we are to be good stewards of the conflicts that come into our lives. Stewards view conflicts not as intrusions, but as an opportunity to worship. Okay, this difficult situation has come into my life. This is not an interruption in my life. This is an opportunity to worship God. I mentioned Romans 12 earlier. By the mercies of God, I urge you to present your bodies a living and holy sacrifice acceptable to God, which is your spiritual service. of worship. And just few verses down the road, he says, one of the ways you can give yourself at in spiritual service of worship is to never pay back evil for evil To respect what is right in the sight of all men, to uh be at peace with all men if possible, and then to not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. That is how we worship God. Those are just some of the ways that we worship God So whether in your home or wherever you're in a relationship with someone in conflict, that is a place to have a worship service, if you will. I'm going to worship God right now. I need to respond in a way that imitates Christ, that reflects what God has done for me, how He has reconciled me to Himself. Now I want to reconcile myself to this person And that will be an act of worship. Stewards view conflicts not in terms of personal offenses, but in terms of divine priorities Not in terms of personal offenses, but in terms of divine priorities. We have to remember that every sin another person commits toward us is ultimately a sin against God. Just as much as David could say, Against you and you only have I sinned to the Lord, Bathsheba and Uriah would have been able to say, against God and God only did he sin. Yes, it was toward them, and yes, it affected them in very significant ways. But ultimately it was sin against God. And so we have to be very careful to not take offenses so personally that we are more concerned about the personal offense that they committed against us than the reality that they are now at odds with God because they have sinned against God Psalm 1699 says, For zeal for your house has consumed me, and the reproaches of those who reproach you have fallen on me. Jesus quotes this in the New Testament when he was cleansing out the temple. And he recognized the reality that what they were doing, yes it was wrong and sinful and for him personally offensive because of course he is God But he was more concerned with how they were sinning against the Father. And so it wasn't a personal offense as much as it was the fact that they were sinning against God. Now that's incredibly difficult, isn't it? When someone says something, you know, uh hostile to you, or when someone sins against you in action or word or deed Uh I mean we just take a person because hey that's that's what has happened. That's what we see with our eyes. But we have to walk by faith and not by sight and recognize what they've done is more against God than it is against me. And therefore, because it is more against God, I can respond to them in a way that reflects that priority. Yes, he and I, she and I need to be reconciled. But more than anything, this person needs to be reconciled with God because of their sin. If we have that mindset, that will temper our attitude. It will enable us to be more objective in our response. Stewards must trust God's sovereign purposes. We must trust his sovereign purposes. Romans 8. 28. We know that God causes all things to work together for good. To those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. So the all things that God is weaving together for a good purpose includes the conflict that we're in. Okay, Lord, I don't you know I don't want to be in this situation, I don't like this situation, but I'm going to trust that you have a purpose for this, that you have a good purpose for this That you are wanting to use this to accomplish your larger purpose of making me more like Christ and glorifying you and ministering to others. Stewards know that God is for them. Right? God is for them. Romans 8. 31. What shall we say to these things if God is for us? Who is against us? No matter how much you've been sinned against, no matter how much you hurt, and yes, we can be hurt and sinned against in very, very significant ways But God is for us. He's never against us. These things don't come into our life because God is wanting to just pound us because of something we've done or whatever we might perceive. No, God is for us. He cares for us, and he is seeking to accomplish his good purposes through those things. Stewards don't focus on results, they focus on faithfulness. They don't focus on results, they focus on faithfulness. Matthew twenty five, twenty one, his master said to him, This is the parable of the talents Well done, good and faithful slave. You are faithful with a few things, I will put you in charge of many things, enter into the joy of your master. The emphasis that Jesus is concerned about there is not okay, how much money did you make Yeah, of course, he told the parable the way he told it, so we don't know um, you know, would there have been a different response if the guy who was given five talents had come back with four talents instead of another five, or three talents instead of another five You know, that's not the significant part of the parable. The point is, he took what was given to him, he was a steward of it, and this was the result. The the emphasis was uh, wow, you doubled my money? Great, you know, now let's you know give you more. No, he said you were faithful, you did what you could, and you you accomplished what you did, but it's not What you accomplished was not up to you. You just sought to be faithful, and that's what matters. And so when we're pursuing reconciliation, again our mindset should not be I must achieve the goal of reconciliation. I must be unified with this person. That's a good desire, but that's not the goal. The goal is to be faithful in my responses and my words and my attitudes. So that I make sure that I'm glorifying God, and if I've done that, I will have been faithful and God will have been pleased and glorified. And perhaps that will lead to reconciliation and peace and harmony. But faithfulness is what we ought to be more concerned about than results. And then the very last point as we are needing to end here is the ABCs of conflict. Adversity builds character. Adversity builds character. James one, consider it all joy, my brethren, when you encounter various trials, knowing that the testing of your faith produces endurance. And let endurance have its perfect result, so that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing Is it wrong to pray that God removes a difficulty, a trial, a conflict? No, it's not wrong to pray that, but how about this? How about let's pray, Lord, use this conflict in my life to produce endurance in my heart Lord, use this conflict to perfect my character, to make me more like you If we have those kinds of prayers, we're more closely aligning our hearts to God and to his purposes. All right. So you see those last questions there, let me give you the slides so you can write those down. Again, we'll we'll keep talking about this, especially when we get to the heart of conflict uh at the end of the month But we can ask ourselves, in the midst of conflict, how have I contributed to this conflict by wrong thinking, speaking, acting, or not acting? What role have I played? What have I done or not done? Second, how can I please and honor the Lord in this conflict? We might not always know the answer to that. But we need to at least ask ourselves and try and wrestle and think through that. How can I honor and please the Lord? Please and honor the Lord. And then finally, how can I be a witness of what Christ has done For me, both to the person I'm in conflict with as well as those who are aware of the conflict. How can I be a witness for Christ and what He's done for me All right. Any any thoughts or comments or questions? Yes sir, thank you. Uh huh, okay. Does anyone of you like Yeah. Before the unrighteous. Observer at times when I didn't play can only give the seizure what it seems like. Uh when uh there is a time where the most important thing to is to go to the wall versus you know like to like the urgent the urgency of the situation like require more than than just to uh bear with your neighbor. So uh again I have to answer just generally so you have to th wrestle with how this applies to a specific situation you might be thinking of. Where so you use the example of giving to Caesar what Caesar's what did Jesus do? He asked, you know, whose image is on this coin, or I give that to Caesar Where a law has been broken, where the government has said, hey, this is a violation of the law, and there's a criminal offense, that's where it is right and appropriate to bring in Caesar, if you will. This would apply more to like a civil kind of management public. Yeah, I think the the case that Paul is bringing there is is what would typically be handled in civil court uh or uh small c claims court, those kinds of things. You know, where um you know someone borrows your you're a lawnmower and you know, they break it, you know, as they're trying to use it and they give it back saying, Hey, sorry and you're thinking, Hey, come on. You know, you uh can't you at least fix it or replace it? You know, I mean there's so many different situations you come up with, but kind of personal things that are not matters of the law, but personal offenses, personal def uh defrauding, uh treating each other, you know, and uh there's so many ways we can um um defraud each other which are perfectly legal. And we're no no court is gonna uh is gonna condemn us for that.