Our Heavenly Father, we thank you for this morning, this new day, where we can gather together to hear your word, not only in this class, but in the service. We can join our voices together in song. We can worship you and encourage and admonish one another. another. I pray that uh as we uh kind of get started with the formal part of our worship gathering, that you would orient our hearts and our minds around you. That we would be sensitive to the conviction of the Holy Spirit, that we would be receptive of His comfort and His encouragement through your word. uh that we would seek to conform our thinking and our lives to Christ. Uh we all need that. I need that so desperately. And so Lord, we pray that you would do that, because only you can do that. We can't do that in our own strength. So I pray that uh as we go through this material here which is particularly difficult for us, uh, that you would be kind uh in chipping away those areas of our lives that uh we struggle with, where we struggle with pride. And uh self-orientation, and that you would humble us so that we can be uh sons of our Father, the great peacemaker. In Christ's name, amen. All right, so we're gonna dive into session five, which is in reality week six. Taking responsibility. And you see, these are the notes that we handed out last week. So if you didn't get these, see Thomas and Tammy back there. There's an opening paragraph. Paragraph there that says, last week we concluded with the reality that if false worship is the problem, true worship is the solution. Now we will talk about the first step in moving from false worship to true worship, namely repentance. Actually, I should progress this slide here. There we go. Repentance is the blank I just want to start off by affirming, and hopefully we can agree together, that this is probably, I think at least, the hardest part of biblical reconciliation. We've talked last couple weeks about the heart and examining our own heart and what are the idols of our heart, what are those desires, those expectations, those uh rights that we hold on to that uh when we don't get what we want, when we're not treated the way we want to be treated, that we're just compelled to respond in anger or in some sinful way Uh and so here, so that's that's hard enough, right? That's it's hard enough to examine your own heart and identify those things Um but it it's one thing to kind of identify that. It's a little bit of another thing to alright now I'm gonna I'm gonna actually tell someone else about that. I'm gonna let someone into the secrets of my heart. I'm going to acknowledge in some way to someone other than myself that I struggle with whatever it is you struggle with. Uh it's a very humbling and difficult experience. This is where the dying to self really comes into play. uh where we have to acknowledge that um my reputation, what other people think about me is not as important as what God thinks about me in terms of honoring Him, glorifying Him, doing the things that that He uh expects of me. uh even if it means uh getting cut down a notch uh in our own heart uh or in the in the sight of others. So this is going to take us a couple of weeks to work through this. You can see see if you flip thro through forward through the notes that today we're going to talk kind of as a movement of last week. All right, we identify the idols of our heart now how do we work through uh identifying that even a little bit more, uh examining each situation And then also uh confessing our sin before the Lord. So that's where we're going to stop today, confessing our sins before the Lord. And then next week we'll look at confessing our sins to the other person that we're in conflict with. So uh again, this is a a difficult subject because of the the pain of of self mortification. Uh and so it's going to take us a little bit to get through it. To start, we want to look at Matthew 7, 1 through 5. You have that in your notes. If you don't have notes, of course, you can take out your Bible. I do have it here on the screen, but I would also encourage you to take out your Bible. And turn there because this is a passage that is undoubtedly familiar to you. You've probably read it, you've probably heard it, maybe you've heard sermons on it. But But it is something that we just need to hear over and over and over again. And uh as you read it in your own Bible, then that provides an opportunity so that in the future, uh having thought through these things and gone through uh this session, then In the future you can r remind yourself, oh yeah, this is this is what this means, this is how I need to live. Uh, because we need those constant reminders. So let me just read the passage, Matthew 7, 1 through 5. Do not judge, this is Jesus speaking, of course, do not judge, so that you will not be judged. For in the way you judge, you will be judged, and by your standard of measure, it will be measured to you. Why do you look at the speck in your brother's eye, but do not notice the log that is in your own eye? Or how can you say to your brother, let me take the speck out of your eye? And behold, the log is in your own eye. You hypocrite, first take the log out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly. To take the speck out of your brother's eye. So here we have our second of four G's, right? Get the log out of your eye. What's the first G? Glorify God. Glorify God. Very good. So let's review some key truths uh from this passage. What what what can we glean from here? First of all, we we recognize and we've all heard it in one way or another. uh that Matthew 7. 1 is the sinner's favorite Bible verse, right? Don't judge. Who are you to judge? You can't tell me what I'm doing is wrong. You can't say anything bad about me You can't condemn me. But of course we know that it doesn't mean that people uh what people often think it means in context, it's not judging period that is condemned, but hypocritical judgment. Hypocritical judgment. That is Someone who says, I care so much about sin that I want to point out the sin in your life, all the while there's sin that they're harboring in their own life and they're that they're not dealing with. And some maybe that secret sin, maybe it's very Maybe it's the sin of pride that, you know, it's my responsibility to point out sin in everybody's life when I see it, but no one can say anything bad about me. So it's hypocritical judgment that is the issue. And of course, we see Jesus uh ramping up the um Caution, if you will, of not judging hypocritically by saying, listen, the way in which you judge is the way you're going to be judged. So Uh whatever you whatever your attitude is toward other people, whatever standard you use, uh that's what's gonna happen to you. So keep that in mind as you judge others. So it's not judging, period, that is condemned, but hypocritical judging. Second, uh if you scroll down, or not scroll down, if you uh flip over, some of you might be scrolling down, I suppose, on your phone, uh to verses fifteen to eighteen Or we're fifteen to twenty. I I wrote verse sixteen there. Uh we see, and Scripture tells us that of course we are to judge. We are to make discernment or discerning choices or observations About people based on how they live. Uh we are to judge or to examine others by outward appearances, but When we do that, we must keep in mind both the way in which we judge and the standard by which we judge. So, you know, he says there in verse fifteen, sixteen, Beware of false prophets who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravenous wolves. You will know them by their fruit. Grapes are not gathered from thorn bushes nor figs from thistles, are they? So every tree bears good fruit, and a bad tree bears bad fruit. A good tree cannot bear good bad fruit, and a bad tree cannot bear good fruit. Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire, so then you will know them by their fruit We don't know the heart. Uh we don't know other people's heart, I should say. We we can't see what someone's thinking, we can't see what their motivations are. We after a period of time of knowing someone, we might uh think we can. We might be able to identify You know what, they've had this pattern of behavior. They've said these words, and therefore I kinda have an idea of what's going on internally, but even then we don't know for cer for certain. Because people change, right? And I'll just tell you this. In in marriage counseling, one of the hardest things, uh well there's a lot of hard things, but one of one of the hardest things is Helping couples recognize that even though there has been sin in the past and there has been patterns of behavior in the past, we are changing and we are growing. And we can't hold our spouse or anyone else to, well, you did this in the past, therefore this is how you always are, and this is how you're always going to be. No, we're growing, we're changing, we're confessing sin, and yes we stumble and we struggle, and we might fall back into an old old habit. Yes. Oh you're judging me. Don't judge. You shouldn't be a judge. Just tell them I'm not a judge. I'm a fruit inspector. Yeah. Yeah. That's right. So so we are to inspect fruit, but we're to be careful to judge modus. We're to be careful to judge uh what's going on in the heart. So we are to inspect fruit and based on what we see, then we are to respond. And uh you know, when we when we get to the gently restore, how do you confront someone, that's when we talk about okay I see these fruits. Now how do I actually confront someone in a way that's kind and loving and like Christ So, along with that, you see here the subpoint, the way we judge must be defined by Christ-like character Grace, mercy, patience, love. You could add humility on there. When we approach someone, we don't approach someone in pride. When we uh talk with someone, we don't speak out of a sense of superiority of, oh I can't believe you would do this because I know I would never do that. No, we recognize no, we are sinners just like them, so we need to be humble and kind. Frankly we need to treat them the way God has treated us. Uh it's biblical the golden rule which you see in uh verse um was it thirteen? No. Uh Yeah, and everything therefore treat people the way you want them to treat you for this is the law and the prophets. So that's a biblical principle. I think we could even say a higher rule, which uh el elsewhere in Scripture we would draw is that we are to treat others the way that God has treated us. Uh I think I've said it before that when God convicts us of sin, when He points out our failures and our weaknesses, he does it Gently. He's kind and gracious and merciful toward us. He doesn't he doesn't beat us down into the ground and and bring us to ultimate shame. No, his aim is to restore us. His aim is to bring us to repentance. And so he does that. He convicts us of our sin in a way that produces or that uh aims toward that end. So we have to be like him in how we Now, the second point is the standard by which we judge must be scripture, not our own conscience or personal standards. When we see the lives of others and we have concerns about their behavior, we have to be very careful that it's not our own personal standards that we're judging by. Oh, you watch that movie? That's that's PG thirteen. I only watch G movies. Christians should really only watch in fact, G movies shouldn't be I don't think thanks for putting that up, but I don't think Oh yes, thank you. Um You know, I don't think Christians should watch G movies. In fact, I don't think Christians should watch any movies because G movies are full of animism and paganism and you know humanism and the they have talking animals and that's just sorcery and you know that's just awful. So I'm gonna confront you because Because you're sinning. Uh or you listen to music that has certain instruments that are ungodly because you know that's that's full of uh uh percussion and that brings in demonic power and um you know the way in which we dress can sometimes lead to un undifficult judging. I mean there's examples would be uh a multitude But we have to be careful that we judge based on uh scripture, not our own conscience. And of course, Romans 14, 1 Corinthians 8, uh talk about okay, how do we as believers interact? How do we uh live together when we actually do have differences. Um what if I think that Eating at a Thai restaurant is a sin because they're in a sense worshiping, you know, their gods while they serve. I in fact in California I was at a Thai restaurant. I'd never seen this before. Uh But one of the workers was doing her worship ritual in front of the the what does it call that? Idol or whatever it is. Sorry? Um and uh and I'm thinking, okay, that's I've not seen that before. Uh Some people might say that's you know, you're contributing to that idol worship. I d I haven't known of anyone who does that. But in scripture that's the example, right? That so much of the meat was uh sacrificed to idols and therefore as Christians we shouldn't eat that meet because we're participating in the worship of idols, uh and so uh you know we're gonna judge Christians who do that. And Paul says, no, you can't do that. And if you do feel like it's uh okay okay to do that, then don't judge the people who think it's not okay to do that. Um so scripture must be our standard So the way in which we judge must be with Christ-like character, and the standard by which we judge must be scripture. Now, when Jesus uses the word plank, Or log, Jesus refers to our sinful behavior. That is, our uh behavior, our words, and our thoughts. And I would add that when Jesus talks about having a log in your eye, he's not just talking about In this particular conflict, you know, Jesus isn't uh his discussion isn't necessarily in the realm of conflict. He's just talking about two believers uh who uh are you know living life together and one sees uh uh a sin in another believer and while having a log in their own eye. It's not necessarily that they're in conflict. So don't take this verse as this only has to do with conflict and this is their contribution to conflict and this So when when he says log, it's not just about in what way did I contribute to this conflict. It's what are the struggles in my own heart? Maybe I didn't do anything wrong or maybe they were primarily at fault in this particular situation, but I have other sins in my life that I need to make sure I'm Working through and dealing with. We manifest sin in those three areas thought, speech, and action. And our thoughts include our beliefs, our attitudes, our motivations, our desires. What is sin? Anybody have a definition of sin that you like to use? Disobedience to God. Missing the mark. Missing the mark. Anything that falls short of his standard. Anything that falls short of his standard. Yeah, those are all good. Uh so some have said sin is l any lack of of conformity to God. Uh is just saying the same thing as what's already been said. So think of it this way. It's not just when you say something, when you do something, uh, when you think something. uh is when we are something. We we fall short of who God is. We fall short of his perfections. And and we tend to think as sin as, well, it's just something that I do. And when we when we do that, we minimize the significance of um the the chasm between us and God. We we minimize the holiness of God. And we see ourselves more like God than we actually are. Uh God is holy because he doesn't do the things that I do. No. God is holy because he is perfect in all of his Perfections, if you will. He is perfectly uh love, perfectly just, perfectly faithful, perfectly patient, and on all of those things. We are imperfectly everything. And so it's not just the things that we do or say or think towards someone. It can actually be our beliefs. that we hold to some standard of doctrine, some standard of belief that is wrong. And just holding to that belief is sinful. Because it's not being conformed to Christ's likeness. So we sin in two primary ways We sin by commission, that is things that we do, thinking, speaking, and acting in ways that violate God's standard, and we sin by omission, not not thinking, not speaking, and not acting in ways that God requires. So often when we feel as though we have not sinned in a situation, we should consider If we have not done something that we should have. I've been in that situation where I'm trying to figure out, okay, what what did I do here? And the i the issue wasn't what I did, the issue was what I didn't do. I didn't Speak up. I didn't consider the the reality of the situation and the circumstances and do what I should have done We need to acknowledge that those things are sin. You have there in your notes Romans chapter 3, which is probably one of the most comprehensive passages that refers to the sinfulness of humanity. Uh look at it there. He says, What then? Are we better than they? That is, are Jews better than Gentiles? Not at all. For we have already charged that both Jews and Greeks are all under sin. As it is written, there is none righteous, not even one. There is none who understands. There is none who seeks for God. All have turned aside, together they have become useless. There is none who does good. not even one. Okay, as as we go forward here I want you to pace attention to the um uh body parts, if you will, that he identifies as being involved in sin. How do we sin? Well their throat is an open grave. With their tongues they deceive. They keep deceiving. The poison of asps is on their lips, whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness. Their feet are swift to shed blood. And I think by implication you could add hands in there because how do you s how do you shed blood? It's not Typically with your feet unless you're a kickboxer. Uh it's with your hands. Destruction and misery are in their paths and the way of peace they have not known. There's the mind. There is no fear of God before their eyes He identifies that it's not just our actions, it's not just our words, but it's even our nature when he says there is none righteous, not even one. Uh he's talking about who we are as the as a kind of being, that we are sinful beings. And so because we are sinful, we have turned aside. And we use every part of our body, including our mind, to sin against others. And it's interesting when you when you kind of think about what what are the kinds of sin that he identifies here? If if you want to know what what is the nature of sin and how can you really see that the core of sin, it's in conflict. It's sins that relate to conflict. He doesn't mention uh pride, necessarily. That's not the key ish thing he he mentions, though we we might say that behind all of those sins is pride. Uh he doesn't say uh immorality Though certainly immorality is involved in in the way in which we sin in some of these areas. Uh there's he doesn't say theft. Though certainly theft can lead to conflict. All all of the the ideas behind the sinfulness of humanity are really centered around words of people attacking other people. And we do that not just with our hands and our feet. We do that with our lips, with our throat, with our mouths. So again, how do you sin in your s in this situation? What sins do you struggle with? What sins of omission uh have you committed? What sins of commission have you committed? That's what Jesus is talking about here. Don't just say, well, she yelled at me and since I didn't yell back, I'm good to go. Uh I I'm innocent in the matter. No. What what did you not say that maybe you should have said? Uh what did you what did you not do that you should have done? So the the idea of having a log in your eye again is not just what you do, it's sometimes what you what you don't do Alright, next principle we can identify is that Jesus presents the proper order here. You must start with you. When you're in conflict and uh whether you've sinned or whether someone else has sinned against you, you must start with you. Uh you must look to yourself. We've We've talked about that again with with the heart, examining your own heart. You must seek to uh ask the Lord how you can honor him in your own life. Subpoint there starting with ourselves reorients us around God's purposes. You know, the question initially is not what do I expect of this person or what do I want out of this person because of this conflict the the question initially is what would God have me do? How can I glorify God in this situation? So when I start with myself, when I think about okay, what have I done? What have I said? What have I not done? What have I not said? Uh in what way have I contributed to this conflict? Well I'm when I'm starting with me, I'm thinking about how can I glorify God in this situation? But when I start with them, I'm thinking about how can How can they please me? How can they satisfy my expectations? So it helps us to to start with ourselves so that we're oriented around God's purposes. Secondly, acknowledging your personal sins breeds empathy, compassion. and patience. Because we we have to recognize that it doesn't matter what another person has done to us or against us. We're just like them. We sin just like they do. And we may not struggle in the same ways that they struggle with the same actions. We might not struggle with cussing like they struggle with cussing, you know, whatever the situation is, but we're we're sinners just like them. And as that saying goes, but by the grace of God, there go I, right? That I myself am capable Of any and every sin imaginable. You know, when we talk about uh total depravity The the um tulip. What's the uh that that's the thean. Sorry. Uh I had a late night. Um Uh you you heard that we don't say well we uh when we say that we don't mean that we are as bad as we can possibly be, right? That what w what we're saying is that every aspect of our being is affected by sin. But what we can also say is that we are capable of any sin if the circumstances are right, if the opportunity is right. Um if uh the consequences are low enough. Uh how many you know, there there's no pastor on this planet who when he steps into his church Looking forward to a lifetime of ministry, thinks, you know what, five years down the line, I'm gonna run off with the secretary. No one does that. But you know, over the passage of time uh g with many uh um Oh the word was just in my head. Um compromises, you know, slowly, uh not paying attention to his own heart, not guarding his own heart, not doing the things he should be doing to protect his his mind, uh he can fall into that sin. Yeah, we we can all think, I trust, I don't know of anyone who's been convicted or who has actually murdered someone here. We can all think, how in the world can a person take the life of another person? I don't mean in war, I mean in personal murder. How can you get so full of wickedness in your mind that you would take someone's life? Well, you can do that. You can allow yourself over time to get so oriented in your thinking around the hatred of this other person, so consumed by maybe the way that they've treated you or the things that uh they have done against you and eventually you just get to the point where you hate them so much that you're willing to do anything. I mean Jesus said, right, if you are angry toward your brother, you've murdered them in your heart. Often what prevents murder is lack of opportunity. And the consequences. I know I could never get away with that, so can't can't do that But once once those things are taken away, or once once the heart, uh the wickedness of the heart takes over, the consequences are irrelevant And murder takes place. And so we have to acknowledge of ourselves that no matter what the other person has done, we are no better than them. It doesn't matter how mature you are, it doesn't matter how godly you are, apart from the grace of God you are just as capable of any sin as they are. And so when you think about the conflict and you c you n you're moving toward that position where you're going to need to confront them It's not about, again, how could you possibly do that? I would never do that. No, you come to them with empathy, with compassion, with patience. Because you recognize that the evil one and their own flesh has uh allowed them to get to that point. Uh which you could easily get to yourself. So you must start with you. Secondly, Jesus uh or next, Jesus assigns a greater weight to your sins. than to the other person's sins by calling yours planks or log and his specks So, whatever you can see in the person's life, their words or actions, you can't see their heart. We've already mentioned that. You don't know what's going on. You don't know if maybe they've been meditating over this sin over a long period of time, stewing over it, and they've been laying a track. trap for you and all of a sudden ha you know they attack you in some way. Or maybe if it was just a flash in the pan anger and you know what they said or what they did was totally unplanned. You know they didn't get up that morning thinking they were going to do that, but it just came out You don't know what their motivations were. But like an iceberg, you can uh like an iceberg, you can only see what sticks above the surface in their life, but you can know what lies under the surface in your own life. You ca you can plumb the depths over your own heart and you can see those areas that you struggle with. You can't see it in their lives, but you can't see it in yours. So you might see that that part that sticks above the surface in their life, but you see the the depths of what lies between Below the surface in your own heart. So in that sense, from your perspective, the pers the perspective of your own life, there is greater weight to your sins. And then finally, humbly dealing with your sins first puts you in a better position to minister to the other person and help him deal with his or her sin. If our if our position is such that we want to exact justice, we want this person to feel the pain that we have felt, we want this person to know how much they've hurt us, uh then the way we approach Is going to be in an attack mode. But if we have dealt with our sins, if we have confessed our sins before the Lord, If we have humbly examined our own heart, our motivation is not to attack them, our motivation is to minister to them To help them confess their own sins before the Lord, to help them understand ways in which they've sinned against God and against us, so that they might repent and grow. So looking at the log or at the plank in your own eye is absolutely necessary. Now, let's talk about finding the log. So again, we've talked about the heart uh last week, uh, but this is gonna help us also as we think about how going through uh the situation uh at hand and finding our own log, examining our own life. So in many cases, some of your contribution to the conflict, that is your sin, will be fairly obvious. You know what you said. You know what you did. You know what your motivations were. I mean it's just right there in your eyes. You can't get away from it. You can't escape it. They know it. You know it. There's no hiding. So you'll usually be able to identify sinful attitudes, thoughts, words, and actions that contributed to the conflict. And often we're tempted to just, okay, we I know this, you know this, uh you know that I said this, so I'm going to confess this, and you know, we're going to leave it there. But we can't stop there because again it's it doesn't start with our outward actions. Remember that conflict doesn't start when you open your mouth or move your body, it begins in the heart and finding the log in the in the heart can be difficult because Jeremiah 179 the heart is more deceitful Than all else, and it is desperately sick. Who can understand it? As a believer, you have a new heart, you are a new creation. But the flesh remains, right? And can sometimes obscure our vision And we can also like the necessary understanding of God's word that would otherwise help us identify what is going on in our heart So, you know, that passage, Jeremiah 17, 9, the heart is deceitful. Right, you have a new heart as a believer. If God has truly transformed you, if God has truly regenerated you, if He's given you birth by the Word of God, you will have new desires You'll have uh new outlook on life, you'll have new standards, uh you will want to please God, you have n new desires. But we are still entombed, if you will. Our our spirit is entombed in this body of death. And so we can be obscured, or maybe we just lack understanding. But the new believer doesn't yet know the fullness of God's expectations. and God's standard, so they won't be able to know necessarily what is right and what is wrong. I remember talking to a uh I don't know if he was a new believer, he claimed to be. Uh and he didn't know that lusting was wrong. Just he didn't know, he had not heard that before. And so it's entirely possible that uh whether it's something like that, that's like wow, really someone would actually not realize that, or if it's something else that even a mature believer would realize, oh I didn't realize that Gossiping was a sin. I didn't realize that cussing was a sin. I didn't realize, you know, whatever it is, uh, that uh that that was wrong. I didn't I I didn't know the word of God enough to know that that was a violation of his standard. And some of that is s simply through the deceptiveness of the world. You know, that uh a around the Christian Church, you know, broadly speaking, there's different standards of it. It's okay to do this. God's word doesn't say anything about this. And so Christians develop ways of thinking and living that are actually contrary to his word. So we have to recognize our own propensity to self deception. Moved on to the next point there. No, let me go back. There it is. Our own pro propensity to self-deception And that's why God gave us others in the body of Christ to whom we can ask for help. I skipped that Psalm one thirty nine. Forgive me for that Because of our propensity to self deception, we could say, going back a a second, Psalm one thirty-nine, where David cries out, Search me, O God, and know my heart, try me and know my anxious thoughts, and see if there be any hurtful way in me, and lead me in the way of a in the way everlasting. We ought to cry out to the Lord and ask him to reveal to us what are the things in my life, what are the things in my heart, what have I done, what have I not done that has led to this situation? I can't see it. I I don't know what I did. Or maybe I do know some things that I did, but surely there must be more. So God help me. Open my eyes so that I might see how I have sinned against you and this other person But beyond that, as I say, God has given us others in the body of Christ. So James chapter 5. This is a somewhat of a controversial passage. I don't has Pastor Lee preached on this passage? So I I don't I don't remember I I don't know what his interpretation there's two primary interpretations. One is that James is referring to physical sickness and Secondly that James is referring to spiritual uh sickness or weakness. James says, Is anyone among you sick, or we could say spiritually weak? Then he must call for the elders of the church and they are to pray over him, anointing him with oil. in the name of the Lord. And the prayer offered in faith will restore the one who is sick or weak. And the Lord will raise him up, and if he has committed sins, they will be forgiven him. Therefore confess your sins to one another and pray for one another. so that you may be healed. So I have that note there. In a variety of passages the word sick, as the neo is understood to be a spiritual condition, not a physical one. Now I also have to say it's also used in other contexts to be a physical one. So it the context determines what is the nature of this weakness. Is it physical or is it spiritual? And some have have looked at this passage passage and and concluded that it is really spiritual weakness. And that's the direction I lean. But uh there you go. The the point here is that when we are weak Spiritually, uh and physically, and obviously when we're weak physically, that opens us up to spiritual weakness. It's easier to sin when we're not feeling well. We all know that We are not to just stay within ourselves. We're at we're to ask for help. We're to ask others who are more mature, the elders of the church in this passage. To come and help us. And then you have 1 Thessalonians 5. 14. We urge you, brothers, admonish the unruly, encourage the faint-hearted, help the weak. Be patient with everyone. So when we are weak or when we know someone else is weak, we are to surround ourselves with each other so that we can help one another. And of course Galatians six one, brethren, if anyone's caught in a trespass that is caught in a net, they're stuck, they're not able to get out, you who are Our spiritual restore such a one in a spirit of gentleness, each one looking to yourself so that you too will not be tempted. We must get beyond our own pride where we just think I can't talk to anyone about my struggles. I don't want people to know what's going on in my life. We have to get beyond that. Because God has placed us in the church. He's placed us in the body of Christ so that we might minister to one another. You know, Paul in Romans 12 I'm sorry, First Corinthians twelve uses the illustration of the f the human body. Some are ears, some are eyes, some are feet, some are hands. You know, it's just it's an illustration, it's a metaphor. And the idea is we need one another in order to function. And it's not just that, you know, okay, we need people to set up chairs and we need other people to do run the sound and we need Uh we need a preacher, we need the sound guy, we need the vacuumers, the cleaners after church. I mean there's those aspects as well. But far more important is the spiritual interaction that we're supposed to have. The the life on life where we talk about uh how God's word ought to uh influence our lives when we're struggling with depression, with anger, with fear, and whatever else that People are speaking into our lives truth that helps us understand God, understand ourselves, understand how we should respond to this situation. And when we're struggling, that we seek out help. It is only pride that prevents us from seeking help like that And often when someone does seek help, it's because they've just come to that point where they realize, if if I don't get help now, I'm gonna destroy my marriage, I'm gonna lose my spouse. I'm gonna lose my kids. Uh and it's at the worst possible time when if you had cut spot help much earlier, things could have been resolved a lot easier, a lot more quickly. And and it would have been an entirely different situation. So uh can I just encourage you? Uh I know I'm a pastor and I'm supposed to say things like this. But um Don't be prideful. If you're struggling, know that there's not just pastors and elders here at Hope who want to come alongside you and want to minister to you, but there are many believers. who would be glad to hear about what you're struggling with and would love to pray with you and to look at God's word with you and to minister to you in whatever you need. Don't hide in the shadows. Don't feel ashamed. Of your sin because we're all sinners and we all struggle and we all need one another for help. So cry out to the Lord for sure. Seek the Lord and ask that He would reveal to you the particular struggles that you have. But don't ignore the resource that God has given you uh in the body of Christ. Uh we need one another and we need uh the the ministry of others and we need to be ministering to other people. So that is such a critical thing. No, Bruce. on a couple different uh critical substances until he stopped reading that's because reading took down. And then when he came up to me and I see you he was trying to wake up And I said to him I was like, I need to know exactly what you took. Because if I know about two things, but I need to know that anything else because If I assume it's just these two things and I think it's reading two out and there's some more in there in you then you stop reading again, you can die. So that means I know exactly what's in what what you put that's inside of you, um so I know when I can safely get you off this respiratory. And then sort of outshirt So same thing, you know, and we're wasting our time if we don't open up. Which l it's faster inside and kind of is hurting our time. Yeah. Yeah, that's right. I've heard so many times in the last four months Oh, we're the only ones struggling. Everyone else is just has a wonderful marriage, a wonderful family, you know, their kids are all well behaved. It's not true. Right? I I assume your laughter is because you know that's not true. That everyone's laughing because you know, yeah, we have struggles. You know, our kids don't uh get ready like they're supposed to in the morning. The struggle to get to church uh is is a real thing for everybody, not just for some. So if we can get over that sense of oh I'm just the only one that's not uh that doesn't have things put together, uh we will begin to realize, no, uh we're all in the same boat. Um and that doesn't mean that there's no answers and that it's hopeless that we're all stuck and bound to struggle forever. No, not at all. Uh it means that we can be patient, we can pray together, we can look at God's word together, and we can grow. Alright. Moving on to that next paragraph. So, because we are to call out to the Lord and because we he has given us his church, if after the following process, which we're about to go through, if you struggle to identify Identify the heart issues behind your words and your actions. Seek the Lord in prayer and reach out to someone who can walk with you and help you. Don't be afraid or ashamed or embarrassed to do that. But first, before you do that, consider the following. Define the log in your eye, work backwards from what you can see to what you can't see. Use the following questions to guide you. Now there's a disclaimer on at the end, I'll just say it at the beginning as well. My point in asking these questions. questions is not that every time you're in a conflict you have to work through I think it's eight eight or nine questions of examining your own heart. That is not my point. That is impossible. That's that's not you know what there's no Bible verse I can say you have to work through these questions. My point is simply that as you think about your own life, as you work through these questions, you know sometimes you'll ask one or two of the questions, sometimes you'll ask other questions. Over time you'll begin to be more um able to quickly identify what's going on in your own heart. You'll kinda learn yourself, you'll learn how to work through the process of identifying the log in your eye. So these are, if you will, representative, these are sample, these are not necessarily exhaustive and they're not all essential to ask every single time. These are just helpful questions to ask as you consider what is your contribution to a particular conflict. So first, in what ways were my speech that is words, tone, and timing Unwholesome and unedifying. In what what was I trying to accomplish? Ephesians 4 29 Let no unwholesome word proceed out of your mouth, but only such as the A word such a word as is good for edification according to the need of the moment, so that it will give grace to those who hear What's an unwholesome word? What's a word that's crass? It's a word that's sharp. It's a word that's stinging. A word that's intended to tear down, uh, to accuse Consider what what did I say that was unwholesome and what was I trying to accomplish with that anyway When I said that, what was what was the motivation uh w what was I aiming at when I shot that arrow at them? Secondly, in what ways did my speech attack the other person? What desire or expectation of mine did they not meet? Hey, you're not the person I want you to be, so I'm going to attack you. Matthew five twenty two but I say to you that everyone who is angry with his brother shall be guilty before the court, and whoever says to his brother, You good for nothing, shall be guilty before the Supreme Court. So in what way did I attack the other person and what desire or expectation of mine did they not meet? Third, in what ways did my speech deny the image of God in the other person? What does such speech reflect about my thinking about them? James 3 9, with the tongue we bless our Lord and Father, and with it we curse men who have been made in the image of God. Or in the likeness of God. So how did what I say deny the fact that this is actually an image bearer of God? This is a person with dignity, with worth who is uh loved by God, who is perhaps is a child or a son of God, they are they were made by God to reflect him on this earth? How did I attack that reality? What did I say to uh treat them as someone who is less than human? Someone who lacks dignity and worth in God's eyes Fourth, in what ways did my speech seek to manipulate the other person? How did I attempt to control them? See if you can identify the speaker here. Then she said to them said to him, How can you say I love you when your heart is not with me? You have deceived me these three times and have not told me where your great strength is Came about when she pressed him daily with her words and urged him that his soul was annoyed to death Do you do you ever do that? Do you try to manipulate another person, maybe your spouse, maybe somebody at work, I I don't know, whoever? Maybe your kids try to manipulate them by making them feel bad. You don't really love me. If you love me, this is what you would do. How did I try to manipulate the other person and how did I try to Oh yeah. You can talk them into Whatever. And um but actually also possible if you're trying to witness to somebody to press a point to the to a place where Where they succumb to what you're trying to get them to to either think or or do. So that's that's obviously manipulated. I guess the the challenge there would be the the turn when You're manipulating them because you want to honor God. Right. If you can actually do that, well, you're manipulating them simply because you want to Yeah. Yeah, manipulation and persuasion uh can have blurred lines, but I think if you examine your own heart you can probably identify where you're trying to persuade by uh trying to help them see reality to get them to do what's right as opposed to trying to manipulate them just to do what you want. Um Thomas you don't want to uh all reason yeah right um how about what try to change the matter open uh right for the article but of course manipulation is for all selfish. Yeah. Yeah. Sometimes we we end up manipulating through guilt and shame. We need to make sure that when we discuss the people that their that their guilt or shame is properly sourced, not because we're trying to impose that on them, but it's you know through God's word or or through their own relationship with God, not through their relationship with us. Right. Right. Absolutely. Yeah, I mean in in relationships we can use uh benefits, relational benefits to manipulate people. You know, if you do this, I'll do that. Uh Um intimacy can be uh a a source of m manipulation. Um finances can be a source of manipulation, you know If if you do this, you know, I'll I'll I'll get you that thing you've you've wanted. Uh we can manipulate all kinds of ways. Um So the question, yeah, is am I manipulating to get what I want? Or am I manipulating or not am I persuading, am I trying to help them to see what God wants of them? Yeah. Right. Right. If I'm saying control control it and yeah you know, then I'm gonna push a fine on it and then I come to that. Yeah. But if I'm you know, if it's just reasoning, if it's just persuasion then I can say something and then walk away and not it's that control piece inside of me that that makes the line. Right. Right. Alright. Next we uh in what ways were my words and actions of the flesh and thus not uh sorry and thus at war with the spirit? What desires of the spirit did I rebel against? So you see Galatians 5, 19 to 21. Now the deeds of the flesh are evident, which are immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, outbursts of anger, disputes, dissensions, facts, and the fact that the world is not a good thing. envying drunkenness, carousing, and things like these. Of which I forewarn you, just as I've always forewarned, that those who practice such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. Again Here we see a list of things, and it's amazing to me how many of these items relate to conflict To interpersonal conflict, right? You have enmities, strife, jealousy, outbursts of anger, disputes, dissensions, factions, envying. Uh and then around those, the the things before and the things after those things are all things that contribute to conflict as well. But so much of our sin, the sin in our lives, is manifested in conflict. In how we deal with So in what ways were my words and actions of the flesh? In what ways were my words and actions represented by things like these? So you have the outbursts of anger, so that would be an action. You have the disputes, that would be the words. But then you also have the envying, right? The the desire of the heart. Wha what was I wanting? What what What do they have that I was I was trying to get for myself or or what is it you know, what object do I have just in life? What desire do I have in life that uh because I can't have it I'm gonna be at war with this person. Uh and enmity is almost more uh just a personal disposition toward this person. You know, that I I I'm at odds with this person. I'm this person's enemy. Um and we can get that way in our marriage, that this person is is not the one that I am loving and cherishing. This is the person that uh is my enemy. They're my greatest problem in life. And when you have that disposition that's going to result in deeds of the flesh. It is an attitude of the flesh that results in deeds of the flesh. And then following up on that, in what ways did I not manifest the fruit of the Spirit? For the spirits, love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control In what way did I manifest the opposite of those things? In uh a couple weeks we'll look at the uh character traits, the profile or um I don't know what I called it, the portrait of a peacemaker, and we'll talk about a lot of these characteristics. uh what they look like uh what they ought to look like in our lives. So in what way did I not manifest the fruit of Spirit? Number seven, what lie was I believing about this situation? What lie was I believing about this situation? Romans 1 25, for they exchanged the truth of God for a lie and worshiped and served the creature rather than the Creator who is blessed forever. You know, was I thinking that if I got my way that everything would be okay? Was I thinking that if I had if I had this object, if um If we did the thing that I was gonna do that that would result in my greatest joy and happiness This is kind of I don't know this might be out there a little bit, but Chloe, my daughter, asked me the other day, does does coffee stunt your growth? For some reason she wants to drink coffee, I don't know why, but she thinks it's it's something that uh she's um she would benefit from, I guess. Uh and somebody told her censure growth, maybe Rachel, I don't I don't remember. So she was asking me that. And uh so of course I did the fatherly duty and said yes. Um because and and I told her that, you know, I started drinking coffee early to stop myself from growing so much. So you can only imagine how much taller I would be if I hadn't drunk coffee. But you know so we were talking about it. uh at at the table and uh uh it occurred to me that one of the problems with doing a study does coffee decide your growth is you don't necessarily know how you would grow if you didn't drink the coffee. Um I'm sure there's uh biological factors that that uh relate to that that can be seen. Um but uh anyway. Uh why did I say that? Uh what what lie did I believe? Like I said it was out there. What what lie did I believe? What did I think would happen Uh if if I would have gotten my way. Alright, number eight. In what ways were my desires disordered or unmeasured? What did I desire so strongly that I was willing to sin or up uh to obtain or sin because I couldn't have it? Disordered or unmeasured? This goes back to what we talked about last week. Did I want something so much Uh it's an unmeasured desire. It's maybe a good thing, but I want it so much that I'm willing to be ungodly in order to get it, or if I don't get it. Or the d a disordered desire is a wrong desire. Did I want something that God does not want me to have? And therefore I'm willing to sin in order to get it or uh if I don't get it. And there you have James four again So again, my point is not that we must ask ask each of these questions every time we are in conflict. That's not possible. The point is that once we start to understand our hearts by thinking through these questions at various times, we begin to see the log in our eye more clearly. And that enables us to deal with our sins more quickly and thoroughly. All right. Any other questions about those? Yes, it's on. Right, it could be a r uh it's primarily a good thing that I want too much. Or we we could also say it's it's something that I a good thing that I don't want enough. Uh but usually when we're talking about conflict it's something that I want too much. You know, I want a spouse, I want children, I want um To provide for my family, but I want it too much, so I'm willing to sin So, once you've gone through these things and you've identified the log in your eye, again, what must we do? Well, you don't first go to the other person. Uh now they might be standing there right in front of you and you ha ha have that opportunity to talk to them. So, you know, the the order might get uh reversed in some situations, but imagine that they're not right in front of you, that you've separated because of your conflict, you've gone to your bedroom, maybe you're hiding in the bathroom, and you're thinking, Okay, how how am I gonna What what's the next step here? How am I going to reconcile with this person? Well once you've identified your heart attitudes, thoughts, words, and actions that were sinful and contributed to the conflict, you must remember that sin is first and foremost Against God. Genesis 20, verse 6, about Abraham and Abimelech when Abraham lied, saying that Sarah was Abraham's sister. Or we could say when he told a half truth. Then God said to him that is Ab Abimelech in the dream, Yes, I know that in the integrity of your heart you have done this, you've taken Sarah to yourself, and I also have kept you from sinning against Me. Therefore, do not I did not let you touch her. Remember that Abimelech had no idea what was going on. He had no idea of the situation, the relationship between Sarah and Abraham. He didn't worship God. Uh there was nothing in his heart that was like, I'm gonna rebel against God by taking Sarah. Nothing like that And yet God said, If you would have done this, you would have sinned against me. And then Joseph says Uh Genesis thirty nine nine, there is no one greater in this house than I, he's speaking to Potiphar's wife. And he that is Potiphar has withheld nothing from me except you because you are his wife. How then could I do this great evil and sin against God. He he sets up that statement by talking about what Potiphar has entrusted to him. The position that he's been entrusted to by a man, his master. And instead of you would expect him to say, How can I sin against the guy who put me in this position? No, he says, uh how can I sin against God And in Psalm fifty one, against you and you only have I sinned and done what is evil in your sight So that you are justified when you speak and blameless when you judge. So again, we we mentioned this, I think it was the first Sunday. Um We sin toward people and we do sin against people. There's that vertical aspect of sin in relationships. But behind that and before that and underneath that and above that is our uh vertical Did I say that right? It's our horizontal sin against one another. And then it it's the vertical sin against God that is of m greatest importance. You won't you won't go to hell for Speaking a wrong word against your spouse, for lying to your kids, for uh uh not doing what your boss at work told you to do. When when God judges us, uh when God judges sinners in the end of the age, he's not gonna say, well, you know, you you broke the US Constitution, you broke the laws of the United States, therefore you're gonna go to hell. No. He's gonna judge us against himself and his law and his standard. When you did these things, it was my law, it was my character that you were violating. So we've sinned it primarily and foremost against Him. So though all our sin as believers is judicially forgiven, and we cannot undo God's work of regeneration in our lives. It is still imperative to confess our sins to the Lord and receive his relational forgiveness. Alright? So we have passages um this is this isn't in your notes, but uh You know, you remember the Lord's Prayer, Matthew chapter six. Uh Jesus says Of course he's speaking here not to New Testament believers, he's speaking to Jews, but he he gives the Lord's prayer. One of the last things in that prayer is forgive us our debts as we also have forgiven our debtors. And when he comments on the whole prayer from From the our Father who is in heaven to the end of do not lead us into temptation. When he wants to give a commentary on the prayer, he only comments on that one aspect of forgiveness. And he says, For if you forgive others for their transgressions, your heavenly Father is the first one. Father will also forgive you. But if you do not forgive others, then your father Uh I lost my spot. Then your father will not forgive your transgressions. Because of the overwhelming testimony of Scripture, we know that Our salvation is not dependent on our actions, right? It's not dependent on how well we follow God's standards. God doesn't treat us the way we have treated others as believers. No, He's given us life, He's regenerated us, He's brought us forth. forth into his kingdom, and so that is secure. But there is that relational aspect. He is our Father, and just as when those of us who are fathers, when our kids sin against us, there's a relational break there, so it is with God. We have a relationship that is broken. That's why in 1 Peter 3 7 Paul sorry Peter tells husbands, love your wives, live with them in an understanding way so that your prayers will not be hindered. So g God re when God forgives us it's to restore a relationship. It's a relational forgiveness, not a judicial forgiveness. Psalm thirty-two five I acknowledged my sin to you and my iniquity I did not hide. I said, I will confess my transgressions to the Lord and you forgave me of my guilt. Proverbs twenty-eight He who conceals his transgressions will not prosper, but he who confesses and forsakes them will find compassion. And then of course first John 1 9, if we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from From all unrighteousness. So when you have identified sin in your life When you recognize that in the midst of a conflict with another person, your spouse, or anybody else, that you have sinned in the attitudes of your heart, in the words of your mouth, in the actions of your life. Don't just deal with the other person, which is what we're going to talk about next week. Make sure that you confess before the Lord, that you restore the relationship with Christ. And remember that it is his law you have broken. It is the relationship with him that is uh temporarily broken and that needs to be restored. And when you have that restored, then you are in the best position to minister to the other person. Thomas. How does repentance work with confession? Well repentance is obviously a changing of the mind that works itself out in action and so Confession is an aspect, is like the first step toward uh repentance because confession is acknowledging, it's saying the same thing about my sin that God says about it. So that's w that's where the changing of the mind that instead of this is a right thing to do, I'm really like, no, that's actually the wrong thing to do. So I need to change my mind, uh submit to the Lordship of Christ and move forward in another direction. So Part of what we'll talk about next week is when we confess our sins to another person, it's not just, hey, I'm sorry, I know what I did was wrong. Please forgive me. No, there's actions, depending on the nature of the conflict, there's actions that need to be taken that reflect that my change of mind was genuine because it's actually working itself out in my life. And of course that happens before the Lord that we're confessing our sins, which means that we're repenting, we're changing our mind, and we're wanting to honor Him. And part of honoring Him in that situation is to move forward in reconciliation with the other person to humble ourselves. So The actions that we take in conflict are a reflection of the genuineness of the confession first before the Lord as well as before others. All right, well, let me pray, and uh we can make our way over to worship. Heavenly Father, we thank you again for your word and how thoroughly it addresses the real issues of our life. Uh we confess, Lord. Lord, that we are sinners and that we sin in so many different ways and ways that we don't even uh know, we're we're not even aware of. And so we ask that you would help each one of us to uh identify those things that um The Spirit will convict us, that your Spirit would do his work of conviction in our lives so that we can uh see those things, so we can repent of them. And uh by the power of your spirit move forward in reconciliation and in glorifying Christ in our lives. Forgive us for our sins, God, even the sins that we have committed this morning. And enable us now to worship you in spirit and in truth Help us to sing with full hearts that are forgiven. And especially as we celebrate the Lord's table, we thank you for doing what we could not do. P taking the penalty of our sin upon yourself that we might have life. In Christ's name. Amen.