Okay, so forgiveness. This is a subject that uh uh you know there's so much that you can say. I just gotta a new book on forgiveness that I haven't been able to dive into yet, but there's there's a lot that one can say about forgiveness, a lot of different facets of the issue to think about. And we only have one hour or so. And so we're going to be fairly limited in what we say. I think I had mentioned early on in the class a book named or called titled um um forgiveness what is it called uh By Chris Bronze. Something about forgiveness by Chris Bronze. I can't remember to tell. I'm dumb head. Unpacking forgiveness. Thank you. That's right. It has a suitcase on the front That's why that makes sense. Um but that book, John MacArthur's book, The Freedom and Power of Forgiveness Nancy Lee Damas has an excellent book that I can't remember the title of either right now, but so many helpful resources. Uh which, you know, in the daily course of our lives, uh the normal sins we commit against each other, especially as spouses or between friends or you know, among people in the church It's really not overly difficult. You know, if if we're cultivating a heart that's that's uh forgiving heart, it's easy to overlook, to forgive. When someone says, Will you forgive me? Yes, of course I forgive you But there are ways in which people sin against us which cut so deep into the soul or that are so extended in terms of how they've sin against us. that uh thinking about forgiveness is very very difficult. And so I want to be sensitive to that. And I don't know all of your stories. I don't know all the ways in which people have sinned against you. Uh and and please understand that uh if if you've experienced uh you know extreme uh significant sin against you That this, what we're going to talk about today, is not all that there is to say. I trust it will be helpful, but forgiveness is really a journey. You know, we often think about forgiveness as a decision. Do you forgive? Yes or no? But it's in many cases when it's significant sin is involved, it's a journey, it's a process. of cultivating in your own heart a mindset and attitudes that enable you to show the love of Christ by forgiving another person. So I just want you to understand that as we get started. As you see, it says in your notes there, well, first of all, we're gonna just a preview here, we're gonna talk about what forgiveness is not. What forgiveness is, and then two kinds of forgiveness, attitudinal and transaction. As you see in the notes, forgiveness is one of the most misunderstood concepts in Christianity. On the one hand, this is bizarre because of how forgiveness is so central to our salvation On the other hand, it's not surprising given the way the church has been so thoroughly psychologized. So often the struggle that we have to forgive uh even minor offenses is simply because we have a misunderstanding of what forgiveness is. So we think it's one thing, we're like, well I don't want to do that. I don't feel like doing that I don't want to let them get away with their sin and so we're like, I don't know that I'm I want to forgive. And so the best thing we can do for ourselves is understand what Scripture says forgiveness is And this is one of those concepts that if you don't have a Bible to help you understand what forgiveness is, you cannot know what forgiveness is. You cannot go to the natural world and and learn about this thing called forgiveness. You can't go to other religions because frankly most In fact, I don't know of any other religion that has a concept of forgiveness like scripture has. I mean other religions do have the concept, but it's obviously very different. And so we need to really think well and think biblically about what forgiveness is. Let's just quickly go over what forgiveness is not, just to kind of clear the table before we start to set it up again. Common mis misconceptions of forgiveness is that when you forgive someone, you're just sweeping it under the rugs, sweeping their offense under the rug. We're just not going to talk about this. We're going to pretend like it didn't happen. And we're just going to move on with our lives. We're not going to deal with it. We're not going to acknowledge it. Uh it can't be brought up again. You know, it's the same idea of sticking in the closet. Uh it's amazing how you can live in your home with big piles of of things under the carpet or a closet that's bulging uh and just navigate around those things, you know, trying desperately not to touch, you know, because you know as soon as you touch it, it's gonna explode. Right. And maybe you've you've had family gatherings like that or you have a relationship like that where it's very sensitive. Like I gotta make sure I don't delve into that area because things might get messy When we do things like sweeping and a fence under the rug, we're only really kicking the can down the road and we're not solving anything. So that's not a biblical concept. Also, forgive and forget is a common concept You know that if oh yeah, I uh uh you just need to forgive and forget. Just you know, forgive your father for doing all of those awful things to you. Just forgive and forget. And we don't have a delete button in our mind as much as we would love to sometimes. We can't just forget. Forgetting is not a matter of choice. We can choose, as we'll talk about, not to actively continually think about something, to keep it in the forefront of our mind. We can choose not to do that. But we can't choose to forget. And so to tell someone, well you just need to forgive and forget, that's really a hopeless and worthless piece of advice because they can't. I mean none of us can do that. Sometimes people think that if they forgive what's happening is that they're minimizing the offense. That only small offenses can be forgiven. Major offenses aren't worthy of forgiveness. It's not in a category of things that can be forgiven. And so if I say I forgive you when someone has committed a significant offense against me, what I'm saying is it's not a big deal. It's not a problem. You didn't hurt me. I I've talked to uh people who've been sinned against in significant ways by their parents. I I can't forgive. Because I don't want to act like it's not a big deal Well, that's not what we're doing here. That's not what we're saying. And so we want to make sure that that's not in our minds. Similar to that, letting the person off the hook. That if I forgive, then all of a sudden all the consequences of another person's sins are wiped away. That uh you know if someone has robbed me of a thousand a thousand dollars uh then okay they're just they get to keep that and oh well uh or if you know there's been some material loss or some uh relational uh brokenness that I just let them off the hook, they don't have to have any consequences for what they've done, and that's not true either. Uh there's uh a major concept of forgiving yourself Sometimes people will say, you need to forgive yourself, or sometimes we will think, I need to forgive myself. And this is not a biblical concept. This is something that's out there, especially in the world of psychology. But this is not a biblical standard. And the reason, as we'll see in a few moments, is because Forgiveness deals with the guilt of sin. It deals with a judicial status of guiltiness. And only the person who has established that standard can forgive judicially of that sin. And when we've been sinned against, even though you and I are not the standard of righteousness and right and wrong, we give, we forgive relationally But when it comes to ourselves, we don't violate we're we're not the lawgiver and we're not the ones toward whom sin is committed. So we're just not a not a party to be able to uh forgive ourselves. It's it's a uh really an irrational concept And also one of the things that this idea does is to say, you know, sometimes people will say, well, I know God forgives me. And I'm so glad this other person that I've sinned against has forgiven me too. But I just can't forgive myself. And what we're saying, even though we may not have the conscious thought, but what that is actually saying is I know God has this standard of right and wrong, and that He has forgiven me, and this other person agrees with God's standard and they forgive me, but I have a higher standard for myself. And I I just I can't forgive myself for not achieving that higher standard. And if hopefully you're realizing what we're saying is that I have a higher standard than God does. And that's blasphemy. That is blasphemy. And so, you know, we don't necessarily say, don't say that, you're blaspheming God, but that that's actually what's going on. There's pride in the heart that says, okay, God can forgive me, but I can't forgive myself That's pride. And so we need to let go of that concept and say, no, that that's not at all what is is going on or what should be going on. We should we can't forgive ourselves. And then worst of all is the idea of forgiving God. Forgiving God. Uh you know this bad thing happened in my life. I I I just I I need I'm so angry at God for him allowing these things to happen. I just need to forgive God. Or maybe a a friend or a counselor might say, you need to forgive God. Well, what does that do? What is that assuming? Yeah. Can God do anything wrong? No. So again, that too is blasphemy. It assumes that God messed up. Um And uh that that is blasphemy. So we we are not in a position ever to forgive God. So those are some common misconceptions. Before we move on, any comments, thoughts, or any other misconceptions that that you have in your mind of Can you define again what you said um in talking about forgiving yourself? You said it's a ju judicial what? Well we'll we'll get into that in the next paragraph, so we'll talk about that. Yeah. Yeah. When people say they're gonna forgive they need to forgive God, could they just mean like I'm gonna forgive a higher I mean I I think it's wrong, but it's I'm wondering if what they're saying is just what's been done whatever's put it there, I'm just gonna that's something that I have to consciously like forgive or let go of or something like they're acknowledging it that there's something there. I mean do not I don't know if you're that's where uh if you're in the position of a friend or a c counselor talking to someone who's talking like that Uh that's where you don't just say slap him in the face and don't say that, you know, that's wrong. What you say is w w you know, tell me about that. What what is Um what do you mean by that? Um are are are you saying that you think God has made a mistake in your life or that God has actually done something wrong in your life? Just dialogue with them and then help them to see that that's not true Um and so you just help them work through it and hopefully they have enough uh if they're a believer they'll come to realize, oh yeah, they try to you know, I guess I can't say that. Um or if they're not a believer. Um Yeah, there's a gospel opportunity, but I guess furthering that a little bit, but do people feel like in order to truly forgive they kind of have to grasp everything that's ever been against them and and consciously like work through I mean make sense of everything and so God fits in this one category because it sort of completes the picture of everything they have to stop the situation Perhaps. Yeah, I mean it just depends on the person. Okay. That might be true in some cases. Amy? Um are these all assuming there's retentions involved or is this regardless if there's a Well, I mean when it comes to false ideas, repentance isn't really yeah, it's it's not really in the picture. Um we will talk about that today though. Uh when it comes to the different kinds of forgiveness, attitudinal versus transactional. Yeah. Any other questions? It seems like there there is some you have some capacity to forget um by the And I guess the thing that comes to mind is to actually replace that with um kindness toward people or um where you where you replace what you want to do or should do or what you think of that person. Right. And and you're so focused on that that you don't really revisit. Yeah, no, I that's that's a great point, and I do think that by God's grace and his grace alone and the empowerment of his spirit, that when we cultivate a forgiving heart that he does help us to actually forget you know over time where you know initially there's a conscious decision I'm not going to actively think about that But eventually that turns to uh an actual forgetfulness where someone maybe years down the line says, Hey, do you remember when I Uh no, I don't I don't remember that at all. So it is possible, but just the reality we can't go But yeah. Uh we gonna say something, Sue? Well, yeah, I mean, obviously those are very sensitive issues if Um I mean there there's uh the issue of just the sovereignty of God and his control o over all things and um you know, in in his providence, not allowing her to be there. And I don't you know, I don't know exactly what her specific um thoughts are of what where God messed up in the process, but um just understanding the sovereignty of God. Okay? So there that's one component. Right alongside that is the character of God. That He's not just a sovereign, capricious God, but He's a good, loving, faithful God. And he has purposes in all that He allows and all that He decrees. And so helping her come to understand the character of God and the purposes of God, even in allowing something as awful as the death of a child. uh to take place. Um and then there's uh you know kind of complicated it's not it's not uh just a theological problem in terms of her thinking. I mean there's just natural grief which is uh uh uh part of being human and losing one we love and when we're grieving we're often not thinking clearly and we're uh making connections that we shouldn't always make and so Uh it's not just well get the right theology and you'll be fine, but uh yes we need the right theology, but let what what positive positively does Scripture give us in how we can turn to the Lord because he is sovereign, because he is good and loving and gracious, uh how ca how does he call us to come uh to him in the midst of our sorrow uh so that I can grieve in a way that is um healthy and and and right and and comforting. So I mean we can talk about resources that might be helpful. uh or conversations that might be helpful, but it would I mean just off the top of my head, my gut knee-jerk reaction is is helping her think about the character of God, the the sovereignty of God Uh but and again it's not a lecture, it's a conversation. Um to um I I think what happens with a lot of Christians, whatever level of maturity they're at, even if they don't necessarily necessarily know the scripture as well as they need to, there's a baseline understanding that by God's grace most Christians have of you know the sovereignty of God. He's in control of all things. The goodness of God, the love of God. What we do is we kind of get thrown off of our understanding of that because something happens And what is helpful is to have someone just not tell us something we don't know, but help us come back to those realities and see how, even in the midst of my tragedy, those realities that I've believed are actually still true So what that looks like in this particular case, yeah, I don't know, but those would be some high-level principles. Sounds like uh ask questions. Yeah. Yeah. That's right. Yeah Yeah. Okay, well let's let's move on to what forgiveness is. What forgiveness is You know, I say there's we saw last week, true forgiveness is modeled after God's forgiveness. We didn't see that last week because we kind of skipped over some of the forgiveness section of last week's lesson. But we're that's exactly what we're gonna see uh today. Uh the next paragraph. First we must understand that forgiveness involves sin and guilt. Forgiveness involves sin And guilt. Forgiveness is, if you want a definition, this is one way to define it, it's the undeserved releasing of guilt to someone who has sinned against God and toward us. It is the undeserved that is a key word. Undeserved releasing of guilt. To someone who has sinned against us, or excuse me, sinned against God and toward us. So we understand that when a person violates the law And it's a true violation of the law. Under the law, they are now guilty. The judge hands down a guilty verdict if someone has truly violated the law So that is their s that is their status. It doesn't matter how they feel about their relationship to the law. Uh and in frankly it doesn't even matter if the law knows or if the judicial system knows. They just are guilty. And that's the same way it is with God. When we sin in whatever way we are guilty. That is our status. Now only God can forgive judicially To release us from the penalty, the death penalty of sin, right? We know Scripture says every sin earns the wage of death. If it were even possible for a person in their whole life to just sin one time, that one sin would earn them eternal condemnation from God because they sinned against an infinite God. And so when we sin against God, only He can release us from that death penalty. And of course we sin all the time and He's done that through Christ having forgiven us So that's what God does. He judicially releases us from the death penalty of sin, but we can forgive relationally To release someone from the social and other consequences of sin. So God forgives judicially in terms of his judicial system. And we forgive relationally in terms of the social and other consequences of sin. Now there are some sins That are a violation not only of God's law, but also of man's law. And when God forgives a person of their violation, let's say they murder someone. God forgives people of murder. There ostensibly are people on death row because of murder who have been forgiven by God because either they were saved before Or they were saved after they committed the act of murder. But God's judicial forgiveness of murder does not remove the consequences of the fact that they violated man's law, right? God's forgiveness does not eliminate the purpose of government to punish evildoers. So With with any particular sin that's bec been committed, uh when we think about forgiveness, we're not we're not just doing a wide swath, uh blanket forgiveness, removal of all consequences no matter what the sin was. We have to think very carefully about well what are appropriate consequences for this particular sin. If it involves a a violation of man's law, then it is appropriate. In some cases not always necessary, not always necessary, but in many cases it is very appropriate and right to for a person, let's say, to turn themselves in to the civil authorities. I have a police officer right here, so I have to be careful what I say. Um it it is you know it uh you can say, yes I forgive you, but we need to go to the police station. You know, that that uh what you've done is is committing a crime and and that's a serious issue. Uh you know, um if if a a husband abuses his wife or a wife abuses her husband, uh physical abuse You know, there there's all kinds of wrongs and there's all kinds of abuse that can be committed that don't violate the law of man But there are some that do. And so in cases where there is a violation of man, forgiveness doesn't mean that those judicial or or uh judicial system on on the earthly sense that those consequences are not removed. So we we do need to think carefully and discern in specific situations what are the the consequences that apply in this situation. But I mean can we just be honest and say the vast majority of the times that we need to forgive someone, we're not talking about criminal activity. We're just talking about relationships, we're talking about words spoken in an unkind way. We're talking about just normal day-to-day sins that we commit against each other. And so uh th th those are conversations that are nuanced and that we can have, but that's not really the the focus of of what we're talking about today. I just wanted to acknowledge that reality. So as we said, when we sin, we enter into a state of guilt. So when we think about the word guilt, we're not, we shouldn't be talking about a feeling. We should be talking about a status. A person is either guilty or they're innocent or they're righteous. Those are really the three categories. Adam and Eve were innocent in that there was really uh there was no law except for Don't eat of the fruit of the tree. So there wasn't a a sense of righteousness in that they were having to fully obey God's law, as we understand later in Scripture. So they were more in a state of innocence, we would say In fact, because they hadn't eaten of the tree they didn't know uh about the you know good and evil and all of that. So they were in a state of innocence Christ was not innocent, he was righteous. Because he perfectly obeyed the law. Not just by not violating the law, but by proactively obeying the law. That's why he got baptized, so he would fulfill all righteousness. So Christ was righteous. But anytime you violate God's law, man's law, you are now in a status in the category of guilt and guiltiness. And so forgiveness is the mechanism by which sinners, those who are guilty of sin, are released from the penalty of sin. Now, forgiveness is not the absence of justice, right? When we think about guilt, immediately we think, well, now there needs to be justice, there needs to be punishment And so if I forgive, or if God forgives, does that mean that there's injustice? And the answer is no. When God forgives, there is no injustice. And when we forgive another, there is no injustice. As you see, it says there, when God forgives, and thus when we forgive, justice is not thwarted. Justice is accomplished in one of two ways. God will either execute justice on the sinner by pouring out his wrath on them for eternity in hell, if they're an unbeliever. Or he will have executed justice for a sinner by pouring out his wrath on Christ at the cross. So some receive on themselves the justice due to them for their guilt, and others receive grace because Christ has received the justice that was due to them. So no one gets injustice. There is no injustice in God. Right? Paul puts that in a rhetorical question. Is there any injustice in God? No, may it never be. It's Romans 9. So we talk about guilt, we have to think about justice, and there is no injustice. And again, that's critical because when we have been sinned against in a significant way. We want justice and there's a a a right sense of that because we're made in the image of God and we have the law of God written on our heart. Part of that is the sense of there there must be justice when there's a violation of law. Remember uh a number of years ago Me and one of the women in our church were meeting with a woman who was outside of our church who came in for counseling, and she was born to a prostitute and a pimp, and her whole life she grew up in um a strip club Like as a child, she was just, you know, like my kids run around in the church, she would run around in the strip club. And she said, I have never known a man who did not sexually abuse me. I mean that's awful. Um so when we were she's not a believer. And uh so as we were learning her story and you know trying to give her uh eventually when we got to the point of hope in Christ and uh and whatnot and talking about the gospel and forgiveness. Her hang up was, are you saying that if my dad trusted in Christ, that he would be forgiven of everything that he's done? That's exactly what I'm saying. And I said to her, and I'm so thankful for that, because if he can't be saved, if he can't be forgiven, And I can't either. Because I may not have done what your dad has done, but I've sinned egregiously in my own ways And so when again when we're thinking about guilt and justice and forgiveness, we're not talking about light things. We're talking about serious Issues. For you, the the the you know the people in your life may not have violated you or sinned against you in such significant ways, but but we have to think about the reality, the full breadth of reality that some people experience because I tell you our church is full of sinners And our church is full of people who've been sinned against in egregious ways. And we just don't know who is sitting around us. You know, we we tell stories of you know our our lives and our testimonies and And you know, we're in a small group and we talk about our past, but there are a lot of, there's a lot of suffering uh in the lives of the people in our church. Why? Because we're all human. Right? We're all the same. We're all sinners, uh saved by grace. Those who those of us who have trusted in Christ. And so when we think about forgiveness, when we talk about forgiveness, we shouldn't just limit ourselves to the simple, hey, you know, I I burnt your toast this morning. Will you please forgive me? Kind of issues. So So justice is never thwarted when we forgive and when God forgives. That's critically important to understand. So, with that in mind, let's see four facets of God's forgiveness of us And thus how we are to forgive one another. So we have sinned against God. We've violated His law. We are now guilty as sinners. And so how what does it mean That God forgives us. Four components, four facets of that. First, when God forgives us, he does not remember Our sins. He does not remember our sins. Isaiah 43, 25. Even I am the one who wipes out your transgressions for my own sake, and I will not remember your sins. Or the new covenant passage of Jeremiah 31, 34, they will not teach again each man his neighbor or each man his brother, saying, Know the Lord, for they will all know me, from the least of them to the greatest of them, declares the Lord. For I will forgive their iniquity and their sin I will remember no more. So you see the word remember there translates the Hebrew word zakar. And a theological dictionary defines it as the root and its derivatives have crucial roles in the Old Testament on a human level. The words embrace reflection, especially on what is in the past. Such reflection may lead to regret or relief, or more actively, appreciation and commitment. God's remembering has to do with his attention and intervention, whether in grace or in judgment. So the idea of Zakhar, of the word remember, is that it is an active thought process. And so when God says, I won't remember your sins, he's not saying somehow he has a delete button that mitigates his omniscience. But rather that he's just not going to be actively thinking about your sin and my sin when he forgives. He's not going to be re um um dwelling on it, he's not going to be rehearsing it, he's not going to be um meditating on it, you know, reliving it as it were. It's just not going to be in his mind at the forefront of his mind, something that he actively thinks about. Yeah, Willie. It's not the filter through which he will respond to you. Yeah. Yeah, we'll we'll get there. That's that's good. That's one of the one of the one of the facets that we'll talk about here. So that's that's one way in which God forgives us. See, He does not actively continually think about our sin. Secondly When God forgives us, he does not remind us of our sin and use them against us. Psalm 103, he has not dealt with us according to our sins. Nor rewarded us according to our iniquities, for as high as the heavens are above the earth, so great is his loving kindness toward those who fear him. As far as the east is from the west, so far has he removed our transgressions from us. So when God relates to us, he doesn't have our sin right there in front saying, hey, remember? Remember what you've done? I I'm happy to relate with you. I'm happy that you're my son or my daughter. But let's not forget what you've done here. Let's not forget what's what's brought us to this place. No, he he takes it out of the way. It's no longer a defining aspect of our relationship with him I think many of you have been here long enough to hear me say that the first time I taught this class and the first time I made this point, Ann Cain was in the class. You know, Ann Kane is one of our elderly saints And uh she asks she raised her hand. She always has I I'm rather nervous when she raises her hand because she asks questions that that are really good. Um but sh she said, do you know why it says east and from the west uh and not north and south? And I'm like, I have never thought about that before And she said that, well, it's because if if he re uh removed our sins as far as the north is from the south, if you go north, eventually you're gonna go south. If you go south, eventually you're gonna go north. So if you cast sins as far as the north is from the south, those sins are gonna meet each other. I I don't know that I can do that. That they're gonna meet each other. So in other words, you're gonna you're you're you're gonna be confronted with your sin again. But if you throw sin to the east and you throw sin to the west, you know you'll never go the opposite direction. You're always going to go in that direction. And so it's it's saying there's an eternal separation where you and your sins will never meet again. It's a powerful concept Or the language in Colossians 2, 13 and 14, when you were dead in your transgressions and the uncircumcision of your flesh, he made you alive together with him, having forgiven us all our transgressions, having canceled out the certificate of debt consisting of decrees against us, which was hostile to us. And he's taken it out of the way, having nailed it to the cross. The idea here is that our sin is a debt that we owe to God. That's a common metaphor in Scripture And specifically, he refers to that uh debt uh that we owe as there being connected to it, a certificate of debt. Yes. So this remembrance um It when someone says they can't forgive themselves, maybe they're equating the fact that they're dwelling on and remembering that sin and they're not Perhaps out of their heads. Perhaps. Yeah. That's why it's good to ask questions to see is this what you mean by that? Yeah. Yeah. You know, most of you have either a mortgage or a car loan or some kind of credit card statement, uh or not a statement, but a um a uh um Well, documentation that explains the terms, right? That says, okay, here's the interest rate. If it's you know a car loan or some specific loan, it's here's how long the the loan is for. There's maybe statements about penalties if you don't pay on time, or you know, what might happen to you if if uh not to you but what might happen if if you default And so that's the idea here. In the ancient times, you know, we didn't come up with this in the 21st century. This was an ancient dynamic where uh when a person took a loan from another person, they would write on a tablet The you know the terms of the loan. Sorry? Terms and conditions. Yeah, terms and conditions, exactly. All the details, and and that would be a certificate of debt. And then when the debt was paid uh because they didn't have paper that was ubiquitous and cheap, uh they would want to reuse that writing um medium, whatever it was, and so they would erase everything and you know use it for And so what Paul is saying here is that the way God has forgiven our debt is, first of all, He has had a certificate of debt. for us. Right? He had his carbon copy of our certificate. And it had, you know, the the amount of the debt uh the consequences of the death and and the uh all all of what's involved there. But not only did he just have this piece of paper laying around in a filing cabinet But it had a default stamp on it that this had been overdue. And so he he uses the language here which was hostile to us. You know, Scripture says in Romans 2 that we are storing up wrath for ourselves, the unbeliever, until the day of wrath. So it's like the the consequences of our debt is just building up higher and higher and higher Or if you think in terms of debt collectors, you know, they're they're calling on the phone and they're knocking at the door. Hey, we're we're here to collect on the debt. It's hostile to us, it's it's coming down on us And what God does, because of Christ, is he wipes it all away. He just erases it so that it's as if there was no debt at all. And he says he did that, having nailed it to the cross. And I think about that statement that was nailed above the head of Christ, you know, Jesus, King of the Jews. It's as if, you know, if you think in terms of uh one of those needles that a merchant will often have where they'll stick a receipt after you've paid That it's as if, you know, there's that that statement about Christ, Jesus King of the Jews, and the nail attaching that to the cross, and it's as if God took your Uh certificate and my certificate and just stuck it there and say it's it's paid. It's done. It's over. And that's it. He does not remind us of it because there's nothing to be reminded of. It's erased. It's separated from us as far as the East is from the West. So when he looks at you and me, he doesn't look at you and me as if we have all of this stain on us of our sin. It's removed. It's gone. So he doesn't remind us of our sin, and he doesn't use it against us. Third, when God forgives us, he does not receive accusations from others. He does not receive accusations from others. Romans 8, 33 to 34, who will bring A charge against God's elect. God is the one who justifies, who is the one who condemns. Christ Jesus is he who died, rather, he who was raised, who is at the right hand of God who also intercedes for us. Now who wants to bring a charge against God's elect? Well, who? The accuser. That's why we have Revelation 1210 there. I'll just read the uh bold part. For the accuser of our brethren has been thrown down. He who accuses them before our God day and night. Amazing. Satan is in heaven in the throne room of God accusing you and me of all of the sin before God. God, did you know what Margo did? God, did you know what Michael did? Did you see that, God Right? It's it's like the conversation they had about Job. Have you seen my servant Job? And so Satan is there accusing us before God. And sometimes, maybe, there's someone in your life who is praying to God about you. Because of how they perceive that you have sinned against them, or maybe how you actually did sin against them. Maybe there's someone telling God about the sin that you've committed against them And if you have repented of that sin and God's forgiving you of that sin, God says, I'm not listening to that. I've dealt with that. I've forgiven that. Why? Well, because Christ, as it says there, he's interceding for us. You know, it's it's as if, you know, you imagine you're s uh a courtroom, right, where you got the judge and the defender and the prosecutor. prosecutor, the evil one is constantly God, you know, look at this person, that person, and Jesus just keeps saying up, you know, I object, Your Honor. You know, look at the hand, look at the nail in my hand. I pay for that then. I object You know, I've I've dealt with that one. And it's over. It's a it's it's a non-conversation from God's perspective. He doesn't listen when other people are trying to accuse you and me, certainly not the evil one Because he has forgiven that sin. And then finally, fourth, when God forgives us, he removes the barrier that our sin created in our relationship with him. He removes the barrier. And this is what you were saying, Willie. Can you can you give that quote again? I thought that was helpful. It's not the filter through which God responds to you, basically we're saying that uh him not remembering is not that he cognitives licensed leave for debts because he can't. Right. But he doesn't respond to you on the behalf on the basis of that sin Yeah, yeah, and and that's exactly what we're saying with this point. That it's no longer in front uh uh of us or between us and God, and so when he interacts with us, when he treats us, uh he treats us In light of the righteousness that we have in Christ, not in light of the sin that we've committed. Romans 5. 10, for if we were while excuse me, for if while we were enemies, we were reconciled to God through the death of his son, much more having been reconciled, we shall be saved by his life. So God has removed, you know, while we were enemies, he removed that sin, and we were reconciled to God. And then Ephesians 2, but now in Christ Jesus, you who formerly were far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ. For he himself is our peace who has made both groups into one and broke down the barrier of the dividing wall. So we were, as unbelievers, and especially most of us who were Gentiles, we were far from God. We were separated from God And he brought us near, he reconciled us to the rest of the people of God, and there's no longer a barrier between us and the rest of those whom God has saved, or certainly not a barrier between us and God. And the same idea in Colossians 1, although you were formerly alienated and hostile in mind, engaged in evil deeds, Yet he has now reconciled you in his fleshly body. So it's not like God forgives us, you know, we're we're far off from God. And God says, okay, I'm going to show my mercy and my grace and I'm going to forgive you, but you can stay over there. Because every time I think about you, I think about all the sin you've committed, and that's not a very fun feeling And so I'd just rather keep you at arm's length. No, he brings us near. He draws us to himself. And he loves us. He, of course, adopts us into his family. family, right? And even more than that, he has um secured us to be the bride of Christ. So we're his by adoption and we're his by marriage. You can't get any closer than that. So these are the four ways. Maybe there's more, but uh but these are four primary ways. That when we think about what does it mean that God forgave us, this is what it means. He does not remember our sins, he doesn't actively think about it. He does not remind us of our sin to use it against us. And then when God forgives us, he doesn't receive accusations from others, and he removes the barrier that sin created in our relationship. question statement. Uh at least the way you've kind of written it in the notes. Uh the barriers presented presented as us keeping Keeping us from God because he established the barrier and not necessarily uh Uh what I'm I think I'm trying to say is when we sin we may be reluctant to go read the word, go read our Bible. So putting that in which I think you're going to get into about with others that Uh we may be uh tempted to avoid people we've sinned against when we should be rushing to them to ask for forgiveness Yeah, I don't I don't know if I made my point or whatever, but I think you kind of presented the barrier as like a a one-way fitting way where you're possible in the reverse still. Mm-hmm. Yeah, no, that's true. Um Yeah, I see what you're saying there. And I don't know I would agree. It is it is a two-way thing. Because uh especially like Colossians 1 there 121, although you were formerly alienated and hostile in mind, the meaning of that is we weren't just far from God, like we we wanted to be far from God. We wanted nothing to do with God, and so we were happily living in the kingdom of darkness. And of course Ephesians 2 talks about that, being dead in our transgressions and sin. But at the same time You know, because of God's holiness, uh God you know was separated from us. Uh you know, even he said in Somebody help me. Well where where did he say it's in Genesis? I don't remember the exact chapter. My spirit will not strive with man forever. Is that Genesis? That's what I was thinking. That's exactly what I was thinking. Thank you, Rob. And somebody else said it. Was that somebody else? Okay, whatever. Anyway. Um So, you know, man got so evil uh that uh God said, I'm I'm not gonna be uh dwelling on the earth. Uh And and be close to man. So yeah, there is a kind of a two-way separation that our sins create. I'll just one of my Bible apps that I use is not a good search engine, but uh there's a scripture that says Your sins have separated you from God. Anybody remember what? Isaiah fifty nine. Is that Isaiah fifty nine? Okay. Um and uh yeah it God certainly has has uh from his perspective there's there's kind of that I guess you could say that uh a two layer wall. The wall that he's built because of his holiness and the wall that we've built because of our sin. But all of that is is taken away. Well, let's talk about then our forgiveness. You know, because our forgiveness is relational, not judicial. Our forgiveness is a volitional choice of how we will relate with the person. Okay, it's a volitional choice. of how we will relate with the person. That's what our forgiveness is all about. We don't have the right or the authority to send someone to hell for their sin. That's what God does. We don't have the right or authority to rescue someone from hell. That's what God does. We only have the ability to determine how am I going to now relate with this person who has sinned against me. And so here are the promises that when we say I forgive you, here's what we should mean by that. We're making four promises. The first promise again in i imitating God is that I will not dwell on this incident. I will not dwell on this incident. Now we can't promise that we won't uh think about their or that that that their sin won't cross our minds. We can't promise that uh You know, as we're just going about the day, that you know we'll never have a thought about their sin. But what we are saying is that when their sin or the incident comes to our mind, we're not going to Continue to meditate on it. We're not going to run it around in our mind. We're not going to relive it. We're not going to hash it out. We're not going to mull it over. Instead, what we're promising to do is when those thoughts come to my mind, I'm going to redirect my thinking. according to what Philippians 4 8 says, you know, whatever is true, right, honorable, just, pure, lovely, good repute. Uh someone over here uh mentioned about um um can't forget it was uh oh the uh just kind of uh uh brushing away things meaning uh I think maybe the the the The premise that we forgot here is this is after a reconciliation event has initiated, not before it's initiated, meaning I'm just not going to think about what you did to me right now. You have to Either the the approach has to happen one way or the other. I'm just uh may not necessarily sit and wait for you to come and ask for forgiveness Would it be right to say, hey, do you realize what you did to me and how it made me feel, etc. , etc. etc. ? Not that feelings matter, but how you sinned against me. I think there has to be that part of it and then what comes of that, then that's the okay I've let you know now it's yeah until Yeah yeah so so what we're doing now is we're just defining what forgiveness is. Next we'll talk about tr uh the transaction, the process of forgiveness. So this is just what are we talking about when we say forgiveness? And then we'll talk about when, uh, under what circumstances do you do you actually make these promises? So, when when there is when the incident comes to my mind, I'm going to choose to redirect my thoughts And that could be in a variety of ways. It could just be I'm gonna start to think about the the birds chirping outside instead of your sin. That's that's fine, but maybe not the most helpful thing. Uh what we can do that's probably more helpful is pray to the Lord for ourselves. Lord help me to remember these promises that I've made. Uh pray for you that the Lord will continue to to mature you and if need be bring you to repentance uh or Lord help us to live a reconciled uh life together as as we We continue to relate to each other. It could be prayers of thanks. Lord, thank you that they have repented and that we have reconciled. Uh thank you for your work in their life and in my life. Thank you for Christ and the gospel. There's all kinds of things that you can be praying about and thinking about that doesn't So that's one promise. The second promise is I promise I will not bring this incident up to you and use it against you. Okay, and really that last part is is the the primary thing is I won't bring it up to use it against you. Right? So by the time we've reached the point of granting forgiveness We should have f fully dealt with the issue, hopefully. We should have had the discussion, the back and forth interaction to where it's it's you know there's been confession, there's been repentance, and and we're making these promises And so if if we're now at the point of forgiveness, what we should be saying is we don't really need to talk about this again. Now there there might be situations where that's needed. Either additional things come up that that need to be to be discussed or you know something that that's necessary. Maybe I just need help. To grow in forgiveness. And so I need to talk to someone else. Well, that's on the next point. But uh there might there might be reasons to bring it up, but I'm promising that I'm not gonna come And and when and when we're talking, I'm not gonna r raise up this sin from the dead and slam you in the head with it and and use it against you. I'm not gonna accuse you, I'm not gonna beat you over the head I'm not going to try and make you feel guilty. I'm just not going to use it against you anymore. See the second point there. We may need to bring it up in the future if a pattern is established. And we need to give examples of that pattern. Right? So if if they've lied to us and we forgive them for lying, but we begin to see, okay, now there's a a growing pattern of lying. We can Say listen, remember that one time and and then that other time? I know I forgave you, but there there's a pattern that's developing here that's concerning. It's very different than using it up using it to uh to heap guilt and shame and re retribution on them. So I won't bring it up to use it against you. The third promise, I promise that I will not discuss this incident with others I won't discuss this incident with others. Am I going to tell my best friend? Am I going to tell my close relative or my small group about the situation? I won't bring it up to a uh prayer accountability group, you know. Um I I'm just not gonna tell others, you know, it's that Matthew 18 principle that if your brother sins against you, go and show him as false. And if you if he listens to you, you've won your brother. And at that point, no one else needs to know about this situation. No one needs to know about what's happened between us. There's no there's no need at all. Unless the the one exception I would say in uh that that could be even a good encouraging thing is if you both agree together To use it as a testimony of God's faithfulness and grace in working reconciliation in your life to be a blessing to others. There's mutual agreement about making it public in that kind of way. But I'm not going to be gossiping about this to others because we've already dealt with this. Again, there's two exceptions there. If a law has been broken, the authorities may need to get involved And so you need to deal with those things. Or if there are lasting consequences that need to be worked through and so necessary you talk about the situation Or we need help to fully resolve the situation. So we can kind of in a in in the short term, you know, seek forgiveness, grant forgiveness. But now we need some help to learn how to grow in this relationship. And this is very common in marriage. We work through diff difficulties, we've sought to forgive each other, but we need help. We need help to grow so that we don't continue to repeat this. this habit and this pattern and so necessarily it's going to be brought up uh as as part of the conversation But for the most part, you know, unless, and here's I think the one way to define gossip, unless someone is needing to know for the purpose of bringing help into the situation They don't need to know. If they're not party to if they're not part of the solution, then they don't need to know once we have forgiven. And even before. Yeah, Daniel. For this port for number three, this is from the perspective of a person assembly or guest. Correct. Is this a primary Right. So like it it's as the offender, not to make it so binary, but as the offender, there may be sort of like more opportunity where sort of like Um I guess sort of confessing confessing to one another without it being about gossip Sure. Sure. You know, like a as a as a husband who may or may not have wanted my wife sometimes. Would have happened, but it's It's important for me sort of in accountability stories. Sure. So I just wanted to check in. Right. Yeah, no, I I I think that's that's that's fine. Because basically there you're you're telling on yourself. Yes. Um and that's kind of a different different thing with hypothetical. Hypothetically. That's right. That's right. Yeah, great. So he mentioned Matthew eighteen. I so I guess that's a good place to ask my question here. Um and so it's talking about holding a brother accountable and you know going on for to the extent that church is necessary. And based on that then if you keep going, Peter asks the question, Lord, how often shall I forgive my brother if you send me it? And Jesus says, you know, I do not say seven, but seven times seven. And uh it seems like that's misused a lot to um say you get uh uh unconditionally Right. But it seems like in the context it's holding someone accountable and then if they ask forgiveness, then you forgive them Right. It's it's not saying if they don't ever seek forgiveness then you just unconditionally forgive them and is that right or Yeah, if I understand what you're saying, um that the repeated sins, you don't just You know, i uh to use a modern term when you don't just lay down and be a doormat and just let them you know, stomp all over you. Right. Right. Sleep it under the rug or and then let them stomp on you. Yeah, I think when Jesus says that, he's I don't think he's saying, um, no, feel free to disagree with this. Interpretation, but I don't think he's saying if they sin against you seventy times seven in the same way, and therefore there is no repentance. Because that would um contradict what he said just a few verses earlier in verses 15 to 18 about your discipline. And so what I think he's saying is when someone sins against you and they repent, forgive them. And they sin against you perhaps likely in a different way. And they repent, forgive them. And you know, to the hundredth time, thousandth time, and you know, hypothetically those of us who are married might in some cases re sin against each other in thousands of ways over the course of you know, years and decades. So uh w we just gotta keep uh forgiving over and over and never say, That's it, we're ten years in, you hit a hundred and forty four Or whatever, sinned and I don't have to forgive you anymore. So uh so it's not unconditional forgiveness for all sin, and it's not unconditional forgiveness at all, but um But more uh when uh when we forgive the there's um the example he uses there with us slaves Each of those slaves that were for or that were indebted asked for forgiveness. So he he uses a scenario where there's a recognition, yes, I owe the debt. You know in in their case they didn't ask for forgiveness, they asked for repayment, uh for time to repay. Uh but there's a there's uh that kind of interaction uh that that takes place. And so there's there's an assumption there of uh the person is repentant and they're they're wanting to overcome their sin. But you know if you're in a close relationship with them they're gonna sin against you again and again and again, just in in different ways. Well it also says forgive seventy times. Yeah. Right. And and that's where something we're not gonna really talk about today is that forgiveness is not a just a once and done thing. It's something that you know Yeah, y we gotta continue we we live forgiveness. Uh it's not just a one-time decision. Keep a tally and he's for the reason's done. Yeah. That's how he compared to the case. Yeah, that's right. Amy. Um what what I was thinking away from the question also was like if people don't ask for forgiveness, do you forgive Yeah. Yeah, we'll talk about that in just a moment. So I'll I'll punt that just for a few minutes. Amy. Um so if somebody is continually gossiping about the situation a situation over and over, is that just an indicator that they haven't forgiven, or do you think that people are just You know what I mean? Well could you truly forgive somebody and still keep talking about it? So what's complicated about that is church at large, Christians at large, okay, around the world, I'll just put it, you know make it as broad as possible, aren't really taught well how to forgive, what it means to forgive. So is it possible that someone can genuinely forgive and keep gossiping? I mean I I I feel like I have to say maybe, but um if if they're if if if they're continually thinking about it and gossiping about it, probably not. Like they probably haven't forgiven. Because usually that continued gossip is a reflection of bitterness and anger and resentment. So I want I I just I want to allow for immaturity and and lack of uh teaching, but more than likely it's they haven't really forgiven. Alright, let's get the fourth promise here. And this one is where there's a little bit of nuance. I promise that I will not allow this incident to stand between us. I will not allow this incident to stand between us. Again, the majority of our conflicts day to day, this is a non-issue, right? We can we can forgive, we can Seek forgiveness, grant forgiveness, move on, and there's no barrier, there's no problem, there's no ongoing difficulty. Uh you see some examples there, expressions of anger, silent treatment, broken promises, lack of communication, whatever uh in being inconsiderate in in certain situations. Uh they don't have lasting consequences usually. However, some sins have natural consequences that do cause n uh necessary barriers. For example Significant acts of broken trust may require a lengthy period of rebuilding trust. You know, adultery is one of those situations. Or just betrayal, uh, some some kind of betrayal where I I forgive you, but I don't trust you. And if if you feel the desperate need to think more about the relationship between trust and forgiveness, I can recommend a sermon on that by Milton Vincent called The Ministry of Trust. But that's uh forgiveness and trust are not the same thing. So you can forgive while still uh uh requiring or allowing for time. For a person to rebuild trust. If there has been significant harm, physical or sexual, it may be wise and necessary to separate the parties uh so that there is not an ongoing harm that is done. You know, rape or molestation, uh abuse, uh where the whether it was once or multiple times where that trauma is not perpetuated by by the the constant interaction. And so it may be wise in some situations For people to be separated. Again, those examples that I gave are obviously civil uh uh uh their crimes, and so uh it would be appropriate to bring the civil authorities To deal with that and bring the perpetrator to justice. And the perpetrator, if he has or she has true repentance, will receive that and accept that consequence. In most cases, there can be fully restored, there can be a fully restored and even strengthened relationship. In some cases, a relationship may be altered temporarily or even permanently. In a few c extreme cases the relationship may need to be completely severed. So, you know, wisdom is needed, counsel is needed in given situations where there's been significant sin that's been committed. If you haven't taken it in the Gospel for Life class, we spend several of the sessions talking about different facets of forgiveness. And so there's there's just a lot to think about there. And so if that's something that you You want to think more about, you can go to the sermon audio page, look up the Gospel for Life class and listen to some of those. Or I can recommend some resources or just talk with you privately. Now, with just a few minutes that we have left, not enough to really cover this well, but attitudinal forgiveness and transactional forgiveness. Transactional, I'm just going to hit the highlights here. Transactional or horizontal forgiveness is when a person has sinned against us and they ask for forgiveness. And we forgive them. So there's there's a genuine, or at least as much as we can discern, genuine confession and repentance. And the question comes to us as the one who's been sinned against, will you forgive me? And now the ball is in our court or in our hands, and we have the opportunity to say, yes, I forgive you. Hand the ball back. So there's a transaction that takes place there, and in that transaction we're making those four promises uh as as much as possible. And again, it's not a one-time decision. It's this is how I I'm going to seek to live in forgiveness and interact with you moving forward. That's the kind of forgiveness we see in Matthew eighteen. Um as far as the the church discipline process that when When the offender listens to you, there's repentance, there's forgiveness that's granted, and you move forward in the relationship. And again, as we who are recipients of the infinite forgiveness of God, we should not withhold forgiveness from those who seek it. It would be wrong for us to hear someone confess their sin, uh repent of it, ask for forgiveness, and for us to say, nope. What you did was too painful. What you did was too much. That was the, you know, that was the needle that broke the camel's back or whatever Uh that I'm not going to forgive you. That would be wrong for us because we have received the infinite forgiveness of God. And you see the warning there in Matthew 6. If you're If you forgive others for their transgressions, your heavenly Father will also forgive you. But if you do not forgive others, then your Father will not forgive your transgressions. And that's the same thing that Jesus says at the end of Matthew 18. That he who does not forgive will not be forgiven by God. And I think, you know, just the the short answer to what in the world does that mean, does that mean I can lose my salvation for not forgiving? I think the short answer to that is if we refuse, if we harden our heart toward another person in a way that we refuse to forgive, we're demonstrating that we probably weren't saved to begin with. That's just a short way to say it. Um in that situation is simply brought out that that hardness of heart But what do you do when the other person doesn't ask for forgiveness? You see them at work, you see them You know, at church, uh you're laying beside them at night and they're just not saying anything. You're you're thinking about what they've done and you know who knows what they're thinking about, but they're just not saying anything. They're not asking for your forgiveness. What do you do? Well, you have two options. You can either become bitter in your heart Allow that recalling of their sin to boil and you know when when something uh uh milk or or some other non-water substance boils, you know, that you start to get the crust on the outside of the pan and it burns. Uh that's what happens. Is uh as you're stewing over their sin The crust of your heart is being hardened toward them. Or you can forgive them in your heart. You can forgive them in your heart. And here's what that means. Transactional forgiveness is when you have that verbal transaction with the other person. Forgiving someone in your heart is something that you do with your relationship with the Lord. It's something that's between you and the Lord and not that person. I think we see an example of uh this horizontal excuse me this uh vertical or attitudinal forgiveness. In Mark 11, 25, whenever you stand praying, forgive if you have anything against anyone. Or Matthew 18, you know, the importance of forgiving your brother from your heart. It's not just words that you say, it's actually a heart attitude. And so here's what it means. Oh gosh, time is it already? Yeah, it's already passed. I am gosh I feel so powerful now. Uh we forgive others in our heart in the following ways. I'll I'll um You know, these are passages that are familiar and you have them there with you. But we remember that while they've sinned toward us and hurt us, their sin is first and foremost against God. Right? Their sin is first and foremost against God, and God will deal with their sin in ways that we can't He will exact his justice in his perfect timing, and so we entrust ourselves and that other person to God. And say, God, I'm in pain, I'm suffering, I'm hurting because of this sin. There's brokenness in our relationship. I don't know what's going on in that person's heart. I don't know why they're not asking for forgiveness. But you know their heart You're in charge of their heart. You're working in their life. Lord, I'm in your hands. That person's in your hands. I'm going to leave this to you. I'm not going to stew over this. I'm going to leave this to you, God. And remember the vengeance is his, that we follow the example of Christ who entrusted himself to him who judges justly. Secondly, I don't know if I have slides for all this. We remember that we are called not to become bitter toward others, so we choose not to cultivate sinful attitudes toward that person. Alright, so we put off bitterness and anger and wrath. We put off malice and clamor and slander, and we just choose to have a God-honoring, Christ-like, sacrificial love attitude toward the other person. Now is that a choice we can do in the flesh? No, because we don't feel like it, do we? When you've been hurt, that's the last thing you want to do. But that's why we need the power of the Spirit to help us cultivate right attitudes towards them. Third, we remember that just as God forgives us instantly when we ask, because we have been uh uh our sin has been paid for by Christ, we too must be ready to make the four promises of forgiveness and reconcile with the person. when they repent. So in other words, we want to so cultivate a a biblical mindset and attitudes toward the other person and about the situation so that when they do come, if they ever do We are ready in that moment to say, yes, I forgive you. I've been praying that the Lord would bring you to repentance, and I'm so excited to be able to forgive you. Maybe you won't feel that excited. But maybe you will if you cultivate these right attitudes. You know, uh Joseph is our example in Genesis fifty. His brothers are afraid that now as the second in command of Egypt he's gonna kill them all And he says, Am I in the place of God? Ask for you, you meant evil against me, but God meant it for good. And you just imagine all the years that Joseph was a slave and then in prison and All the things he went through, how long he had to stew over what his brothers did to him. And we don't have the details of how he worked through that in his heart, but we see the end result. that he did not harbor bitterness and anger, but rather he said, God was up to something. This was an idea that he's been uh uh having in his mind. W did he have it before he became second in command or after? We don't know. But at some point he realized, wow, God's really used the Sinamite brothers To accomplish these things. Wow. I can't be angry at my brothers because look at what God has done. Alright, and then fourth, we must pray, bless, and do good to them. And that really comes out of Romans chapter 12 primarily, as well as Matthew 5. 44. Pray for your enemies, love them. Overcome evil with good, do intentional and specific acts of kindness. Speak blessed means to speak well of, so speak encouraging words. Pray for them, not just not in precatory prayers, but Prayers of salvation if need be, prayers of repentance, pray for God's blessing in their life. Send them a note and a card. Just encouraging them. If they have a need you're aware of, meet that need. If they have a sorrow, express sorrow with them. If they have a joy, rejoice with them. That's all expressed there in Romans chapter 12. So when we cultivate those four things in our hearts, we will be ready when they repent, if they repent. to forgive them and we won't be embittered against them. Again, there's so much more that could be said, but hopefully that's a helpful introduction to these things. So let me pray