Heavenly Father, I thank you for this morning. This is the day that you have made. This is the day when we, as your people, gather together corporately to worship, to hear from you. To sing praise to you and exalt you and lift you high. I pray that you would work even in this class as we talk about that difficult subject of confronting sin. that you would help each one of us to be humble of heart and and gentle in thinking about uh this uh Exhortation that you have given to us, this instruction, uh, and that we wouldn't take the things that we learn here and use it in any self-oriented or harsh way, but that we would learn from Christ, learn from the testimony of Scripture, and seek to honor you as we pursue uh reconciliation in our lives, in our marriages, in the church and and beyond. So help us this morning. We need you. We need your instructing Holy Spirit. We need your convicting Spirit that we might grow in Christ likeness. In Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, so we are on session 10, confrontation. Again, this is actually session eleven. But That's what it's called in your notebook for you to find it. It's somewhere in the neighborhood of page 57. Um there. So how we're gonna do this, as you can see, is we're gonna Walk through these principles with eight questions. This is how uh Robert Jones does it in the book Pursuing Peace. So I just took kind of his general outline And we'll follow that. And as usual, even though I'm following his outline, I'm not just copycatting every you know every word that he's saying. So uh if you have the book, if you haven't read it, I would just encourage you once again to uh to read through it because By getting it from class and getting it from the book, you're hearing the same thing set in different ways, and that just helps to integrate it into your heart and and increase your understanding. So eight questions that guide confrontation. Well the first question is, is rebuking even an option for gracious for a gracious loving follower? of Jesus. You may have heard that before, right? You shouldn't rebuke me. What did Jesus say? What did Jesus say? No, no, what did Jesus say? Judge not. You can't j you can't you can't rebuke me. Jesus said not to judge. So So this is a common um uh response or a common idea that we shouldn't rebuke other people. We shouldn't confront other people with their sin. We should live and let live. You know, we shouldn't impose our ideas on other people. We shouldn't try and force other people to live the way we think they should live, so on and so forth. Well obviously the answer is yes, we should rebuke. Uh why? Well, because sin distorts, deceives, and destroys. The most gracious thing we could do, and the most loving thing we can do, is follow Jesus in helping people see where they are at odds with God. When we someone when we see someone heading down that path of destructiveness, it's not loving, it's not gracious to say Hope you're having a good time because you're not heading to a good place. No, the most loving and gracious thing we can do is is confront them and say That's not good. That's not right. You're headed in the wrong direction. Secondly, Jesus himself rebuked the religious leaders, the disciples, believers, even demons. So again, if our life is supposed to be an imitation of Christ, this is one area that we can learn from Him, how to rebuke, how to confront others in their sin. Now obviously the way Jesus confronted each of these different groups. Varied, right? He didn't talk to the disciples the same way he talked to demons or to Pharisees. So we need to learn not only that he rebuked, but how he rebuked. uh but still we follow Christ in rebuking the p the perfect uh man of of God um rebuked and so should we. And then third, we are commanded to rebuke, admonish, and reprove others out of love for Christ and the purity of the church So you have a list of passages there. I won't read all of them, uh, but this is I put all of them there just to show you, you know, this is not an isolated uh idea that one place we're told to rebuke and every other place we're told just to love and cover and whatever else. No. Second Timothy three sixteen. What is Scripture for? Well it's inspired by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, which means to show someone where they're wrong, for correction to help them uh change their thinking and and correct their thoughts, for training, helping them learn to live out that right way of thinking. For teaching, reproof, correction, and training in righteousness, so that the man of God may be adequate equipped for every good work. Second Timothy four two, so just a couple verses later, preach the word, be ready in season and out of season. And reprove, rebuke, exhort with great patience and instruction. And that's not just an instruction for pastors. Right? As for Pastor Tom, okay, Pastor Tom, you're you're the rebuker. None of us have to rebuke. No, when he says preach the word, yeah, he's talking about the public preaching of the word, but he's also talking about the private proclamation of the word. And if that doesn't convince you that it maybe it is just public, Luke 17, 3 Jesus said, Be on your guard. If your brother sins, rebuke him. And if he repent, repents, forgive him. Ephesians 5. 11. Do not participate in the unfruitful deeds of darkness, but instead expose them. And then 1 Thessalonians 5. 14, we urge you, brethren, admonish the unruly, encourage the faint-hearted, help the weak, be patient with everyone. So again, over and over again, in various contexts, we are to rebuke those who we see in sin. So yes, we are to rebuke. Second question, what are wrong ways To handle the overlook versus um rebuke dilemma. Because there there is this principle that we are to overlook. Love covers a multitude of sins. So how do you know When to do that? Well we'll talk about how do you know when to do that, but here's wrong ways to think about that. We wrongfully overlook sin when we want to avoid conflict more than when we want to look out for the other person's interest. That is, our desire for comfort is greater than our desire for their holiness. It's uncomfortable. I don't know anybody who enjoys confronting other people. I certainly don't. But am I interested in my comfort or am I interested in their holiness? So don't overlook sin just because it's comfortable uncomfortable. We also wrongfully overlook sin when we want others to like us, and thus we don't want to get other people upset at us. That is, we have a fear of man, not a fear of God. Because when we confront other people, most people don't enjoy that. Just as we don't enjoy confronting, other people don't enjoy being confronted. But that doesn't mean that we shouldn't do it, because we need to fear God, not man. We wrongfully overlook sin when we don't cover it, but instead let it fester in our hearts and it produces bitterness. Of course we talked about this a lot last week. You know, it's it's not you can't claim, well, I'm just covering that sin when you're har actually harboring bitterness in your heart over that sin. That's not covering. That's just letting it fester. Well, we also wrongfully rebuke on the flip side. We we choose to rebuke wrongfully when we care more about our hurt. then we care about their offense against God. In other words, the way I rebuke is going to reflect the fact that I am hurt, not that you've offended God. Which usually means that I'm going to sin in how I rebuke you because I'm offended, as opposed to I'm going to honor God in how I rebuke you because you've offended him. We also wrongfully choose to rebuke when we can't control our emotions or our words. You know, I'm just gonna lash out I'm gonna I'm gonna pour out everything that's been going on in my heart and my mind towards you and let you know what you did wrong. Well that's a wrong way to rebuke a wrong reason to rebuke a c that you can't hold it back. And then also, we wrongfully choose to rebuke when we haven't considered our own contribution to the conflict, and we've made the assumption about them based on our limited perception. So we rebuke without having taken the logout. You know, we covered that a few weeks ago We haven't thought about, well, have I done anything to make it easier for them to sin in this situation? Have I contributed to the conflict? Instead of thinking that way, we just lash out at them as if they're totally 100% to blame. And then finally, we wrongfully confront when we attack the person, not the problem. We assume their motives. We say, you always. You never And we demean their character. You know, you're just this kind of person. Um we take uh things that they've done, maybe once. Maybe ten times, maybe even a hundred times. Maybe a pattern of behavior. And we paste on them, this is the whole of who you are. This is your identity. You are an adulterer you are a liar, you are untrustworthy, you are, you know, whatever whatever it is. Now some of that may be legitimate You know, they may have a pattern of behavior, but we have to be careful not to say, this is all that you are. You're nothing more than this. And you'll always be this way. So we don't want to confront and rebuke with that kind of an attitude. All right. What are some questions we should ask or some things we should think about in deciding when is it appropriate to rebuke someone? First of all, when we see a person trapped in sin or in uh in danger of it, there's a typo there. Uh when we see a person trapped in sin or a pattern of sin or they are in danger of it, meaning if they keep going the way they're going, this is going to become a pattern. So Galatians six one. Brethren, if anyone is caught in a trespass, you know, I've said it before, but the word caught there is like So it's not like the ha I gotcha, you know, caught in the act. That's not what he's saying. He's saying someone is is involved in a sin and they can't get out Maybe it's someone who is enslaved to uh drugs and alcohol, or maybe they're enslaved to uh stealing or lying or whatever it might be. This is a pattern in their life, and we are called to restore such a person and to confront them. Secondly, when a person may welcome such rebuke Proverbs 1710, a rebuke goes deeper into one who has understanding than a hundred blows into a fool. If you know someone who is humble and godly, yet you know they're still a sinner. And that if you bring their sin to their attention, maybe they're not aware of it, and you know they're gonna respond well, by all means, go ahead and use that opportunity to Third, when the offense is especially serious as indicated by the list of sins in Scripture So, you know, just as an example, some lists here, Proverbs 6. There are six things which the Lord hates. Yes, seven which are an abomination to him. Haughty eyes, that's pride. A lying tongue and things that uh and hands that shed innocent blood, a heart that devises wicked plans, feet that run rapidly to evil, a false witness who utters lies And one who spreads strife among brothers. First Corinthians nine. Or do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor homosexual, nor thieves, nor the Covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers, will inherit the kingdom of God. And then Romans 1. And just as they did not see fit to acknowledge God any longer, God gave them over to a depraved mind to do those things which are not proper, being filled with all unrighteousness, wickedness, greed, evil, full of envy envy, murder, strife, deceit, malice, they are gossip, slanderers, haters. Of God insolent, arrogant, boastful, in inventors of evil, disobedient to parents, without understanding, untrustworthy, unloving, unmerciful So there's various passages that identify sins that God uh would say these are these are serious sins. That doesn't mean that You know, there's sins that aren't serious. All sin is an offense against God. But God does identify certain sins as as particularly, particularly onerous and particularly destructive. And so if we see someone sinning in that way, and especially in a pattern of sinning in that way, we want to address that. Next, when your relationship is severely strained, undermined, or broken Remind you of Matthew 5, which we've read a number of times. Therefore, if you are presenting your offering at the altar, and there remember that your brother has something against you, leave your offering there. before the altar and go first be reconciled to your brother, then come and present your offering. So if your relationship with someone is strained Regardless of the significance of that sin, that is the time to go and confront and address that situation. You don't want to continue on in a state of conflict. As we've said before, you know, Romans 12, 19, as far as it depends on you, live at peace with all men. So if you are not at peace with someone Then that needs to be dealt with. Next, when the person is hurting himself and undermining his Christian witness and ministry usefulness. First Timothy five nineteen and twenty. Do not receive an accusation against an elder except on the basis of two or three witnesses. Those who continue in sin rebuke in the presence of all, so that the rest will be will also be fearful So there's kind of a two-fold way to look at this passage. One, you you confront those who are in positions of leadership, and those who are in positions of leadership are held to in a sense a higher standard, not that not that they're supposed to be more holy than everybody else, but they're supposed to be more consistently, they're supposed to be aligning their lives consistently with God's standard uh in order to be in that position. That's why we have the qualifications for elders in First Timothy three and Titus one. And so if someone is sinning, if a leader is uh elder is sinning, then we should rebuke them. And part of the reason for that is so that they will not perpetuate their sin and promote their sin in the congregation so that people won't think, oh, he's he's doing that. I guess I guess I can do that and and that's okay. So whether they're a leader, or you can just take that principle and apply it to any Christian, if if someone is is ruining their witness before other believers or before the world, you know, maybe you know a coworker who uh is cussing and engaged in the evil deeds just like unbelievers in the workplace. Well it would be appropriate to confront them and say, you are not providing a good witness for Christ. In fact you're undermining your Christian testimony. And then finally, when the reputation of God, Christ, or His church, or when the health and unity of the church is threatened, injured. Remember in Galatians 2, Paul talks about when he confronted Peter, he says, But when I saw that they were not straightforward about the truth of the gospel, that is, because Peter was with eating with Gentiles Jews came from Jerusalem and Peter said, Oh now I can't eat with Gentiles because that would that would be offensive to Jews. That's how they were being inconsistent with the gospel. I said to Cephas in the presence of all, if you, being a Jew, live like the Gentiles and not like the Jews, how is it that you compel the Gentiles to live like the Jews? Again, he's he's ruining the reputation of Christ and the church and the unity of the church. The church is supposed to be united, Jew and Gentile. That wall has been broken down, and here Peter Peter Uh in a moment of of weakness, if you will, of a moment of the fear of man, he's re- resurrecting that wall of division between Jew and Gentile. And Paul says, no, you're you're ruining the reputation of the gospel. So these are not necessarily exhaustive reasons, but these are just helpful ways to think about should I confront someone in their sin? Any particular questions or comments about those things? Okay. Question number four, how should I prepare to rebuke someone? And let me just say I'm making an assumption here I should prepare. It's not, oh, I should rebuke them. Okay, I'm gonna I'm gonna go and rebuke them. No, you have to think about what you're gonna say. Uh that's that's the point of this because we have such a tendency to just say whatever comes to our mind and that tends to result in more sin and more hurt and more disunity. So we need to prepare to confront. Pastor Gabe? Yes. Question for you. So this is all about biblical, you know, uh reconciliation. So are these principles merely for believer to believer, or can we apply them um in the secular unbelievable world as well. Yeah, that that's a good question. Um generally speaking I would say you can apply them in the secular context. Uh the difficulty is the standard for living, you know, they're the unbelievers not going to have the same standard. So what you might identify as wrongful behavior, they might say, well, that's not a big deal, you know. Um So, you know, whether it's lying, cheating, uh, cutting corners, you know, whatever it is, someone might say, Oh come on, it's not that big of a deal. So You could you could confront, but what we're doing when we do that is we're trying to hold an unbeliever to God's standard. Which God's standard applies to all. But for the unbeliever, I mean they obviously don't care about God, so at least in their mind, they're not submitted to Christ as Lord, so they're not operating under Under God's standard. So in that context, then I have a follow-up question. In other words, so if you have unbelieving friends, family, and such, and you want to set a biblical example but you also want to be wise in how You keep the relationship because they don't adhere to the same political standard. Would you recommend that you Just use um wisdom in doing that or you know like in other words how do we deal with the unbelieving world as Christians with biblical confrontation Ann, you you look like you're just gonna be able to do it. Yes, um I think a lot of times when we rebuke fellow believers it's because of a sin in their life. Would you not agree? It's because they're sinning We don't rebuke unbelievers because Tony Evans even said this years ago and I always remember this. Remember the job description of a sinner is to sin. Of course they're gonna sin. So we we sh really shouldn't rebuke them for that because that's it's it's not in the category that they need to be rebuked. I think this It's more for believer to believer. No, I know this is for believer to believer, but my question is, let's just take it a step further if we are interacting with unbelievers. Who we love. And we're believers. We're not necessarily rebuking them, but we want to set an example, a loving way to be able to communicate that gives some light and Exposure to the gospel because Jesus also said, you know, even with the unbelievers we're to our job is to bring them, right? You're bringing and and who do you want to bring but your family? But not by rebuking them. I didn't say my rebuking This is what we've got to do. So there's two ways you can think about this. One is uh realizing that even the unbeliever has the law of God written on their heart. Right. And so they they have a conscience, you know, more and more as we get further along in society, that conscience is being hardened and distorted uh increasingly. But people do feel guilt, you know, they do feel shame. And it could be an opportunity for gospel witness that we explain, listen, I this is what I see what you're doing. and segue from that to, uh, you need Christ. This is a this is a pattern of sin I see in your life and this is what God has said, that those who do these things won't inherit the kingdom of heaven. And it's not that you have to clean up your life. It's that you need to be reconciled to God and ask for God's forgiveness. and serve him. So that that could be a way in which um you know with wisdom and depending on your relationship that you could interact with an unbeliever about their sin. Uh that's a good point. Yeah, and I wasn't saying I agree with Anne's point that because they're sinners we don't expect anything but to sin. Right you know, taking um this this topic, how do we yeah address conflict with an unbeliever In some ways this is what we do as parents with young children. You know, we're d we're trying that delicate trying to balance that delicate uh two issues of this child is an unbeliever in most cases, uh and yet I'm supposed to teach them the uh train them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. So how do I do that? Well I need to tell them what's right. I need to say this is wrong, this is right, you need to obey, uh don't stick, you know But affirming you're not a Christian. You can't do this in your own strength. You need Christ. This is why Christ came So we do a mix of that. You know, you're not necessarily saying that, giving the gospel to a a two-year-old. I mean you can, but you know, their their understanding is limited. So there there's times when you just focus on the behaviorism Um and then once their understanding grows, then you start working in the gospel more consistently. So we do that in parenting and we can do that to some degree uh in uh in our adult relationships. But we should be mindful that like what Anne was saying, that their job description is to sin. Uh they don't care a true unbeliever does not care about God's standard. Now it may be that the Lord is working in someone's heart. You know, the Lord works in a So many different ways in people's lives and maybe the conviction over a particular action could be what the Spirit is using to convict them and bring them to Christ. Uh so uh i it could be that kind of an opportunity. So that's why again we need to prepare to think about okay, is there a way I can confront this person in a way that would be most conducive and most productive and And would uh hopefully bring them to repentance. So the first way we prepare is, have I thoroughly examined myself and confessed my sins to God and others, seeking their forgiveness? Again, have I taken the log out of my own eye? Have have am I coming to them with my own sins and not e not necessarily even my sins against them, but just my sins in general. Am I willing to acknowledge my own sinfulness and my own weaknesses? We've we spent a lot of time talking about that a couple of weeks ago, so I won't belabor the point. But that is so important to come with a spirit of humility, recognizing that they're no more of a sinner than I am. I need God's grace just as much as they need God's grace, and so I'm going to, Matthew 7, treat them the way that I would want to be treated in this situation. Secondly, am I forgiving the other person attitudinally? Am I holding a grudge or am I embittered toward them? So am I, again, confronting them because I'm I'm bitter and angry, or am I entrusting them to the Lord? And on and knowing that regardless of what happens between uh them and me, God will bring about justice. Am I willing to let the Lord work in their heart And thus I'm not gonna try and force myself or try to change them based on how I feel about them. Third, do I clearly understand that my goal is to reconcile the relationship? Not to defeat an enemy. Okay, here's here's a big one. Is it really my goal to reconcile the relationship? Or am I just trying to defeat an enemy? Here's one indicator that Shows that you're really trying to defeat an enemy. When they don't respond the way that you would like them to respond. That you lash out in sin in your own heart. You get angry. You get even more bitter. A second indicator is they do respond the way you want them to respond. And you're like Uh, I was right. I won. Is that are are do you respond with pride or do you respond with gratitude toward the Lord? for his work in their heart. Make it your goal to reconcile the relationship, not to defeat an enemy. Next, am I convinced that this is the most loving action I can take? Have I considered the options? Whatever the options might be, you know, am I the right person? I'm sure we'll talk about some of these, but Uh is is this the best is the way that I'm thinking to do to do this, is this the most loving way to do it? Uh is this really the most loving thing I I can do? Next, am I cultivating and expressing the attributes of a peacemaker, or as I called it a couple weeks ago, the portrait of a peacemaker? Am I cultivating those attributes of Patience and kindness and goodness and compassion and loving and a forgiving spirit and tolerance. Are those uh attributes manifesting themselves in my life? And am I expressing those things and thinking about those things even as I confront this person? Am I willing to consider the next biblical steps God might require if necessary? What might those steps be? Bring another witness. Yeah. Am I willing to to go further if if necessary? Jesus said in Matthew 18, you know, if your brother sins against you, go and show him his fault. If he listens, you've won your brother. If he doesn't listen, bring uh two or three witnesses. Am I willing to do that Again, this kind of comes back to the comfort question. Am I more interested in my comfort of well I'm gonna do this because I know I'm supposed to, but if they if if this doesn't work out then That's all I'm gonna do. Well if you're not gonna go f if you're not gonna actually follow the scripture, then just don't do that. Just don't start. If you're not gonna finish it, uh don't even start. Because that'll make things worse. So, really helpful questions that I would urge you and encourage you to consider in your own life. Now, if those things are in place and you've come to the conclusion that yes, I really do need to confront this person, here are some preparatory steps. First of all, carefully think through what you are going to say and how. Don't don't just leave it for the moment when you're just gonna say whatever comes to mind, you're just gonna Let whatever flows think about it. Because out of the overflow of the heart, the mouth speaks. And often when we don't think about it, we're just not going to be uh loving. We're not going to be compassionate. We're not going to be uh kind in the things that we say. So we need to uh think about it. So consider writing it out verbatim Or at least developing bullet points. Think about what all do I need to say in order to communicate my concern and my thoughts about this situation. Don't wait until the moment to say whatever comes to mind. I already mentioned that. As you prepare your thoughts, take note to avoid accusations of their character. or motivations. Focus on what you see, meaning their actions, and allow the Spirit to convict them of what you don't see. Again, we aren't to attack their character. Even if we can see patterns of behavior, all we can see is the behavior. We can't see their heart Now, they may have revealed their heart in a variety of ways, but that's for the Spirit to bring conviction, not for us to force them to feel guilty. So don't say things like, you are just a terrible husband and I just need to confront you about this this sin that you know, sh shows this or you know, I know you really wanted to destroy my weekend and so I need to confront you about this Situation. That's questioning their motives or accusing them of motives. So carefully think about what you're going to say and how. Secondly, pray that the Lord would help your heart be right and pray for the person that the Lord would be preparing them to response. Also pray that the Lord would help you respond to their response graciously and humbly. So spend time in prayer. Focused, intentional, extended time in prayer. Again, sin is destructive by nature. And if we uh just try and do this in our own strength, if we just try and do this trusting in our own uh intelligence, in our own uh Charisma, just out of ourselves, uh, we're likely gonna fail. We need the Lord to work in this situation. We need the Lord to work in their heart, we need the Lord to work in our heart We're utterly dependent on the Lord for this to be a true lasting reconciliation. Third, ask a close friend or family member to pray for you. You don't need to give details, but just say I'm needing to have a difficult conversation with someone. Would you pray that the Lord blesses that conversation with peace and unity And then report back to them with equally appropriate terms. So, you know, whether it's uh someone close to you in the church or a leader or family member, ask for prayer. So prepare well. Alright, then what steps, question number five, what steps should you take to rebuke the person? Well, start by contacting them privately to express your desire to talk with them, with him or her privately and face to face. uh at either at a time at that time or a mutually convenient time later. So, you know, don't um well as I as I say here, do not confront via texting or any written form unless it is impossible to do otherwise. You you You the the most ideal way is to do it face to face. So much communication happens through body language, through tone, uh through how you say what you say, uh that doing things in any other way is just necessarily not gonna be uh as as good If you can't do face to face, if they're in Hong Kong and you're in Columbia, Maryland, uh well now we have Skype, so you have no excuse. But they're in Timbuktu, wherever that is, and they don't have internet access, they just have a satellite phone or something. Uh try and do it over over the phone but do not do not please please please do not ever ever ever confront people over texting If if I had to guess, these days, most confrontations happen over texting. Which is why most confrontations fail. Uh don't text. How about email? So do not confront via texting or in any written form unless unless unless it is impossible to do otherwise. But even then, uh if you absolutely don't have any choice and you and you have to do it in a written form. then you have to be especially thoughtful about how you're gonna say what you're gonna say. Because having removed the body language, having removed tone, now words play a heavy role and so So how you phrase things needs to be very, very carefully thought out. And even then there's no guarantee that they'll receive it well because of course, as we all know, we read things based on how we're feeling at the moment. It doesn't matter how somebody says it, they could be the the most kind, gentle, written uh thing in the world, but if we're mad at that moment, we're gonna take it as if as if they're mad. So avoid it as much as possible. And one of the reasons you don't want to do it over rate is because you want to have that instant feedback. You want to hear their response. You want to have them ask questions if need be. And of course, as we get further, you want to be able to ask for their forgiveness after you've had a conversation and there's understanding. So can I just say this again? Please don't ever confront over texting Please don't ever do that. Um I'd say you you're shooting yourself in the foot when you do that, but that's an understatement. Um I d uh I see that so many times and Uh we we do more harm to relationships when we text uh about difficult things than than we help. Be mindful of the environment in which you're interacting with them. Don't confront serious sins in the foyer of the church. After church or other environments where interruptions are highly likely. Uh be thinking about what this person is what they're doing in the moment. Um uh you know are they busy working on something or do they have tasks that they're trying to go from one place to another and you stop them. You just be very mindful of of the environment, the situation. Uh next is be mindful of the time frames. Don't confront if there's only a few minutes. You know, oh church is starting right now. I got I gotta talk to you real quick No, that's not a good time to talk. Give ample time for extended conversation. So the the one of the challenges, and and I understand this, is that when you say to someone, hey, can we Can we get together to talk? Well what do you want to talk about? Can we wait, you know, un until we get together? Well no, just tell me right now. Well this just is this isn't a good time. So sometimes you have to give a little preview if you will, but um but try as much as you can to postpone the conversation until the environment is is um uh the best and timing is the best. Thomas? uh fronting a weakness in person. Uh in in terms of the specifics of of what I'm saying right now? Yeah. Well yeah, I mean you want to whenever you're talking to someone about something that you see as an as a problem, I mean a weakness you could categorize as a problem, maybe not a sin, but just still something a deficiency if you will. Um you you want to do it i in an environment and context where there's going to be ample time to talk about it where they're where they're prepared to have a conversation. Again, where they're not thinking about all the things they need to do, you know, they need to get their kids from n uh from Jones Ministry or, you know, whatever it is. Or they're they're in the midst of their work day or whatever it might be. Um you know, another thing I didn't mention is, you know, late at night. I feel like I say it somewhere, I don't remember specifically. But um f for those of us who are not uh night people, you know, who don't typically stay up till one or two o'clock in the morning Maybe we start to shut down at nine or ten o'clock. To have a conversation at ten o'clock is not a good time to do it. So you just want to think what is the the best, most optimum time where we're both in a good frame of mind, where we both have time, uh we're not worried about other things, that we can sit down and have a meaningful conversation. So when you meet, state your concern humbly and gently using I statements. So I say that using I statements. I think he says that in the book, but let me qualify what that means. So you can see that in the in the notes there. If appropriate, start talking about your own weaknesses and struggles. with similar things. I just give an example there. I want to talk to you about something, but first I just want to say that this is something that I know I struggle with. Uh and I I want you to know I'm not confronting you, I'm not telling you this because Because I'm I'm better than you. I struggle with this too, but I'm working on it and I just want to uh talk to you about this as well, help you grow The point is not to be self-centered as far as the I statements goes, but to avoid language that be that can be construed as attacking. So don't say things like, the other day I saw you, how could you do that? I saw you talking to someone, or I saw you doing this or that. How could you do that? It's better to say something like, Well, I saw something the other day, again, I statement, I saw something that kind of concerned me. I just wanted to see if you could help me understand it. Maybe I didn't maybe I didn't see it right It looked like you were doing this. Did I see that accurately? Did I understand what was going on there? Don't say, well I heard what you said about me. How could you say that? Again, attacking. But someone someone told me a rumor and I just wanted to check with you to see if it was accurate. You know, it was It was reported that you said, whatever it is they said, you know, is that is that true? Is that something that you said? If if it is, can you help me understand what, you know, why you said that Again, not attacking, but just help me help me understand. I want to know the truth here in a humble way. This is why you have to think about what you're going to say, because we don't naturally tend to talk like this, do we? uh certainly not in the heat of the moment. And so think about what you're gonna say. Now the more you practice this, let's say if if you in the morning or at night, let's say in your own home, if you're married, you have kids, or whoever it is that you find yourself in regular conflict with, if you actually practice this, it will become easier and will come more naturally. Not that you'll never uh sin again if if you perfect it, but But it'll become more naturally more natural. So you can develop this, but for most of us this is not in any way natural, and so it takes forethought. How can I phrase this in a way that doesn't attack them and that communicates to them that I'm not making assumptions? that I really do want to know the truth and I'm not going to assume the worst about them. I really want to assume the best about them. Maybe I misunderstood. Maybe I didn't quite see that right. So, related to that, ask about the offense, apparent offense. Do not assume and do not accuse Then listen to the answers with Christ-like compassion and wisdom and interact wisely with them with the goal of clearly expressing your concern and inviting them to repent. So listening. How do we tend to listen? We tend to listen with Okay, I'm taking a break from talking so that I can think about the next thing I want to say. That's what we typically do when we're listening in a in a conflict. Instead of saying, okay, I'm done talking What are they saying? What what are they trying to communicate? Sometimes those conversations can have awkward pauses because uh they're responding and you're listening and then you need to think about what you're gonna say based on their response. So there can be some A little bit of awkwardness there, but that's okay. It's much better to have a a a moment of awkwardness than uh just attacking the other person or not listening to their concerns. Bruce. So I'm gonna do um And then you said like don't do stuff over email or you know written or whatever. But let's say there's an issue and and and it was I the same for one feels particularly offended or whatever, and it's hard for them to not get worked up. Let's say when they think about it or talk about it. You know, and the only way they they can communicate the right words at least would be just when they're separated by the the screen or writing a letter or something, you know what I mean? Whereas yes ideally if we should sit face to face, but let's say I know myself, I'm too prone to anger right now and over the years God will work on me on that but this issue can't wait until I'm you know better as far as or whatever. You know what I mean? Yeah. Let me take ten years to grow in sanctification before I confront you. Right, right. So in those cases And you know, I wonder if if because that has to be dealt with, maybe you do have to deal with it with in a more Well, I don't want you to think that I'm saying it's sin to do that. Bible doesn't say it's sin to do that. I'm just trying to give you a general principle of wisdom. Uh I know this is really awkward, but I've done this, and it's super awkward. But I have written it out because I think better when I write. I'm not quick on my on my feet, you know, I'm not really snappy with my thought process, but when I write, I can really carefully think about what I I want to say. Write it out and read it to them. Or or write it out, have bullet points and and talk to them. Just as a suggestion, again, this is just wisdom and you you need to think about what that looks like in your own life. But uh it is better Anything you could do to make it face to face is better than than written form. Now again there's there's times when that's all you can do in written form. And maybe maybe even if you have the option of face-to-face you just really think No, I just I can't do that. I have to write it out. Again, you if you're gonna write it out, you have to be super abundantly more thoughtful about how you're gonna say what you say. But again, our tendency is, you know, I'm just gonna write whatever I'm thinking. Instead of verbally uh saying everything, I'm just gonna write it out without giving thought to it Um and so we just need to be very, very thoughtful. That's that's the biggest thing, Alex. I was gonna suggest too if you feel you need to write it out, I would not Yeah, actually that that's a really good point. Perhaps maybe even have some other brother that you trust, read over it and see what they get another opinion. Yeah. Yeah, that's great. So write it out, sleep on it. Maybe sleep on it again or get someone else to read it. That's excellent. Jessica. So a different question for those of us who don't like confrontations and will avoid it at any cost. Um what are some biblical ways to work through that fear of confronting others? Yeah. Because oftentimes I'll just avoid certain topics, discussion completely. Just because I know it's not gonna end well. Yeah. So What's the right thing? Well, the the fear, generally speaking, there's there's two primary, not exclusively, but primary reasons that we tend to avoid confrontation. One is Just our own comfort. I don't feel comfortable. The second one is fear of man. I don't want them to think ill of me or I know they're gonna respond poorly or I think they're going to respond poorly, therefore I'm going to fear them and not do this. The only way to come overcome those things is to develop a fear of God. To understand what God has said, this is a right and necessary way that we need to interact with other believers, that we need to pursue peace at all costs. even at the cost to our own personal reputation or our own feelings or our own comfort. Uh and even if you know this person is prone to respond poorly to confrontation and yet they're professing believers so I need to deal with this. We need to fear God more than we fear man. And so taking time, praying, you know, asking the Spirit to give you courage, to give you wisdom. In how to do it. Again, praying for the other person because even though they may be prone to respond poorly, maybe they respond poorly because no one's ever confronted them in a loving way. I mean just as a possibility. Um but as we'll talk about uh is it next week or the week after uh the think of the week after. What do you do when people don't respond well? I mean, that's a reality. That that happens, that people don't repent uh when you confront them about their sin. Uh well Scripture gives us plenty of principles to deal with that. So um no matter what we fear The more we fear the Lord, we will overcome any other fear. And it'll still be hard. You know, it doesn't mean it'll make it easy I mean when I've confronted someone, I I was like shaking and voice quivering, and it was really, really hard and really, really awkward. 'Cause it's someone that I at the time is uh uh in California that I don't that I saw every day, so I'm gonna see them tomorrow and the next day and whatnot. Um but In the end and in that particular instance the Lord used that and brought about reconciliation and it was it was good. I'm I'm uncomfortable with speaking to the speaking about it. But that the person knows you know, I may be fuming my words, but I may be going through Oh yeah. Oh yeah, absolutely. That shows humility. Jeff and then Diane. Yeah you do. That's okay. That's fine. Um I've kind of heard three different terms. Weakness, sin, and enslaving sin. Yeah. We're to confront all three situations, but is there I'm more concerned about the follow-through, particularly in slaves. Is it different than the weakness and sin? Hmm. That's a really good point. So weakness, I wouldn't necessarily use the word confrontation with weakness, uh, because it's not a sin, so scripture doesn't give us that's not a category that we confront. But as part of the uh what we do as the body of Christ that we come around one another, we love one another, encourage one another, instruct one another, that when we see weakness, we build up one another. And so we can kind of sometimes hey, you know, brother, I see I've been seeing a pattern that I uh seems like your struggle with this area. Um just trying to think of an example that's not And you know you're uh you don't tend to deal with well with kids. You're in children's ministry. What what's that? Yeah, laziness, um which actually could be a sin potentially, but But can we talk about that? I just want to encourage you and maybe give you some thoughts of how you might grow in that area. So it's not like you need to repent. Here we're really talking about something where someone needs to, you're right. I've sinned. Will you please forgive me? That's more the context. When you talk about enslaving sin, yeah, they need to repent, but you also may need to say, I'm with you. I want to help you grow and overcome this. So let's let's go to one of the elders and see if they can help you Not just confess your sin, but grow uh through this sin and overcome it in time. Um so, Dan. I was just gonna um suggest that fasting really helps in these situations. It needs to be sent to pray and have other people pray for you, but fasting um pushes down that emotion of what about me, what's gonna happen to me and everything and so and it lets the Holy Spirit Yeah, can can you guys think of uh This isn't quite confronting sin, but a scenario where someone fasted because they had to have a hard conversation? Esther, right? So again, she wasn't confronting her husband over sin, but she had to have a hard conversation. Um and so not only she, but she called the Jews to to fast. Okay, let's uh continue on here. Um actually Bruce, I just remembered you had your hand earlier. I've learned a lot about fear over the years. And it pure is all about myself, protecting myself. That's great if things we're going to do to us, including the compensation. But if I choose, and I for me I to choose every time because it's not natural but if I choose to love the other person more than I love myself or love the relationship more than love myself then I can make myself deal with it and not sweep it under the rug which isn't loving, not leave it unresolved, which is not loving, but actually go through the difficult, you know dealing with it. That helped me forward. Yeah, and I'm just trying to think, I think it was a portrait of a peacemaker um section where we started out just briefly w working through uh who we are in Christ and how our behavior Uh and how we live out the admonitions, yeah, that that chapter uh rises out of our security in Christ. That you know we've been rescued from Satan's kingdom, redeemed from the penalty of sin, reconciled to God Recreated in holiness reserved for heaven, recommissioned to serve Christ, and that's not an exhaustive list, but No matter what happens in this situation, I'm gonna be okay. Nothing ultimately bad can happen to me. I mean yeah, I might be in conflict with this person or they might be mad at me or My reputation might be ruined, or I might lose my job, or any number of things. But I'm safe in Christ. What can man do to me? Well, coming back to this principle of listening with Christ-like compassion Good listening seeks to understand. Rather than formulating your response while they're talking, listen carefully to understand their perspective. Who knows? You might realize, oh There's su you know there's another factor to this situation that I I didn't realize that I didn't know about. Um So really seek to understand their perspective. Start your response by restating what they said to ensure you understand their position accurately and to demonstrate to them that you are actually listening. So, just as an example, what I hear you saying is that, and whatever they said, do I do I understand your perspective accurately Again, that shows humility, that I'm not just here to defeat my enemy, I'm not just here to say what I want to say and move on. No, I actually want to communicate with you. I want to hear from you. I want to come to a point of reconciliation. Again, that's something that that takes practice and thoughtfulness to do, but it it is really helpful. Ask questions to clarify specific statements or ideas that you don't understand or agree agree with. You know, something like, you know, somebody's upset because they sent you something and you never responded. So you could say Um oh you know you said that I didn't respond to you. Do you remember reason receiving my email about this? Um maybe you know, maybe something just went wrong, something there was miscommunication, there was misunderstanding, there was You know, somebody dropped the ball, it was just an honest mistake. And so listening, affirming that you're listening, and asking questions to clarify can help And then if they bring something up that you hadn't realized before in terms of your contribution, be quick to affirm what they said and ask for Forgiveness. You know, maybe again you maybe you've tried to examine yourself and and you you asked for forgiveness or you've taken the log out of your eye, but now they raise something else that you hadn't even thought of before Well, be quick to ask for forgiveness for that. Don't don't become defensive and say, well, I'm here to confront you. We're not talking about me here. No, just be quick to affirm what they said and ask for forgiveness. Alright, question number six. What should I do if the person repents and seeks my forgiveness? So obviously this is the desired response. Well hopefully by this point you've already forgiven them attitudinally before the Lord so that uh you're not holding a grudge against them, you're not embittered against them, you're you're just anticipating their repentance. And so as soon as soon as they ask for forgiveness You're just ready to say, yes, of course I forgive you. And possibly explain what you mean by that. As we've talked about, you know, Thomas covered this a couple weeks ago. Forgiveness is often misunderstood. So you it might be helpful, even if you're not sure if they what they think about what forgiveness is, it might be helpful to say, well, here's I forgive you, and here's what I mean by that. I want to forgive you the way God has forgiven me. Yeah, I'm gonna pr I promise you that I'm not gonna dwell on this incident. I'm not gonna uh rehearse it in my mind over and over. I'm not gonna talk to you about it to use it against you. I'm not gonna raise this up in the future. I I'm not gonna talk to other people about this. I'm not gonna gossip. I'm not gonna raise it up in prayer meetings uh in small group whatever. I'm not gonna talk to others And I'm not I'm not going to let this stand between us. I forgive you, and I'm I'm so grateful that the Lord is working in this and bringing us to reconciliation. I forgive you and I look forward to seeing what the Lord will do in our relationship in the future. Yeah. And then if you find yourself in situations where, you know, you do have this like forgiveness, but then you're like injured multiple times by the same person and you forgive them, do you know what I mean? Like how do you address it? Yeah. Um well Jesus says if your brother sins, rebuke him. If he s if if he asks For forgiveness, forgive him. Uh if he sins against you seven times a day, you know, forgive him. When we see a pattern of sin, then the nature of our rebuke should change You know, it's one thing to say, hey, you know, when you said this, that was really hurtful to me, versus You know, I I feel like this has become a pattern and I'm really struggling to understand, you know, do you realize what what's going on here, how this is a pattern in your life? So the nature of our rebukes should change or at least What we're rebuking them about. And then again, because we're not isolated, we're in the body of Christ, if there is an ongoing pattern of sin that is not being broken. that's when we call the body of Christ uh to come alongside and help. So uh it's one thing for someone to say that they uh repent and ask for forgiveness, but if their behavior shows that they're not really repenting then bring someone else who can help uh in this situation. So often we're we just live as if we're isolated, as if no one else can help. You know, it's it's me and him or her and I or my coworker and I, whatever. And Uh if if we don't get this done between the two of us, if we don't get this fixed, then there's no hope. It's not true We're in the body of Christ. We have all the resources in Christ to overcome difficult situations. So um So take use of that, make use of that. It's so so helpful and so important. So the second bullet point there, even if Their expression of repentance isn't as clear or thorough as you would desire. Listen for the heart behind their words. Maybe they didn't take this class and you know you're you're hoping for them to say, You're right, and not that we've talked about this s so specifically, but you're right. I've sinned against God and I've sinned against you, I repent in dust and ashes and You know, they don't say as full of a confession as you would want them to say. Listen for the heart. You know, they may not know how to say. You know, just like the sinner's prayer that You know, people uh the Lord can work in someone's life and all they know how to say is, God, I give you my life That like that's all they know to say. God I acknowledge that you are a holy God and I'm a sinner and Christ is you know so on and so forth. They don't You don't have to say the full uh uh gospel or the fullness of of what is true in order for the heart to be right. So listen for the heart. behind their words. And then if appropriate, ask them if they would be willing to go with you to another believer for help in growing in the relationship. So this kind of comes back to Uh what Jeff brought up of an enslaving sin. Uh and as long as what it wait as well as what you brought up. So uh Maybe this is something that again has been a pattern. And in your marriage, in your relationships, in the church, you're like, you know what? We need help. We need help to grow Uh use the body of Christ to help you grow in your relationship. Number seven What steps should we take in a forgiven, reconciled relationship? So now, praise God, you've confronted them humbly, they've repented humbly as well. What do you do next? Well, be intentional about engaging with the person in a process. Don't avoid them or be distant. Sometimes we can deal with the situation and be like, okay, I just I don't wanna deal with that again, so I'm just gonna avoid them. I'm gonna walk around the sanctuary. I'm gonna I'm gonna, you know Take my kids out of uh nursery so I don't have to see them when we're dropping our kids off. I'm gonna stop gonna go into a small group, uh no, whatever it might be. No, continue to engage with them Again, the fourth promise of forgiveness is, thank you, is I won't let this stand between us. Uh so show that to be true that you're not allowing this this sin to stand between you And then depending on the nature of the sin and the relationship, consider getting biblical counseling to address root issues or to help change long-standing patterns of behavior. So I've already mentioned that. And it the biblical counseling doesn't have to be, okay, we ought to call Pastor Gabe, set up an appointment, and you know, do all this. It might be that. Or it could just be, hey, can we talk to our small group leader? Maybe they can help us. Or can we talk to uh you know Pastor Allen or whoever else that you know is a mature believer who can who can help you? And then practice the promises of forgiveness. So if you have forgiven them and you know what forgiveness means, practice that Don't allow their sin to uh re ruminate in your mind. Don't rehearse their sin over and over. Don't don't bring it up to them Don't talk to other people about it. Don't allow it to hinder your relationship. Practice those promises. And then next week we'll talk about what does reconciliation look like in terms of a life of reconciliation. So we'll talk about that more extensively next week Finally, what uh what do we do if the person does not repent and ask for forgiveness? Well We'll deal with that in a couple weeks. That'll be our last session. But remember that their sin is first and foremost against the Lord, and only the Holy Spirit can bring about genuine Conviction and repentance. So pray for them out of love and humility. So if they don't repent, don't think I've failed. I didn't say it right. I fumbled over my words too much. I didn't say what they needed to hear. I mean, none of us is perfect, and none of us is gonna there's no such thing as a perfect confrontation We're all gonna fumble, we're gonna we're gonna you know say things we shouldn't say or maybe not say things that we should have said. That's that's gonna happen. But if if your heart is right and you're truly seeking to honor Christ and humbly r uh uh confront the person The Lord can use that. And it's ultimately the Lord, not your confrontation, that should bring about confrontation or conviction and repentance in the other person. So don't think I have failed, I did something wrong, I said something wrong, they hate me. Oh no, that comes back to the fear of man. Acknowledge it's the Lord that has to work in their life. So pray for them And if need be, tell them that you're going to pray for them, and you're going to pray for yourself, that the Lord would bring about reconciliation. Show that Christ is the center of this situation in your mind. in that you don't hate them, you're not embittered toward them, you love them, you care for them, and want to be reconciled to them. Again, we'll talk about that a lot more uh in a couple weeks. Alright, we've got just a couple minutes if uh if there are any lingering questions. I know this is this is uh really difficult and I would plead with you not to close your book uh and let it uh disintegrate in your cupboards you know from here on out Um when you are in conflict and you will be, maybe later today, maybe next year, bringing this out, take this out and think through how can I address this situation in a way that's uh pleasing to the Lord and edifying to me and the other person. All right, let me pray. What's somebody say something? It's just clarinethrought. Okay. Let me pray. Our Heavenly Father, we uh acknowledge and confess our own weaknesses, our own fears. There is not a single person among us who does this perfectly And we all have a measure of fear and anxiety when it comes to confronting people about their sin. We're afraid that we'll say the wrong thing that The person won't respond the way we want them to. We're afraid of all kinds of things. But Lord, we want to affirm in our heart that you are Lord of all, that you are the Lord of the hearts of all true believers And that if someone is a true believer, that you will be working in their life according to your plan and your timing. And at times that will match up with our involvement, involvement with them and our confrontations with them And other times it won't. So help us to remember that it is you who must work to bring about true reconciliation. Help us to be faithful in what you call us to do, so that we could bring glory to you, reflect Christlikeness in our lives, and promote and encourage Christlikeness in the lives of others. In Jesus' name, amen.