Today we want to talk about the title is Reconciliation. And the theme really is how do we live a reconciled uh life in the in the sense of, okay, once we've reconciled with someone, uh what does a relationship that's reconciled look like? What does it feel like in a sense? What should be our mindset and our intentionality? So that's what we're gonna talk about today. Clicker's not working. There we go. The two main ideas are serving others like Christ, having a service orientation toward those that we've reconciled with. And then we're going to walk through a just a tool, a practical tool for solving problems where there's a disagreement about an issue that needs to be solved just a way that we can uh walk through that uh with with uh someone that we're trying to um to come to agreement on. So that's what today's going to look like. So let me pray and then we'll dive in. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this morning. Thank you that in your kindness the governor removed the mask mandate so we can enjoy seeing each other's faces. uh and uh just have uh more freedom to make choices on our own of what we deem is best and appropriate for our own health We thank you that you are a God who is in control over all these things, that uh no matter what uh governors and county executives and presidents say uh that it is all from your hand uh you put uh these men and women in authority and uh you are working out your purposes. Uh and even as we think about conflict, we remind ourselves that conflict uh is ordained from you as an opportunity for us to bring glory to your name, uh to uh grow in Christ and and to minister to others. And so I pray that as we talk about How we are to relate with those that we've reconciled with, that you just give us wisdom in how to apply that practically in our everyday relationships. And um and that you just help us to continue to grow into the image of Christ. I pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. And hey White, good morning. Hey Raymond. All right, so um that's page sixty nine on my notes. What page is it for you guys? Seventy three. Seventy-three. So that introductory paragraph, you are far more likely to get in a car accident within five miles of your home than when you are further away. I don't remember what the exact statistic is, but that's a known fact. There are multiple reasons for this, but one reason certainly is because most of your driving tends to be within that distance. In the same way, most of our conflicts will happen with those closest to us, those in our home, workplace, school, or church. Because of that, we must learn how to not only reconcile, but also to live with those individuals after reconciliation. That's what this lesson is about. So it's an obvious point, right? Those that we tend to have the most regular, frequent conflicts with are those that are closest to us because we're just rubbing up against each other on a regular basis at work or in the home. And so when you think about reconciliation, it's not about just solving a problem, okay, now I don't have to deal with that person anymore. No, you do have to quote unquote deal with that person. You have to live together. You have to to work alongside each other. You have to raise your children together. You know, y there's just the rest of life that continues on after reconciliation So what should be our intentionality and and purposefulness in living together? Well, consider these passages that speak about how we are to relate with those who sin against us. And we've seen many of these, but I'll just read through all of them. Romans chapter 12, verses 14 to 21, just some ex excerpts. Bless those who persecute you, bless and do not curse. Rejoice with those who rejoice and weep with those who weep. And I would just note there that the weep with those who weep and the rejoice with those who rejoice. is really in a context of those that you're at odds with or those who are at odds with you. And as you read through the passage, it can almost seem like a shotgun. These are just random admonitions, random sayings. But even those particular commands are sandwiched between commands of how we are to interact with those that we're in conflict with. So Just again, the reality that not only are we to rejoice and re with those who rejoice and weep with those who weep, with those that that we love, that that we're good friends with, and all the rest, but even with those uh who persecute us, those who uh sin against us. He goes on to say, never repay back evil for evil to anyone. Take your own revenge. Never take your own revenge But if your enemy is hungry, feed him. If he is thirsty, give him a drink, and do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. So clearly, there in that passage, there is an intentionality that's required. We know that naturally, on our own, when we're at odds with someone, the last thing we want to do is do good to them. The last thing we want to do is be close to them and spend time with them. There's just that grating on our heart that just doesn't want to be around this person. And so what Paul, inspired by the Holy Spirit here is saying is that we can imitate God and be like him in moving toward those that sin against us or that we're at odds with, and especially after we've reconciled with them. that the sin in others should not repulse us, should not push us away, they should not cause us to become resentful and bitter, as we talked about. uh last week. Instead, it should cause us to move toward them. And so there are there are a variety of actions there that can define our approach to them. We should be thoughtful in how we should do good to them in meeting their practical needs, in rejoicing and weeping, and so forth. In Matthew chapter 5, verses 39 to 48, Jesus says, But I say to you, do not resist an evil person. But whoever slaps you on your right cheek, turn the other to him also. If anyone wants to sue you and take your shirt, let him have your coat also. Whoever forces you to go one mile, go with him too. Give to him who asks of you, and do not turn away from him who wants to borrow from you. Love your enemies, and pray for those who persecute you. And again, there it's not included in this particular excerpt, but it's in the broader context of we are to treat others the way God has treated his enemies. We are to love others that hate us just like God has loved us when we hated him. We are to show kindness to those who are evil just as God shows kindness to those who are evil. It's helpful, I think, to remember and recognize the fullness of what God does. relationship with those who are evil, those who hate God, those who sin against God, those who reject God. You know, the most militant atheist in the world has air to breathe. He eats food. Most likely he has someone he or she loves. They have children that they enjoy and care for. Those are all good gifts from God to that person, even though they are living in abject rebellion against him. And so if God can treat those who hate Him with such kindness and generosity, how much more should we have a similar disposition towards those who are at odds with us? And especially after we have reconciled with them. Luke chapter 6, verses 27 to 28 says, But I say to you who hear, Love your enemies. Do good to those who hate you. Bless those who curse you. Pray for those who mistreat you. Again, just a repetition of these commands, and maybe just to say a comment about the blessing of those who curse you. Certainly we are not to repay evil for evil. We're not to curse those who curse us. But we are to bless, we are to speak kindly towards, we're to even pray for God's blessing to be poured out on a person who is cursing us. The words of our mouth, which should be a reflection of our heart, should be kind and gracious and generous toward those who curse us. Philippians 2, 3 to 5. Nothing do nothing from selfish self uh self uh selfishness or empty conceit, but with humility of mind regard one another as more important than yourselves. I just realized that the reason I did that thing is because yesterday it took me 60 tries to make that video, and I did that a lot yesterday. Anyway. Do not merely look out for your own personal interests, but also for the interests of others. Have this attitude in yourselves, which was also in Christ. Jesus. Again, who did Jesus humble himself in order to save, in order to love and meet needs for? Those of us who were his enemies. While we are sinners, Christ died for us. No, he came to his own, John says, and his own did not receive him. And so if Jesus did that, if he humbled himself and looked to not his interest, but the interest of others, When others were hating him and rejecting him, how much more should we do that in our relationships? And then finally, 1 Peter 2, 13 to 20. Just a small excerpt. Submit yourselves for the Lord's sake to every human institution. Honor all people. Love the Brotherhood. Fear God. Honor the King. servants or slaves, be submissive to your masters with all respect. So even when we're living in a in a hostile world where people are hating us because of our faith, they you know, mock and scorn and persecute us in a variety of ways. Still the admonitions uh to uh honor, to love, uh to submit. Peter goes on to say to servants, don't just be submissive to those masters who are kind to you, but also be submissive to those who mistreat you. uh because it's better to suffer for doing what is right than for doing what is evil. So the the just the constant repetition in scripture of how we are to live in a world where we're in conflict with others is uh we're we're to have a disposition and and a uh a a mentality and intentionality of kindness, generosity, love, grace, uh doing good, blessing. We're not to repay evil for evil. We're not to grow in bitterness. We're not to pull back and isolate ourselves from those who hate us, but we are to move toward them in love. and grace and generosity in the very same way that the Lord has done that to us. So Just in summary, as we think about how these, how we are to relate to those who have sinned against us, the consistent biblical mindset is that we are to be proactive in loving, caring, and serving them. Or to be proactive in doing that. In the Romans 12 passage, it's not I didn't include in the excerpt there, but uh Paul says uh think about uh doing what is right in the sight of all men. Let me quote it more accurately. He says in verse 17, never pay back evil for evil to anyone. Respect what is right in the sight of all men. The word respect there is not the best translation. It literally means to think about. Think about what is right, what is good, even what is beautiful. uh in the sight of all men. You know, not just what's right in God's eyes or what's right in your eyes or what's right in the person that you're uh seeking to to treat, uh to love, to relate with. But what would be right, what would be good, what would be beautiful in the sight of all men? What what would others as they look in on this relationship, as they look in on this situation, have How could they uh how would they perceive my actions? Would they see them as good and beautiful and uh and lovely We're to think about that and behave on that basis. Of course, in our close relationships, we should not burn bridges. We shouldn't cut ties. We shouldn't cut off communication. We shouldn't disavow or do anything else that is antithetical to unity and love. Now I w I grant that there are some situations where that might be almost a loving thing to do. Um in in in extreme where there's been extreme violations and and abuse and mistreatment. But Thinking generally of most of our relationships, I mean that that should be uh uh the doing these things, cutting ties, cutting off communication, that should be the last uh last ditch effort in seeking someone's welfare. For the most of our conflicts, most of the ways that people sin against us and and and do evil toward us, we should move toward them like Christ. Again, the difficult thing whenever you even say that there are some extreme circumstances, there's no more extreme circumstance than Christ and uh and us. And so he he really provides the uh the model of even in very difficult circumstances and relationships how we are to to die to ourselves for the benefit of others. In order to do these things, we can't simply think in terms of how to treat someone but how to relate with them. Do you understand the difference there? When you think about treating someone, it's it's a very one-sided orientation. Just what I need to do rather than relating with them thinking how can we engage in relationship with one another? My goal is not just here's the tasks that I need to do, but here's the way I want to have a relationship with this person. That should be our disposition to think about how we can relate with them. As you think about those passages, key verbs from the above passages are to bless, rejoice, weep, feed, give, do good, go, love, pray, regard. Look out, submit, and honor. So what would it look like in your relationship with someone to do some of those things? What would it sound like to bless them? What would it look like to feed them or provide for any needs that they have? What is a good thing that you could do for them? How can you, in certain situations, how can you submit to them if it's a boss or someone who's in authority over you? How can you honor them if they're in a position where that is your responsibility? Some of these can be done to someone, right? You can take someone a meal, you can write someone a card. and encourage them, point them to Christ. But most of these must be done with someone Rejoicing with those who rejoice, weeping with those who weep. Loving someone is something that you can do with them, and so on. If you take the time to think about it, Christ did all these things toward others, those whom he knew would crucify, reject, and betray him. Again, the The truth that would enable us to overcome the barriers in our own hearts to doing these things to others who've hurt us Is simply to meditate on Christ. How has Christ done these things for me, even though I was his enemy? How has he blessed me? How has he rejoiced and wept with me? How has he fed me? How has he given things to me? How has he loved me? And you don't have to think about those things very much for very long, I should say, before you realize, my goodness, he's done an infinite uh amount of these things. I mean every day he gives me breath, life breath. He keeps my heart beating. Every day he provides for my daily needs. I never have to worry where I'm going to get my next meal Scripture is very clear that he weeps with us. He's a man of sorrows, and he bore our sorrows on the cross. He gives to us. He is generous and all that we have comes from his hand. He blesses us that even though we are in reality sinners, he calls us saints. because we're clothed in the righteousness of Christ. So he speaks well of us. And so just all of these things he does. Now maybe the one exception would be submit, right? He doesn't submit to us in any respect. But Christ did all these things for us, again, while we were his enemies, while we were hating him. And so if he could do that for us, if the Almighty God of the universe could do these things. Uh it should not be uh impossible for us to do these for others. So serving would be the next category of of how we can relate with those uh that we've reconciled with. How can we go about imitating Christ as we move forward to inreconcile the relationships? Well, we first of all need to know the person. And I don't just mean know their name, know what they look like, but we need to know them, have a growing knowledge of them. Jesus relates to us according to his knowledge of us. He doesn't treat us all the same. He orchestrates our lives in a in a unique way. Psalm 78 and Psalm 103 remind us that he knows our frame, that we are but dust. He knows our frailties, and so he doesn't treat us as if we're something other than what we are He knows our needs. Jesus says the Father knows what you need him before you ask Him. He knows all our difficult circumstances. He knows what we struggle with. Psalm 139 talks about he knows the word even before it's on our tongue. He knows our thoughts. He knows our strengths and our weaknesses. He knows exactly who you are now, where you are in your maturity. And he relates to you on that basis. He doesn't expect you to be something that you're not. No, he he doesn't say, man, Carrie's been a Christian for who knows how long. He's he's been to seminary, he sh he should be perfect by now. No, he he knows that Carrie's a great sinner, just like the rest of us And so he is gracious and patient with each of us. So we therefore need to engage in the reconciled relationship. with a growing knowledge of the person. And so a key passage would be 1 Thessalonians 5. 14. We urge you, brethren, admonish the unruly. Encourage the faint hearted, help the weak, be patient with everyone. And that's just a a a passage that reminds us there's a principle That as we relate with others, we need to be mindful of who they are, where they are in their spiritual maturity, what their natural disposition is. Some people are given to light-hearted, uh uh jovial personalities. Other people are given to more melancholic personalities. And it's not a right or wrong thing. It's just they're they're just different. And so I I want to know you. I want to know that about you so that when I interact with you, I can um do that i with with knowledge. I can meet you where you're at. You know, Proverbs says uh This is a this is a paraphrase, but basically uh a song singing a song to a a grieving heart, you know, is is not good. That's a terrible paraphrase. But I can't remember exactly how how it says it. But you know, if you see that someone's grieving, don't say, hey, how's it going? How's your day? You know, no, that's a terrible, that's a very unloving way to to treat them. And so you just gotta know the person, you've got to understand who they are, what their disposition is, what they're struggling with with, where they are in life, to know how to how to relate with them in the most loving way. We often relate with people without taking into consideration who they are right now. We interact with and communicate with everyone the same way, but that is not like Christ. I mean, granted, when you're uh coming out of the worship service and you know you're just seeing a whole lot of people in a short period of time, you're You're not changing your disposition based on, oh, this person's happy, oh this person's sad. You know, you just can't do that. But in terms of your personal relationships. That's where we need to be mindful and considerate of of people's differences and how we can relate with them well. And that's not obviously to promote any kind of a hi hypocritical you know, changing your your your who who you are, but it's meeting them where they're at. You know, we saw even Jesus as past uh yeah, Pastor Kirby preached last week. that when he was talking to this uh Phoenician woman, she was Phoenician, wasn't she? Yeah. Uh Gentile woman, uh, that he spoke to her in a very different way than he spoke to others, uh other Jewish women. Uh he wasn't unkind, he wasn't rude, but he just spoke to her differently because he knew her and And so he had a different approach to her. We see Jesus interacting with the disciples differently than he did with the Pharisees. That's the next phrase here. He interacted with Pharisees, the crowds, individual sinners and sufferers, those who seek to trap him and his disciples differently based on what each needed. You know, to the Pharisees he was somewhat blunt and direct. Uh Matthew twenty three would of course be the most uh direct in terms of the the woes that he proclaimed on the Pharisees. Uh but then you got the rich young ruler that Jesus didn't uh beat him down based on his unbelief. He just asked him a question and and uh he uh brought out the man's uh barrier to uh to true worship uh just through questions. Sometimes he would just interact with the Pharisees with questions. Sometimes he would express sorrow to the disciples. He interacted with people based on what they needed. Now, unlike Christ, we don't have innate knowledge of people. Certainly not of those we've just met. So we need to take time to think about people. In a relationship where you've been in conflict and experienced reconciliation, think about that person and ask yourself, what are their tendencies? What is their communication style? You know usually through a conflict you've part of the conflict has been communication. The interaction has has not been ideal, and so you've perhaps learned something of how There are good and and and not so good ways of communicating with them. What is their level of life and spiritual maturity? What are their strengths and weaknesses? How can you communicate with them in the most effective way? These are all just questions that are helpful to think about Part of the problem with all of us is we just want to live life. We don't want to stop and think about how to live life. We just want to relate with people. We don't want to stop and think about how should I relate with people And so this is maybe awkward, this is unusual for us to stop and think about a person and ask ourselves these kinds of questions. But it's actually an act of love to say, I care about this person and I want to consider what would be the best way for me to relate with this person. to uh to engage in relationship with them. How can I know them well and and and treat them and relate with them in a way that is tailor-suited to who who they are and where they are in in life right now? Yeah, on the next page there, do they take it eas uh do they easily take what you say personally? Sometimes you don't intend to say things uh about them personally, but they just have a tendency to t to take things personally. Well If if you observe that as a tendency, then that should help you think about what you say maybe nuance your statements in a particular way so that they don't misunderstand Are they prone to jump to conclusions? That can help in couching what you say and uh uh stating uh things more clearly so that they don't uh do that uh unnecessarily. Do they have certain challenges that make life difficult for them, whether it's health challenges uh or just circumstances, you know, do they have a particularly difficult job uh that exhausts them through the day or just a a a work environment that is challenging that makes it hard for them to to have a uh happy disposition when they come home from work? Do they have weaknesses that require a great amount of uh of patience or do they have idiosyncrasies that you need to intentionally cover Again, this is just a a series, a sampling of questions, but just seeking to understand a person and think through who is this person? How has God made them? What what is their life like and how can I engage with them in a in a helpful, loving way. In many ways this is what parenting is all about. There's a a relatively small book called Childproof Parenting. Parenting by the subtitle is Parenting by Faith, Not by Formula. And it just helpfully reminds parents that every child is different. Every child has unique strengths, unique weaknesses, unique personalities. And so as parents, we can't just come up with this formula of of how we're going to raise every child exactly the same. And so we need to know our children so that we can know how to teach them and train them and discipline them. uh and raise them in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. And so in the same way, we need to know one another. We need to think about each other and care for one another, especially when we've reconciled, so that we can prevent further conflicts. that are unnecessary. So we need to know the person. Secondly, we need to practice godly listening and speaking. We need to cultivate habits that enable us to listen well and speak well as we relate with them. Proverbs 18, 13, he who gives an answer before he hears, it is a folly and shame to him. I mean how often have we uh in with our spouse, with co-workers, with other people we relate with? that we jump to conclusions, we say things, and then we have to eat our words because then we find out information that would alter what we would have said or or that would alter what we should have said. I know I've done that many times especially uh with with my kids as I enter into a situation where I'm trying to you know figure out who's in the right and who's in the wrong with a child conflict. So we need to be quick to listen, as it says there in James 1. 19, slow to speak and slow to anger. We need to remember that we don't know everything. We have a finite perspective even of what we do see. And we definitely don't see inside, sorry for those of you online, I tapped the microphone. We don't see what's in the heart. And so we need to ask questions. We need to listen and hear what's the perspective, what happened, what was the going on in the heart, what was the motivations, what were the desires that led to this situation. Uh we want to investigate and get to know uh what is going on before we before we speak And then when we speak, Ephesians 4. 29 says, Let no unwholesome word proceed from your mouth, but only such a word as is good for edification according to the need of the moment. so that it will give grace to those who hear. An unwholesome word is a word that tears down, that berates, that demeans, dehumanizes, that treats someone as less than valuable. James would say in James 3 that we curse those who are made in the image of God. These things should not be. There's a newer book on communication called Respect the Image. Respect the Image. And it just helpfully walks through The mindset that the person I'm speaking to is a person who's made in the image of God. They have value and worth and dignity Regardless of how they behave, regardless of how they're treating me, but because they are an image bearer of God. They're not a worm, they're not an ant They are a God-like being and and they will live forever, and therefore it is imperative that I I not tear them down, because when I tear them down, I'm actually tearing God down Instead, what I need to be doing is building them up, edification. I need to be encouraging them. Now that doesn't mean never say a negative word, never admonish, never exhort, never point out something wrong. That doesn't mean that. How you go about doing those things should be encouraging and uplifting. It should be helping them to see that you love them and are desiring their best. And it should be based on what's needed in the moment. What would benefit them right now? Do they need an admonishment right now or do they need an encouragement right now? Do they need to be rebuked right now or do they need to be comforted right now? Colossians 4. 6 says, let your speech always be with grace, as though seasoned with salt, so that you will know how to respond to each So in everything that we say, whether it's you know just affirmation, encouragement, or whether it's a rebuke, It should be gracious. It should be something that is easily received, even though it might hurt a little bit. It should taste good, is what he's saying when he says it should be seasoned with salt. Now, you know, you can't control how the other person's going to receive it, right? Some of you really like broccoli, and those of us who are sane really don't like broccoli no matter what you do. to to make it taste good. But uh a as far as it depends on you, you should present what you have to say with someone in a way that that is uh as flavorful and delightful as as you can, even if it's a difficult saying So we need to listen well and we need to be conscious of how we speak and how our words are coming across. And then third, we need to work together with mutual understanding to solve problems. We need to work together with mutual understanding to solve problems. Restoring a relationship after sin has taken place doesn't mean there won't be, there won't remain a difference of opinion. So this is a situation that we're talking about where, you know, there's been a difference of opinion and there's been conflict, there's been sin, but now that sin has been confessed and forgiven and there's been reconciliation, but now we still have this problem. We still have this difference of opinion. So what do we do from from here? What how do we move forward? Uh confessing, repenting, and forgiving sin doesn't mean anyone changed their mind about the difference of opinion that started the conflict. In in most conflicts, the difference of opinion can be handled simply by one party giving deference to the other. So as you walk through the reconciliation process, by humbling yourself, by acknowledging your own logs, perhaps you might recognize, you know what I I disagree, you know, I have a different opinion, but it really doesn't matter. As we've walked through this, I've realized it's it's not as uh significant as as I was originally thinking or it's not worth getting my way. I would rather have a a good relationship with you than to argue over this So I'm just gonna, you know, let's just go with what you want. And then sometimes the other person says, no, no, no, let's go with what you want. Then you've got to fight over who's gonna defer. No, but again, Philippians 2, 3 and 4, do nothing from selfishness or empty conceit, but with humility of mind, regard one another as more important than yourselves. Do not merely look out for your own personal interests, but also for the interests of others. From the perspective of eternity, most things just don't matter. From the perspective of eternity, the vast majority of our opinions are silly and Now that doesn't mean that they aren't important for our life here because differences of opinion, you know, where you go to college or where you're going to send your kids to college Uh or um uh what's the difference of opinion? What restaurant you should go to? I mean obviously that's the silliest thing of all. But uh but there are significant decisions, you know, where should we move? Where should we retire? When should we retire? There are things that affect your life that affect uh your relationships. You know, do we move away when we retire or do we stay where we are? Do we go to a place where we know for certain that there's a church there, or do we move somewhere and hope we find the church there? Do we take this next job knowing that it'll complicate family dynamics because of the work hours? Or do we keep this current job which has its own complications because maybe it doesn't pay as well or something? There's so many different things, so many different potential opinions that that do have a significant impact. So in light of eternity, it's not going to matter what you do. But in in in the context of your life, it is going to matter what you do. So how do you work through those things? Well, you start with the natural disposition of I'm not the king of the universe, and so therefore I want to look out for the interests of others, not only for my own interests. Is this something that we really need to work through? Romans 15, 1, now we who are strong ought to bear the weaknesses of those without strength and not just please ourselves. So staying with that. initial disposition, sometimes you might be the more mature person in the relationship. You might have more wisdom than the other person, but for the sake of peace and not causing the other person to stumble or creating an environment where it's easier for them to sin sometimes We just need to bear with the weaknesses of others. And then Romans 12, 14, be devoted to one another in brotherly love. Give preference to one another in honor, same idea. in Ephesians 5, 21 to 6. 9, be subject to one another in the fear of Christ. And by that I don't mean we need to submit to each other, this universal submission. that some teach. I don't think that that's what Paul is saying there in Ephesians, that there's mutual submission as it's often called. Rather, that's the introduction to a section where Paul refers to multiple submit um authority submission relationships. husbands and wives, parents and children, slaves and masters. So he is saying, submit to those that you are called to submit to. Not everyone, everyone doesn't need to submit to everyone else. There are relationship dynamics where we do need to submit, given the nature of the relationship. So in some conflicts, the difference of opinion needs to be settled by mutual agreement and to mutual satisfaction. To accomplish this, consider the following method as a wise way to work through disagreements. to reach a mutually agreeable solution or decision. So in situations where it's not right, it's not wise, it's not it's not appropriate to just defer and just to give up your opinion. What do you do? This is uh again just a practical um a practical tool. There's nothing that you could say that's biblical about this necessarily, just a helpful way to think about this. When we taught this class last year, Mike taught this session and he talked about how he and Linda used this uh to solve the the conflict that they were having on where they would want to be buried. Which is a pretty pretty significant thing. You know that's that's that's not a minor decision And they walked through this process. They initially had two different opinions, two different places where they wanted to be married, but or not married, buried. But then when they walked through this process, they they came out with a unified decision. So just consider this as a helpful tool that you might consider. This model was uh developed by Ken Sandy, who wrote the book The Peacemaker. Uh he developed the the four G, seven A's of confession, four promises of forgiveness, all of those tools. He's that kind of a thinker. He just God's gifted him in that way to develop these kinds of things. So first we'll look at some definitions and then we'll walk through the process itself. First term to understand how it fits in this model is an issue The issue should be a question which the final position answers. It's the quote-unquote problem that is being solved. So in some cases it might be how should we educate our kids? Where should we go on vacation? Which home should we buy? Very common things like where should we spend the holidays? With whose family should we spend the holidays? How do we spend just a free weekend? Okay, we got a free weekend coming up. How do we spend that if there's a difference of opinion? Again, where should we retire? What should be our goals in retirement? There's all kinds of ways you can narrow down an issue down into a question that needs to be solved. And then with that issue, each person has a position. A position is each individual's preferred solution to the problem. Each individual has an answer to the question posed in the issue. This is the point of disagreement. So to the question, how should we educate our kids? Maybe one spouse might say we need to homeschool our kids And the other parent says, no, I want my kids to be in public school. Or ask you the question, where should we go on vacation? One person says, I want to go out to Florida, and the other person says, no, I want to go to Alaska. Or as to the question which home should we buy, someone might say, uh, I want the home on Easy Street. That's already done, finished, we don't have to do any renovations. Or the other one says, no, I I like a project to work on. I want the home on Renovation Avenue. So though each person has their position, their answer to the question of what the issue is. So that's issue and the position. Now, interests are the motivation that drive each individual position. So you have the answer to your dilemma, to your problem, but what's the heart behind that? What's the thinking? What's the motivation? What are the factors involved? that result in your particular position. There may be disagreement or even just different differences on interests, but sometimes There is overlap or ways to accommodate the varying desires. Listed below are individual interests, but usually positions will be mo uh motivated by multiple interests. So just for the sake of of simplicity here. Again, as to the education question, perhaps the mother says, no, I really want to teach my kids. I I want to homeschool because I want to be the one that teaches them and and raises them uh throughout their life. And you know, maybe the husband says, I want my kids to have a good education. That's not a great example. You don't want to say that to your wife? Um because that implies she's not gonna give them a good education. But you get the idea, no, I I want standardized, I want tests, I I I want them to go through a uh uh a process that's been vetted and tested and tried And so they have different motivations, they have different interests, they have different reasons why they each come to their conclusion. Or again, as to the vacation question, the one who wants to go to Florida wants to go to the beach. I just want the sunshine, I want the sand, I want the water. Whereas the other one wants to see the snow. I want to go skiing, I want to go sledding, whatever it might be. And so Understanding the interests, the motivations, uh helps to pull back the the positions to what's going on in the heart. Or or finally on the home. I just want to I just want somewhere to live. I don't want a project to be working on. I've worked all my life and we're we're retiring. I just Want to relax and rest, whereas the other might say, I want to make it our home. I want to customize it. I want it to be ours in a unique way. Again, those are just examples. So That's what an interest is. In my mind, I'm getting to the process here. But finally the goal. The goal is the final position which satisfies the most amount of interests, therefore solving the issue. And the goal may be one of the original positions, or perhaps a third alternative, is discovered Alright, so those those are the definitions that are key to understanding this model. Issue, position, interests, and goal. So with a process, the process is very simple, straightforward, but not necessarily easy because there needs to be humility in the heart. There needs to be a commitment to listen and understand. And so you need to work through this in a in a methodical, thoughtful, patient way. You can't enter into this process with the mindset of As long as I get my way, I don't care what we do. No, you have to say, okay, I'm gonna put my opinion, my position. on the table. I'm going to hold it with an open hand and I'm going to be willing to consider alternatives. Otherwise the process itself is doomed to fail from the start So, first of all, start by working together to identify the issue, reducing the concern, the conflict, the problem down to a single question that can be answered, not by a yes or no answer, but but by uh a solution that needs to be found Some issues, some problems and conflicts are complex. There's a variety of uh factors involved, and so you there may need to be a a series of questions that are asked and answered in order to come to a full solution. Sometimes we can be talking about a a problem and and just be talking and talking and talking and And it's just too complicated to actually talk about a solution because every time you think about a solution, you think, well, what about this and what about that? So narrowing it down to a question, a single question. or a series of questions really helps to simplify what are we talking about? What are we trying to solve? The second step, after you've narrowed it down to a question, is to identify each individual's position. Now you might already know what the positions are But you want to make sure that you are able to articulate each other's positions so that there is understanding on both sides, so that there aren't presumptions or assumptions involved in the process. Uh and so that you can separate the position from the motivation. Because sometimes when when we articulate someone's position, we automatically attach to it someone's motivation, which may or not may not be accurate But we want to separate the position, the stated solution that each individual, each party has separate from what's driving that position. This can be done by stating one's position as fully as possible and then the other person reflecting that position back. So one person says, well my position is that we should go to Florida for vacation And the other says, what I'm hearing you say is that your position is that we should go to Florida for your vacation. I mean sometimes it's as as easy and simple as that. Other times it's not. And it's amazing, and I this happens in counseling all the time, how much one person will say something and And I ask, okay, now I want you to reflect back what they've said. And sometimes what the other person says is like completely different. Because in their mind, they're so fixed on their perspective that they can't even listen to what the other person is saying, even though they stated it so simply So it's helpful to have that reflection to make sure that we're on the same page and that we understand each other's positions. While reflecting back to the other person, uh what uh may sound uh may sound and be tedious. It significantly decreases the opportunity for miscommunication. It fosters good listening, and it slows down the process, minimizing emotional spikes I mean, typically these, you know, you're in this conversation because this is an emotional issue. This is an issue that has led to conflict in the past. And so it's always good to slow it down. uh to take the uh take it one step at a time so that uh the emotions don't drive the conversation. So, identifying the positions, making sure that everybody understands each other's positions in the most objective way possible. And then third, identify the interests that lead to each person's position. So we can ask each other, okay, why do you want to go to Florida? What is it about Florida that interests you? What are you hoping to do while we're Excuse me, while we're in Florida. Sounds really good, Gabe. I really like that. Going to Florida? Yeah. So the weather's getting pretty nice here. So understanding what's what's behind your position? What what what is motivating you with this particular position. So let's say with the schooling, you know, where one wants homeschool, one wants public school. What are the attitudes toward the different methods of education that are driving that position What is their perspective toward homeschooling or toward public schooling? Because, you know, it's those are complicated decisions. There's many different factors. Yes, there are those who've been through homeschooling and have been poorly educated, but there's also those who've been gone who gone through homeschooling and been exceptionally educated, and exactly the same thing with public school. And so each one of us, based on our experience, based on what we've heard, we just have perceptions, we have just ways of thinking about things, and it's just helpful for us to lay on the table objectively, here's my perception, here's my perspective. Here's what I've heard or here are the factors that are involved in my particular opinion or position on this issue. And then those can be talked about. In some cases it could be Just adding facts and factors that the other person may not be aware of. Like, hey, if we go to Florida, that means we're gonna have to do this and that, and it's gonna cost you know another ten thousand dollars, but uh we live in bank We live in Bellingham, Washington, and Alaska is just a short hop away and it'll be a lot cheaper, and we can actually do that vacation whereas Florida we can't even afford. Okay, well that makes the ease the the solution easier. I didn't realize it would cost so much to go to Florida. I mean those those kinds of things where there can be information brought to the table that might illumine this solution might much easier and much more objectively without there being a conflict because we think we're not listening to each other. So you have some examples there. You know, the reason I think we should do this is because, or what I want to accomplish is, you know, this will help us by other just samples. You could say my concerns uh are uh either my position, the re the concerns I have that lead to my position or the concerns that I have about your your position The relational dynamics are the things that I'm thinking about are or include you know things like that. Just explaining what's what's in my heart, what's in my mind that either props up my position in my mind or moves your position down the rungs in in my mind. As with positions, ensure that each of you understands the other's interests. Again, you want to go slow, you want to make sure that you're communicating, you're reflecting back to each other to make sure everybody's on the same page, that we're we're listening, we're understanding each other. So you've identified the issue, you've stated the positions, you've walked through what are the different interests involved Now it's time to begin considering the final position or the goal that will satisfy both parties. So having worked through identifying positions and interests, it's possible that one party will realize they lacked information that now helps them easily accept the other person's position. I gave that example. Oh, I didn't realize it would cost so much. Or I did, you know, with with what whatever the the the issue is Additional information may lead to a quick and easy solution. Sometimes the lack of willingness to prefer the other person is based on wrong assumptions about the other person's interests. And working through them opens the way to preferring the other person. So you see that example there. Oh, I thought you hated my parents. That's why you didn't want to go to their house for Christmas. But now that I see your reasoning, it makes sense we should wait to visit them in the summer, then in the winter, you know. I don't really want to go to Minnesota in the winter. Can we go in the summer, please? Which, you know, granted, it's like, well, but the summer's not Christmas, right? We we have those emotional attachments, uh sentimental attachments to holidays, but There can be a variety of factors. So if we wrongly assume someone's motives, if we wrongly assume their thoughts, then we will be hardened toward their position. But if we get everything on the table, we walk through our thinking and our reasoning, then it will be much easier to perhaps accept the other person's position. Sometimes understanding each other's interests will reveal alternative positions that would easily accommodate both parties So with the uh vacation example, how about instead of going to uh Florida or Alaska we go to this other place where you know the mountains and the beach are within a an hour or two of each other and we can do both you know over the course of a week That kind of thing. And then finally, it's possible that further investigation will be required to find alternative solutions. Unless time is of the essence, don't feel pressured to find the solution immediately. But if you do have to come back later, review together what's already been identified so that your heart is reoriented. to the discussion. So again, you've identified the issues, the positions, the interests, and you're just working through, okay, what would be the best way for all of our interests, or as many of them as possible, to be achieved. And so sometimes there's additional research that's needed. Then finally, once you arrive at the final position, write it down. And take a moment to thank the Lord together for helping you work through this disagreement and come to a peaceful solution. So again, this is just a tool, just a simple process that can be followed that is just helpful to work through differences of opinions, to come to decisions on things that uh that need to be solved where there's a difference of opinion. Alright, well we're we're done a few minutes early here. So just that concluding paragraph, all of our relationships should be characterized by peace, harmony, and love. As we said at the beginning, a reconciled relationship should be stronger than one that hasn't weathered any storms. If this isn't true for you, consider how you can serve the other individual and even repent if you haven't been treating them like Christ. All right. Questions, comments? Anyone do you want to do a public uh working through this process with you and your spouse here I think we would have to uh have that discussion first, but Well you know I know we we covered a lot pretty quickly here. Um just to return your attention to that even the first page of the notes. uh of how we should relate with those either that we're currently in conflict with or strictly those that we've reconciled with. I would encourage you as you go home, you know, if you have people in your mind that you're like, you know, we've I've been in conflict with this person, uh, or I've had a tense relationship with this person. How can you take these various uh commands here by the Holy Spirit? How can you practice those in that relationship? How can you love? How can you bless? How can you encourage? How can you uh meet their needs? How can you honor them? How can you pray for them? There's so much that the Lord has given us of how we can treat those as we walk through. And so it's good to think through that. Karen. Uh I understand uh words I'll have your anything. But I was just curious as I thought, I wonder how many times when you compare Paul writing to the believers in the church and then in other places they have to be So it's about um non-believers relationships. Um that he emphasizes these these principles. You know, sure it is hard once to Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. So um I think in in Paul's writings, I'm not sure. Like in Romans 12, Philippians, those would be the two Pauline texts in that particular list. Those would be more oriented or specifically oriented around your relationships with believers. But Jesus in Matthew 5 there and Peter in 1 Peter 2 Those passages would be oriented around your relationships with unbelievers. And as you could go forward in 1 Peter chapter 3, as he talks about husbands of unbelieving wives and wives with unbelieving husbands and and moving forward there to those who would seek to harm you for doing what is good. So honestly there's really not much daylight between how these commands apply to believers our relationships with believers or unbelievers. And part of the reason is because when, again, the model The model that we're presented with to follow is God's example, which he did this with unbelievers, with those who hated him. So uh You know, from the greater to the lesser if God could do that with us who are his enemies. Uh and We are to treat our enemies, those who are unbelievers. How much more should we treat those who are believers, brothers and sisters in Christ, in this way? And as we do treat unbelievers with this godlike character, that then provides the opportunity for the gospel. And that's what Peter says in 1 Peter 2. uh three, I should say, um, that as as you react in a way that's completely contrary to what the world would expect, uh, you will have questions thrown at you of why are you acting this way? And frankly, even in the church, because of how unusual it is for believers to love each other in these ways. It stands out. You know, in our day and age where we have 30, 40 churches in a city, a small city like ours. It's so easy for people to have a conflict, have a problem, and say, well forget that church. If they're going to have sinners there, I'm going to go somewhere else. Of course, not thinking that they're going to find sinners everywhere. Uh so when when we w do the hard work of reconciliation, it uh uh it stands out in people's minds. Doesn't mean it's all it always works. Yeah, it doesn't mean that people always fall down and say, Oh, you're so right. But uh but it glorifies God in a huge way. You know, thinking um Missionaries help often one of the things that always talk about the missionaries when you get together and uh put their mission theater. Yeah. Uh the other thing I was thinking of is is even like during this time, how fragmented we are something we got code. We have different opinions about that, politics and all the race relations and and yet, really I think What this is reminding us or you know with these scriptures is that we are made in the image of God. We really have a lot in common once we get past these quotes, I call them a lot of superficial barriers when you get down and and I think that's what we need to find is that you know like you said the motivation what is somebody's reasoning behind Yeah. Yeah, that's good. You know one of the things I'm looking forward to in a couple weeks or uh I guess three weeks now, um June 6th when we get back to our normal schedule. is now we'll you know or willing have a lot more people back, which by the way this is this is fantastic that all of you are here. Uh I don't think we've had this many people in in this room for a year or more. Um but uh uh as we see each other uh more in the hallways is you know more people come back. Um We're just gonna have those opportunities of of conversation and catching up with each other and and uh being able to talk about things even in a in an abbreviated way that we haven't been able to do because uh you know people haven't been here and so we just haven't seen each other and we don't have the kind of relationship where we would just call up and say, hey, you know, how's it going? But we can have a relationship where we just see each other and we can talk. You know, just the different relational dynamics there. Um did Ada, did you raise your hand? No. Okay. Um So yeah, and pointing out how divided our world is, you know, when we think about uh the difference between how the world treats their enemies, political enemies, social enemies, compared to how God calls us to treat our enemies. Yeah, Matt. How do you uh if you have any practical sort of like tips or suggestions or your experience on how it has worked if uh to try it and maintain the scope of an issue so that you don't end up uh like get to the point of talking through your vacation example it's gonna cost this much more to go Florida and one person says, you know, well we should do that. The other person's like no How do you have that whole another issue tree that being sort of like created? Yeah. So Some decisions, right, you could theoretically sort of spend off like five of those. Sure. Yeah. Like secondary. How much money do we want to spend on vacation? Yeah. So how do you sort of uh um work through you have to like break off and work through each one and kind of go back through the main issue that it could take a lot of a lot of time to the point where you just sort of get Sure. Well, yeah, so there's always the potential for that, you know, and and like any tool, um You know, it's it's there to be used as a tool, not as a uh a hammer, which is a tool. Not as a how should I say that? It's it's uh I can't I don't have a very good pirate accent. It's more like a guideline. Um you get in your mind I won't say where that came from. Um the code, you know? Um and so the hope is that if you're actually, let's say, even trying to follow a tool like that that there's been enough humility, uh patience, uh, and open-heartedness toward one another That, okay, maybe there are some subset issues that need to be resolved or need to be worked through even before we get to the larger issue. Again, you can certainly break it down. But perhaps we've slowed down enough and we've listened to each other enough that some of those things can be more easily handled without following the formal process. of the tool. There could be a a five minute conversation of why it's better to spend or may maybe uh why It's not a good idea to spend twenty thousand dollars on a vacation, you know, because here's the implications of that down the road. Uh or Yeah, there's potential that some of those sub-level issues could be more quickly addressed without needing to walk through the specific process just because you're you're in an open-hearted humble listening disposition already. But you might need to, you know, just for the sake of of clarity and and uh uh maintaining that that mode, uh you might need to uh okay, let's separate this out, let's branch this off and and deal with that. So Again, in any given situation, you've got to think about what's best, what's wise. Do we need to walk through this process or can we just have a brief conversation and come to an agreement on this? If we have the the character qualities of a peacemaker like we uh Mike talked about, you know, gentle, kind, humble, loving, patient. all all of those character traits, the fruit of the spirit. If we're listening well, if we're loving each other well, really you don't really need a tool, a specific tool. Maybe there's elements that can be helpful. But uh the the tool is just there to serve as guardrails to prevent us from sinning in our interaction with each other and and letting our emotions guide us and rule us as opposed to thinking very objectively. So if you have the character trait of Christ, I mean there's no scripture with that tool, right? We can't see Jesus following that process. Why? Because he didn't need to. He had God, the the character of God that was ruling his his demeanor and his actions and his words. So the more we are godly in our interaction, the less we need guardrails to keep us there. So that's the hope is that as we cultivate godly character, we need tools or processes less and less. Or as we're in that process. We're in a godly frame of mind, so we'll be able to deal with it more easily. It's a non-specific answer, but Okay, well, uh we're here at the end of the time, so let me pray and we'll be done.