If you know anything about 1 Corinthians chapter 10, that's one of the chapters where the Apostle Paul is talking about conflict in the church with regard to the eating the meat that's sacrificed to idol. And you have a conflict that's tense and difficult and frustrating because I love you and I don't want to be in tension with you, but maybe they humble themselves, they seek forgiveness, everything in you, yes, I forgive you because I love you. And how they respond to this situation, how they respond to to what I have to say is is between them and the Lord. Yeah. Uh you know, for we ourselves also were foolish, disobedient, deceived, and slave to various lusts and pleasures, uh spending our life in malice and envy, we were despised, hated, and hating one another I want to be good to this person. If you're presenting your offering at the altar, and there remember that your brother has something against you, leave your offering there before the altar and go. You don't always say the right thing. And so Paul said, as he is nearing the end of his life, I want Mark to come. And so later on, when they kind of reunited and were about to go out to another missionary journey, Paul, or Barnabas wanted to take John Mark again, and Paul's like, no way. And while he was being reviled, he did not revile in return. But that that doesn't have to be the defining quality of relationship. Right. Hi, good morning everyone. Uh to the Father, let this cut pass from me if if if at all possible. you know, seriously false doctrine of heresy, that, you know, you need to get circumcised and believe in Christ in order to be saved. Right thing. Okay. Who's seeking to help bring reconciliation between others? uh wisely. uh spiritual warfare, the fact that the evil one is always aiming to destroy the work of God in the lives of believers. You know, I I thought I said everything gently, uh I thought I was you know rightly motivated and you know whatever else is involved, I thought I did everything right. uh biblical uh or Christian conflict resolution from secular forms. Now first we want to look to ourselves. But rather that's the first step that you need to do. That is not part of their process. And his conclusion there at the end of the chapter is to say, you know, no matter what you believe about eating this meat or drinking alcohol or wine or whatever We have the same purpose. We're kind of shining it back on him. And as God has reflected his character, as he's treated us in a gracious, compassionate, kind, forgiving, merciful way. It's more effective. Uh we're thinking clearly. you know, take the kids to school or hey, you know, let's talk about this. Uh just make sure that our heart is right, that our our goal is right to glorify God. Uh desire to please God, to glorify God, should be an all-consuming pervasive goal. So third, we must seek to please God according to God's word. that we ought to be considering so that as we uh aim to resolve conflict, as we uh minister to others, that we're doing it in in a robust Christ-like way, if you will How to glorify God. And in the strength of his might, put on the full armor of God so that you will be able to stand firm against the schemes of the devil. to see how did he please God. And so we can humbly come to the Father and seek forgiveness and recognize that uh because we're in the flesh we can't do everything perfectly. Or the other person's failure, or both, is the ultimate cause of all relational conflict. in a situation we both sin. uh brought the flood is because every intent of the thoughts of man's heart was only evil continually. You adulteresses, do you not know that friendship with the world is hostility toward God? whether it's power and authority and control, whether it's pleasures of various kinds, uh whether it's people pleasing, the the things that we just crave in this world, security, health And so my ultimate desire is not only the reconciliation that we have with one another, but how can I help this person glorify God in their life? and to minister to others. You know, they're not thinking about ten years from now, they're not thinking about you know their retirement plan, they're not thinking about all kinds of things. so that we can be reconciled to one another. We're loving our neighbor as ourself, and that is more important to God, even in that context, than offering sacrifices. And so that led to a splitting of Barnabas and Paul. Cut that relationship off in my life and whatever. It's no, the opportunity is increasing. This is it. Uh helps us fight against sin because why would we want to sin against the very God that we've been suffering for? Behold, the judge is standing right at the door as an example, brethren, of suffering and patience. Right. But I think this goes this goes back to also that idea of like what is the conflict versus what is the reconciliation and people see more of what's in our heart as we reveal more of what's in our heart, there there can be potential for conflict. It's not that there needs to be more sin in the relationship, um, but rather breaking it out. from Matthew chapter seven verses one through five. resolving conflicts, there's mediators, there's people who can help serve in resolving conflicts, but they have no interest in glorifying God. And the three main ideas that we'll go over is what does it mean to have God at the center of conflict? uh understanding of again I I trust we all generally know that we're supposed to glorify God, that that is the ultimate purpose of the Christian life. and especially in a situation like conflict. Idols. Sometimes, and he goes into more explanation in the chapter, sometimes as an effort of glorifying God, we we die to ourselves. And in the uh verses one through nine there he kind of goes back and forth between calling this home versus calling heaven home. Whether we're here on this earth and absent from the Lord, or whether we're with the Lord and absent from this earth, but either way, whether you're on this earth or you're with the Lord to him. we then become the conduit through which those same character traits are manifested or shined on others as well. And all the things that we can say to give glory to God. to and to think well of. to imitate God, that we have the greatest opportunity to glorify God and to grow in Christ. Uh or it's been a long standing conflict where our our love for that person has died down and we struggle with that compulsion. A vertical war and a horizontal war, different from what I was saying of glorifying God. As God would have me to live. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your mind. Um, I mean the first and foremost is if you sense, man, I'm not really ready. I think it's quite appropriate to say, okay, I need to take time. And and sometimes it's the wife who's like, I just I just need time, I need to process, I need to work through my feelings, whatever. Let's take a break, whether it's for a few minutes or something. come together and then there's kind of some ground rules of how you're going to carry the the conversation. um uh you know weeping or whatever, that's usually not the best, most effective time. conversation. Uh, 'cause what sometimes the the person who's always just like, let's just talk to her, let's just get this over with. Uh the problem with that is they're not taking the time to really think through their own sins, to listen to the other person well. I hope so. Paul said this in Galatians 1:10, for am I now seeking the favor of men or of God? Now think about this. to to bring truth to them, even though it was likely going to bring conflict and and and uh exacerbate the problem where now there's this Even though we know it's going to be difficult. You know, we we see someone sin and in uh not uh not in an overt um um Right? Um I mean I don't know if you've ever had a confrontational conversation where you've you know confronted someone over an issue. Your word I have treasured in my heart that I may not sin against you. We should be asking God for help, asking for His Spirit's power. uh it is perfect. And that's why we're in a conflict. Um and so conflict is just the norm. on their behalf. to get our own desires. Because in the same way that our first way of thinking is, how have I sinned against God before I have sinned against this person? before the Lord, with our relationship with God. And so even important things in life, things that matter to them, all of a sudden don't matter as much. Me, me, me, me, me, me, me, I, I, I, I, I, you know, it's all about me, you've hurt me. Uh I just want to honor the Lord, I want to serve you. um whether in the hearing of that person or not. And this is a word picture here, and of course Paul is talking to Timothy about ministry. Whom God gave you to empower you to glorify Him, to become more like Christ. That's ungodly. And sometimes we have to say, you know what, because I want to glorify God more than uh feel comfort by not having this conflict, maybe we need to slow down. But it is a principle that's generally true, that when we glorify God, we will find ourselves being able to reconcile with others. And uh and so I don't wanna I don't wanna go with him, you know, let's bring someone else who will stay with us, who will persevere in the work What happens? And we can do that as we we we experience God as the rock when we trust in Him. if the relationship w gets worse. Then you don't know. So that those who are approved may become evident among you. In this you greatly rejoice, even though now for a little while, if necessary you have been distressed by various trials. He's in a category and a class of itself, but I'm not going to be saving anybody by my suffering in this situation. No. Again, looking to Christ as our model and example and example, as we suffer for the sake of Christ, one of the things that that does is it motivates us to greater obedience and Him. being patient about it until it gets the early and the late rains, you too be patient. And he will bring his wisdom and his blessing to you at the right time. And but I was looking at the person in the front, you know, and I'm like, what's the person behind them thinking about? Well let me pray we we we're uh over time here And uh that can even persecution when you're seeking to glorify God. We respond that way in the context of a church where hopefully we all had the same goal of pleasing God. Uh and so there is unity and harmony, and does that mean there was never conflict? Uh glorify God is the first Jesus. And then when that happens, by God's grace, there is forgiveness that's required, and that's to go and be reconciled. uh as those who have been forgiven by God. So again, those are just four basic principles that just help give us the picture and the process of biblical reconciliation, and we'll just continue to work through those throughout this class. in conflict. at the center. that when we find ourselves in a difficult relationship, uh when we've sinned against someone or someone has sinned against us or we've both sinned against each other, that our our ultimate desire should be to be pleasing to him. And so you have here we glorify God vertically and horizontally. They say, wow, they serve a great God. Because people don't do that. I'm going to do it God's way, even though there's something in me that wants to do it a very different way, because God's way is better in that of others, right? That what's really happening is even though there is that horizontal war with this other person, which is what we tend to focus on That's when it becomes difficult to glorify God by imitating Him because we don't want to do what God wants to do. And especially when we've been a party to that conflict in the sense that we've contributed and we've sinned and we've not honored the Lord in that conflict. He's simply saying you gotta glorify God, you gotta love God with all of who you are. day of our life. uh timing of of uh difficult conversations uh makes a difference in how that conversation will go. And then move forward with that. So uh there is an appropriate level of of time that's required uh to uh speak in a way that's most effective and God-honoring. Um we're kind of in our in a right mind, in a right frame of mind. If Paul was trying to please men, he would have said, well, I don't want to offend them by making them upset with uh doctrinal corruption corrections. So if he wants them to be corrected in their thinking, he'll deal with that in his own way. war between him and the the false apostles who were trying to sway the the uh Galatian church and whatnot. There is the potential that if that person is not ready and the spirit doesn't work in their heart, like they might get upset at you And uh you know, I was shaking in in confronting them, talking to them. uh even uh if we think that it might not go well because our goal is to please God, not ourselves. I was scared to confront them. Like bringing that to the surface until sort of right and wrong dealt with before the Lord and then and then back to the But then the question he asked the question when we were talking, he's like, is this salvageable? This is just an issue that you need to address in your own heart and life. uh you just have to have the hard conversation for uh for the sake of Christ and for the sake of the relationship. Yeah. uh person you probably like I don't, uh you probably don't have all the wisdom in yourself to to deal with every situation That's ultimately what's going on. He says, remove anger, wrath, malice, slander, and abusive speech from your mouth. No soldier in active service entangles himself in the affairs of everyday life so that he may please the one who enlisted him as a soldier. But we need to do that wisely. This goal is always doable, regardless of how the other person behaves. You can legitimately say, I have no other option but sin, but to sin in this situation. has overtaken you, but such as is common to man. can handle anything. And so we again we can never say, oh man, this is just too much. The goal of pleasing God, of glorifying God, will help us to prioritize our efforts. our energy, the risk. And will help you be reconciled. that he uh didn't leave for good reasons. Paul did not want to minister alongside John Mark. But that's not the ultimate goal. Not because of the circumstances, but because you're walking by the Spirit and His fruit is being manifested. You don't have to be struggling with anxiety and with discomfort or sorrow. the genuineness of their faith. Right? How the remaining spouse responds is a huge indicator of where their heart really is. In chapter 1, Paul says, or Peter says, you who are protected by the power of God through faith for salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. He endured the crown of thorns. It's just a continuation of the opportunity to glorify God, grow in Christ, and to minister to others. may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. For you have been called for this purpose, since Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example to follow in his steps, who committed no sin, nor was any deceit found in his mouth. And so must we, even if it leads to our actual physical death like it did for Christ. rather for doing what is wrong. If we suffer for doing what is right rather than for doing what is wrong. against the other person. have ceased from sin so as to live the rest of the time in the flesh, no longer for the lusts of men, but for the will of God. As we suffer for Christ, even the face of those who are attacking us, and again, obviously the context for much of this is persecution, but hey, there's conflict and persecution And let endurance have its perfect result, so that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing. You have heard of the endurance of Job and have seen the outcome of the Lord's dealings, but the Lord is full of compassion and merciful. His blessing of comfort, his blessing of compassion, his blessing of mercy. Yeah. make assumptions, they interpret, oh what was that facial expression? And so when when that happens, if you're already living a life that's seeking to please God, your response will be such that it will keep that conflict at a minimum. I was in my mind thinking, oh, Kirk wants to go live out in the woods like a hermit. I I guess this is my thing. Um I mean I I would say based on the friendships I've had over the years, uh the closer I got to someone in friendship, you know, I didn't have more and more conflict. I'm Egyptian, so it's hard for me to think of cosplays as bad. And then as we think about the situations we find ourselves in, Jesus instructs us that before we address the sins in the other person's life We put limitations on ourselves. to him. Help me understand why why do you do that? the sidestep the situation. How have I contributed by not glorifying God? Uh I I do think it it's helpful to work through your own heart, uh but you want to be careful to not say, well I have to be uh I have to feel ready before I can have the conversation. uh help me to die to myself and um and and to love this person uh the way that you have called me to love them. was in the garden, I don't get the sense in reading the scripture that Jesus um was super eager to go to the cross And so it's okay to be nervous, it's okay to be somewhat uncertain, but um but generally we want to Right? So in that in that example I I don't know what it drilled down but not. I so I had that internal conflict in myself of how do I deal with this again because there's dynamics that are that complicate the situation. I mean it could be, you know, in a in a home environment where there's conflict and one spouse is using speech that is ungodly and so it's it's it's kind of multifaceted, but um if you know if you're sinning then I'm responsible before the Lord. And that's challenging because again, in our flesh we want to do what's easiest. Uh naturally, if we just do things ourselves based on our own limited wisdom and experience, we're, you know, um unless you are very experienced After the flood, God says, I won't destroy the world again by water, even though every intent of the thoughts of his heart is only evil continually. And I what that means is I want to imitate God and reflect his character. And so part of glorifying God can sometimes be, you know what? Now, understand this. I have to die to all kinds of things, to injustice, my desire for justice. a book of uh wisdom, a book of kind of rules of thumb, if you will, generally how life works. Right, these are among Paul's final words. Well, I've done my best. The existence of this conflict is an opportunity to glorify God, to grow in Christ, to minister to others, then the continuation of that person's sin the more our our faith is proven to be valid and genuine as it is tested by fire. We should not look to the sufferings of Christ as if, yeah, that's Jesus. When someone has offended us, we want to go to them with a spirit of gentleness, as it says in Galatians 6. Recognize that you and your own conscience should be focused on glorifying God. He said a similar principle in 2 Corinthians 5. So another way to say it is we glorify God by showing to others horizontally that God's way of living is better than our way. That's easy to glorify God in those situations. In his book, What Did You Expect, which I think has been retitled recently, I don't remember what the new title is, but uh Paul Tripp uses this illustration in one of the introductory chapters of a And so what we have to do is recognize that so that uh before we can reconcile with this person, first we have to reconcile with God. And I have chosen to rebel against God. And that's really the first step in glorifying God, is that we we acknowledge our own sin. And then once we have that war settled, in the sense that we've been reconciled to God in that situation, then we can pursue reconciliation with the other person horizontally. And uh, you know, because usually there's conflict, that's why a couple or mar or families in counseling. And even confession, like you have in the principles here in the booklet, the seven days of confession, which really requires thoughtfulness in thinking about how to confess. So there's various things to think through, and now we're probably way too long of an answer. That has to be the starting point for all aspects of Christian living. If if you bring that up, even if you do it in a very loving, kind, gentle way, like that if if they're if they have pride in their heart, that's going to be hard for them to receive. But out of love for God and out of love for this person and for the organization, we still have to to do what's right. We weren't a odds with each other, they were just not performing. We can say, well, you know, Matthew 18, if your brother sins, go and show him his fault. or uh books that will help you think through how to uh deal with issues in a wise way. Either this person has sinned against me, they've failed to please God, that's why we're in a conflict. Elements of that can continue to be true, and so it's ultimately that not pleasing God is the cause of relational conflict. So we can ask, how have I, in this particular situation that I find myself in, is there any way in which I have failed to please or glorify God? Or on the other person. And so as we keep our focus on God and say, I want to glorify God, I want to minister to this person, help them glorify God. the thoughts that we deal with. is the issue, but it's oriented around Christ and Christ's purposes. Help us to reconcile together, to show the world how the power of the gospel reconciled us to you, Lord. Sometimes we are in a conflict because we're making a big deal about something that maybe we shouldn't. situation. God makes even his enemies to be at peace with him, that man whose ways are pleasing to the Lord. So Mark is also called John Mark in the book of Acts, and he traveled with Paul and Barnabas on one of their missionary journeys But not too far into that missionary journey, John Mark left them. It seems as though Mark's mind changed way back then when he wanted to go again. So they both had a right mind of seeking to glorify God, and God restored their relationship. Because he trusts in you. There's things that we can learn about God in a difficult situation that we wouldn't otherwise learn if we weren't in that situation. Then you will experience peace and joy and comfort regardless of the outcome and situation. That is pleasing to God. And uh and so therefore when conflict does happen, even totally apart from anything that you do, you know, it's just people take what you say wrongly or you know, they look at y Avoiding your responsibility of evangelizing because if you're evangelizing you're guaranteed to make some conflict. And yet that's going to cause more strife, more conflict, because sinners rubbing up against each other, then the reconciliation at the conflict is the sin first. You are just and all of those things. But rather everything needs to be brought together uh in in loving God. of uh immediate um you know moment by moment confrontation. And in their pride, they're hurting people and how they talk to others. But you have to commit in your heart, I'm going to glorify God. the employee sort of like behavior performance at work. Right? No, what we have to do is to say what does the totality of God's word say? To God's word. is die. uh was pleasing to the father. But also it should uh comfort us that when we mess up, and we will, uh, that in a sense God knows that. But also we have to recognize we're not Jesus. Problem's all then. What they've done, what they've said, how they've betrayed, what they've you know, whatever. And we have to redirect our focus. But again, if our goal is to glorify God, we'll be open to the possibility that I can let that go. There's always an option. And so God wants us to fulfill the first the two greatest commandments even before we uh do the other things that He has called us to do. And comfort. And that becomes significant when there's a couple and they're struggling and one chooses to back out and say, I don't want to respond in a way that's honoring to the Lord and more and to grow as a Christian. Yeah, so you know w the one of the challenging things about this class is I I think in my mind, just so you know my mindset, I'm usually talking about church relationships or family relationships Because there were reasons that the friendship got closer, that of you know mutual love for Christ, mutual desire to serve Christ So just the high-level overview of what we're going to cover today. But what should motivate us in how we work through the challenges, the conflicts, the disagreements is the desire to glorify God. We have a mirror that we're holding. The horizontal aspect of glorifying God is where we we turn that mirror at a 45 degree angle, if you will. The reason that exists is because more fundamentally there is a vertical war between me and God. That I have chosen to treat this person in a sinful, ungodly way because my heart is at war with God. But it would be a one-sided conflict. We must make pleasing God our single all-consuming life goal. have a a right relationship with God. likes to just let's just deal with it. Let's just say they had family connections that made it a little complex. Um yeah, i there may not have been a previous conflict, uh, but out of out of love for you, I mean there's a conflict between maybe you and others, so maybe I'm a third party For glorifying God. When we long for those things more than we long for, glorifying God in our life, we're making ourselves, or we're acting, at least in that situation, as an enemy of God. How is this other person able to please or glorify God? He goes on to say, therefore consider the members of your earthly body as dead to immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and greed, which amounts to idolatry. That kind of weeds out what we're uh going to be talking about as we interact with them. But God help me to show the kind of love that you've shown to me even while I was in my sin. I have what what concerns me are God's priorities, not my own desires. So he'll always bring situations in your life that you have the capacity to glorify him in the midst of. is death. But we can do that if we're aiming to glorify God above all things. And so we have hope that that that can happen. The reason you need a rock, a fortress, is because there's storms, there's enemies, and you need protection, you need a foundation of stability. First Corinthians 11, 18 and 19, for in the first place when you come together as a church, I hear that divisions exist among you, and in part I believe it, for there must also be factions among you The more we continue to persevere, think of it this way, the more treasures we are investing in in heaven It would have done no good if Jesus endured the guarding, he endured his arrest, he endured his his uh illegal trials and the false accusations, he endured the flogging. Uh what Peter is is uh uh kind of jumping off of here, the principle he's operating out of is We can imitate Christ, and that will empower us in our battle against sin. And you know, it won't turn into anything. And then you will see clearly to address the other person's sin. destructive way of like, you know, they're you know, they're cussing all the time or they're stealing or they're lying, but but maybe like they're just really prideful. We must seek to please God by depending on God's power. Again, situations of conflict can be very complex, they can be tricky, they can be emotional, there can be a lot of different facets to consider. come between us. Right. Again, we we can say that, but the question is, what does that look like? But it's when there's uh difficulty, when the maybe it's someone that we don't particularly like. We need to confess the way in which we've lived according to the flesh and not according to the spirit. He's not uh making a distinction there necessarily between heart and soul and mind. your thoughts after you help me to adopt your your mindset. This is not obviously just limited to to conflict. And now that's why you need to pray, you need to prepare, you need to really think about how can I communicate this in the most loving way? Yeah. And so there's a lot of different things, and we need God's help. If if our desire is to glorify God, then that means that we have to put more energy into resolving this conflict than we otherwise would want to. Scripture says, you know, you don't delight in sacrifices, but rather a broken and contrite heart is what you delight in, O God. By bringing about reconciliation. Now that's obviously in the context of temple worship, but he's saying God wants us to live in such a way that we're loving him with all of our heart, soul, mind, and strength Which includes the question, how have I not glorified God? I'm going to be much more patient in how I respond to them because I'm seeking to glorify God. But but when one is is seeking to glorify God continually, then it it becomes clear what is going on Because if we in the community as church are supposed to we are supposed to have deeper and more intimate relationships where we can be vulnerable with our sins to our brothers And so if that's true just in the in the universal sense, whether you're alive in this body or you're glorified in heaven and on the new earth, then that should also be true, we could say, in the situation of conflict. Is this uh sorry? And how is it how does that help us? Christ died as it says in 2 Corinthians 5, 14 and 15, so that we would no longer live for ourselves, but rather for him who died and rose again. He's giving you everything that you need to respond to every situation in a way that's pleasing to him. I draw the line here. Chapter four of First Peter. We say if Jesus could endure all of that, that's the my model. Know that as you persevere, what's waiting for you at the end of that trial, at the end of that conflict, is God's blessing. Because in some ways we might say that the conflict was the conversation, but not, right? Alright, another implication is even if the other party does not please God, we can experience God's blessing and comfort. 1 Peter 3, verse 17, for it is better, if God should will it so that you suffer for doing what is right. Thinking about this it yesterday in in a meeting where there were a bunch of people and I was looking at one person but there was another person right behind them Yeah, and and yeah, whether there as you get closer together, whether there's more conflict I think just depends on a variety of issues. Yeah, um it's an opportunity to uh to reflect Christ and um in the process perhaps it will be a gospel opportunity. So you want to go to God's Word. You know, when a believer is near their death, their focus narrows significantly Even if things aren't perfect, you know, if you're if you both have the same goal but you're you know struggling with how to actually accomplish that goal. The fruit of the Spirit starts to manifest in your life. But if we persevere, God will continue to conform us to the image of Christ in ways that we aren't able to grow otherwise. Or drinking things that different believers differ on, the appropriateness of drinking That we don't acknowledge God. So uh for example, uh when I uh do counseling in in marriage situations or family situations, I often give an assignment called a family conference table. Uh I get the sense he was ready in the sense that he knew the time had come, but that there was still, you know, by virtue of the prayer that he prayed and the way in which he prayed it The person shouldn't get the idea that you're just sweeping it under the carpet, don't want to talk about it, you know, that kind of thing. Well, who you know, were you just acting the flesh in your initial efforts? When the goal of pleasing God governs us, the other person's sins and failures become opportunities, not obstacles, to please God more. Yeah, and again that's that's uh the right thing to do when we're making pleasing God our all-consuming goal. But we also have to think about those other contexts of Jesus is out in the world and we all live out in the world in various degrees. And then finally nine implications of pleasing God in conflict. It's more powerful. When we're loving God with all of our heart, soul, mind, and strength, the converse of that is that we're not loving ourselves more than God. Uh even if you don't know what to do, and you're just saying, God, I want to please you, but I don't know how to do it. In your notes you have 1 Corinthians 1031, whether then you eat or drink or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God. In that context, he's talking about we live on this earth and we will be going home to heaven one day. Well, here's what I'm pretty confident will happen. Sometimes we have to take risks, as I mentioned, we have to start conversations where we're not sure what the outcome is going to be. And then at the end of James 5, therefore be patient, brethren, until the coming of the Lord. Yeah, and so I would say I would call it more like an argument from the greater to the lesser, if you're supposed to respond in this way in that very difficult situation, how much more should we So even if you do what you think is right and the other person doesn't respond in a God-honoring way and the relationship is not reconciled. And so it's a huge demonstration of our uh faith in Christ and our commitment to the Lord whether we continue in these efforts. It is because of our vertical relationship that we have conflict with with some people. We have the same goal. Glying God, as it says there in the notes, is easy when our desires align with His He's saying, with all of what God has given you, He's given you His Holy Spirit. The timing may not be right. If I was like Christ in this situation, there might still be a conflict because of you know how this other person perceives me or is treating me or whatever. Yeah. And yet again, we struggle. We'll talk when we talk about forgiveness or confrontation about principles of when do you confront versus when do you let love cover sin. And then we must continue our efforts in that situation where the other person doesn't please God. We're really specifically wanting to honor the Lord. Now, when we talk about confession or no confrontation, toward the end of the class, we'll walk through principles of preparation for a confrontation. Paul wrote Galatians to the letter of Galatians to a church that was buying into some false doctrine. There's no intuition involved. But that's ultimately the the source of conflict. Yeah, great. I and Kirk as you're saying it I sort of I am always thinking the opposite. So one of the aspects of ministering to others is and can be how can I help this person grow in their relationship with Christ as a result of this situation. But I have to die to my reputation, I have to die to my desires, I have to die to my preferences, I have to die to my thoughts of what I think is is right, you know, who is right Again, as I was saying earlier, sometimes a a person just has this tendency to, I just want to get through this, I want to get this conflict over with so we can um not have to talk about this again. The ultimate goal is glorifying God. The moment that we stop seeking to glorify God in a conflict because, by golly, it is just too hard, that's when we stop the process of sanctification. Instead we're we're more negative toward that person. So in everything, we want to always be asking ourselves, how can I glorify God in this moment? And then finally, Jesus alone fulfilled this God-pleasing goal perfectly. Now, God might bless our efforts by bringing about reconciliation. Now if your goal, as a conclusion there, if your goal is to please and glorify God and your efforts are primarily motivated by that goal, We're reflecting it back to him in praise, in worship, in adoration. Uh it doesn't always have to be a a personal conflict. So that that continues to be the case. Paul says there in 2 Timothy 3 and 4, 2, 3, and 4, suffer hardship with me as a good soldier of Christ Jesus. If you weren't in the Gospel for Life class last quarter, we spend a good amount of time talking about that principle in that class. But for us as believers, our aim is to glorify God, and we're going to talk about that today. When when you just have this love for your spouse or your child or your friend and Because he's my model, he's my example. And that's what we read in James four. What he's saying there is that as we uh lust, as we desire for the things of this world, whether it's possessions, They gen they demonstrate that they are the faithful ones. But we will only do that if we're seeking to glorify God. We want to consider how have I contributed to this conflict? Or we our reconciliation reflects the reconciliation God has a has accomplished. It didn't work. Again, the ultimate goal is not a restored relationship with the other person. Get the log out of your eye, uh acknowledge your own contribution to the problem, humble yourself. First of all, we must make pleasing God our single all-consuming life goal. Psalm 119, verses 9 and 11. Die to ourselves. We want to be humble. Or we both sinned against each other. Another implication of pleasing God is that the goal of pleasing God keeps our focus on God, not on the conflict issues. It's a mindset, it's a heart attitude, it's a commitment. And so that's what we're aiming at talking about and understanding today. Life doesn't change. People don't show that kind of grace. And then we have an opportunity to say, well, because God has been gracious to me and God has forgiven me. Um I don't remember if I said it uh recently or not, but sometimes we find ourselves in a situation where we just don't know what we did wrong For Christ also died for sins once for all, the just for the unjust, so that he might bring us to God, having been put to death in the flesh, but made alive in the Spirit. That's the source of quarrels and conflicts. I have to die. We don't think God's thoughts after Him. Let's let's get through it. Well, first of all, it helps us recognize if I want to please God, then I can look to Christ Maybe he thought it was too hard. Therefore, since Christ has suffered in the flesh, arm yourselves also with the same purpose, because he who has suffered in the flesh Now's not the time. But if you're both seeking to glorify God, you're going to be able to work through all of the imperfections because your ultimate goal is the same of glorifying God. Even though we know we might actually offend them. If if that's true of the unbeliever, and we were unbelievers, then that's the norm in the world. You know, because we might be tempted to just run in our mind of all the ways that they've sin against us and how they've hurt us and how they've betrayed us. And so maybe there's something that I miss. Uh, pick up Mark and bring him with you, for he is useful to me for service. And then other times we exercise our freedoms and we enjoy the things that God has given for our enjoyment and our blessing. It's not to pretend that that didn't happen, it's to say, yes, that happened, but how can I keep God at the center? I want us together to glorify God. Really the first thing we should be thinking about as Christians, this is one of the central things that separates When I speak to them about our conflict, the tone is going to be completely different than if I'm not seeking to glorify God. He doesn't mean that you by yourself, in your own mind, with your own resources, with your own strength Proverbs 16, 7. While suffering, he uttered no threats, but he kept entrusting himself to him who judges righteously. Is he mad at me? Vertically, we kind of hold the mirror so that it's facing up, so that as God's glory is shining down on us, God's character is revealed to us as it is in Scripture It's actually reconciling. God help me. The relationship didn't get reconciled, so now I'm just gonna give up. You know, when when it's just part of our relationship with them that we that we want to be reconciled with them. And sometimes, you know, y when you're in the midst of an argument, you know, um it's not uncommon in in a marriage where one spouse But I had to. And God is faithful, and he will not allow you to be tempted beyond what you are able. And frankly, when we find ourselves in that most difficult place where we're really not sure what to do, usually the option that we don't want to consider We sometimes live for ourselves. So trust in the Lord forever. Rather, we want to do what is right even if we suffer for it. So we want to make pleasing God our single all consuming life goal. And then when it came to the cross, he's like, no, I've done enough. That that would have ended salvation at that moment. Okay. And Jesus there doesn't exclusively say that's all you need to do Paul says in Colossians 3, therefore, if you have been raised up with Christ, keep seeking the things above, where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God. 9. And it wouldn't be as big and blown up as as it seems or as it is. Let's talk through it. Yeah, so again that in that particular example uh it it may not be a personal conflict. Or certainly there's conflict if if you're in a pattern of sin, there's a conflict between you and the Lord that I want to minister and help you overcome. You you have here from uh the first four chapters of First Peter statements that reflect this principle. No. The Father himself makes public declar declaration that his baptism, and then on the Mount of Transfiguration, that the Son was well pleasing to the The most common tendency I see and uh in in my own flesh can sometimes feel is It's something we get through as we glorify God more and then we move past it We're praising him, we're worshiping him, we're we're honoring him with our lips, with our hearts, with our actions. And I say, God, your way is not the right way. And then how can I then imitate God throughout the rest of this conflict? That's all-consuming, everything in life. Failure to please God or glorify God, either our failure For the first slide here, just again as as a reminder, uh this isn't in your notes, but the the four G's of conflict resolution, and again they're on the inside of the of the pamphlet. And then as we live out forgiveness, we ought to be daily living in the pursuit and and preservation of peace within the body of Christ. So it's in those situations when our flesh naturally does not want That's really the first step in keeping God at the center. What is the source of quarrels and conflicts among you? Maybe he missed his family. Therefore, we also have as our ambition, whether at home or absent, to be pleasing The goal of life is always to be pleasing I'm their I'm their boss, I'm their supervisor, and it's for their good, it's for the the the good of the organization So that's that's one way in which this is helpful to remember. So if we if we get to the point where we at least recognize But but yeah, there are situations and uh I'm not denying what you're saying, there are situations where as we do open ourselves up It's the principle that Jesus says, shine your light before men, so that they may see your good deeds and glorify your Father in heaven. Right? You know, whatever. Rob. I'm going to do this in the most God-honoring way that I can. If I have a relationship with you that uh that I'm to come to you and and show you your fa your fault and uh honor the Lord in that way. You know, Holy Spirit, give me insight into your word. I can just let that go. Now I've had other situations of personal conflict where it's kind of the same thing. We don't have a natural sense of what it means to glorify God. And you can't do that in your own strength. You see Genesis six five there, where before the flood, the reason God uh Now we don't know what happened, but by the end of his life, Paul changed his mind about Mark. We not only need his wisdom, but we also need his power. He he uh abandoned them and he went back to Jerusalem. Um we've had a chance to, you know, wrestle through whatever's in our heart. And this is a pattern that you've noticed in their life. Like I I color it as like no, colour is a good thing because it brings out what you need to. And so I kept wondering like why aren't they doing what they're supposed to do? And not physical death. Barnabas took John Mark, Paul took Silas. So it's it's appropriate. Help me to be humble and um That there was still a measure of angst in his soul about what was about to take place. Either you know, in response to each other or just in a You know, when we when someone sins against us, we are very concerned about how they've sinned against us. You have there 2 Timothy 4. No. People don't show that kind of love and forgiveness. And the other spouse, that's usually usually the man. So sorry. Let me move on. You know, who knows what. You experience love, you experience joy, you experience peace. That's the example that I follow. I mean today in the message we'll look at um Titus 3. That's how we talked about last time the opportunities. We we think badly about them, we assume the worst about them. And what he was what he was communicating is that when we find ourselves in conflict with someone else Maybe it's somebody at church or somebody at work where you don't necessarily see them all the time. We're not simply praying, God help them to see the way they've hurt me or convict them of their sin You know, you were you had selfish purposes. Therefore, whoever wishes to be a friend of the world makes himself On the other hand, Jesus' vertical relationship was pretty good. What does that actually mean in very practical terms? So those are those are some principles for pleasing God, glorifying God. He had to do that to purchase us, to save us, to forgive us. Am I looking at them or you know sometimes there's this weird situation that people We don't do what God calls us to do. We respond to situations in a way that we're aiming When a man's ways are pleasing to the Lord, he makes even his enemies You know, in the secular world there are uh principles, there are theories on You should be acknowledging to the Lord your own personal struggle, where you're wrestling, and say, Lord, help me. We don't want to kind of think deeply about things, and and so we often uh need help. If our mindset is, I want to glorify God No. How have I sinned against God that this situation has either been created or it's been exacerbated? Uh if it's not that kind of a situation, uh it's you know that's not as uh um We might upset them by what we say. Is is our relationship salvageable? So I'm just going to go around and tell everybody what their problems are. On God's power. Because one of the things that we often need to do in conflict Maybe there's some different way. Now, next point, if both parties are seeking to please God, full reconciliation is guaranteed. What Paul is saying is that those who persevere in glorifying God and how they conduct themselves in conflict demonstrate Take the prophets who spoke in the name of the Lord. Um that uh people just you know they get offended at us even though we we haven't done anything or sought to do anything It's in any situation where there's sin that needs to be dealt with, even if it's not direct sin against me If you are in Christ, that means you have the indwelling Holy Spirit. But w uh but if everybody says, well let's just give up, you know, stop glorifying God, I'm just gonna cut off the relationship, whatever They must be a transformed person. For in God the Lord we have an everlasting rock. And when we do that, God keeps us in perfect peace. Strengthen your hearts, for the coming of the Lord is near. So um that that's kind of the immediate kind of conflict where it's okay to take a little bit of time to make sure we're calm. It's the single pool. Or am I striving to please men? Or I've sinned against them The only way to respond to this is to sin. In fact, a biblical uh study of all of those would basically reveal that those are all the same thing Of all the people who have ministered alongside, I want Mark to come to be with me because he's been useful to me. I'm always thinking like actually I'm hearing up for more and more conflict as I get closer and closer to people in the church As part of that, we must seek to please God, not ourselves or others. What are the character qualities that we ought to be exhibiting? Uh I have to die. And when you walk by the Spirit, when you please God with how you conduct yourself, Keeping God at the Center of Conflict is the title of this lesson. I want us to grow closer to Christ as a result of this. This goal then will help us to prioritize our efforts. You know, it's that co-worker who we've never really gotten along with uh over the years at work. Uh it would have been easy to say, no, I don't really feel like doing that. And the path to reconciliation essentially is the harder conversation Is not the source your pleasures that wage war in your members? All of those sins fall to the wayside as we keep our minds on things above, where Christ is. Do they really want to reconcile to their spouse in a way that's glorifying to God or are they just in it for whatever uh ulterior motives? Right. And so that's get the log out of your eye. And that's the third G, gently restore, where someone has sin against us. He's given you the Word of God. Or James chapter 1. 1. It's not about you, it's not about getting what you want, it's not just doing whatever you want to do, it's about glorifying God. And the conference table says, you know, determine a specific day and time that you're gonna I want to be gracious, I want to be compassionate, I want to be loving my enemy, I want to be kind God will bless you in a variety of ways as you persevere in trials. And most importantly, you will be pleasing God. And then when our when we're really emotional, when we're either angry or Uh when I worked at Grace TU I had an employee under me that had performance issues and um You know, when we think about uh pleasing God according to God's word, it can be we can be very simplistic about this. It's how you know Now, Proverbs is a You see Mark 20, or 12, verse 30. I if we if this person was in front of me right now, I don't know that I could have this conversation in a healthy way You know, we should be getting up in the morning saying, God, I want to glorify you today. How can a young man keep his way pure by keeping it according to your word? Sorry. There's no part of of your being, there's no part of your life that you can keep back and say, well you don't have to love God with that. But what we should be thinking about if we're keeping God at the center is how has this person not glorified God? Not the only way out of this is suicide. But Paul felt betrayed by that. Your way is not the best way. And when we recognize that standard, we see how far short we fall, right? Is that helpful? Ephesians 6, 10, 11. 11. God says, continue to please him. And so my hope is that at the end of today you will have a better Um and so you want to think carefully about what does God's word have to say. Help me to love them. I don't need to address this, I don't need to confront this, I don't need to to be hurt by this, I don't need to let this uh Things like our timing. We acknowledge how we have, as uh David says in Psalm 51, we've sinned against God and against him alone. And that's just under the recognition that I don't want to deal with this anymore Now he knew that it was his responsibility Again, that's the vertical war versus the horizontal war. So we just need to recognize that that's what's going on when we find ourselves in a conflict. But Paul now changed his mind and somehow their relationship was restored. We don't want to find ourselves in a situation where we are exacerbating the problem by continually sinning That's better in God's eyes. Um and So y this is not a concrete promise that if you do everything right, your enemies will always be at peace with you We want to confront them lovingly about their sin and aim to restore the relationship. Vertically and horizontally. How can I speak the truth in love? Only Luke is with me. Now I'm just gonna throw them to the wind. That's the singular theme of today's lesson. It's effective for restoring relationship. So we must aim to please God, not ourselves or others. Uh to I mean again because the the And that allows us to be humble rather than to just assume, yeah, I did it perfectly. And so you can never find yourself in a situation where Um and so that's a situation where I think it can be wise to say, well let's And Uh and so this is not a narrow context about conflict, but it certainly applies in a situation of conflict Like that doesn't have to bother me. That's usually what we need to do and what God empowers us to do if we find ourselves in what seems to be an impossible But I don't know if that's what you were saying, but if if that's the case, you're actually That's interesting. But there's a higher principle here that applies in a situation of conflict. The farmer waits for the precious produce of the soil. And you may not do it perfectly, none of us do, but God is glorified by the heart that desires to please him. That's a good question. Now, the next principle, the next implication is that in Christ That you can endure temptations, you can endure trials because of what God has done for you. And yeah, like you said, those who live godly in Christ will be persecuted. So when he says here whether at we're at home or absent, it's not really clear if he means whether we're h And so this is what we're striving for in the process of sanctification. And so we need God's power to help us work through conflict so that we do it in a way that's glorifying to Him. And then in eight twenty one 1 Corinthians 10. Again, it's not it's not, okay, now I can back off and and uh don't have to glorify God anymore Right. I've pleased God enough in this situation. And so it is better in God's eyes Not always, but usually the man Uh so many things in life we we sometimes have to take steps of obedience So yeah. Now obviously there he's speaking broadly about If he did it perfectly, then I know that I can imitate him and I'll be uh pleasing God when I imitate him. That helps us filter in our own hearts. Now we don't know who is the one who's honoring the Lord here. But instead he persevered and he persevered and he persevered All the way through he kept entrusting himself to him who judges righteously, and that's what we must do as well. To say if I if I lived exactly Why aren't they meeting deadlines and you know So it's it's just th th the way in which we think, the orientation of our conversation, the way that we pray So we have to be willing to do the hard thing of reconciliation And so we should be approaching, addressing conflict in prayer So that the proof of your faith, being more precious than gold, which is perishable, even though it is tested by fire But if any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask God, who gives to all generously and without reproach, and it will be given to him. I've never heard that uh I don't I don't I'm not aware of that stereotype of a Jeep shop. If I were still trying to please men, I would not be a slave of Christ Now in that particular situation, I didn't have a personal conflict with them Jesus said there in Matthew five, therefore if you're I think that's why I got myself in trouble last time by the And I'm like, yeah. You want to go to godly people. We have to get wisdom from God's Word to do it. He's given you the people of God. The implication of glorifying God is that God might bless our efforts, efforts That's a good desire to have. And then chapter two But my goal is not to please them. There's there's patent uh background, there's history We should also be thinking this person has sinned against God before they sinned against me And as I talk to them, I'm not saying That's a beautiful picture. You know, you don't want to have it as one of the folks is trying to w w walk out the house to go to work or As it says in Isaiah 26, the steadfast of mind you will keep in perfect peace. Uh it's like I'm gonna suffer for you, but I'm also gonna rebel against you. Then five principles of how to please God, how to glorify God So with that in mind, uh you see uh this question, what does it mean to have God We would rather just break off the relationship or find some way to Okay. And even when we become saved and God transforms us Opportunities conflict brings is to glorify God, to grow in Christ But what they should hear is This is Consider it all joy, my brethren, when you encounter various trials, knowing that the testing of your faith produces endurance. So that we can come together in a way that Finally be strong in the Lord. We count those blessed who endured That we need to uh both grant forgiveness and live out forgiveness We're affirming, yes, God, you are gracious. The scripture doesn't say why, uh, but there's an implication based on Paul's response to that Lord help me to please you, I just don't know how to do it. We see a couple passages there where we learn that Jesus First be reconciled to your brother, and then come and present your offering. So when we see that Paul and Silas were in prison, all that, that's because We must continue our efforts to please God even if the other party doesn't. I mean the thing about Christ, um just by way of example and as he um 13. I don't want to do it your way. They're thinking about I'm about to be with Christ. And so how have I contributed? They just, you know, they're driven by the desire to not have conflict anymore rather than the desire to glorify God. That doesn't have to trip me up in in my daily life. God, you know, I'm between a rock and a hard place. That's Do not complain, brethren, against one another, so that you yourselves may not be judged. Right. The the difficulty in answering it is it's kind of like it depends. 3 Yep. But but I get your point enough. But still I don't need to talk to that person anymore. Uh James and Peter are talking about living in a world of receiving Christ But we often struggle with what does that look like in specific situations You know, we wanna we wanna protect our comfort No temptation or no trial is the same word. We're not sure how they're going to respond. How can I bring restoration in their life The way that I think about it is like as if we're holding up a mirror. It's healing. What are the motivations that we ought to have? Right? Kirk. But in that example, the conflict is You want to read, you know, helpful materials like that or Like I don't have a personal problem with you. And that may be true So that when people experience us interacting with them, So we'll get into those details in a later session Maybe we need to hit the pause button You know, I'm shaking in my boots and in my voice and um Yes Maria I mean, just the the thing th the the topic, the orientation of our conversation You can experience the peace of God. I'm doing it according to God's word We don't really have that compulsion to to forgive and to do kind deeds. We ought to be humble and seek forgiveness. My goal is not to prevent them from getting offended. And so we need to persevere. Right, yeah, yeah That's the vertical aspect in which we glorify God. It produces joy. So what are some principles here for for pleasing God? And you will find your way. I want to love you with all my heart, soul, mind, and strength. How can I glorify God even in the midst of this situation Now, nine implications. I've been calm. He knows that we're not going to do things perfectly like Jesus did And we're not seeking to please others more than God. And so yeah, that that reality is true. I'll just kind of let it be They obviously don't want to talk to me. We have to acknowledge the fact that we have sinned against God The simple the simple part of that is not Yes, you are forgiving. Yes sir When we pray I think that the Lord will bless that for sure How can I um They had ministered together at some point But um That is pleasing God Yeah. I've been quiet. According to Um We can experience God's blessing. You know, I love you as a brother in Christ and What are the wisdom principles? Help me to think uh Because that's the only way that we know I don't have an option Like that doesn't make any sense Like he's he's not faithful Yes. So I'm just gonna Every I haven't said anything. So It covers it pretty well, right? And So, you know, God's sovereign. So Only Christ How have they sinned against God? That you can keep for yourself. My goal is to glorify God. Help me to do that. And even Now