Lord, thank you for yet again another day that you have chosen to allow us to wake up. We take that simple act for granted sometimes when our eyes open up and we're able to look up And our ears are functioning, our hearts are beating, and we open our mouths and words are able to come out. We just right now want to say thank you for that. Thank you for the ability to turn out of our beds and put our feet on the ground and to be able to walk Thank you for restoring the health of some of our brothers and sisters this week. We also want to thank you, Father God, for the assurance that you give us, knowing that to be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord. What comfort is that? Out in the lost world there are many that lose individuals in their lives and they are just distraught and don't know what to do. But Father God, we as believers know that you are waiting for us with open arms. And so we thank you that we are able to experience, though we are mourning, joy because of the what your son did on the cross for our sins. I pray this morning as we prepare to go into chapter seven of Christensen's book, Defeating Evil Father God, we will be able to hear something from you that we will be able to walk out of here. just reflecting on what it is that you did for us and why you did it. And that we may live a life that truly reflects that and we may go out and s and and try to live to the best of our ability your likeness. And represent and put on display the image that you have put on us because of your son again, Jesus Christ. Thank you for our church. Thank you for our church family. Thank you for sustaining your people. Thank you for the marriages. Thank you for the new births. Thank you for the pregnancies. I could stay up here and just say thank you all day, Father God, because you are you are good. Have your way this morning. Let all the words that proceed out of my mouth, Father God, be not mine, but yours. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. In the beginning of this chapter, chapter seven, Christian goes through and identify a series of known heroes to us. And he identified what makes them attractive to most of us in terms of their ability to fend off enemies. He the most famous of those all is Hercules, which everybody knows because of his brute strength. This is my wife if you all didn't know. But then Christian turns and begins to describe how Christ is different. from all the heroes that we've grown to know and grown to love. In every story we've ever read or movie we've ever seen, there is the protagonist and an antagonist. an enemy, the protagonist is the hero of that story. Audiences often find themselves drawn to the protagonist, the hero of the story, and they feel like they could relate to that individual It is so funny because as a father, and maybe mothers as well, you are your child's hero despite your flaws. I know often I'm sitting with my son and we're watching whether it be a basketball game, baseball game, a football game, and there'll be this huge guy that shows up. My son will turn him and be like, You could take him back. And I'm like, son, that's in that's in you. Absolutely not. We are our children's heroes, but yet we are flawed. And the same heroes that we look to are also flawed While some heroes possess supernatural abilities, what truly sets the greatest heroes apart is not just their supernatural power, but their courage. their unwillingness to remain idle when it is in their power to act. What makes most heroes memorable is not simply a resolution accomplished out of a conflict What makes them memorable is how some heroes are willing to sacrifice themselves for the cause They're willing to put their life on the line sacrificially because they believe in the cause. As Jesus said to his disciples during the last supper in John fifteen thirteen, greater love has no one than this, that someone lay down his life for his friends. A hero is not concerned about his well-being as much as he is concerned about the well-being of other people. While many of our imaginative heroes are entertaining, as I've stated, they're all created. They're flawed men. They are not perfect. In actuality And those superheroes, then the individuals that we look to, they themselves need a hero and are just not aware of it. I like how Chad uh Scott Christensen states in the opening pages of Chapter 7. The gods and heroes of Greek mythology are model representatives. They invariably suffer from limited powers. They are always, there is always some Achilles heel that trips them up They exhibit as many vices as virtues. All too easily, they succumb to moodiness, jealousy, deception, and cruel vengeance. Yet those are some of the heroes that we admire. Humanity has thwarted our concept of what a true hero is. We focus on nothing but the strength when there's so much more to a hero. What Scott Kitchenson was saying, as I've just said, is that heroes are flawed, as you and I. They need a hero. And that grand hero is Jesus, the God man who came into the world to save sinners, 1 Timothy 115. Christian continues, Jesus is a hero unlike any conception of our imagination or we can't even conceive of the hero that Jesus would become This morning before we discuss this grand hero history, I'd like to begin by focusing on us, the individuals that this grand hero came to save. Sometime we're so quick to jump to look at the hero that we forget that the hero is fighting to save someone. And in this story, that's someone is us. But to truly grasp and understand how he's saving you, you need to understand the condition that you're in And so since this will be a two-week lesson, I want to focus today on us, the individuals that this grand hero is coming to save. And I know that we're a Hope Bible and some of the things that we're getting ready to discuss, a lot of you are already aware of. But sometimes it's good to go back. to meditate and to remember how you were created, why you were created, and how you are in the condition that you are today. And my hope today is that as we go through this You'll remember that you're no longer in the righteous, perfect image that God created. You are marred. You are a sinner, as I am, and we need a savior. But again, we sometimes forget. And so my hope is that we are seeking Jesus to bring us back So the person that we were when we were created in the image and in the likeness of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, who by the way was involved in the creation. So here are the objectives for this week and next, but again we're only focusing on the first three. Identify man, man's created and current condition. Identify Jesus. It will be a high-level view, but I still want us to focus on that. Identify what what is incarnation? What does that mean? And next week, hopefully, we discuss why did Jesus take on the likeness of man, the incarnation, and how is the divine human savior the hero of this story? Let's begin with part one. Man's created condition. We we already know we have the presupposition that God created everything. So we don't need to discuss that. God created us. We did not evolve. We we know that we're already aware of that, correct? And a creator has a purpose for that which he creates. How many carpenters in here? Oh man, we got a lot of smart guys. Computers. Wow. Alright. How many systems engineers? Alright, whatever. Okay. I don't know. Wait whether you're creating a program or whether you're building something for carpentry, that which you make has a purpose. You know, you're not like my son right now who just has a pile of wood in the garage and just banging everything and every time we say come on up, I'm building something but it's just a pile of wood. Maybe his purpose is to trip his his mom and I up. But again, God has a purpose for creating you. And we see that in Genesis 1:26. Then God said, Let us make man in our image after our likeness to rule over the fish of the sea and the birds of the air. Over the all the livestock and over all the earth itself, every creature that crawls upon it. The purpose of the image of God being put upon man was to represent God to put him on display, to reflect him, to communicate him, to all of creation. God put man over the dominion of everything and put his likeness and his image on man so that man can reflect him To everything that he has made. We ourselves are not God. We are a reflection of God. When someone looks at us They don't see God, but they see aspects of God within us. Now, those of us that are living by the flesh, yet call ourselves Christian, are displaying a poor picture of God. To a lost and dying world that needs to know who God is. And what happens is when we give into the flesh and we live for ourselves and misrepresent God because of our sinful nature, we cause Some in the world are stumble because when they see us and we're not acting like the God that they know, a perfect being, a loving God, yet we're judgmental, we're mean, we're cruel Like, I don't want your God. I don't want to know that God. I am never going to church again because these people are not as loving as I thought. Now does that mean that we're accepting of everything? No. But should we have grace? Should we look upon our brothers and sisters as them still bearing the image of God, even though they are flawed, even though they're fallen? But we rarely do that. We look upon ourselves after we're saved, we look in the mirror, and we know we for some reason we think that we're we're returned back to the condition that we were in the garden, and that is far from the truth We need Jesus every day. And when people look upon us, they need to see Jesus in us. That is our role. In Psalms 858 8 Psalm 8, 528, you made him a little lower than the heavenly beings and crowned him with the glory and honor You are special God. Mankind is special God. He crowned you. Walk knowing that you have been crowned. Walk knowing that God created you to reflect His image. Live each day in the world as a reflection of not how you feel, but as a as a reflection of who God made you to be. You have given him dominion over all the works of your hands. God is entrusting you to care for his creation. do that. He created my brother here, he created my sister here, and he he he looks to us to care for one another, right? You have put him you have put all things under his feet, all sheep, all oxen, and all beasts of the field, the birds of the heavens, and the fish of the sea, whatever passes along the path of the sea. Okay, what does it mean to be to be after our likeness? To be after God's own likeness. Man is an intelligent being He is aware and is conscious. He can make the use of his mind to learn and reason, decide and choose, create, build, but when we're not in God, we're destructive. And we have the capacity to discern moral truth. And that's why many of us aren't here this morning. And after God created, he looked at everything. He was checking out his work. It's like man. I'm good. Look at what I just made. I'm good. Glory to myself. And that's not pride, because sometimes we sort of add anthropomorphic languages to God. We add human language to God. When God was checking out everything that He made, He was showing you that He is a perfect creator. He was showing you that he was not the author of sin. That's why he looked at everything and said everything was very good. Because I don't create Chaos. Everything that I touch, everything that I think is good because that's a reflection of my nature. That's who I am. And I can't be anything else but that. God also was satisfied with his fulfillment, with the finished work that he has made. As I stated just right now, in the creation there was no evil, there was no corruption. Adam and Eve were probably just walking through the garden just smiling at each other. Nobody was jealous of anything. Adam didn't say, did you leave that in the snake? I'm not gonna clean because you made that mess I got it, honey. Everything was good. Why? Because they were reflecting the likeness of God to one another. Every part of creation was functioning exactly according to God's wise and holy design, without sin, without disorder, without chaos. The presence and fulfillment of divine goodness was throughout all of creation. As it says in James 1:17, every good and perfect gift. It's not from me. I know Christmas is coming, but it's not from your spouse. Every good and perfect gift is from the Father above. It's from the Father of lights. And here's what God did after He created and put man in the garden. He didn't just say just chill. Just sit by idly, don't do anything God said, I am putting my creation in your hands. But because I'm putting everything that I've created in your hands to store it over, I'm gonna give you your role and responsibilities. So in other words, God was hiring man as like the manager of what he had. The garden was not man's. Man did not create that garden. Man was put there to store it over, to manage, and therefore had to yield. To the instructions, rules, and regulations of the owner. If you have a company or whatever whatever it is, and you hire an individual, And you give the individual rules, and the individual chooses to do something other than what you said. I know we're hope, I know we're graceful, but there needs to be accountability, right? No? You all are just gonna hire, continue hiring Wow. The Lord God took the man and put him in the garden of Eden and um to work it and keep it. Man was supposed to work it. His role in the garden was not autonomous. He was not self-governing. He had somebody that he had to report to, and that person was God As such, he was subjected to the rules, order, boundaries set forth by the owner. Rule number one. Get my rules fixed up. Well maybe it's not a rule, but you could eat of everything. Well scratch that, it's not a rule. You could eat of everything in the garden. And then here's the rule. But of the tree of knowledge of good and evil, you shall not eat for in the day that you eat of it, as you will You will surely die. So God put the boundaries in place. He told the man what he was not allowed to do. He gave the man instruction. I have a box here. Can somebody read that for me? Get a little participation in here So God gave him the rule. God told him what not to do, but yet. They didn't. But look what happened. Look how dangerous it is to have false doctrine whispered in your ear. Guard yourselves. Stay rooted in the word. Stay around your brothers and sisters. Be faithful. Test the scriptures yourself. Read them. Meditate on them. Because look what happened. God gave Adam a rule. Adam was supposed to convey that rule to who? was supposed to hold her accountable, they hold each other accountable, but somehow false doctrine or false teaching or a lie got whispered in her ear and look what happened. And that happens to us if we are not guarding ourselves. Your adversary, the devil, is part about like a roaring line looking to devour. He comes to steal, kill, and destroy. And will use any needs necessary to take you off your game. After Eve probably reached up there, bit it, he was probably jumping both door and celebrating. He didn't know the end of the story at that moment. But we can rejoice because we know that. God will crush his head. And that we too will be victorious. And our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, who died once for all. If this is your first time ever hearing that, there is salvation in only one person. That person is Jesus Christ. If you hear his voice, do not harm your heart. Repent. Turn to him, submit to him, because there is no other way to God the Father. There is no other way to return back to the image which God created you outside of Jesus. He is the way, the truth, and the life, and no one can go to the Father except through the one mediator, which is Christ Jesus And if this is your first time hearing that, God intended that for you this morning. Do not take those words lightly. Repent, turn to God, submit to him, give him your life. And that will be the best decision. You've ever made and we have a room of people that can attest to that. Despite the warning from God, as I state Moses shared that Adam disobeyed God. We've gone through that. Okay. Alright. Okay, we'll jump to um where it says, through this single act of disobedience, sin enter the physical world. The root of the disobedient. Why he was disobedient was the desires. Desire to be like God. It says in James 1, but each one is tempted by his own evil desires He is lowered away and enticed. Then after desired desires has conceived, it gives birth to sin. And sin, when it is full grown, gives birth to To death. And death is separation from God. It may not be immediate. You may continue to walk around, but take that as God's grace and mercy upon your life. Because tomorrow, the next moment The next hour is not guaranteed. We sit in church. We hear the warning. Eve walked through the garden. She heard God. They're in the presence of God. But yet they still chose self over God. They still chose to please themselves, fulfill their sinful desires rather than submitting to God because man thought that his way was better. Sin entered the world through one man and death through sin. So also death was passed on to all men. This one act is why we are the way that we are. This one act is why we have Wrong motives towards one another. Through Adam's sin, the image of God, we, me, are marred. We can't fulfill Man's chief end as is stated in the uh Westminster shorter catechism, which is to glorify God and to enjoy him, sometimes forever. Don't be scared. Thing about Rice Frogs are free well. Yeah, we would always choose sin. No one does good, no one understands, no one seeks after God, right? Well well God doesn't trump our free will but He has a sovereign purpose and He could use our wrong decisions to fulfill His His um sovereign will. So but He won't take that away. He will still use our our fallen sinful ways for his purpose. And we see that painted beautifully at the end of Genesis 50, where Joseph says to his brothers, what? But God meant it for good. My favorite person. In addition to all you. That's what I meant. That's what I meant. Erased down the tape. God's will, free will, God is the angels of his will, our will, like I'm going to say a little bit out louder to everyone here. So God itself. God will change our hearts so that our desires will allow Okay, this is very far. They work in tandem with each other. Was there another question or comment? Okay. That was man's created condition Let's now move to man's current condition, which we've touched on a little bit. Although the image of God in man was marred by the fall, it was not erased. Man remains the image-bearer of God. But that image, as I've stated over and over again, is now distorted and needs renewal, and that renewal comes through Jesus Christ. James 3 9 tells us with the tongue we bless our Lord and the Father The Father, and with it we curse men. We have been made in the image of God. So keep in mind this is postful. This is After we got kicked out of the garden, and God's word is still referring to us as being in the image of Himself. So God didn't just erase his image off of you. You are still his image bearer. But now Sin is wrestling inside of you. You want to give into it. But there's but God is like, don't. Because the wages of sin is death, but Jesus wants to give you life. And because our our our nature is marred, that's why We have cursing at one another. We have malicious and slanderous talk about one another. We gossip. behind each other's back. We're insulted. We're not willing to take offense on ourselves. Told you you were my favorite. You tell I have kids. Depends which room I'm in. Thank you. And this is hard, but at the same time easy. Because when you're wrong We want to jump to Genesis nine. Like, whoa, time out when somebody wrongs us. We want to take advantage, we want to exact it, but how do we what's the best way to reflect Christ? Isaiah 53 tells us he was wounded for our transgressions. They would take a whip They would tie bones and nails to the end of it. They would scourge you, trying to make you confess to something that you did. But we know that Jesus was without sin and he was perfect. He was being whipped on his back, lashes, skin coming off, knee coming off, bloodied back, chronic thorns on his head, but he remained silent He couldn't defend himself. If he defended himself, then he would be claiming that you are innocent. I'm innocent. But he knew that we're guilty. And so he had to take upon himself that punishment Blood dripping down his face. Being put on the cross and the modern day pictures does us justice because they have at least cloth About our Lord and Savior. But he was up there on that Roman cross naked. Nothing. They wanted to shame him all because of what I did. We serve an awesome God and we are undeserving of his love. But yet in the midst of our sin, Christ chose To die for you and for me, to put on display what sacrificial love is, what a hero does And this is why Christians calls him the grand hero. Not of just this story. I don't know if you caught that. He didn't call him a grand hero of a story. He calls him the grand hero. of history. There is no other like our God. We then have Noah, as I stated in Genesis 9. 6, whoever sheds the blood of man, by man's blood, shall his blood be shed. So I said an eye for an eye. So I said time out. When we're offended, we want to jump here. Well the Bible says. But it is we could reflect Christ much better. If we respond to with love when we are hurt, when somebody wrongs us, that is the best way to reflect The image of Christ, the image of God, the image of the God who died for you to a lost and dying world, so they too will get to know him Alright, we're gonna jump because I already mentioned some of this under Noah. Let's jump to man continues to have aspects of God, aspects of the image that makes him accountable to God What are some of those aspects? Man has intellect. He has the ability to reason, to learn, to understand truth. Man has will. Man can choose However, apart from grace, however, apart from grace, he will now be bent toward selfish ambition and sin rather than God. He's not gonna choose what makes God happy and his sinful nature. He's gonna choose what makes him happy. But it's it's so interesting to me that we are in our Bible, that we are in our word, and that we say we have a relationship with God and we know him. But yet in the When nobody is around, I'm not talking to you all. When nobody's around, the things that we look at and that we watch Where I can see somebody coming to your house and like, well I'm just visiting. It's like, oh turn that off. Why? Because there are certain things that God doesn't want us to indulge in or dwell in because it's not good for our spirit. But yet we do that when nobody's around as opposed to being honoring and respectful to a holy God when nobody is around. I remember when I first um got saved and and you know these I guess you call them hot Christians because you're just so excited about everything you just want to share Jesus with everybody and everybody's just like this guy again. We've all been there, every one of us. As I was going through Matthew and they were talking about um how the uh Pharisees uh When they were fasting, they would do all these things so that people could see. They wanted to put it on display, they wanted to show how righteous they are. And Jesus said, That's great, but when you pray, just go into your closet, pray to pray to God just quietly. You don't need to put on a show because it's between you and him. I'm your mediator now. You don't need to go to anybody. You don't need to do all this. Just speak with me. And ever since then it's always like God wants to have private personal time with you. And in that private personal time that God has with you, He is forming you, He is molding you, He is making you into His likeness so that you can reflect Him out into the world. No, my wife and I took a class with um our favorite pastor, Pastor Fumley the parenting and he talked about how you are to correct your child in times of non conflict. You don't correct them uh well you still correct them but When they're going through it, that's not the time that you're trying to correct them because you're upset, they're upset, you're yelling, they're yelling, you're upset because they're not l Tonel you It's just not productive. And so he stressed how it is so important to correct a child in time of non-conflict and in a like manner We are to pray during times of non-conflict. We are to have time with God during times of non-conflict because when conflict comes and it will. We'll know who our source is, we'll know who our strength is, we'll know where to turn to. We won't turn to all the vices that the world says for you to turn to to get to get healed or to make yourself feel better temporarily. God is the permanent fixed. Everything else is temporary. So man has the uh ability to choose and apart from the will he will bent he will be bent towards Sin rather than God. The mind of flesh is hostile to God to God. It does not submit to God's law, nor can it do so. Romans eight seven. Then the Lord saw that the wickedness of man. This is what happens when we're apart from God. Yeah, not prescription. So that glare. No pictures, please. There we go. There goes the glare. Okay. God saw the wickedness of man and the and was great upon the earth, and that every inclination of the thought of his heart was altogether evil all the time. So when we don't have God in our hearts Don't be surprised. My wife and I will often say when we see certain things, or especially younger people, doing doing certain things that our parents just wouldn't tolerate when we're growing up. It's like, wow But the more you know God, the more you're in his presence, the more you spend time with him, you realize that the only reason that you are not like that individual, it's not because of you. It's his grace that's upon your life. And it's to cause you to want to desire to seek out that person to share how you went from this individual. To this individual. What a great representation. What a great way to put on display a transformed individual. But not transformed based on my own on my own merits and things that I did. I got you, my favorite guy. But Because of what God did. Try it. When you look at an individual, say you two are in God's image. Sin is pulling you away from God. But let me share Jesus with you that will bring you closer to God as opposed to staying away as though they're going to infect you. We don't forget, we've all sinned. We've all fallen. And it is by the grace of God, through Jesus' work on the cross, that you are here. And I hope you remind yourself that every morning before you walk out your door that I have been saved by grace through faith and it is not of my works but it is a gift from God. I think we meditate on that. enough. I truly don't. I need to meditate on it more. To become a better husband, to become a better friend, to become a better servant. The church, it is all by his grace. Can you all hear Bob? You all can hear? Okay. So the Bible the Bible is Adam Board. So the ultimate so we can send the office never the time. Don't jump to next week again. Okay. Thank you. Anybody else? Like God is the most glorified of everything. When He becomes the obedience to the Father becare walk, God becomes with the two wills. Greater love for him than any of the paltry things of the world. Amen. Amen, brother. It was uh Vodie Balcom uh who said who said who said who said one time that he interacted with an individual that said, You Christians never have fun. It's just like I have the best fun in my life because I'm with Jesus and everything that I do is from him. I have fun with Jesus all day long. And I think the truth of the matter is because we have our sinful nature and we're wrestling with that. We it's it's a tug back and forth and sometimes man sees us wrestling with that and it looks like we're not enjoying God But the more we meditate on God's word, the more we spend time with Him, the more we read of His Word. I don't know how you cannot enjoy Him. It's not a chore to go back and to read the story of who God is because I know that there's been m well, maybe I'll speak for myself, but movies that we just watch over and over and over again that we never get tired of I remember when I first came to America, one of the first movies I watched was um I won't mention the name, but but but but the reason was I didn't know how to speak English and we were just watching in the hating all the time. So I was just like, Well, now I understand the movie. So let me put it on. But when it comes to God, it's it's uh getting to his word, seeing who you are and what he's doing and why he's doing what he's doing. you begin to fall in love with your creator. Sometimes we have false love because we'll open up a psalm or a problem and we're just looking for something to get us through the day. We're not looking for God to conform us or convict us or to Fix up where it's like what is gonna motivate me to get through the day. And that's why the book I think um one of my brothers, um I forget who Steve mentioned That's why so many women would fall in love with that book, uh I think um Jesus Calling by that I forget what her name is, but but they were just like devotionals that would just make them feel good about them stuff daily, but it was not really helping them grow in the Lord. Um I have the other two rationale nature and more uh moral capacity but I wanna make sure I wanna get through who Jesus is and then the uh incarnation because there's gonna be a lot more next week to get through with regards to that. So if we could just jump down. And again, this is a high level view, but I'm just gonna read through this so we can get through it. Um the sun is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of over all creation, for in him All things were created, things in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions, uh rulers or authorities, all things were created through him and for him. He is before all things, and in him all things hold together. That's Jesus Christ. If we make a mistake, this is um Christian writing, if we make a mistake of his identity. Okay, it's not having a good day up here. Forgive me. There we go. If we make a if we make a mistake of his trident, we mistake the gospel, and the whole faith runs around on deadly rocks of confusion and error. That's why we have young people, and I'm not picking on young people, we have old people as well, that um will create a Jesus that they're satisfied with, a Jesus that is affirming to their lifestyle. a Jesus that makes them feel good. And I didn't think about it much until I I began to meditate more and more on God, but Jesus is not my homeboy. That was the t-shirt that was going through. Jesus is my homeboy. Jesus is my co-pilot I think I've shared that before in this class. If you have Jesus as your co-pilot, the plane is going down. Guaranteed. And the the identity of Christ was so essential that they had a ecumenical ecumenical My God, see I looked at you. I said it right. Council. I knew you knew that. Uh the Council of Calcedon in AD four fifty one where Christ's identity was the main feature. They they had they were trying to identify who is Christ and what is his identity because there are all these heresies coming up about uh who Jesus was. And I think truly that the individuals that were part of the council had uh good intentions. I don't think they were just trying to um slander Christ but they didn't have a great understanding. So they had to bring a team together to not confirm or not to make up, but to understand. And sometimes in individuals get it wrong when it comes to counsels They think that these councils made up the Bible, made up the church, made up these things. No. These things were already made up and put together by the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. But then God used men and revealed to certain men through councils. what his intentions were and because of early church fathers we are blessed and some of the things that we're dealing with today the only reason why we're dealing with them today is because Oftentimes we don't know our past or our history. And so it's important to go back and it doesn't have to be too intensive, but just each day to go through something. So you could go out to the world and Defend what you believe, right? Always be prepared to give a defense for the hope that is in you, right? That's what we're here for. Even if it's one thing. I employ you every Sunday, whether it be class or church, write something down, meditate on it, and share with somebody. Faith comes through hearing and sharing the word of Jesus Christ. Because apart from that, there is no salvation. So people are out there in the world hearing all these lies, hearing all these heresies, and they're believing in them because Christians either are timid or just don't know. Share your faith, learn your faith, defend your faith because the world needs it, especially right now. I'm gonna let you read this uh C. S. Lewis quote. Um it's a very popular quote, and I think a lot of us know it, but I have it on here um for for you all to read Jesus said To the leaders of this time, if you had believed in Moses, you also would believe in me because he wrote about me. And you were probably looking at him like, uh, dude, you're not even forty. How do you write about you? And to us the readers, that should tell us that Jesus was in the beginning. And he in this statement is affirmable Chad Christensen is saying Scott Christensen, sorry, is saying to us that God is the grand hero of history and has been part of this story since the inception of the Bible in the beginning With Genesis, all the way through Revelation. Jesus himself said, I'm the Alpha, the beginning, and Omega, the end. Jesus God, truly, truly I tell you, Jesus declared, before Abraham was, I am, which is Exodus 30, 14. Am I correct here? Three fourteen. Thank you. See this three fourteen. Um before Abraham was I am. Right? Which c which said in John eight fifty eight. Jesus declared a name for God Jesus declared oh I have it down here I'm sorry. Jesus said uh Jesus declared the name of God for himself um in Exodus three fourteen. Jesus is the beginning of all things. And will be the end of all things. I am the Alpha and Obeda, the beginning of the end. Revelation 1. 8. Sorry if I'm rushing. As we begin to as now, as we jump into the incarnate nature of Christ I want to read this uh quote to you from Christian. The exclusive rescuer of mankind who defeats moral evil and reverses the cosmic curse We must be prepared to have all conceptions of a hero of the heroic in our minds strategically blown and reconfigured to gain some small glimpse of the wonder and of this grand hero of history So we have this conception of what a hero is supposed to look like. We talked about Hercules to most of us in this room. We would think Batman, Superman, Spider-Man a superhero. No, I don't know, but Spider Man. Um so th when we see these superheroes we we think of like strength, power and and um these supernatural powers, but gee God said that's not who the hero of the story is gonna be. So these conceptions that you have from these great Greek gods of what you think a hero is supposed to look like That's not how my hero is gonna look. And that's what Christensen is gonna jump into here as we talk about the incarnate nature of Christ I'm going to jump down to um the next paragraph. The most remarkable miracle of all, Christian right, is not God speaking to the creation into existence out of nothing, but rather the infinite creator taking upon himself all the finite features of the lowly creatures he made in order to bring about their redemption. Wow, I created you, I made you, I formed you, and now I'm gonna make myself like you. I don't think we understand the level of humility that is How many in here has had promotions at their jobs? Don't raise your hand. But imagine you having a promotion at your job, right? You're at the top position. All of a sudden your boss comes through and says you have to go down to an entry level. Don't respond But how many individuals in here would remain in that position? Our pride is underlying. People are gonna look at us and judge us. And therefore, we can't take it. We will walk out But here, God, the creator of the universe, the word that became flesh, dwelt among his creation, taking on their likeness, taking on their weaknesses. I can't even begin to understand how he felt to be able to say, let there be light, and now to be standing within his own creation. But you know uh copy the mystery is that it's only the most time you read ahead huh? Thank you. Well just looking at the human side, because as you said, he was fully God. And fully man. And I'm gonna jump down here but I'll come back up. I wanna read something to you that I don't know if you all knew Dave Doyle. It's a lot of excitement. We love them too. But when he was explaining this mystery to us, I love the way that he would break it down for us. So there are a lot of heretics as um as um Larry just pointed out, God was fully man and fully God. We call that the hypostatic union. God didn't give up any of his divine nature when he came into being. He was still fully God and still fully man. It's a mystery to us how that works, but we know two individuals, one person, you know, fully God, fully man And so two natures. Um but then we had these heresies that come about where uh one is called Eutichanism, but I have it here as monophysicism, a her and it was condemned by one of the church councils that I'm that I that I spoke of And they held the view that he only had one nature, being a mixture of the two. So Pastor Dore would say Jesus is is not God in a blender. He you don't take uh the man god and the uh divine god, throw them in the blender and just like spin it and mix them up, and you don't know which one is which. They were both presently there. One was not missing the other. Then we have Nestorianism. Nestorianism was another heresy that was taught. And it said God was two separate persons. There were two separate persons. And Pastor Dor would say that Jesus is not doubt with a buddy. It's not i it's not two persons in um it's not two separate persons in in the in the person of Christ Jesus. Then we have Arianism, which declared that God was not truly divine but a created being And so we know that there are some things that God He He is omnipotent, He can do everything, He's omniscient, He Uh he's omnipresent, but there are some things that God wouldn't do. So if he if he created another God, then that's a created being. And is he creating somebody that's greater than himself? No So, if Jesus is who he says that he is and he is God, he cannot be a created being. Apollinarianism. A fourth century heretical views, there are a lot of heresies, and these are just a few of them, that held that God had a human body. But not a human mind or spirit. The mind and spirit of Christ were the divine nature. Then we have adoptionism. Which believe that that Jesus did not become the Son of God until after his baptism. And it was at that time that God gave him the supernatural powers and his abilities to become his son, hence adoptionism. And yes, I'm sorry. No, no, no. These were we we use um uh group we No, we use groom systematic theology. And so I'm explaining it to you, but I actually wrote the um definition, so I was just giving them credit for their definition. No no no. No, it's coming from his it's coming from his book. I just want to uh give you all the reference for if you want to go read it about it a little bit more. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. I didn't want to take credit for the way that he so eloquently put them together. And then we have docism, which comes from the Greek word dokeo, which means to appear. So the view that Jesus was not really a man, but only appeared to be one. Okay. I wanted to get through those heresies if we could jump back up. Okay, who is closing up? Alright. We are right under where I have the the mere Christianity. Okay, as we begin Okay, what does incarnate mean? We're gonna spend five minutes on here so I don't hold you all up. The transcendent one as Larry was talking about, becomes the eminent one, drawing near to us and dwelling among his creatures. We see that in John 1 14. And the word became flesh and dwelt among us We have seen his glory, the glory of the one and only Son from the Father. He is the full grace of truth. In Hebrews we have it said that he is the exact imprint, the representation of God. So there is no variation between the two. Jesus is God and God is Jesus. Jesus himself said the Father and I are. He said we're two separate beings. He didn't say I'm waiting for him to get back to me and said, Give me some power. He said we're we're one We're one God, but we're different persons. So we have essence or nature. which is what you are, which is God, and we have person, who you are. So in the Godhead, we have the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. But they are all one God and one is not the other. They all have their different functions. And the word became flesh, which comes from the Greek the the word logos Which and it was a word that was used back then to talk about the divine and reason and the mind and the creative order. That was the word that they would use for um f uh to describe the understanding of the uh of the world and the cosmos, how things came to be. But here John is telling us that reason that that that that um understanding in the the um intellect part be is now Here is represented in flesh. It's no longer just a concept. It's no longer just, well, what do you think about this or what do you think about that? But every reason and divine um wisdom and and things that our mind can conceive of is now here present with us. It's no longer out of our grasp. And he is dwelling here among us. Man, what do I have here? By becoming the flesh, Jesus became the self-expression, there we go, the self expression of the world, of God to the world Man hears from God through Jesus. Man hears from God through Jesus. And in the Hebrews it began by telling us that in the old days we heard through what? The prophets. But in today, in Hindu days, we hear from what? Through the Son, and which is the Word of God. God the Son assumes the human nature without giving up anything, and that is called Thank you. What is it? God is God became man and God is still became who he was, and that is the hypostatic union. One is not given up, one is not less than the other. He is fully God and fully man. Both natures are conjoined into one person. Jesus will forever be God, the true truly God and true man, two distinct natures, perfectly united in one. I have a couple of scriptures here. For in Christ all the fullness of the deity dwells in bodily form. Colossians 2. 9. The Son from Hebrews 1. 3. is the radiance of God's glory, the exact representation of his nature, upholding all things by his powerful word, after he lent after he had provided purification for our sins He sat down at the right hand of majesty on high. Behold, it says in Matthew 1 3, the virgin will be with child, and you in And we'll give birth to a son, and they will call him Emmanuel. Emmanuel, which is God with us. We've already finished the bottom. Next week, we're going to continue with the incarnation and then discuss why Jesus had to take on the incarnation form to save us from evil. I'm gonna pray us out. Thank you, Lord, for getting us through this um first part as we discuss your sons taking on human form. And come in a dwell among us. Thank you, Lord, for giving us the church that we could come to and just learn more about your word As we close out, Father God, I want to take a moment to pray for our brothers and sisters that are being persecuted right now in Nigeria. And even though that is what we're seeing in the media and it is so unfortunate that we are just seeing it now after a multiple years of this uh genocide happening over and over again We we are grateful that we are seeing it now. We we are lifting up our voice not um collectively with our brothers and sisters who are hurting, but we are not just praying for the individuals in Nigeria, but we're praying for in Christians and um The Middle East we're praying for Christians in um in China we are praying for Christians in the Caribbeans, wherever there is persecution right now of your people, O Lord, we're praying that your hands will be upon them and that you will protect them, O Lord. Thank you for the time that you have given us this morning. I pray for each and every person as they go out and they um prepare for the service. that their minds will be truly focusing on you and that your word will pierce them and that they will be able to have a mind that retained that which you are teaching them And this evening and throughout the week when they go home from the sermon that will be um shared today that they're able to have those discussions in their homes and able to grow in your word And we'll even be able to have discussions with neighbors and individuals that are not aware. Lord, thank you for who you are again. Thank you for what you've done. Thank you for loving us in the midst of our sins. It is in Jesus' name I pray. Amen.