Open your Bible if you have one to Isaiah chapter nine. If you don't have a Bible, there's a Bible in the seat in front of you. Isaiah chapter nine. What Child Is This is one of my favorite Christmas hymns. The melody of the verses, it's obviously sung in different ways or or presented in different ways, but um sometimes the way you hear it, there's almost this Dark sense that something is wrong, especially when you're singing the first verse But then the melody of the chorus kind of explodes with confidence in the declaration of who this child is. And it expresses, at least in contrast to verse 1, what is wrong, what is the problem that the question raises, and that is that the king would be born in such a mean estate, the lyric says, or in a lowly manger There really could not be a greater contrast than the condition of the stable, if you will, the manger as compared to the glory of the child who was born in it. But the song itself, well at least in its original lyrics, uh many of the lyrics we sung have been added since it was originally written. The song does not go into great detail as to the glory of this king, and that's where Isaiah chapter 9 comes in. It's a remarkable passage of scripture that we're going to look at this morning, but let's begin with a word of prayer. Father, we come now to sit under your word. And even as preacher and people, we acknowledge our utter dependence on you. This is the everlasting word of God. It is true in all that it declares. And here we read a revelation of this child who is born, this Son who is given, and the truths that are given about him are beyond what we can fully comprehend. And so we need your help, Holy Spirit, to open our eyes just a little bit more. to expand our hearts that we might have the power to understand the revelation that is given to us here Lord, use this time as we examine these wonderful words to increase our love for and delight in Jesus Christ. In his name we pray. Amen. Well follow along as I read Isaiah 9, verses 6 and 7. For to us a child is born, to us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder And his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. Of the increase of his government and of peace there will be no end on the throne of David and over his kingdom to establish it and to uphold it with justice and with righteousness from this time forth and forevermore. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will do this Isaiah was the prophet who ministered in Jerusalem during the reigns of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah. Though Uzziah and Jotham were largely faithful to the Lord, Ahaz walked in the ways of most of the kings of the previous two hundred years leading the people of the nation back into idolatry. Unsatisfied with the idolatry of the past, he took the people deeper into idolatry. and practiced, among other things, the despicable act of child sacrifice with his own son. The northern kingdom of Israel had long since departed from faithfulness to the Lord Even joining forces with Syria to come and attacked Jerusalem, their fellow Israelites in Judah And now the king of Judah himself promotes crimes that their own constitution, the law of Moses, identifies as punishable by death. For the prophets and those who were faithful to the Lord, this was the darkest of times. And Isaiah chapters 7 through 12 are written during this period to warn those who are evil, and to give hope to the faithful in response to the wickedness of Ahaz and those who followed his example. This broad section of chapters 7 through 12 includes those common themes we read through the prophets of judgment for wickedness and future restoration. In fact, chapter 8 reveals that Israel's wickedness will be judged by the coming of Assyria to destroy and exile the people. And Judah's wickedness will lead to distress and darkness, gloom and anguish And so if you were in Judah at this time and your heart was devoted to the Lord, you would have felt hopeless Not only was your king a gross idolater, but he had Uriah, the priest who was in charge of the temple in his pocket. This means that you, in your desire to be faithful to the Lord, could not go to the temple and perform all of those responsibilities and sacrifices of thanksgiving and and sin sacrifices that you would desire to do because the temple had become a place of paganism. And so this was a time of sorrow and mourning for those who loved God. And it's into that bitter circumstance that the prophecy in Isaiah chapter 9 is written Now, if you look at your Bible, you can tell that verses 6 and 7 is really the end of a section of a promise detailing a future day defined not by darkness and gloom. and anguish, but rather by light and joy and delight. In fact, if you look at verse 6, it begins with the word for, which means because And so what Isaiah writes of this child in verses 6 and 7 explains something. What is it that he explains? Well, let's Quickly walk through verses one through five to get the context. Look at verses one to three here. But there will be no gloom for her who was in anguish. In the former time he brought into contempt the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, but in the latter time he has made glorious the way of the sea, the land beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the Nations. The people who walked in darkness have seen a great light. Those who dwelt in a land of deep darkness, on them light has shone. You have multiplied the nation. You have increased its joy. They rejoice before you as with joy at the harvest, as they are glad when they divide the spoil. This is a promise of a future day for God's people. Instead of being defined by oppression, it will be defined by freedom Instead of being a people exiled and cut off, this will be a time when the nation will multiply. Instead of a time of loss, it will be a time of prosperity. Light and joy and gladness will characterize life in that age. But how will that happen Well Isaiah goes on to give three realities that make this future possible. Look at verse 4 It says, For the yoke of his burden and the staff for his shoulder, the rod of his oppressor, you have broken, as on the day of Midian. The first reality is that those who oppress Judah will be broken. The oppression and wickedness of external enemies, other nations, and internal wicked leaders will be taken away. And then look at verse five. For every boot of the tramping warrior in battle tumult, and every garment rolled in blood will be burned as fuel for the fire The second reality is that there will be an end to war. The burning of boots and clothing of warriors means that military uniforms and equipment will no longer be needed because there will be peace. And then the third reality comes in verses six and seven. Namely, there will be a new king. But this king will not be like any other king. This king will not be like Asa or Jehoshaphat or Uzziah or Jotham or Hezekiah or Josiah. All kings who were on the whole faithful to the Lord, and promoted true worship, reformed the nation according to the laws of the Lord in many respects No matter how good Israel's kings could be, they all had significant limitations If you read through the books of Samuel and Kings and Chronicles, you know that the scripture has makes no attempt to hide the limitations, the failures, the weaknesses of its best kings and rulers. And it discourages us, to say the least, from putting our hope in kings We read, for example, in Psalm 118, verses 8 and 9: It is better to take refuge in the Lord than to trust in men. It is better to take refuge in the Lord than to trust in princes. In Isaiah chapter 2, the Lord exhorts his people, saying, Stop regarding man in whose nostrils is breath, for of what account is he? Again, stop putting your trust in kings. And then the Lord goes so far as to say in Jeremiah chapter 17: Cursed is the man who trusts in man and makes flesh his strength. Whose heart turns away from the Lord. We've heard the saying many times: the best of men are men at best. And that's true of all men and women as well. But even if there was one man that could be said to stand at the apex of all men, that statement would still be true of that man He may be the best of men, but he is a man at best, with all the limitations that men have And so, since that's the case, one might wonder why does God encourage his people to place their hope, in fact, the hope of the world, on this new king? Well, in verses six and seven, we get the answer to that. These verses explain why this child, unlike all others, is one in whom we can place our hope. What we have here are five answers to the question, what child is this? What child is this in whom we can place our hope? Well, first of all, he is the gift of God. Look at the beginning of verse 6. For to us a child is born, to us a son is given. These two lines work in parallel to say the same thing, two different ways, but with the second line expanding on the first. And they convey to us that we can hope in this future king because he is the gift from God. He's not just a child born like all children who are born. Every king, in fact, is born. There's nothing special about a king being born, nor is he special because we consider him to be sk uh special because of his Perhaps his parentage or his personality, his charisma, or his experience. No, what makes this child special is that he is given by God. He is a gift Now, your translation here might say will be born and will be given instead of is born and is given as it's written in the ESV and other translations. And the reason for that is because there is no time conveyed in the Hebrew grammar as English does, so the translator must consider the context. to determine the sense of time. And clearly from Isaiah's perspective, who's writing this as a word from the Lord, everything of which he writes is in the future. So it would be entirely appropriate, and it is, to put everything in the future tense and say, He will be born. He will be given. But some translators try to bring out the nuances of the verbs that convey actions that are complete or incomplete. Uh actions that are one time versus ongoing. And in English, the way those translations come out convey to us a sense of time, past past time, present, and future And prophecies are not always written with this future orientation. In fact, if you were to If we were to read through this whole section again, paying particular attention to the words that are translated, uh it seems to go back and forth as at least as it's translated into English between the past tense, the present tense, and the future tense. But again, all of it in reality is in the future from Isaiah's perspective. Now, overall, this passage clearly is about a kingdom And in that context, to proclaim the birth of a child, the birth of a son, even, is to proclaim the arrival of a royal son, a royal heir. In a monarchy, whenever there is a public announcement about the birth of a son, it tells everybody that the royal line will continue. And in this case, verse 7 tells us that this is the line of David. But this is not just any birth of a descendant of David. There have been many of those which were not at all noteworthy Certainly not worthy of celebration. Here the term that is most significant is the word given. A son will be given or is given. This takes a normal event, the birth of a baby, even the birth of a child in the royal line, and it infuses that announcement with infinite significance. James 1. 17 says, Every good and perfect gift is from above Coming down from the Father of lights, with whom there's no variation or shadow to change. We have a generous God who gives life and breath and all things And he gives good things to all people. But sometimes he gives special gifts to his particular chosen people. And here we see that he gives a son. Now the original audience would have understood this son to be a gift from God. They knew, 2 Samuel 7, which Scott mentioned earlier, where God promised David the what we call the Davidic covenant. promising a future son who would establish an everlasting kingdom. So they would clearly have understood that this child would be the promised son of David who would establish his kingdom forever. But now that we live many years after this son was given, we can say more than Isaiah understood. We can look, for example, to John 3. 16, where it says, For God so loved the world that he gave his son. You see, what Isaiah did not understand, and the people at that time would not have understood, is that this son was no ordinary son. It's not like one of David's descendants would have a son, and God would pluck that son up from that family, if you will, and give it to the nation as a gift. Now ultimately, because all children belong to God, nobody could ever claim that God gave something that didn't belong to him originally But God didn't even do that. He gave his own son. I think this is worth us considering for a moment. As creator, God owns everything There is nothing outside of his domain. There is nothing that exists that does not ultimately belong to him because he made all things. Therefore, all people Rather, God, because He owns everything, He deserves all glory and honor and praise and exaltation. And because he owns and deserves all things, we cannot give to him a gift like we might give to one another. The Lord says to Job in Job chapter 41, verse 11, Who has first given to me that I should repay him? Whatever is under the whole heaven is mine. So not God not only owns all things and he deserves all things, but we can also say that God is owed all things. In other words, you can never give something and put God in a position of owing you because he owed what you gave him to begin with. Or rather, you owed him what You gave him. So all creation owes its existence to him. All creatures owe their life and breath to him. Therefore, all people owe to God their worship and their service. We are indebted to Him and no one else for all that we are and all that we have. And the only way to begin to pay that debt is to give all that we are and all that we have. to him in worship and service. There is nothing that we can claim as belonging to ourselves of which we are not to use for his glory. Now, because of God's boundless generosity, nobody could ever claim that God is stingy That he is selfish or that he is frugal. No, he is unspeakably generous to the world in all that he does And so it is a wonder beyond wonders that he would give something that goes so far beyond the concept of generosity That there are no words or superlatives to describe it except to simply say, He gave his son This son that God gave is not created, as false religions declare. God did not give to creation from creation. No, he gave his son who existed outside and before creation. He gave his Son, of whom it is written that in the beginning he was with God, and he was God. He gave his Son, of whom it is also written, that all things were made through him, and without him was not anything made that was made. In other words, if anything has the quality of having been made or created, it was made by God's Son. This means that in giving his son, God gave an infinite gift to finite creatures And when God gives a gift like that, you can be certain that there is no good thing he will withhold Romans 8 verse 32 says, He did who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? We can hope in this child who was born because he is the Son of God. He is a gift from God that is literally out of this world. So what child is this? He is the gift of God. The second reason we can hope in him is because he will have dominion. He will have dominion. Look at the second part of verse 6. It says, And the government shall be upon his shoulder. What child is this? This is the son who is given to us who will have dominion. He is not just a potential heir to the throne. He will sit on the throne. The shoulder was designed by God to carry heavy burdens. On our shoulders we can carry far more and for far longer than what we can carry with our hands. And this led to the figurative idea of bearing other kinds of burdens such as weights of responsibility And so the responsibility that this son will carry on his shoulders is translated here, government. Now the Hebrew word that is used here is only used in verse 6, and then again the beginning of verse 7, but the root of the verb has the idea of ruling and reigning. And so this being a noun, government is an appropriate translation. But I would prefer the term dominion because the focus is not on the government as an institution, but on his ruling authority. In other words, he will carry authority and the right to rule. To say that the government will be on his shoulder means that he will have dominion. And again, this is another promise of immense significance. Whenever a child is born in the royal line, it always comes with hopes. But also with much uncertainty. Because there is a lot that can happen between a child's birth and the day that they may be coronated, And if they do arrive at that day of coronation, there are all kinds of potential hindrances to even the best of kings accomplishing their plans. Monarchs have thrones, but they don't always have dominion. Their dominion depends on the support and submission of their officials and their subjects. And they need the surrounding kingdoms to not oppose them or go to war with them to distract them from their plans and efforts. And so to say that this child will have dominion goes beyond saying simply that he will be a king It is to say that his authority will be recognized and obeyed. In Psalm 2, which may well have been written by Isaiah's day, God the Father says to his Son, Ask of me and I will give the nations as your heritage, and the ends of the earth your possession And then the prophet Daniel, who ministered about a hundred years after Isaiah, wrote this in chapter 7, verse 14 of this coming ruler. Saying, and to him was given dominion and glory and a kingdom that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him This is why verse 4 can say that there will no longer be oppression. And verse 5 can say that there's no longer going to be any war. Because this son who is given will have dominion over all the earth. There will be no one to oppress, and there will be no one to make war This will be an age unlike every other age in human history. The history of the world is the history of warring nations. And the history of each individual nation is a history of civil war and changing dynasties and competing factions Never has the world seen a nation sustain peace within itself forever, as long as it has existed. And never has the history of the world seen the world at peace But one day this child will have complete and total dominion. It is beyond the strength of mere men to shoulder such dominion. But this one who was born can shoulder it because of who he is. To what child is this? He is, first of all, the gift of God. And second of all, he will have dominion. Third, he will demonstrate divine qualities He will demonstrate divine qualities. Look at the last part of verse six. And his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. Sometimes names are used for identification, or maybe we should say most of the time names are used for identification, but there are names that simply describe a person We remember that in Exodus chapter 3, the Lord revealed to Moses his own name. He said, I am who I am, and this is my memorial name by which I shall be known. And that name which comes to us as Yahweh is how we distinguish God from every other false God. He is the self-existent one. But there are other names that God gives Himself, or that even people give to God. Names like El Roy, the God who sees, or Yahweh Yereh, the God who provides Or Yahweh Rapha, the God uh the Lord who heals. And there are many more. But those names in particular are ascribed to God because of how He works in caring for His people. The names here in verse 6 are ascribed to the Son not as something that we will actually call him to get his attention, but rather by how we describe him because of who he is and what he does. Now there are four names here, each of which point us to the divine qualities that this child will demonstrate as he reigns. First, as we see, he will be called wonderful counselor. Wonderful counselor. Remember that Ahaz was king when Isaiah wrote this, and Ahaz was a wicked counselor. His wisdom was foolishness. His counsel was destructive. Instead of leading the people to truth and life, he led the people to lies and death. And Israel knew what it looked like to have a wise counselor as a king. There was no king on the earth in the history of the world who surpassed the wisdom of Solomon. So high and extensive was his wisdom that it caused foreign leaders to have their breath taken away. It produced unimaginable wealth for the nation. And his fame spread throughout the world, but Solomon did not live by his wisdom. He foolishly took wives and concubines that drew his heart away from the Lord He engaged in building projects that oppressed the people. And though there was unparalleled peace during his reign, there were the seeds of division being sown, which came to flower after his death. But this son, who is given, will be a counselor surpassing the wisdom of Solomon He will not only speak truth and give insight, but he will also live consistently with it. His counsel will lead to flourishing without sowing any seeds of division. There will be no cracks in the foundation of his reign. The counsel by which he speaks and reigns and lives will permeate his dominion. But that's just the beginning of what this means, that he is the wonderful counselor. The word wonderful is is not a superlative saying that he that his counsel is going to surpass all others, it actually means one who does wonders. He is a counselor who does wonders. This is the same word used to describe the Lord after he had defeated the Egyptians after the Red Sea or in the Red Sea. Exodus 15, 11 says, Who is like you, O Lord, among the gods? Who is like you, majestic in holiness, awesome in glorious deeds, doing wonders? It's the same word And then Isaiah chapter twenty nine verse fourteen, the Lord describes how he will respond to the hypocrisy of his people, and he says, Therefore, behold, I will do wonderful things with this people, with wonder upon wonder. And the wisdom of the wise shall perish, and the discernment of the discerning men shall be hidden. So the wonderful counselor, then, is one who, more than giving counsel, has the power to accomplish That which is wise and good. More than speak things that give life if you follow those pieces of wisdom, he actually gives life More than setting good policies, he has the power to accomplish them in his kingdom. And beyond these things, we can say that the wonderful counselor does things that surprise us A wonder is a wonder because of how it catches us off guard. It does things we couldn't begin to imagine, let alone hope for. Well, we know who this child was who was born and he grew up, and this is exactly what he did. He healed the sick, and he raised the dead, and he fed the hungry, he walked on water, he controlled the weather, and performed many other wonders. But he didn't do it for entertainment purposes. He did wonders to draw attention to the truth of his words. And his wonders and his wisdom in those short years of his adult life are just a taste of how he will rule in his eternal kingdom. Well, not only was he called or will he be called a wonderful counselor, second, he will be called mighty God. Mighty God. There are those who do interpretive gymnastics to try to tell us that this means something like mighty hero or something more ordinary than the divine. But it really cannot mean anything other than what it says. In fact, in just the next chapter, speaking to those, or speaking about those who will return after the exile Isaiah writes in chapter ten verses twenty one or twenty and twenty one in that day the remnant of Israel and the survivors of the house of Jacob will no more lean on him who struck them, but will lean on the Lord, the holy one of Israel and in truth. A remnant shall return, the Jacob, the remnant of Jacob, to the mighty God Now there the title mighty God clearly refers to God. In Deuteronomy chapter 10, as Moses calls the people to faithfulness. He describes God this way. He says, For the Lord your God is God of gods and Lord of lords. He's the great, the mighty, and the awesome God. He doesn't use the exact title, but he uses all of the words of that title. So what child is this? Who is this son who is given? He is mighty God. He will remove oppression, he will end war because he has the power of God Or as one author put it, this king will have God's true might about him, power so great that it can absorb all the evil which can be hurled at it until there is nothing left to hurl He will have God's true might about him because he is mighty God Revelation 19 tells us that the day will come when all the nations after the tribulation will surround and come to destroy Jerusalem. And it will be at that moment when Jesus returns. And at that moment, He will come, and it says, From his mouth comes a sharp sword with which to strike down the nations. And he will rule them with a rod of iron, he will tread the winepress of the fury of the wrath of God the Almighty. Friends, only God has the power to destroy his enemy with his words. And only God has the right to execute his wrath on his enemies. So who is this child? He is wonderful counselor, mighty God, and third, he is everlasting Father. Everlasting Father. Now this sounds confusing at first. Why would the Son be called the Father? Is he confusing the members of the Godhead? Doesn't Isaiah know about the Trinity? Well, no, he doesn't. Remember, this was written long before there was clear revelation about the relationship between God the Father and God the Son. So it's anachronistic, meaning it's before it's time to think in terms. of the persons of the Trinity. And also remember that Isaiah is not giving titles that identify him as a person. He's giving titles that describe his qualities. And so he will be called everlasting father because of how he will care everlastingly for his people. Psalm 103, verse 13 says, As a father shows compassion to his children, so the Lord shows compassion to those who fear him. The son will exercise his authority as king, as a compassionate king. He won't be like the kings of men who are harsh and demanding, who are more concerned with what they can get and take rather than what they can give. He will love his people and ensure their welfare. He will bless them and be generous to them. And his subjects, all those who believe in him Will delight in him as a child delights in her father, in whom she has security and provision. And this love relationship between king and people will endure forever. He is the everlasting Father. Finally, he will be called the Prince of Peace. Prince here is not diminutive as if he's something less than a king. It's a generic title where it's elsewhere translated official or captain or commander or chief and so on. It means that he presides over something. He has responsibility and authority. And specifically, he has authority, he has responsibility as the Prince of Peace This is to say, he is the ruler over a kingdom of peace. Now, this requires that he himself be a man of peace And even more than that, that he has the power, the authority, and the influence to maintain peace in his realm. Again, verses four and five promise the day when oppression will be no more, when war will cease. Why? Because this child who is born, this son who is given, will be a prince of peace. This is saying more than that one day there will be no more war. The shalom over which this prince will preside is not merely the absence of war, but the presence of life And health and harmony in the world. This peace among mankind will return to the perfect peace that existed before sin entered the world There will be full and complete peace between God and man. There will be complete and utter peace between mankind and one another. And there will be peace even between man and animals. and creation itself. Isaiah 11, verse 6, says, The wolf shall dwell with the lamb, and the leopard shall lie down with a young goat. And the calf and the lion and the fatted calf together, and a little child shall lead them. And it goes on to describe even more aspects of the peace between mankind and creation. We are so accustomed to the violence of creation. It's hard for us to comprehend what a world without predators and aggressors and the Oppressors look like. There will be complete freedom from fear, anxiety, harm. There will be no threats from God or mankind or animals or creatures or the earth itself Our security and our safety will not be dependent on our diligence, vigilance, but on the complete absence of danger. This son who was given will preside over a world of complete harmony and peace. No mere man can do that. No mere man has the authority or the influence or the power To sustain, let alone create, pervasive peace. No mere man can procure peace between God and man. No man can sustain peace among all other men. No man can change the nature of animals and of creation itself to prevent them from threatening mankind What child is this? He will demonstrate divine qualities. He will be the wonderful counselor, the mighty God, everlasting Father and Prince of Peace. This brings us to the fourth reason. We can put our hope in this Son who is given. What child is this? This child is one whose reign will have no end. His reign will have no end. Look at the beginning of verse 7. Of the increase of his government and of peace there will be no end. Now, at first glance it would seem to be saying that of his dominion and peace that he procures it will keep growing and growing and growing forever. But that can't be true because It would mean that forever there would be some lack of dominion or some lack of peace that he would be forever just chipping away at. If his dominion and peace were always increasing, then you could never say that there is total dominion and there is total peace And there's reasons, even in the words themselves, that it it doesn't mean that it will be growing forever and increasing. First, the word increase doesn't really mean continuing to increase over time. The word usually means just great. or many or large. For example, the same word is used in Genesis 36, verse 7, speaking of Abraham and Lot, saying their possessions were too great for them to dwell together. That speaks to the substantial amount of possessions that they had at one point in time. And so it's this sense of magnitude that fits better here in verse 7. But second, the phrase, there will be no end, can refer to both space and time. In other words, there will be no limit to the length of his reign And there will be no limit to the sphere of his reign. His reign will be total and complete and all-encompassing and everlasting. This is, of course, in contrast to every other ruler humanity has ever known. The greatest problem that rulers face is their own mortality. Psalm 146 says, Put not your trust in princes, in a son of man in whom there is no salvation. When his breath departs, he returns to the earth on that very day. His plans perish. That's the universal reality of all kings and all rulers. No matter how good a ruler is, he will die. And no matter how evil a ruler is, he will die. We celebrate the limitations of wicked rulers. We lament the limitations of good rulers, but no limitation will bind this Son who is given As well, all rulers have borders that limit the sphere of their reign. They have dominion until they reach that line at which another king claims dominion. And often they don't even have that much dominion because not everybody in their kingdom submits to them. But this son will not have such boundaries. There will be no border of his dominion on earth. Or in the sky. Centuries later, the prophet Daniel wrote, and I mentioned this verse earlier, chapter 7, verse 14. To him was given dominion and glory and a kingdom, that all peoples and nations and languages should serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion which shall not pass away, and his kingdom one that shall not be destroyed. More than that, his dominion will not be limited to the Material world, what we can see, it extends even to that which we cannot see. Because of what this son accomplished in his life, death, and resurrection. It says in Philippians chapter 2, verses 9 to 11, Therefore God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name, so that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow In heaven and on earth and under the earth, and that every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father So there's no end in time, and there's no sphere, no end in sphere to his reign. His reign is boundless in every respect. Now finally, the fifth reason we can hope in this child who was born is because his rule will be incorruptible. His rule will be incorruptible. Look at the rest of verse seven. On the throne of David and over his kingdom to establish it and to uphold it, with justice and with righteousness, from this time forth and forevermore. This statement expands on the previous to explain how it is that his reign will have no end, namely, it is incorruptible. Now if you just look at that phrase, what we read there on its own, it seems to be missing a verb. So some translations you might have one kind of supplies a verb for us, saying something like as the ENRV says He will reign on David's throne, and so on. And that meaning is clearly implied, so they're not misleading us. But Isaiah did not forget to include a verb. In fact, if you examine the structure of verses six and seven, it makes sense that the main verb is actually supplied at the beginning of verse six, and it can be carried down through the rest of the passage. So it can read something like this For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder. To us a son is given, and his name shall be called. To us a son is given, and of the increase of his government, and of peace there will be no end. To us a son is given on the throne of David and over his kingdom So this declares that this son who is given is of the lineage of David and will sit on his throne This is the kingdom over which he will reign. And while the kingdom of David is centered in Jerusalem, as we read from Daniel seven, this son's reign will encompass all kingdoms of the world. Now notice what he says next there, to establish it and to uphold it. But the kingdom needs to be established, implies that this son is not taking over an existing kingdom. He is not, as some believe, waiting for us to establish his kingdom on the earth so that he can come and sit on his throne No, the word established means to prepare or to make ready or to set in place. And so he is in effect going to re-establish his kingdom because it had been lost as God's judgment on his people. Not only will he establish it, but he will uphold it. Notice that it says he will establish Um r sorry, uh in saying he he will uphold it, uh it means he will sustain it. He will ensure that it will not be taken away or overthrown or subverted. It will stand Forever. Now again, how can this be? No kingdom of the earth has ever been like this Well the answer is because no corruption will ever be able to take a hold in it. Notice that it says he will establish and uphold it with righteousness, or rather with justice and with righteousness, from this time forth. and forevermore. Justice and righteousness are two sides of the same coin. Righteousness Righteousness is the standard of what is true, good, and right according to the perfections of God's being. What is true, good, and right according to the perfections of God's being Justice is the upholding impartially to that standard of righteousness So righteousness is the standard, justice is holding to that standard. Now corruption is failing to uphold God's standard And corruption always leads to destruction. But when God's standard is upheld, When society is structured and governed by God's standard of righteousness, and it is justly maintained by all in authority and all under authority That kingdom cannot fall because it is impervious to anything that would undermine it And so this son who is given will establish and uphold the throne of David in justice and righteousness. It will be an incorruptible dominion that will last forever. So what child is this? He is the gift of God. He will have dominion. He will demonstrate divine attributes. His reign will have no end because it will be incorruptible. Does that sound too good to be true? Well based on our experience in the last six thousand years, yeah, it does. So, how can we possibly put our hope in this promise? Well, let me close by giving two brief guarantees for these promises. A biblical guarantee and a biblical historical guarantee. First the biblical guarantee. Look at the last phrase of verse 7. The zeal of Yahweh of hosts will do this. The zeal of Yahweh of hosts will do this This acts like a seal of guarantee on all the promises that have just been given. Zeal is an intense passion. It's an inflamed heart that is propelled toward an object of its desire. And so this promise of the Lord is not a dispassionate, weak-willed promise. No, the heart of the Lord is intensely focused on ensuring that this comes to pass. He has committed all of his thoughts and all of his desires and his will to ensure that this promise is fulfilled So nothing can distract him, nothing can obstruct him, and nothing can dissuade him. He is passionately committed to seeing his son sit on the throne of David forever. Second, the biblical historical guarantee. Not only was this promise made in the eighth century BC, but its fulfillment began. at the turn of the sen of the millennium. We read earlier from Luke chapter 1 where the angel Gabriel says to Mary And behold, you will conceive in your womb, and bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus. He will be great, and will be called the Son of the Most High. And the Lord God will give to him the throne of his father David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob, and his and of his kingdom there will be no end. Well, Jesus grew up, and as an adult, he demonstrated that he is the Son of God. He spoke with unsurpassed wisdom and he worked wonders. He exercised control over Adams. the weather, disease, bodies, and even life itself. He transformed hearts and lives, and in short, he showed that he has the kind of power to conform all things to his will. But it was not time then for him to establish his kingdom. His first task was to redeem a people for himself. So he took upon himself the wrath of God, and he died on the cross to satisfy God's wrath on behalf of those whom he would save. And three days later he rose from the dead, accomplishing victory over the greatest of all enemies, death itself. And then forty days later he ascended into heaven. from which the angel said, He will return one day to establish his kingdom. This is a biblical historical guarantee because its fulfilment happened already in history, and it was recorded in the Scripture. And it's on the basis of this historical fulfillment and all that Jesus did that we can have complete confidence that the rest of the promise will be fulfilled. So friends, whatever else Christmas means to you, whatever else you plan to do in celebrating the holiday, this is worth celebrating. The Son and His coming kingdom is where you can place your hope when you are grieving and sorrowing over the realities of the curse of sin in this world. This son and his coming kingdom can give you joy as you see the chaos that's going on in the world This son can help you love others, even your own enemies. Because when you are part of his kingdom, you don't need to worry about your security. You don't need to worry about your your possessions, your provision. You don't need to fear harm. You don't need to hoard possessions to yourself. You don't need to control other people. You can just live freely for your Savior and your King. He has promised that when he returns All those who have believed on him in this life will receive a glorious, eternal life with him But all those who have rejected him in this life will be judged by him at his return The time to become part of his kingdom is not then, it is now. The expiration for the invitation to join him In glu in the everlasting kingdom expires the moment you take your last breath. So, friend, if you are here and you do not know the Lord Jesus Christ as your Savior and your King Believe in him, trust in him, confess your sin, and know that he offers you forgiveness and eternal life no matter what you have done There is no sin that can prevent you from receiving forgiveness in life from him. So may we all this week, again, whatever else we do, may we celebrate this child who is born, this son who was given, who now sits at the Father's right hand. And let us pray for his return. Let's pray now Our Father, as glorious as these truths are, in the descriptions that we have pondered There is yet more glory to be seen. And so help us, even in our weakness and our frailty, to know the Lord Jesus Christ more and more. That his glory might grow in our hearts, and we might give him the worship that he is due. And Lord Jesus, we long for the day when you will return. This world is sick and dying. Wickedness prevails And we desire for you to come and establish your kingdom that we might live with you forever with joy and delight. And so come, Lord Jesus, come a second time. And deliver us and magnify your name. We pray. Dinah