For today's class we're going to talk about confronting the darkness, so we talked about encountering the darkness. We're going to talk about Arminiism versus Calvinism And of course, we could do a whole 13-week class on Arminianism versus Calvinism, but we're going to scrunch it down to just a portion of this one class. We're going to talk about the free will defense and we're going to talk about the greater good defense, the two primary theodicies that have historically been the ones that have been championed throughout history by various Christian apologists. Before we do that, let's take a look back. Let's do a little review about what we did last time. So last time we talked about the two primary categories of evil. We talked about moral evil. We talk about natural evil Uh moral evil is unrighteous thoughts, words, and actions of morally responsible creatures in violation of a holy God's moral command. In order to have evil, you have to have a standard of good, and then evil is a departure from that standard of good. So evil cannot exist in a vacuum. There has to be some standard from which it is a departure. Good, on the other hand, can exist in a vacuum, if you will, without evil. Example, heaven. No evil in heaven, uh no sin, no no death, no pain, no suffering. None of those things are present in heaven So good does not e uh does not require evil, but evil requires some good standard from which it's a departure. Uh natural evil is, of course, a little bit different from moral evil. It's actually a result of a moral evil. The rebellion of Adam and Eve, part of the curse because of the fall was the curse of creation. And that leads to natural evil, natural disasters, accidents, sickness, disease, those sort of things. So all of it really is a result of the fall, both moral and natural, but we have different categories of evil. And of course, the history of our world has overwhelming, massive weight of moral evil. uh the slave trade we talked about, uh Hitler's final solution, all of the various gulags and um mass murders of twentieth century communism. We have just this history of morally there's uh men doing e wicked, evil things to other men. And of course we're constantly seeing on the news natural disaster after natural disaster after natural disaster disaster. And so the question of theodicy is uh in uh we have such appalling incidents of the moral witness and and natural forces, uh uh um annihilation, um and it becomes mind-numbing. We we become numbed to the numbers of of people both killed in these m moral wickedness and also in natural disasters that something is not right with the world. We have this sense it's that well this is How can this good uh the good almighty God that we believe in that we see in the pages of scripture, how can he allow this sort of evil, disaster, and his good creation. And so the Odyssey is to answer that question. Um and of course when we talk about moral evil, it's easy to identify the evil out there. It's much more much less comfortable to identify the evil in here. And so each one of us is uh capable of moral evil, it has committed moral evil by deviating from God's perfect good standard. And so um Um it's much more comfortable to say, look at that wicked person over there. Uh but truly the wickedness is here and and it's in all of us and there's many scriptures that say such. None is righteous, no not one. No one seeks for God. No one does good, not even one. We are all selfish glory seekers, liars and So various scriptures t talk about the depravity that's in And then we also talked last week about the existential problem of evil. So the existential problem of evil is when evil comes to our front door. or to the front dealer of somebody we know personally. Um and the point that we made last time is that is not the time to have a theological, philosophical discussion. When some some disaster has befallen your friend, comfort your friend. Don't launch into a philosophical discussion of where the evil came from. So uh and the example we gave was the week before last, of course this man um Charlie Kirk was murdered in cold blood. He's was thirty one years old, had a wife and two young kids and and he was shot most uh Um it it seems uh mostly for um in public saying um uh saying uh Um what God says in his word about the family. That's the primary reason he was killed. He wasn't killed because he had certain economic positions, he wasn't killed because he had certain He was killed because he said out loud and repeatedly uh and unashamedly that the Bible says that marriage is between one man and one woman and there's only two genders. Uh he said that over and over again out loud and he was very famous for saying it and so s they shot him. They hated him and then they shot him Um and so when that happens, of course there's a grieving widow. The grieving widow does not need to hear uh well the free will defense and Uh no, she doesn't need to hear that. It's nice to know for uh we need to learn that. And we need and eventually that may be a discussion that's helpful for her sometime time down the line. But in the moment when evil has come to her front door and her husband's been killed, that's not what she needs to kill. Okay. Um and then we said uh in broad terms, and we're gonna talk about this most most of the time this week. There's these two defenses, free will defense and greater good defense, and that's really what we're going to get into this week. And the theodicy presented in the book that we're using as kind of a variation of the greater good defense that he calls the greater glory defense. And it The idea is that everything that takes place, whether good or evil, cannot detract from the glory of God and in fact adds to the glory of God. At the towards the end we we talked about the Westminster Confession of Faith, and the first question is what's the chief end of man? And the chief end of man is to glorify God and to enjoy him forever. And so The reason for the creation of people is for God's glory. And so and that's the focus of the theodicy that we're going to go through in this book. is God's glory. And he calls it the Greater Glory Theodicy. Okay. So any um any questions about what we did last time before we get into today's Questions left over from last time. Okay. So today today's lesson is going to be the last time was encountering the darkness. This is going to be confronting the darkness. So as we go through the recent history of the church uh since the uh the late fifteen hundreds, uh since the fifteen hundreds really, uh there have been two opposing approaches to theological reflection. on the teaching of Christian faith. And these they differ on how to define the attributes of God and how deeply sin has affected fallen man and the nature of saving grace. how Christian life can be sustained over the long haul. And th these two outlooks have different have di uh disagreement or different ways of approaching this problem of evil as well. These two different systems of thought within Christianity have come to be named after two theologians, two prominent theologians. One is John Calvin and the other is Jacob Arminius. And so um they lived um their lives overlapped a little bit. Arminius lived just a little bit after Calvin and he Um Arminius had some disagreements with Calvin and he gave essentially five points of the remonstrance and then the followers of Calvin responded with uh the synod of Dort uh refuting the five remonstrances of Arminius. And those five responses to Arminius have become known as the doctrines of grace or the five points of Calvinism. But the first five points were the ones of the remonstrance that came from Arminius. So subsequently, how Christians con best confront uh darkness in the world or evil in the world has been uh really centered in the debate between Calvinism and Arminianism. And so it's important to know a little bit about these two philosophies. So uh Arminianism is part of a broader theological perspective called free will theism. So there are other free will theists that are not Arminians, uh, but it's the broad category of free will theism. Uh Arminianism generally adopts the theodicy called the free will defense. Calvinism generally adopts the greater good defense And so the ideas that these philosophical these two kind of uh strains of philosophy within evangelical Protestantism um really are the dividing point for how people see this idea of theodicy and the problem of evil. And so we'll go through what the two philosophies say. And we'll start with the five points. And so as I mentioned, so this is in your book on page 23. If you have your book, you can see this whole table. And so uh as I said, uh the Arminians are Arminius, Jacob Arminius came up with the uh the five points of the remonstrance, which he called it, and then Calvinists replied with the five points of Calvinism to refute the five points of remonstrance. And so the five points of Calvinism have become to be known by the acronym TULIP, and the five points of Arminianism are will show what the difference is. So first, the tea and tulip is total depravity, total thorough depravity. Sin is enslaved and corrupted every person. Humans are spiritually dead, they are unable and unwilling to repent and believe apart from God's grace alone. So total depravity means uh thorough, the the fall has affected the mind, will, and emotions, mind, will and infections. Um and so the key point for this discussion is the will is fallen. Um under the the doctrines of grace or Calvinism. Um for Arminianism it's depraved but free. And and actually many Arminians call this total depravity. So it's a little bit confusing sometimes when you read because the Calvinists call something total depravity and the Arminians also say the same phrase, total depravity, and mean something quite different. They mean, uh, the Arminians mean that sin has infected all people, but their will is freed by prevenient grace. Uh doctrine of the remonstrance is prevenient grace. So before you're saved, there's this burst of grace that allows your will to choose between uh salvation uh to choose salvation for yourself because of this preventive grace. Yes. So not necessarily. No, it's not necessarily Pelagianism. Yeah. Okay. So um so we have this prevenient grace that appears in Arminianism, not in under the doctrines of grace or Calvinism. Uh so they they do, and we'll go through some of that So the of course the term prevenient grace does not show up in scripture. But that's not uh necessarily a determining factor when we believe something. the the term Trinity doesn't appear in scripture either and w we believe in that. Um so y yeah, so there's there's things that we believe are true good doctrines and but they the the word that we use now to describe it doesn't appear And so prevenient grace, yes, there's no prevenient grace, that word doesn't show up, but they do have uh scriptures, yes. Um so with God's gracious help, they are able and may be willing to repent and believe. The second point of uh tulip is you, unconditional election. God chose the elect on the basis of his freedom and grace, not for anything seen and sinners. Under Arminianism, it's conditional election. God chose the elect on the basis of their foreseen faith that is freely exercised if they So uh God looked forward into the future, saw that that person would choose him, and so therefore, since that person was going to choose, The third one is El, limited atonement, limited definite atonement under the doctrines of grace, Christ Death provides atonement only for the elect, definitively paying the price for their sin, guaranteeing their salvation. The Arminian doctrine is universal, unlimited atonement. Christ's death is a provisional atonement for the sins of the whole world, which makes salvation possible for all, but guaranteed for none. Really? So it it depends on the choice of the person available for everybody, but the person has to choose E yeah, I that's a way to categori and of course that's the way those of us who believe in the doctrines of grace would categorize it, that it seems to be man sent Rather than God's centered. Yes. The I, the the fourth one is irresistible, efficacious, saving grace. So saving grace is irresistible and efficaciously saves the elect. The Holy Spirit regenerates the hearts of the elect. enabling them to repent and believe. For the Arminians, it's resistible provisional saving grace. Saving grace is necessary but not sufficient to save sinners. It can be resisted and must be corrup cooperated with by the free will of sinners. And I'll show you what the implications of that are here in a minute. And the fifth one is P, perseverance of the saints. God's grace preserves the elect and ensures that they will persevere in faith till the end. None of the elect will finally fall away from the the faith. And for the Arminians, it's uncertain perseverance of the saints, God's grace cannot guarantee that believers will not fall away from the faith. Not all will freely cooperate with God's grace to persevere. in the faith. And so uh I'll just this is kind of tiny so you probably can't see it, but uh I'll go through it a little bit. So the order of salutus, the order of salvation for the Arminians, it includes this prevenient grace. So there's a calling from man, so you hear the gospel preached And then because of this prevenient grace, then you have, you're now free to choose to accept salvation or to reject salvation. If you reject salvation, then your free will is allowed and granted to reject it, and you go to off to eternal damnation. If because of prevenient grace you You exercise your free will to have faith, then God regenerates you by the Holy Spirit. You have conditional justification because you can always reject. That's what the little dotted line is. You can go from saved to not saved by rejecting, um, giving up your salvation by your free will. Um and so that's very different from the doctrines of grace and the the way that uh Reformed or Calvinistic Order Seleuce would go. It's election by God, atonement by God, calling by God, regeneration by God, uh justification by God. At your point of conversion you have faith and repentance. sentence. Um sanctification, your process of sanctification, you are here, if you're a follower of Christ, is a work of the Holy Spirit, but there are commands for us. But the scripture makes clear but it's that it's that we work out our salvation in fear and trembling, for it is God who is at work in you both to will and to do. Um and then God for glorification. So yeah, so I I certainly think that's so, and I think it's um um I I think it's contrary to what scripture is teaching us about the doctrine of of salvation. And so uh at this church all all of your elders believe in the doctrines of grace. We believe that um that salvation is a work of God from election all the way through to glorification. And we believe that because we believe that's what Scripture teaches. We believe that Scripture teaches the doctrines of grace, and so we teach the doctrines of grace. because scripture does. But I just want to make sure everybody's aware that there are other believers who have a very different view of how salvation works and it seems to me to be man focused. And that's the the point of the author of the book as well. That's what what he believes. Yes. So we're going to get into that next. So we're going to get into the details of what uh what the Armenians say free will is because it's important to define that term uh because in a certain sense w we uh everybody believes in in free will to a certain extent. Do do we make choices? Yeah, we make choices. Um but what you mean when you say free will is important. Um Calvin talks about that in the institutes that there's a certain sense in which he believes in free will, but he don't want doesn't want to use the term because it's so confusing because people that believe that free will means something radically different than he does could take it and run with it if he if he uses the term free will in his writings. So he he doesn't. Um yeah, so we're gonna talk about that. It's a good question. Uh hold that for just a second. So they are many events S So I I don't know um what every Arminian would say. Um but there Uh one of the passages that they use to justify is the passage in Hebrews that talks about um if you had once known uh um salvation and rejected it that there was no possible salvation after. That's one of the passages that they use. Um and so I would my guess is that many Armenians think that's a one time deal. But I I wouldn't be surprised if there's there are some that think that they could go bounce back and forth. Yes. So yeah, so uh God does the electing and that has nothing to do with the the peep. And so we'll talk about some some scriptures that that confirm that. But yes, that that's the essential teaching. Yeah, yeah Yeah. Salvation is all of God. Yeah. Yeah. Um so let's talk about the free will defense and we'll get to the what they mean by free will. So Uh Arminians and other free will theists seek to solve this problem of evil by asserting their understanding of free will, and that it's that's the vitally important. key to the solution of the problem of evil is is free will. But what do they mean by free will? This is Bob's question here. They define free will by two ideas. First, our choices to be free and morally responsible, they must be made autonomously. In other words, our choices cannot be sufficiently determined by anyone. or anything outside our independent freedom to exercise our will. Nobody is in any way forcing us into any choice. It's got to be uh completely autonomous to be free will. Well um while God seeks to assert his influence on the choices we make, he cannot determine which choices we finally settle on. Otherwise we would be like helpless marionettes dangling on a grand puppeteer's strand That's one. There's the second point of free will under uh Arminian thinking is whatever choice we make to be truly free we must be able to have made any number of alternative choices. So the freedom of alternative choice is the second pillar of free will under free will theism, Arminianism. in particular. So the freedom of alternative choice. So you could have made any any choice. Right? You come up and you make you come to a choice in life. Not only is nobody uh forcing you to make any choice, but you definitely could have made any alternative choice at that point. Um the freedom of alternative choice. in the same circumstances. Uh I think it is. Uh but uh yeah I think it is. But um but they have this high view of free will uh as of paramount importance. Um So uh how do those who hold to this view of free will think it solves the problem of evil? Uh so the free will defense says that this freedom of alternative possibilities is necessary for a number of important things. So this freedom of alternative choice is necessary in in their thinking, in their s uh their philosophical structure. It's necessary for acting good and righteously. It's necessary for maintaining the value of loving relationships and other virtuous communities. And it's necessary for establishing moral responsibility for our acts. Without the freedom of alternative choice, the Armenians say, you can't have any of those three things. So prevenient grace is what's necessary to actually choose faith in God. But this this is in general uh for everything. That if you don't have this freedom of alternative choice, you can't have any action good action or righteous action. You can't have any loving relationship And you can't have and there's no moral responsibility for any acts, the salvation decision or anything else, according to the Orminians. Yes. So prevening grace given to everybody to be able to answer the call the the so when you get a gospel presentation the the call the man the call of man somebody somebody in your life presents the gospel to you Prevenient grace is what allows you to choose faith. Now you could also choose not faith, because you always have this free will. You have always must have the freedom of alternative choice. So even with prevenient grace, you still have the the free will to reject. That's right. So everybody gets preventive grace, so everybody can be saved. But it's up to you to decide. Yes. Mm-hmm. Yeah. So y they have a doctrine of election, and the doctrine of election involves God's uh um divine foreknowledge. And so God looks down through history. He sees that that uh Billy Bob will accept faith in Christ, will choose faith in Christ. And therefore, from the beginning he elects Billybob, because Billy Bob chose him if offense. Essentially, in the future. And so it's it's totally up to Billy Bob to choose and God cannot fix Billy Bob's choice. Billy Bob's gotta be completely free to choose God or not choose God to reject him, choose him. But God looks through history and sees what Billy Bob did choose and ahead of time, he knows that. And so that's their doctrine of election. That's how God elects. So um the heart is wicked but not totally th their uh their idea of total depravity is not that not like the the the Calvinist doctrine of So they have in their Bible the verse that says that we're slaves to sin. And so they believe that, but they see that as something different than So if you look at scripture through the lens of what they see is an absolute fact that there is free will and there's freedom of offering alternative choice, then when you look at the scripture through that lens, you read a verse like that, and slavery doesn't mean the same thing to them as it does to when we read that verse. Yeah. And I uh I don't know how broadly most Arminians apply that doctrine, whether they My understanding is they apply it to salvation. Um I it's possible that depending on the Arminian they may have applied very broadly. All right, yes, Harlan So uh uh most free will theists, including most Arminians, say that you have the choice up until you die. I um so I'll I'll confess that I'm I'm basing this mostly on my knowledge of of one person. So I have a brother who's a seminary trained Arminian And so I've had many conversations in this field with my seminary trained brother who's an Arminian. Um and so I know pretty well what he believes in most circumstances, but I'm reluctant to say that every Arminian believes the same thing, because not every Calvinist believes exactly the same thing. the same thing but a according to my brother in his studies of Arminianism, you you have the choice up until you die. Um so you could be in the hospital on your deathbed and somebody comes and you know, tells you the gospel and you still have the absolute freedom to choose God or to reject God. All the way up until you die So they have a very different view of the sovereignty of God than than we do. Um and so we'll get it we'll get to that. That'll be a major one of the major topics that we talk about is that how it affects the sovereignty of God. In fact, that's the topic really of next week's lesson. Uh yeah. Yeah, so i yeah, it's different I believe. So uh Arminianism is still within the Protestant tradition and uh last rites is a is a Catholic tradition. Yeah, yeah, yep. Okay. So uh yes. Uh like I kinda I like that, but you remember I was young. I mean I grew up in an independent Baptist church. But I left left to go to college at eighteen and didn't really go back uh under any length of time. So maybe I being young I missed doctrine. But I mean in the independent Baptist Church a believes a l uh we didn't call it Calvinism or Miniism. Maybe my pastor did But I I mean I think we had a little bit of both. I don't sometimes like we didn't believe that you could lose your salvation, you know, enough the whole thing. But I think I think when he would uh have to repent and bel uh I mean people do I mean I know Calvin's they talk about this in the book too that people have a responsibility. We have to God, you know, will do the saving and the Holy Spirit So I think we had I had a little bit of both if that makes sense. Calvinists and um really. Yeah. That's how they identify themselves. They take these five points and say, I'm a four-point Calvinist because I don't believe in uh limited atonement, for example. Um Yeah, yeah. So anyway, so that's correct. And so what we're gonna do though is we're gonna look at what does the Bible say? All right, what does the Bible say? And so um I I have a I have a thirty-four page document that I could share with you that is th thirty-four pages of scripture reference for the doctrines of grace, each of the five doctrines, and dozens and dozens and dozens of supporting scriptures for each of the five. Yes. Absolutely. Yes. So y well uh so we we do need to go through these differences. We need to be able to discuss differences. Um did say he said Yeah, so uh so yes, people have different views and uh good and godly believers have different views. Um I have no doubt about my brother's salvation. He's in our Um so uh yes, so they're believers. Now but we do need to be able to describe differences, especially when the differences drive differences in how we see this problem of evil. And describe where the differences come from. So uh yes. I am, yes, um, because I think that's what Chris Scripture teaches. you know, i I I I teach scripture, I teach everything that Scripture says, and when I look at Scripture I see Scripture teaching each of these five things in the doctrines of grace. But I understand that there are people that disagree and and that's okay. Okay, back to the free will defense. So the free will defense typically goes with our minion our minion thinking of of uh how to interpret the scriptures. Um the free will of events offers these solutions to the problem of evil when God grants human beings this kind of moral freedom. He's taking a risk. Uh but God is willing to take this risk because free will is so highly prized. Um and so the bottom line for the free will defense is if we don't have this freedom, then the weight of moral culpability for evil in the world shifts to the Creator. It's God's fault unless the the the the fault can be placed uh reliably and really with the creatures, then It has to fall on the Creator. That's the the thinking of the Free Will Defense, designed to exonerate God from being the author of evil. Alright, so there are some problems with the Free Will Defense. thirty two. I'll talk about a few of them here in just a little bit. I won't I won't go into great detail with any of these things. Uh free will, as defined by the two concepts of free will, uh And this is the question that's really going to be addressed with the entire lesson next week. And it'll be Antonio who's Uh it undermines the Bible's teaching on the depravity of mankind. Um God does not have free will. Uh he cannot choose evil. So this kind of free will that uh is described in Armenian thinking, God does not have it. Um and also there will be no free will in heaven under with this definition of free will, because we will not have the ability to choose Sure, sure that followed him. Right. And so they won't be in heaven. Right, but they're not followed. Sure th they did and so just like Adam and Eve chose, um they they chose and there were consequences to that choice and um And at the end they get thrown into the lake of fire. Right. Heaven other things. No, no, no. W so no, it's compatibilism. Uh we'll get into compatibilism. Um and so it was that was all part of God's plan. So uh the devil is God's devil, as R. C. Sprohl put it And so uh the devil's fall has a purpose in God's perfect plan. So he used he he's used the devil on a number of occasions. He used the devil in the garden for as part of And so God uses the devil. Um so the devil has free will to choose, but he's still under the sovereign authority of God from the very beginning to the very end Uh if you notice in the book of Job, uh the Satan has to come and ask God for permission every step along the way to do anything to Job. So everything is under the sovereign control of God, including Satan's So called free will. Yeah. That's true. Um and so yes, the angels are very different from us in in that pers respect particular. Uh there was no plan of redemption for fallen angels. Yeah, so the elect angels are holy forever, the the f the non-elect angels are fallen forever. Uh they didn't get a plan of redemption. Yeah, yeah. So there's no free will in heaven as free will is defined in Armenian thinking. Uh free will is incompatible with divine foreknowledge. There's a he goes into a long discussion of this in his other book. Um And I won't go through the detailed arguments now, but uh but it's interesting. The the detailed arguments about divine foreknowledge are interesting. And free will allows gratuitous evil. In other words, if you truly have free will and God uh can't um stop you from making a choice, which is our minion thinking says God can't stop you from making a choice, then that allows uh gratuitous evil, evil with no purpose. And we'll see that that I don't believe that that's the case. I don't believe that there is any such thing. It's Okay. Um I'll just give you a few um reasons why there are some issues. I think with the free will. So the Bible's teaching on depravity of man. The Bible does not mince words in describing the moral depravity of mankind. Unregenerate people are corrupted and enslaved in every aspect of their being, mind, will, and emotions You can see that in John chapter 8, verse 34, Ephesians chapter 4, verses 17 to 19. And no one is immune from this debilitating condition. Romans 3, 10 to 18. We we quoted from that last week a portion of it and verse 23. All humans are born with a hostility toward God. So the unregenerate fleshly mind does not submit to God's law. Indeed, it cannot. Those who are in the flesh cannot please God. um Romans eight, seven, and eight. So what Paul is saying there is unbelievers are both unwilling both unwilling and morally unable to please God. God. So there is no freedom of will enabling the sinner to escape this dreadful condition. And that's what's meant by the Calvinist doctrine of total depravity. And so I think the pages of scripture are clear about that, about how people are totally depraved. And so uh let me stop there when on the in the doctrines of grace when it says uh when we talk about total depravity, we're talking about thorough depravity and uh uh all parts of my nature are fallen, my mind, my will, my affections or emotions, they're all fallen. But that does not mean that everybody is as completely Depraved as they could be. In other words, not every single human being is Geoffrey Dahmer and we'll chop people up and eat them. That's not what total depravity is means that every single person becomes as depraved as they could possibly be. Just that all parts of my uh being are subjective See the difference there? Okay. God does not have free will. Uh Arminians regard free will as one of the most valuable traits that a personal and moral being So we would expect God to have the same unfettered power of contrary choice, but he does not. Um and furthermore, moral responsibility for his actions are not dependent on him having contrary We don't say God does not have moral responsibility because he cannot choose evil, but only good. And God is not required to have contrary choice to give an air of genuineness to his good and benevolent action. And so when we apply apply that to God it seems to break down. And of course there's no free will in heaven. We talked about this a minute ago. The Bible teaches that all believers in their resurrected and glorified state will have no ability to free from the presence of sin. Romans 8. 29, 1 John 3. 2. And of course no one uh teaches otherwise, either Calvin or or Arminian. Consequently, the greatest place in all of creation in history will contain no hint of the kind of free will that Arminians argue is so valuable in this present. And that would seem to be an issue I I think with Uh if the freedom of contrary choice is such a valuable and necessary treasure, then why doesn't heaven have this treasure? So these are things that I think are issues with uh the free will. The greater good defense is defined in your books on page 32 to 33, which locates evil not in the unintended results of free will choices, but rather in God's particular intentions for the course of all things. So nothing, in other words, nothing escapes his plans and purposes for history. In other words, God's sovereignty is absolute. The meticulous brand of divine sovereignty is in the uh what the Calvinists describe in the doctrines of grace. If there is any evil in the world, then it could come about only because God has purposed it for some good and wise reason. That's the greater good defense. Uh every instance of evil has already been fitted within the scope of his preter predetermined plans for history, including everything, including the fall of Satan, including the fall of Adam and Eve, all of them in God's good plan and purpose. purposes. Otherwise he would not have allowed it. In other words, that's what the Greater Good Defense says. If if an evil has occurred, it means that God has seen it and decided that it fits into his perfect plan to have that evil. occur. And so it's not impossible to imagine an all-powerful, all good, and all-wise God would ever have less than sufficiently good and wise reasons for evil to enter his mind. So the question then comes, can we know what greater good God is accomplishing? Do we know what his purposes are? are. Yes, Bob. So that is the doctrine of compatibilism. Compatibilism is the doctrine that says that God is sovereign over all things. and we still make choices. But those choices that we make always fit into God's sovereign plan. Yes. Yes. Yes. And so uh Jonathan Edwards' book Uh R Religious Affections is where he describes that. It's an excellent book. I I uh recommend everybody read it. But he says that that's how he describes free will, that your your your mind, will, and affections are all enslaved to sin And therefore when you make your free choices, they're always free choices in accordance with your enslavement to sin. Yeah. And what you want is is always enslaved to sin Yes, that's how Jonathan Edwards puts it. And that's a decent Right, right. So yeah, so Jonathan Edwards' formulation of free will is good, I think. Uh and it is radically different from the description of free will in uh free will theist things. So uh this idea of can we know what gu and and the the real question though is does God owe us an explanation? That's the real question. Because really deep down I I want an explanation. And and God He owes me an explanation. A and so yeah, and so that's really, I believe, the point of the book of Job, that God does not owe us an explanation. Um and and if you notice the book of Job, Job never gets an explanation. Right? We know the explanation because we can we can peek behind the curtain and see the discussion between God and Satan at the very beginning. But Job never gets that explanation. Look at Job real carefully He never gets an explanation. The explanation he gets is I'm God and you're not. That's the explanation he gets. And that's one of the profound lessons of the book of Job, that God does not owe us an explanation. Sometimes he gives us an explanation, but he doesn't owe us an explanation. Yes, he did. So um we do not always know what greater good God intends to bring about in connection Or how to ascer ascertain whether the good is worth bearing the evil that is connected to Sometimes we do. So Th I think you can make a strong argument that the greatest evil that has ever occurred was the crucifixion. The the the murder of a totally innocent man. who never sinned, never did anything wrong in his whole life, gets murdered on a cross, tortured and murdered. I think you can make a case that's the greatest evil that's ever occurred in history. Did that have a good purpose Amen and amen. It did have a good purpose. And we know exactly what that good purpose is: the salvation of many. So that's a case where we know for certain what God used evil, evil men doing evil things The the evil Jewish leaders, the evil Roman leaders. They got together and did evil things, evil upon evil, evil piled up on evil, and God meant it for good. So that's one we can see we know what the reason. purpose for that particular evil is. Others that we we get a detailed of kind of a lengthy explanation of. And the primary example of that is Joseph, the life of Joseph. It's in Genesis 37 to 50. He is thrown into a pit and sold into slavery by his brothers. Evil actions by evil men. Sell them into slavery. Then he is falsely accused of rape and thrown into prison. Evil action by an evil woman, backed up by evil men, throws him into prison. Um and at the very end of that story In verse 50, Joseph's brothers are cowering in front of him because they're afraid he's going to retaliate against them for what they've done to him. And Joseph says this, do not fear, for am I in the place of God. As for you, you meant evil against me, but God meant it for good. God meant it for good. Do you see what it's saying there? See what the scripture is saying? that God was in control of that evil for a good purpose. God meant that whole series of events, evil actions by evil men for good purpose. And so we get we pull back to the curtain and we get to see one example of this. We get to see it in the crucifixion. We get to see it in the life of Joseph. And so the lesson is that's really how God always worked. And he gives us a few examples just to show us that even in a a r uh just a outlandish case of somebody being sold into slavery and thrown into prison, that those evil actions by evil men God had a good purpose for all of that and was in sovereign control of all of that. And at the same time, the brothers were still responsible for their evil actions. The Potiphar's wife was still responsible for her evil actions, and that is the doctrine of compatibilism, that that evil men doing evil things are still responsible for evil And if a particular evil is not doesn't go into sort of God's purpose, then he stops it. So um exam one of the examples in the books book is um the the um the slaughter of the babies in bethlehem. Um so an angel warns Joseph And he takes Joseph and Mary and the baby off to Egypt so they're not slaughtered. So God directly intervenes into this evil act so that they can't kill Jesus. But he doesn't warn everybody in Bethlehem. And so the babies are still killing Killed. Compatibilism. Yes. Okay. Because that's what scripture teaches. So we believe the Bible, and the Bible teaches this, and so we believe what the Bible teaches, and we can see that it's jumping off the pages of Scripture. Um Pharaoh, for example. Pharaoh did evil things, but he was um i the the the there's a commentary in Romans on uh the events in Exodus. Pharaoh hardened his heart and God f hardened Pharaoh's heart. Both. There's a good purpose for the Holocaust. That's right, for God's greater glory. Yep. And we don't know how. Uh just like if we didn't have the explanation of it, we wouldn't know why having somebody thrown into slavery and thrown into prison in Joseph's case was i was leading to some greater good. Unless we saw that, w unless we were able to read the end of the story, we wouldn't be able to figure out how that was. That's I agree. Yeah, agree. Also civilians, you know. That's right. Yeah, so there's there's there's unbelievable evils. And so so what what is the conclusion though for a follower of Christ? Is that Trust God. Trust that He really is. He knows better than I do. And He doesn't owe me an explanation for everything He does. Yes? Yeah, so yeah, it's it's a it's a g it's a key question that we're gonna wrestle with throughout the class. And so let me see if I can rephrase it this way. How can we avoid Uh how can we avoid God having responsibility for evil when we see that God is sovereign over everything? If he's really sovereign over everything and there's evil in the world, how can it be that God's not responsible for and Yeah. Well s so and and of course Satan is not um we are are responsible for our choices and so Uh to say the devil made me do it is is not an excuse. Uh yeah. And so uh yes, Satan tempted Eve. However It's Adam and Eve were still held responsible. Satan was held responsible, but so were Adam and Eve. God didn't say, Well, okay, Satan tempted you, so therefore I'm not going to punish you because it's Satan's fault. That's not how God did it. He he punished all three of them for their own evil behavior. So Satan for getting in there and tempting, and Eve for responding to the temptation, Adam for responding to responding to the temptation. And notice that the the fall, the curse on the earth only occurred after Adam's sin. So Satan obviously had already fallen before the events in Genesis chapter three, and the earth was not cursed yet. It was only cursed when Adam sinned. Why is that? So the the creation mandate God gave Adam dominion over the earth to uh be crucial and multiplies uh fill the earth and and have dominion over it, uh rule over it, rule over the fish of the sea and the birds of the air and the the cattle of the earth and and so uh because Adam had dominion over the earth, the earth was cursed after Adam fell, but not when Satan Satan Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So yeah. So yeah, so God's sovereignty over Satan, like s God's sovereignty over me and God's sovereignty over every person that ever lived, um, does not make him responsible for the bad choices that we make. However, he does use the bad choices that we make as part of his sovereign plan. And so this is this is the doctrine of compatibilism, and it will be something that we need to struggle with. That we need to try to understand. How can this be that God is sovereign but we're responsible for our choices still? And also, by the way, He's got a sovereign plan that included all these choices that I'm going to make And something we're gonna s we're struggle through. Yes, Richard and then I'll come back over here. Yeah, so he it throughout the Old Testament he used um pagan rulers to uh to further his plans, to to fulfill his plans and his purposes and his promises. Uh I mean he promised the Israelites that if they didn't obey him, that they were going to be exiled. And he went and grabbed a a secular ruler, a pagan ruler, to come and take him away into exile. Um they were making their own um bad choices evil choices and yet that was part of God's sovereign plan to uh fulfill his promises and purposes with with With Israel, all part of it. So yes, this is something we need to struggle with. We need to try to f wrap our minds around. Uh God's sovereignty and man's moral responsibility. And that is the doctrine of compatibility. that we're going to wrestle with. Yes. Yeah, I'm sorry. Over here and then back to Bob. Go ahead. Absolutely. Yep. Yeah. And so that is the the point that this author is ultimately making in the book. is that everything has to be for God's greater glory. And so uh traditionally when we think of the greater good defense in theodicy A lot of times it's focused on greater good for people. Um but his point in the book, the the the high-level point, is that really all events work together for God's maximum good. glory. And that is not necessarily the same thing as um happiness for me, right So that's really not the focus of God's plan for history is, you know, greatest possible happiness for Ra. That's not that's really not what it is. It's greatest maximum glory for God. And that's the greater glory, theodyssey. Okay. Bob, yes. Yep. Because Adam was given responsibility. Adam ul had the ultimate responsibility and so it's because of and the Bible throughout the rest of the Bible always pins the fall on Adam. Always. Okay. Um let me uh let me yes. Yeah, and so um remember who's sovereign. Remember it's God who's sovereign. And when we talk about moral evil, the first place I need to look is right here. Um my very first responsibility is mortification of sin in my heart myself. Um and then within the body of Christ we're supposed to spur one another on to love and good deeds. So we're supposed to be spurring one another to forsake sin and to And so first focus, sin and myself. Second focus, um uh uh the the body of Christ that I'm a part of is trying to help everyone that I'm attached to to forsake sin. in their lives. And then there is a plan there is a a point for confronting evil that we see around us. as well. Um not to uh look the other way, not to say, well that's none of my business. Um you know one of the things that really uh struck me over the last couple of months is they and you start seeing this more and more. You see somebody that's attacked in public, assaulted, or even murdered. And what does everybody do? They get out their cell phones and they they record it. Well they don't do anything. Um that poor young lady from Ukraine that was murdered in the train, um i if you watch the videos horrible, but But if watch the other passenger, they they they look down at their phones, uh a person is being murdered right next to them. No reaction whatsoever Uh it really is awful. Nobody tries to help, nobody tries to intervene. Everybody just looks at their phone while she's screaming and dying, like five feet away from from some That's not good. It's not good to have a society that that So in many cases, however, we don't know. It's nobody explained it to us. Um and so we need to cling to the assurance of God's inscrutable wisdom. Uh we simply cannot plumb the depths of God's infinite perfect wisdom. Who has measured the Spirit of the Lord, or what man shows him his counsel whom did he consult, and who made him understand? Who taught him the path of justice and taught him knowledge and showed him the way of understanding? So these are rhetorical questions that none of us are in the position to judge God. So here here's what sometimes in my mind I think God needs to lay out for me why he's doing certain things, and then I'll decide whether that's the right way to go. So that that's a that's a fearful mistake. And that's the purpose of Isaiah 40 right there. All right. So uh there's questions at the back of your book, and we've been you guys have been asking asking questions all along. Um so we didn't really get the ch chance to ask the questions at the back of the book. But does uh we're we're j I have about thirty seconds left or forty five Uh does does anybody have any a last question or comment? Yes, go ahead. Okay. Oh Yeah, yeah. Yeah, so uh there's certain ways that God loves everybody. Uh there's there's um um there's general grace that he gives to to all people so that it it's not everything's not as terrible as it possibly could be. And so that's a demonstration of God's love for People. The fact that there's government, for example. Civil government is a general grace that God made for all people so that people So that you don't i it's not just Mike makes writing gangs are roaming around k killing and taking whatever they want. That's why we have government. Uh and so God demonstrates love for everybody in those certain Now, uh in terms of salvation, uh when we go up to somebody and we we tell them the gospel, we have no idea whether that person's elect or not elect. And so and we've been commanded to prevent And so we do in obedience uh to to the Lord, not knowing who we're we're preaching to. Uh but limited atonement we'll maybe talk about this a little bit more later, but uh just in general terms, um, without limited atonement I don't see how you get a great white throne judgment. So if if if Christ's if Christ's sacrifice on the cross really paid for every sin of all people, then what in the world is being judged at the Great White Throne judgment. If every sin is already paid for, you have a great white throne judgment that's judging sins that are already paid for. That makes no sense to me whatsoever And so whenever anybody asks me about limited atone uh atonement, I always point to the Great White Throne judgment. idea of unlimited. Yes. And also the world is Jews and Gentiles. There's quite a bit of scripture that is aimed at getting people to uh shift focus in the Old Testament. Um there ever the Jews were separate. They weren't allowed to intermarry uh with the people around them. They were separate, separate, separate, separate. Uh they were God's people. And now in the New Testament, God loved the world, not just Jews. That's really the focus of John 3. Okay. Correct. That's correct. That's a good way to put it. Yeah, that's a good way to put it. Okay. All right, let me uh let me uh close this with prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for this opportunity to struggle through some difficult things to understand from your word. We pray, Lord, that through your Holy Spirit you would really help us to understand as we struggle through these things. Some things are just not easy to understand. But at the end of the day, Lord, we pray, Lord, that you would give us the faith to understand that you are good. That you're good all the time, and that your purposes are always good, and that we can trust you. That anything that comes to us in life that as a follower of Christ that you have already sifted through it. You've already decided that that's the right thing to have happen to us and no matter how painful or difficult it is to go through, we know that we are in the hollow of your hand, that you are you have a good and and And purpose that will bring you glory. And we we pray, Lord, that uh as we think through these things, that that foremost in our mind is your glory. We thank you, Lord, for the chance we have right now to worship you in corporate worship. And we pray, Lord, that everything that we do and everything that we say, the songs that we sing, the meditation of our hearts would all bring glory to your name. And we pray these things in Jesus' name, Amen.