It is only natural that we humans would want to know the origin of all things. I don't know, our minds can't really help it. We're irresistibly drawn backward to probe those questions that everybody asks at some time. How did it all come to pass? What happened? Way back then. And of course, what are my origins? The question of origins it grips our minds. Why does it grip our minds? Well, because it helps us to understand our purpose in life. I can really only know why I'm here if I know where I came from John J. Davis in his work on Genesis entitled Paradise to Prison, a great title, writes, The interest in origins is so universal and so consistent that one is tempted to consider it innate. Modern philosophers are deeply committed to defining the meaning of life. But they cannot succeed until they settle the matter of origins. You know, when we read the New Testament, we must remember that all of our New Testament that we exposit is built firmly upon the Old Testament. If the Old Testament, beloved, is not true, if it is a myth, the New Testament cannot be true, for it would be built upon a myth And if all of the Old Testament needs to be true, we need to also understand that it is built upon the book of Genesis, which is the first book of the Old Testament. If the book of Genesis is not historically accurate, then the Old Testament message cannot be accurate either. And of course all of Genesis, particularly the lives of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and Joseph, is built upon the beginning of the book of Genesis, the first eleven chapters. They are the ones which tell us. about the universal flood and the formation of the nations of the world after the flood and how all of that worked out into Abraham and the very special promises that God made to this man Abraham Well, all of Genesis chapter 1 through 11 is built upon the very beginning of that portion as well, chapters 1 and 2, that tell of the creation of the world in those first two chapters. And you can take it one more step, and that is that all of the story, the account of creation in Genesis chapters 1 and 2 are built upon The very first verse of the Bible, Genesis 1:1. Verse 1, then, is foundational to everything that we read in our Bibles. And since we Christians get our beliefs and our practices and our understanding of our world and our universe from the Bible, that makes this first verse pretty important to us. Dr. Henry Morris, in his work The Genesis Record, pointed out this. Genesis 1-1 is the foundational verse of this foundational chapter speaking of the primeval creation of the universe itself. It is the foundation of all foundations and is thus the most important verse in the Bible. You'd expect the creation scientist to say that It undoubtedly contains the first words ever written, and since it is the opening statement of the world's most often printed book, these are surely the most widely read words ever written Most people at least start to read the Bible, and therefore most people have read at least these opening words in the Bible, even if they never got any farther. It has often been pointed out that if a person really believes Genesis 1. 1, he will not find it difficult to believe anything else recorded in the Bible. That is, if God really created all things, then He controls all things and He can do all things. Doesn't it make sense? A great quote from Dr. Henry Morris. It is true that the Bible is not a science textbook, people rush to say. However, the Bible is something better than a science textbook. And praise God for that. The Bible is the word of an all-knowing creator who was present at the beginning of the world. When the Bible speaks about the way of salvation, away from the judgment that is going to come upon our world, maybe faster than we know. When the Bible speaks on the way of salvation, it gives us accurate and ultimate truth. When the Bible speaks to us about the right way to live, what's right, what's wrong, and why it's wrong, it is still the very words of God. It is unalterable And absolutely authoritative in every matter it discusses. The same is true when the Bible gives us details of history about a battle or about people or about events, places. It still remains the Word of God. If you believe in Jesus Christ, it is Jesus who said in John 10, 35, the scripture, and he meant the Old Testament scripture there. The scripture cannot be broken. There's no power in heaven or on earth that can break the power of Scripture. Furthermore, in Matthew 5. 18, he gave us his understanding of to what extent Scripture was truthful. He said, For I truly I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, that's a long time Not the smallest letter or stroke shall pass from the law until all is accomplished. That's what Jesus believed about the Bible. Well, none of this changes when we come to a subject that sheds light on science or on origins. Thus, in Genesis 1. 1, we have the answer from God to our questions about origins. We have the satisfaction of our curiosity into our past. Genesis chapter 1, verse 1. That's not hard to find in your Bibles this morning if you had open there Barashith Bara Elohim Eith Hashimayim Waith Haaretz. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. Wow, just seven Hebrew words, just ten in our English. So simple, so succinct, so clear, I think. Yet don't be deceived, they are enormously important to the Christian faith and highly controversial in our world The expositor's commentary says, its simplicity belies the depth of its content, and that's it means that it's going to require our attention and our careful thought this morning, maybe more than most mornings. Genesis chapter 1 and chapter 2 presents to us history, not poetic myth. It starts with events that are designated within space and time by a very clear phrase in the beginning. It also ends in the same real-life venue with the creation of a real man given a real name and a real woman also given a name who have literal biological children who also are given individual names, who in turn have children and grandchildren and great grandchildren, etc. , which results over many generations into the birth of a man named Abraham. Now if Adam is a myth, then Abraham is a myth. You can't have Abraham born from a myth. It doesn't work that way. The biology is all connected within Scripture. Not only Abraham, but Abraham had children, Isaac Jacob, Joseph, and on down through the genealogies, they're all written, and then there was a king named David. He was not a myth either. And then there was a biological son from David whose name was Jesus Christ. Do you get the connection? Adam was true, Jesus is true. The connection is all the way through. So there's no question that Genesis chapter 1 and verse 1 was intended by its author to be accepted as real human history, or real history at this point, because there were no humans alive in Genesis 1-1. People may not believe what Genesis 1. 1 teaches. They have that right, of course. But they must not deny that Genesis 1-1 was intended to be taken historically and thus to be taken literally. To deny the historical intent of the passage is to lack basic linguistic insight. A child could read that and understand its intent. Or it's to lack personal integrity about what the text of Scripture is affirming, or it is to lack both. So using Genesis 1. 1, the way it was intended, I have two purposes for us this morning. Two purposes. And that's first to explain the meaning of the verse itself. You might think, why do that? Well, you'll see in a minute. Explain the meaning of the verse itself, and then to use the meaning of the verse to expose many errors that people believe in our world today. First to explain the verse, second to expose errors. Alright, here we go. Explaining the verse. And I want to break this down part by part for you. First, obviously, in the beginning, Bereshith. This term is used many times in the Old Testament, and there's no question that it refers to time. It's used here in this opening statement of Scripture. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth, and that is a sentence which functions independent of any other clause or sentence in the passage. It is what we call an independent clause. And thus it is meant to describe the original creation of the entire universe. The beginning is the very first beginning of the universe. Genesis 1. 1 is not a mere summary statement of the entire creation process. Actually, there is a summary stated in this passage. It's way down in chapter 2 and verse 4. There a summary is given, but this is a statement of the original calling into existence of all created matter from God in spiritual the spiritual realm into the physical realm. Nor is this a subordinate clause, subordinate to some other statement in the passage. It stands alone. You may be asking why is that significance? Well, if it were dependent upon another clause then it would be translated something like this. In the beginning of God creating the heavens and the earth, and it would go on to explain what happened. Or in the beginning when God created the heavens and the earth, and then it would connect to the complete or main statement. In the beginning, when God created the heavens and the earth, God said, Let there be light. And that would mean that Genesis 1. 1 was not describing the very beginning of the universe. But something that happened after the universe began, which would mean the Bible never explained to us how the universe began. And that would presuppose the existence of some physical substance, some physical material before God even began to create, which is kind of a crazy idea But God was not organizing already existing material in Genesis 1-1. He was calling it into existence. The organizing of the material that God called into existence comes in verses two through thirty-one, particularly in verses three through thirty-one. This is how it works. Verse 1 calls it all into existence. Verse 2 says that once it was called into existence, it was at first not, as some people describe, a chaos, but rather raw material that was not yet formed, that is, it was not yet shaped and it was not yet filled, so it remained empty. Thus we have the translation, it was without form and was void. That is, it was empty. And then the rest of the verses in chapter one go on to describe how God formed it and then filled it into a beautiful paradise. In fact, the first three days of creation show God forming the heavens and the earth and the last three days in parallel fashion show the filling of what was formed. You can compare Day one with day four and day two with day five and day three with day six and you see the forming and then the filling of the exact same thing. But Genesis 1. 1 refers to the original creation of the universe before there was forming and filling. It is the raw creation on the very first day of creation before anything else happened. Now some have disputed this. And the reasons for this are grammatical and they get very, very complicated. But I think the context at the very beginning of world history, as this is stated, make the absolute beginning of creation sure In the absolute sense, here it is presented at the very beginning of world history. It's followed with the term created With the phrase in the beginning God created, and then there's the calling into existence of things like land and stars and sun that come after this on day four, for example So there's no question that Genesis 1. 1 is referring to the ultimate beginning of the entire physical universe. The subject is about something God is doing at the very beginning, and the thing God is doing is He's creating. And we know absolutely nothing predates God, and therefore nothing is going to antiquate God either. And so this is referring to him as he was at the beginning calling forth the universe into existence. Isaiah 46, 9 and 10 says, For I am God and there is no other. I am God, and there is no one like me declaring the end from the beginning. Isaiah 48, 12. and thirteen. I am he, I am the first, I am also the last. Surely my hand founded the earth and my right hand spread out the heavens. When I call to them, they stand together. There it is. So, to take it not as the absolute beginning of creation is to lose sight of the context. Not only does the context make it clear this is the beginning of creation, But really, in terms of the grammar, in terms of the way it's structured, it is the simplest, most straightforward, really honest way. Furthermore, all of the ancient translators, the Hebrew translators, the Septuagint, Greek translation of the Old Testament, all understood this as the absolute beginning of creation and translated it thus. Besides that, even the rest of the Bible interprets Genesis 1-1 for us, so there's no doubt at all for those of us who believe Scripture. We always let Scripture interpret Scripture. Exodus chapter 20 and verse 11, why don't you write that reference down? Exodus twenty eleven, for in six days the Lord made the heavens and the earth, the sea and all that is in them. The in six days encompasses what happened here in Genesis 1. 1 as well. So that ought to be conclusive for every believer. All of Earth's history, indeed all of the universe's history, begins right here. The only thing before this is eternity, which isn't time. Jesus spoke of eternity in John 17, 24. He said, Father You loved me before the foundation of the world. So that's what was back there. There was the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, and that's it. The triune God in existence from all eternity, but nothing created before this. Now the next word in English is the word God, Elohim. The very first name mentioned in the Bible is God. That tells you something about the subject, doesn't it? What's the Bible about? It's about what God does. By the way, the very last name mentioned in the Bible is the Lord Jesus Christ. That also tells us something, doesn't it? Right? He is the Alpha and the Omega, as he said. The name Elohim stresses the power and strength or glory of God, even his omnipotence. It's no coincidence that Moses chose this name for God at the very beginning of creation, Elohim. He is the sovereign creator of all, as we already sung this morning. Leopold in his commentary says, God's omnipotence outshines all other attributes in this account. Omnipotence rouses man's reverence and his holy fear. In other words, when you start with a Bible, read the beginning of the Bible, if you don't have a reverence for God, you kind of missed the import of the very first verse. It's all about fearing God. Now the title God in English has been stretched to mean just about anything people want it to mean today. And people can pick that up and in the beginning, and they see the word God, and they can inject that name with whatever it is, whatever concept of God they want, the forces with you, whatever it is. But here, Elohim connected in the law of God with Yahweh, the God of Israel, the God who revealed himself to Moses, who said, I am who I am. the God who is the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, who also becomes the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. He's a very specific God. He's not one of those other gods out there or concepts of God. He is not a force. He is not a mere idea. He is a person. He is a creative and powerful person. And the name Elohim in the context of Genesis and really the rest of the books of Moses cannot be confused with any other God. Furthermore, this name is both masculine and plural. The em ending shows that the term is plural. Now some get confused about this. Why would God, who is one, It's had his name in the plural. But the name for the one God is often plural in Scripture, not just here The plural form of the noun does not indicate God is more than one, or that he is many gods, or that there are many gods. One way we can be certain of that is that the verb that is connected with this plural noun The subject, the verb, is singular, which shows that a sing single entity is is uh Anticipated by that, is connected with that. A plural noun with a singular verb tells us that the plurality, if there is such a thing, is intended in some other way. Now we know from Scripture that there is only one God. Deuteronomy 6. 4 says, Hear, O Israel, the Lord is our God, the Lord is what? One. That's the Old Testament, New Testament, 1 Timothy 2. 5. For there is one God and one mediator also between God and men, the man. Christ Jesus. So he's numerically one, yet he's plural in some sense. Well many believe this is what Hebrew grammarians would call a plural of majesty. Not speaking of a numeric plurality, but something that gives God his majesty in fullness. It's a way of honoring him, showing his greatness. Others believe that though this doesn't teach the doctrine of the Trinity outright, nevertheless it leaves the door open for that understanding to come In later Revelation, particularly in the New Testament, that the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit are implied in this. Either way, it doesn't mean that God is more than one. The next word which actually comes before the word God in Hebrew is the word created, bara. Barah in this context means to create As some have said, ex nihilo, out of nothing. Now it is true that the the verb bara can be used to refer of making something out of preconceived matter, such as mankind or the sea monsters. You can see Isaiah chapter 65 and verse 18, for example, or even Genesis chapter 1 and verse 27. So its exact meaning depends on the context, and here the context is the ultimate beginning. It is the ultimate calling into existence of what did not yet exist. This is not another Hebrew word, the word yatsar, which means to form something or fashion as with the hands. That word is not seen until chapter 2 and verse 7, when man was formed from the dust of the ground Nor is this the Hebrew term asah, which is a very common verb. It means to do or to make. Many think that the verb asah cannot refer to making things from out of ex ex nielio but refers to making things with pre-existing material, but sometimes even the verb asa can be interchangeable with the term Barak. You can look at the passage we just mentioned in Exodus 20, verse 11, or even Nehemiah chapter 9 and verse 6. Often it has nothing, though, to do with creating out of nothing. But the term bara used here in Genesis 1 does. I'll give you a couple of quotes about this. Dr. MacArthur in a message he gave in Genesis 1 says this. This verb means basically that the infinite, eternal, personal, triune God of the universe brought things into existence which were not in existence prior to this moment. Edward J. Young, in his masterful studies in Genesis 1, writes this: If in Genesis 1-1 Moses desired to express the thought of absolute creation. There was no more suitable word in the Hebrew language at his disposal than that from a Hebrew Expert. John J. Davis, again, I quoted before from Paradise to Prison. He says the verb bara to create expresses better than any other verb the idea of an absolute creation or creation ex nihilo. So the world, as far as it is concerned, had no existence before this time. There was no pre-existent matter out of which the world was formed and produced. Men, ladies too, we can take something, we can fashion it with our hands, but that is not creating. That's just forming or making. Creation is the act of speaking something into existence which had no previous existence, even down to the most basic element state. Now with this, I think it's important to see the scriptures agree that the creation that's spoken of in Genesis 1. 1 was a creation out of nothing. If you just Remember where we are. It's not too hard to forget Genesis 1. 1. And flip forward to the Psalms, to Psalm 33 and verse 6. I just want to show you a few verses here. Psalm 33 in verse 6 says this. How did the heavens get made? How did all the things that we see in the sky, space, the stars, and everything get made? Well, Psalm 33, 6 tells us, by the word of the Lord There it is. By the word of the Lord the heavens were made, and by the breath of his mouth all their host. It's just a parallel way of saying the same thing. He spoke and everything came into existence. That's how it was Turn to the New Testament, to Acts chapter 17. This is in Paul's speech in Athens at Mars Hill. Acts chapter 17 comes after the four Gospels. And verses 24 and 25. Paul is talking to those who were polytheists, they believed in many gods. He's explaining to them the true God. And in Acts 17, 24, and 25, he says this, the God who made the world and all things in it Since he is Lord of heaven and earth, does not dwell in temples made with hands, nor is he served by human hands as though he needed anything Since he himself gives to all people life and breath and all things. And he goes on to talk about the origin of the human race from there. And that's all really Genesis, without him quoting Genesis, he's giving them the doctrine that Genesis teaches. So he is the Lord of heaven and earth. He is the originator of it. Now turn to Romans, one book further, chapter four and verse seventeen. Romans four, verse seventeen Here it's talking about God, and really it's an incidental statement. It talks about God who gives life to the dead at the end of verse 17 there. God who gives life to the dead and the very last part of the verse calls into being that which does not exist. That's a great statement in Scripture. Romans 4. 17, God calls into being that which does not exist. That's creation ex nihilo, out of nothing. And maybe the most explicit statement, although that one's pretty good, is in Hebrews chapter 11. That's the New Testament also. Keep going to your right. Hebrews chapter 11 and verse 3. Talking about what faith is and what was accomplished by faith. Look at Hebrews chapter 11, verse 3. It says, by faith We understand that the world's plural were prepared by what The Word of God. Listen, so that what is seen, that's your entire physical universe, was not made out of things which are visible. How did the physical universe get here? Not from the physical universe. Things seen didn't come from things seen. Things seen came from things that are unseen. And by faith we understand it. That's a commentary, really, on the meaning of Genesis 1:1 and the other. the other uh statements in Genesis where he calls things into beings. You can turn back to Genesis now. That concept of God being the originator of heaven and earth, that he was the only one there, that he spoke into existence from his word, everything that there is is not just Genesis 1-1, but throughout Genesis and the rest of the Old and New Testament. There are other creation accounts we don't have time to cover this morning. From the ancient world, maybe the most popular one is the Enuma Elish, which is the Babylonian creation account. Many feel that Genesis 1-1 is similar to the Babylonian account and others and that therefore it is just myth, but really the differences are very pronounced because out of all of the ancient stories of how the world began, they all began with some pre-existing material. Genesis 1-1 is the only one that doesn't. Dr. Henry Morris summarizes it this way. He says, all of the other ancient religious books and religious systems, as well as all modern philosophies, interesting, begin not with God, but with pre-existing matter. In some form. This alone describes the origin of the entire universe out of nothing. Now, the last part of our exposition and our explanation of the passage is just the phrase the heavens and the earth. Eit Hashimayam wa eitha are the heavens, plural, and the earth, singular. The visible part of the creation is mentioned in this one phrase. Now, the invisible part probably is not the angels and spirits We have Colossians chapter 1, verses 16 and 17 that tell us also of the invisible creation. In Colossians 1, 16 and 17, it says this For by him that is Christ, all things were created, both in the heavens and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities, all things have been created through Christ and for Christ. Christ is before all things, and in Christ all things hold together. Great passage The heavens is literally how this is translated. It's plural. The plural refers to the many stages of the atmosphere going into the upper atmospheres, going into what we call space. They were just In Hebrew thought, the heavens, all the way up to the place where the sun and the stars and the moon are. This does not include, though, at this point in time, the stars themselves or any object in the space Those clearly were created on day four of the creation account. At this point in time, it refers merely to the tremendous expanse above. The word for earth is eretz. It means the land, the ground, what we walk on. It's also used down in chapter one of Genesis in verse eleven, where it says, Let the earth, the eretz bring forth grass, and so the ground is commanded to bring forth the vegetation, and so it comes. But here it refers to the unfilled and unformed globe. That was covered with water at this initial stage. Verse 2 tells us it was covered with water at this initial stage. Now, Wenham in his commentary, the word biblical commentary, writes this: it is characteristic of many languages to describe the totality of something in terms of its extremes, good and bad, or big and little. Here we have an example of this usage to define the universe. What does he mean by the heavens and the earth? Just the extremes of what we have. We're on the earth and then there's the heavens. From our perspective, that includes everything. So it's just another way of saying the entire universe. In fact, the Hebrew has no specific word for the universe, and so this is how it is expressed, the heavens and the earth. Just a colorful way of saying the planet and everything else. that is above and beyond the planet. So Genesis 1. 1 could be translated this way, for it means this in the beginning God created out of nothing the entire universe. He brought everything that is into existence. Nothing in existence found its existence except through the creative act of God. That's the meaning of the verse. Now we could get into verse 2 and we could keep going. We'd be in it a long time. Today I just wanted to limit myself to verse 1. But as we say those simple truths, I think you would agree that there are tremendous implications if those words are true. If people would just stop at verse 1 and begin to think about what that means, and if that's true, what cannot be true, I think there's an awful lot of learning in verse 1, and I don't even think we can cover it this morning. In fact, I know we can't And that's why my second purpose this morning is to use that basic truth in Genesis 1-1 to expose errors that people believe today. And I hope that this will not uh make you You and me beat our chests, so to say, that we have the truth and others don't, but that it will help us to be discerning about a distinction between what God has taught us and what the Bible teaches with what is going on out there so that we will not be confused And then we can be a gentle and humble guide to other people to show them what the truth is. Now, either by direct statement in verse 1 or by implication of what this verse teaches, Even in the rest of the chapter, I'm going to give you ten errors, and believe me, there are a lot more. But I'm going to give you ten errors that are contradicted and exposed by Genesis 1. 1, the first verse in the Bible. Verse 1 directly pronounces this. In the beginning, God created. So let's state from the beginning, number one, 1 error. That atheism is an error because there's a God who exists in order to create. Right? I mean you can't escape you can't escape that, right? Atheism, according to Genesis 1-1, is a mistake in thinking. It's an error. Atheism is a departure from reality. And it is an error of the most basic kind of understanding. In fact, it is so basic it would render a person completely without any understanding of life or the meaning of life. Please notice the opening verse gives absolutely no attempt to prove the existence of God to human beings who would read this. Do you see that? There are no proofs that are offered here at all. His existence is assumed from the very beginning And the implication of that is that there is no argument that any human being can give against the existence of God that would be successful. It can't happen. Man, in fact, was never given the option by God to think that he does not exist. He may choose to do that, but that wasn't an option that God gave him. It's not a credible intellectual position. Wooelujah And that is because God's existence is, by necessity, the ground for the existence of everything else. To miss that foundational point is to fall into utter absurdity. And we get so confused on this, I don't know why. People say, what about evil? If there's evil in the world, then there can't be a good God. When people say that, they don't realize they've proved in that statement more than they should have proved. Because if there really is evil, and evil is not just something we call something, I think that's evil, but it really is evil, then how can we say it's evil unless there's a standard of good And that is evidence not against God, but for God's existence. People have it so backwards. In an atheistic universe where there is not a God. never has been a God, and I guess therefore never will be a God. There is no such thing as good and evil. Only things we call good and evil. And we can call it good today and tomorrow we can call it evil and it doesn't matter Because it's a human convention. It's not innately good or evil. But people know there's good and evil. And they have it anger in their heart when they see evil and they blame God and in blaming God they just Recognize his existence. Furthermore, when people attempt to use logical arguments to disprove God As soon as they began to talk and use logical, reasonable language, as soon as they began to speak, they've already fallen into a trap. The very use of logic to determine what is true or what is false already assumes that logic works, that logic has laws that have to be obeyed, that up is not down and down is not up. Well how did those things get to be laws? Are they just human conventions that, well, I you and I have agreed that these are the rules that we well if we've agreed maybe people after us will agree that logic doesn't work anymore But logic works in every civilization at every time for a reason because it's a law. It's not a law we created, it's a law above us. We have to submit to the laws of logic to know what is true. How did that law get there? It's an argument for God. As soon as they open their mouth and began to argue against us, ignorant Bible-believing Christians, they've already handed us all the rope we need to hang them. Furthermore, when people use science in an attempt to disprove God, which is a really a silly idea in the first place, because science can't prove or disprove anything that's not right in front of it. They too unknowingly acknowledge the existence of God. You say, why? Well most scientists were believers in God throughout human history. Always have been Science must assume predictable patterns, not just now, but for the future. It has to assume that there are laws of nature that are going to be continued, seen in the present, that are predictable for the future. That's not possible unless there's something that gives the universe order and predictability. If all that there is is chance, then everything that's been studied up to this moment, the next moment, for no one has ever been in the next moment. Everything that we know could be reversed and changed for all we know. And the fact that they don't believe that, that they operate in their life believing things will remain the same tomorrow shows they already have an assumption in their mind that something controls it. Again, that is evidence for God. Because chance cannot do that. Listen when someone comes to you and says, I need evidence for God's existence, tell them to open their eyes. Because every single thing that they have seen since the time that they have born been born, even their own face in the mirror, is evidence for the existence of God. A second error, as we saw, stems from the truth that this God, Elohim, is one God. There is only one God. And therefore, polytheism is an error. It's a belief system. Many people may sincerely believe it, but it is an error Those who believe in many gods, whether they be Hindus or various American Indian tribes or other tribal religions or ancient religions, are sadly and grossly mistaken about the real nature of the divine. This also includes those who say that there is a highest God, and there are many other gods under that highest God. They're just lesser gods. Because if these other gods are not really God and they were created by God, then they are not really gods themselves. They're just created spirits. And created spirits are not gods. And if these created spirits are inducing people in various places to worship other forms of God, then they have perverted the image of the one true God, and they themselves, therefore, have turned to evil. By the way, I think it's worth pointing out also that the evolutionist hypothesis that humans began as worshipers of many gods and then evolved into worship of one God is also mistaken. Israel's monotheism did not evolve from animism or polytheistic tribes. They were monotheistic from the beginning, from the first verse of their scripture In fact, the reverse is true. Mankind started with a belief in only one God, and then he degenerated into a belief in many gods. As they lost contact with and knowledge of their one true Creator and fell further and further into sin and into darkness and these theories came out. The third error is this one. Since God is separate from his creation, that is, God is not the creation. After all, it says God created the heavens and the earth, and not God is the heavens and the earth. So the heavens and the earth then are not God. The universe is not God. And therefore, pantheism and all of the religions, particularly from the East, which assume pantheism, are also in error Pantheism is that belief that all of the universe is God. The word pan means all theism is belief about God. So all of creation in their belief is God. You and me The plants, the rocks, the stars, the substance, all of it is God. Genesis one one doesn't allow for that, does it? Or any form of that. God has clearly and sharply distinguished from his creation. Just like we would go, we would draw a picture, an artist would make a painting, put it on the wall, that painting is his creation, it's not him. He's over there. He still has the paintbrush in his hand, and there's the painting hanging on the wall. He's not the painting. Painting is his creation, so the world is not him. The world is what God has made. Earth is not our mother. Earth did not create us Earth is not God. Mother Earth does not exist. Earth exists, but it is not our Mother. The one who exists is Father God, and He made us. And knowing that is the difference between worshiping the creation itself and worshiping the creator, an enormous error. Fourth, since there was a beginning of the material universe, the physical universe, that is, there was a time when the universe did not exist, and then it was called into existence out of nothing. Therefore, the belief called materialism is also in error. When we say materialism, we don't mean, as we do sometimes when we preach, the person who wants to get as rich as he can, he who dies with the most toys wins, that kind of materialism. Materialism, which often accompanies atheism, is the belief that all that is reality, all that exists, is physical. If it's not physical, that is in the physical universe, it doesn't exist. There is no spiritual existence. However, logically, the very existence of the physical universe proves by necessity the existence of some universe behind it, some existence behind it. something spiritual because if we know anything about the laws of physics, they know that matter itself cannot create itself. Matter and energy Had to already have something that caused them. Now, Henry Morris has a quote here again. Although it is impossible for us to comprehend fully this concept of an eternal transcendent God The only alternative is the concept of an eternal self-existing universe. And this concept is also incomprehensible Eternal God or Eternal Matter, that is the choice. The latter is an impossibility if the present scientific law of cause and effect is valid. Since random particles of matter could not by themselves generate a complex, orderly, intelligible universe. God created all things, And since materialism is in error, therefore naturalism that goes with it, that just I'm throwing under there, naturalism is also in error. The origin of our universe was not a natural one, it was a supernatural one. Fifth, since we are told what God did do there at the very beginning, that is, that He did do something and He did create, and we're reading that, and we can read that that's true, therefore Agnosticism is in error. Agnosticum, at least its bolder variety, is a belief that no one today, at least can really know what ultimate truth is. Some have this belief, some have that belief, but nobody can really know. But in Genesis chapter 1 and verse 1, God encourages us to know He writes it out so that we will know. In fact, we are definitively told God created the heavens and the earth. What's ultimate truth? God created the heavens and the earth. How do you know that? Because I just read it because God wrote those words. That's God's word. He worked through his prophet, and it is his word. So I can know today. I don't need to be an agnostic. I don't need to be one who doesn't know. I can know. God is real, and God has spoken, and He has spoken clearly, and He has spoken clearly in human language, and it has been written down for all to read. Genesis 1:1 tells us there is a God. He made all things. He is not silent. He's communicated to us about that. We don't need to guess what the truth is. We don't need to back off when people say you can't know that. We know it. 6. Since God created human beings, though not mentioned in verse 1, but later in the passage, who are part of this planet today, then we were fashioned from the soil and the elements of the ground, and we received breath. The breath of life directly from God, therefore, humanism is in error. Humanism is in error. Humanism is the belief that man is the measure of all things, that there's nothing greater in the universe than mankind. However, here we are told man is only a creation. Yes, that includes women, in case you were wondering. Man has no independent existence at all. Man didn't create himself. He can't exist by himself. Nor does man's intellect possess ability to know anything that God will not allow him to know. God had to choose to reveal origins to him, or he would not know. Philosophy is a dead end because philosophy depends on man and his ability to know by himself. Man cannot vote what is right or wrong. Man does not hold his own destiny in his hand. Man is subject to the laws of God, is subject to life from God, and that is just the way things are Since God created human beings, those human beings are accountable to God, man's destiny is in God's hands. Humanism is an error, and it's an error that robs God of glory. Seventh, since there was a different process going on at the very beginning of the universe than is now going on, then another belief called, this is a little longer, uniformitarianism, is also in error. You may not have heard that word, but you certainly have heard that concept. Uniformitarianism is the belief that the processes seen and measured in a natural world today are exactly the same processes Occurring, usually, they say, at the same speed which occurred long ago in the past. They are uniform processes throughout the ages, they say This assumption is used by many scientists in our modern world to date the past by projecting backwards how long something would happen. Of course, uniformitarianism cannot be proven from science, since science cannot measure the past. Rather, it is a belief, it is an assumption that scientists use. Some scientists use. But Genesis chapter 1 and verse 1 says that assumption is fatally flawed The processes that were used at creation were vastly different than what is going on now. God created, and how he did it, we don't really know. He spoke and it happened. What is that? What processes were used? Nobody knows. But now he's done creating, he's finished creating. In the beginning, he created the heavens and the earth. They're done now. So those processes of creation are not operative today. So no one can take what's going on now and project it into the past. That very assumption that is used is false. So to assume To assume that and use that assumption to try to date rocks or the Earth, that is the planet, the moon The planets in our solar system, the solar system itself, the stars, the black holes, the galaxies, the universe, all of that is a false assumption. And to assume that is not scientific. The scientists can't prove that assumption by science So not only is that not science, it's not even an accurate record of the past. Eight, since only God existed at the beginning, therefore dualism is wrong. Dualism is the belief in two equal principles of a good and evil force existing in an ongoing sense since eternity. Notice it doesn't say in the beginning good and evil were in a contest to see who would win. There's only one God, and that God is good, and so evil is only a perverting of his ways. That's all evil is. Evil isn't a thing itself, it's a parasite on something else. It's corrosion, it's emptiness, it's error, it's wandering. God is the only eternal being in the absolute sense, and he is good. And ninth, since God here is identified as masculine. As the term Elohim demonstrates, therefore any belief in a female deity or ultimate mother nature is also an error. God is spirit, so we can't speak of him as being male in the physical sense, but he himself has chosen To be known and to reveal himself in the masculine gender. I don't want to die and go before God and say we on planet Earth decided that that wasn't a good idea, and so we changed that, God We are not at liberty to change that without dishonoring the revelation he made of himself. Thus you can see where you can go with that in terms of some of the Bible translations today. Tent. Since only the true God did the creating, therefore pluralism is wrong. Pluralism Maybe in politics pluralism is a good thing in society, but pluralism as it relates to religion is a belief that there are many different beliefs in the world, many different religions, many different philosophies, and all of them are equally valid They're equally valid. We all start in different places, they say, but we all end in the same oceans. That is a belief in pluralism. Obviously, Genesis chapter 1 and verse 1 contradicts that as we have already seen. This is the God of Israel who created, and this is the truth. Any other truth is not true. So there you have ten errors. Exposed by one verse, the first verse in the Bible. And there are more. I wish I could give them to you, but we don't have time. I'd like to end with this. Here's one last error, I guess you could call it. It's not a false belief system. Rather, it is an error of the heart. And that is, it is an error to have a poor or lackluster response. To your Creator. We learned last week in Psalm 96 Ascribe to the Lord the glory of his name. Remember that? Bring an offering and come into his courts. Worship the Lord in holy attire. Tremble before him all the earth. Since God is absolutely brilliant. You can't go and look at the ocean or the mountains or the stars and not be inspired. And it's just that much of what he created. We don't know anything. We haven't seen hardly anything, even with a Hubble telescope. We don't really even know. And that's beyond our understanding of power. That's our God who spoke that into existence in one moment of time. That is awe-inspiring And it is magnificently beautiful, is it not? The power that He displayed. All of His attributes on display throughout creation to anyone whose eyes are open and can observe and learn to worship. All of that deserves the greatest praise for our God. Apathy toward God is a great error A thankless heart, a cool heart that doesn't burn for the ways of God, is not a proper response for our Creator. When we offer weak and uncommitted worship, does that honor the one who called us into existence? He called all things into being out of nothing. What kind of a being is that? We can never put our arms completely around God. We can never put our mind completely around the concept of God. God constantly urges us to consider his creation and try to understand who he is. Listen to these verses and just let your heart worship. Isaiah chapter 40 and verse 26. God says, Lift up your eyes on high and see who has created these stars. The one who leads forth their host by number, and he calls them all by name. Because of the greatness of his might and the strength of his power, not one of them is missing. Isaiah 45, verses 18 and 19. For thus says the Lord who created the heavens He is the God who formed the earth and made it. He established it and did not create it a waste place, but formed it to be inhabited. I am the Lord, he says, and there is none else. And God is awesome. Deuteronomy 10, 14. Behold, to the Lord your God belong heaven and the highest heavens, the earth and all that is in it. It all belongs to him. It's all his. Amos 4. 13, for behold, he who forms mountains and creates the wind and declares to man what are his thoughts, he who makes dawn in the darkness and treads on the high places of the earth, the Lord God of hosts. is his name. And Nehemiah 9, 5, and 6, arise. Bless the Lord your God forever and ever. An eternal creator. Oh, may your glorious name be blessed, it says, and exalted above all blessing and praise. You alone are the Lord You have made the heavens, the heaven of heavens, with all their hosts, the earth and all that is in it, the seas and all that is in them. You give life to all of them, and the heavenly host bows down before you You see, you and I are believers in Jesus Christ and believers of the God of the Bible, yes? What does a believer do? A believer believes, or he's not a believer, yes? A believer has to believe. And what he has to believe is God. And to believe in God, you have to believe in God's Word. And this verse here is God's Word. And we are to believe this Those first seven words in the Bible tell us a lot. They tell us a lot positive about God so we can worship Him and adore Him and have a trembling heart before Him, understand our weakness before Him It also tells us a lot to expose what is false so that we will not fall in the traps, the lies of man, the lies against the truth that rob the Creator of the glory that is due his name. Those who say that they are Christians and they say that they are believers and they don't believe the first words of the Bible and what those words mean and all that they teach, they're no believers at all. They're not believing God from the first thing out of God's mouth. Nor are they worshipers of the one true and living God, the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. It doesn't matter what they say. Genesis 1. 1, beloved, is the only satisfactory answer to the question of origins, but it does much more than satisfy our curiosity. It takes our hearts and grips our minds and lifts us up. So we would worship our Creator as great as He is. And it also gives us assurance. It helps us to know what is true. For a believer has heard it from the only one who is present at the very beginning. There's only one who is there. There's only one who knows. There's only one who can speak authoritatively. There's only one who can say anything with confidence, and it wasn't Carl Sagan. It is the Lord God of the heavens. And you know something? Carl Sagan knows that now We are to rejoice in this truth. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. Almighty God, build our faith and our confidence in your word. Help us to have humility as we recognize this is truth that you have communicated, not that which we have thought up or solved by our intellect, Lord. We just are trying to respond sincerely and honestly to a clear revelation that you have given to us. We pray you would Cause our congregation to have great confidence in the first verse and first chapter and first book of the Bible and not let the theories and speculations often which contradict logic and known science to veer us away from our full confidence in your word from the first verse. Let us boldly challenge those who have no firm foundation in the truth. That they are not only to acknowledge God's existence, but his lordship over their life. For we ask this in Jesus' holy and blessed name. Amen.