Missions. What is it that comes to your mind when you hear that term I wonder if it's different for different people. In fact, I really do think that it is. It may even be that what you have in mind when you hear the word missions and hear about missionaries That's different from some of the people that are sitting around you. Missions in modern society has gotten very broad and it's become very complex, and so there are lots of different kinds of ministries in the modern world. Reaching out through all of the world, and all of it falls under the banner of missions. And there's much good work that's being done with missionaries. Now we know the challenge. that the Lord Jesus left the church, what we call the Great Commission, go into all the world and make what? Make disciples of all the nations. Baptizing them and teaching them. That is the great commission that our risen Lord gave to His disciples who were just about to be turned into His church with the coming of the Spirit of Pentecost. We also know the challenge that the Lord Jesus gave, particularly to the apostles, who were the eyewitnesses of the resurrection, when he said you are to remain here in Jerusalem until you've been clothed with power from on high And then you will be my witnesses, starting where? In Jerusalem, then to Judea, the surrounding region, Samaria, the region to the north, and all the way to the ends of the world. In the book of Acts, we see that pattern unfolding as the gospel follows all the way to the ends of the world. We need to ask, though, knowing that we are to be involved in missions, how is it that the church carried out missions? What was to be done in missions and by what method? What really is biblical missions? Now there are many things that are involved in missions today, and they're not necessarily wrong. Indeed, many of them are very helpful, but I think that we need to make sure we know what the heart and the core of missions really is. Some have been known to show videos. The Jesus movie has been used greatly of God throughout the world, show a video. People in another culture learn about Christ. They may evangelize some, see some saved. But is that really the heart of mission? Some get involved in short-term missions. My daughter was involved in that. You heard Bruce talk this morning, and those are excellent and supportive and helpful aspects on the missions field. Some go through missions agencies and they receive language training. Indeed, one of our missionaries is having that done right now. Others are involved in Bible translation. Some go out in their occupations, such as teachers and doctors. Some go overseas in order to serve missionary families or groups of leaders in churches. Some even go over to actually physically build some of the buildings that are needed in the churches overseas or fly in airplanes and deliver supplies. So we're going to see something like that going on here to help with the Philippines What exactly, though, constitutes missions work? What is at the core of it? Are we doing missions work? Are we involved in missions at Hope Bible Church? When you witness to a friend, which you should be doing, is that missions? When you go across the street and share with a neighbor, is that missions? You know, as we're thinking about the future of our church and our growing involvement in missions, we really need to know what the core of biblical missions is so we can start with that Emphasize the core, not lose the heart of missions, and then expand out from that into other things that we would do. Finding the heart and the core of missions, I think, is very important. But how Do you do that? Well, how about this? How about we go on a missions journey this morning? figuratively, of course, and join along with the Apostle Paul and his ministering companion Barnabas. and find out what they did on their missionary trip. Study missions from their missions trip, a picture's worth a thousand words, find out what they were doing, follow along with them, and then from that discover what biblical missions is really all about. The Apostle Paul went on his very first missionary journey somewhere around A. D. 47 or A. D. 48 And from that we can observe what did he do on his missionary trip? What did Paul emphasize? What methods did he use? What was the message that he delivered? By focusing on the scriptures description of Paul's first missionary trip, I think we will be able to see very clearly what biblical missions is and what we as a church ought to be emphasizing in that area of ministry. That's really my objective this morning, to lay the biblical groundwork for the future of all of our missions programs. So please turn to the book of Acts in the New Testament and to a transition chapter in that book, chapter 13. And we are going to do something that is very unusual this morning, at least very unusual for me, if you know me. We're going to cover two whole chapters in fifty minutes or so. And uh 79 verses, and so we're obviously going to skip over many details, and you're going to wish I'll comment on something, but I'm going to blow right past it, and we're going to try to get the uh big picture here and understand what happened on this trip. Two chapters, and from two chapters, there are many principles of biblical missions here. I chose seven this morning. Seven principles of biblical missions. That's our outline. You can write them down as we go along Seven principles of biblical missions. So here we go. Principle number one The missionaries were sent out. When you have missions, you have to have missionaries, and those missionaries were actually sent out by a church. Look at Acts chapter 13 and verses 1 through 3. It says, Now there were at Antioch, in the church that was there, prophets and teachers, Barnabas and Simeon, who's called Niger, and Lucius of Cyrene, and Manian, who had been brought up with Herod the Tetrarch, and Saul. While they were ministering to the Lord and fasting, the Holy Spirit said, Set apart for me Barnabas and Saul were the work to which I have called them. Then, when they had fasted and prayed and laid their hands on them, they sent them away. Here we see the initiation of missions. Really, the book of Acts up to this point in time tells of the start of the church in the city of Not Rome. Where did the church start? In Jerusalem, chapter 2, with the descent of the Holy Spirit that formed them into a body in which Christ actually indwelt the church, and so the church became his body. And then from chapter 2 all the way to chapter 7, the book of Acts follows the activities of the church largely in the city of Jerusalem, the very founding of the Christian religion. By the time you get to chapter 8 of Acts, there's a transition because there was a man there named Saul, who's also known now as Paul the apostle, who was in hearty agreement of the stoning of Stephen and persecuting the church. And he indeed began ravishing the church and persecuting the church in Jerusalem, so that most in the Church of Jerusalem, after a very productive ministry in that founding city, were scattered all throughout Judea and Samaria and other places. And as those Christians were scattered, God used the thing that was intended by evil by the Jewish leaders to persecute the Christian church. God used that And he intended it for good because the gospel spread out from there and many other churches were started. In fact, in chapter ten and chapter eleven it details Peter's witness. to the first Gentile converts, Cornelius and his home, and then him coming back to the Jews and reporting about that mission and how the Gentiles were beginning. to receive the gospel. Which of course to us seems obvious, but to them Jesus was Jewish and it was all about the Jewish kingdom and all of that. And so the fact that the Gentiles were now believing and responding was something new So by the time we get to chapter 13 in this text that I just read, it has been roughly 18 years or so after the resurrection of Jesus, still very close to the historical events And now there is a church in this city to the north of Israel called Antioch. The church at Antioch itself was started by missionary work by these people that went out preaching. And it was started by the Mother Church in Jerusalem. The description of the founding of the Church of Antioch, we don't have time to read, but it's in Acts chapter 11, verses 19 through 25. So now Antioch is there, it's an established church, and this church, I think this church is so underrated because it becomes one of the most important local churches for the history of the Church of Jesus Christ in this entire world. Because you see, from the church at Antioch, they're launched new missions and new frontiers to spread the gospel of Jesus out to there and many, many more churches. In fact, from this very moment on The church at Antioch would be known as the church to launch formal missions to the Gentile world. It was here even that the believers in Jesus were first called Christians, right here at Antioch. And so it becomes a very, very important church in the plan of God. In a very real sense, all of the Gentile churches, largely Gentile today, who are in the western side of the world owe their beginnings And even us and our conversion to the work that was done here by the Church of Antioch in launching out Paul on his first missionary journey, which would lead to a second and a third and a fourth and on and on. This church was important. And this church had prophets and teachers presence in them, the gift of prophecy prophecy still very much alive before the full New Testament. canon was given. They had them there present in their local church. They were busy ministering. It says they were ministering to the Lord, notice. And then they were fasting and praying. Please see their commitment to spiritual ministry. They had an understanding that if you're going to accomplish something great, In spiritual ministry, you have to have power in spiritual ministry, and you get that power through your dedication to prayer and fasting and listening to the Word of God. They were dedicated to all of these things. And the Spirit of God was working in this local congregation. The Spirit of God was responding to their commitment to prayer, and the Spirit of God was encouraging that and was leading that and also responding to that. And this it was a spirit-filled church. It was a church committed to the spiritual ministry. And they were committed to listening to the instructions of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit was to lead them, the Holy Spirit was to give them direction. And indeed he did. He decided at this point in time, under his sovereign guidance, that he was going to speak. And he spoke to that church. It was probably through the prophets that were there, we're not told. He spoke to that church and said, I have chosen certain men specifically, and I want you to take those men and I want you to set them apart for me. The Holy Spirit said And I am going to send them out to do a work that I want them to do, and you, Church and Antioch, are to cooperate with it. And so we must remember God picks, God chooses certain people to do certain ministries in certain places at certain times. That has not changed today. God still calls people into ministry. God still calls people into missions, and those people must obey the call of God. Now some people I know are very zealous for missions, and I don't fault them for that, but they think that everyone ought to leave and go be a missionary. I have to Respectfully disagree with that. In John chapter 3 and verse 27, John the Baptist, when his ministry was decreasing and Jesus was increasing. said these very important words. He said, A man can receive nothing that is no ministry unless it has been given to him from above. God gives ministries. John the Baptist understood that. Jesus understood that. Paul and Barnabas understood that. God calls people to missions, and in calling them to missions, grants them progress in the ministry that He's called them to. The church did not work out their own little strategy, their own little ministry scheme. They did not concoct an artificial five-year plan that they, by their own insight and might, were going to carry out They were waiting, and they were believing, and they were ministering to the Lord, and they were relying on the Holy Spirit's guidance and on his power. And as they prayed and as they ministered, as they were faithful to the Lord where they were, the Holy Spirit gave them guidance. We should be doing that as well today. People, please underscore this in your hearts. God moves when his people join together, not just an individual prayer. Thank God for that. But when we gather together and we have what? Corporate prayer. God works in a unique and a powerful way when Christians are dedicated to praying together. That means coming out to prayer meetings. That means being dedicated to corporate prayer. So, in submission to the Holy Spirit of God, these church leaders and teachers immediately officially and publicly laid their hands on them to show their approval of this, to show that they were going with them in a sense, that they approved of it, that the ministry of Paul and Barnabas was going to be theirs. that the people that were sent out were connected to them. They laid their hands on them. They had a formal and official worship service. They didn't put missions off to the side as Roderick warned us about last week. Missions was at the very heart of who they were as a church, and they had a whole worship service for this. They were excited about it. They laid their hands on them and they sent them out And it was their mission too. They were part of that, you see. They were put on a mission. That means they were missionaries and they were involved in missions. Now, where did they go? Okay, principle number two The missionaries went to new territories under Satan's control. The new territories are under Satan's control, by the way, not the missionaries. The missionaries went to new territories that were under Satan's control. Look at verses four through twelve. Look back at the text. I'm going to read this rather quickly. So being sent out, notice, by the Holy Spirit, they went down to Seleucia, and from there they sailed to Cyprus. When they reached Salamis, they began to proclaim the Word of God in the synagogues of the Jews. And they also had John as their helper. When they had gone through the whole island as far as Paphos, they found a magician, a Jewish false prophet, whose name was Bar Jesus, who was with the proconsul, Sergius Paulus, a man of intelligence. This man summoned Barnabas and Saul and sought to hear the word of God. But Elamis, the magician, for so his name is translated, was opposing them, seeking to turn the pro-council away from the faith. But Saul, who was also known as Paul, filled with the Holy Spirit, fixed his gaze on him and said, You who are full of all deceit and fraud, you son of the devil, not the son of Jesus, son of the devil. You enemy of all righteousness, will you not cease to make crooked the straight ways of the Lord? Now behold, the hand of the Lord is upon you, and you will be blind and not see the sun for a time. And immediately a mist and a darkness fell upon him And he went about seeking those who would lead him by the hand. Then the Pro Council believed when he saw what had happened, being amazed at the teaching of the Lord. So they left. They left Antioch, Antioch's descending church. They went down to the port city of Seleucia. They boarded a ship in the Mediterranean Sea. They set sail not too far, about 60 miles west to the island of Cyprus. They used the means of transportation that was available to them in their culture. Ship transportation was readily available on the Mediterranean. And so they just used what God had already provided through their culture. And they went out as a team. They were not alone. They didn't go one at a time. They're not to do missions work alone. There was Paul, and there was Barnabas, and they had an assistant. This is John Mark, who is Barnabas' cousin. And Barnabas was very familiar with this first territory for the missionary team, for according to Acts chapter 4 and verse 36, this is where he was born, on Cyprus. And on the island of Cyprus, they first came to the city of Salamis. They went right to where the people were. They went right to the cities, and they proclaimed the gospel. And then they went through the whole island, preaching as they went, heading west, coming all the way to the most important city on the island, the city of Paphos. And there they proclaimed the word of God to the Jews, and even the pro-council was interested and ended up believing. By the way, they could not go there to work in cooperation with the local churches because there were no churches on the island. This is new territory. These territories were without an established church, and so when they came into a city, the first place they went was not to a church building, but to a what? To a synagogue, a place of the gathering of the Jews, their worship place. Why did they go to the place where the Jews were worshiping Because salvation is from the Jews. Because Jesus is the Jewish King, the Jewish Messiah. Because the promises that are in the Bible were first made to the Hebrew Abraham. It was through Abraham that God promised to bring blessing to the entire world. It was Jesus who fulfilled their own scriptures. So they were the ones to hear the proclamation of the good news first. But of course, the missionaries encountered opposition to the gospel. They're now in Satan's territory. Satan has been entrenched in this area. He's even provided his own power and false teaching on the island. One man spearheaded the resistance to the gospel and tried to pervert the ways of God, a magician, a Jewish false prophet? And so we should know when missionaries are sent out, they're being sent out into Satan's territory. They need our prayer support because they're engaging in spiritual battle. When truth is proclaimed in a new place like that, it's like a light just turns on in a place that's been sitting in darkness for a very long time, and all of a sudden some of the creatures in the darkness don't like that And they either scurry away or they try to put the light out. And that's exactly what happened here on the island of Cyprus. And God had provided Paul with the gift of miracles as an apostle. It was one of the signs that he was a chosen apostle of God. And so he he very clearly performed a miracle, not to show off power, but to be able to show the power of the Lord as greater than that of the devil. And of the false gods that were worshipped on that island. And they immediately saw some of the fruit for their labor and their sacrifices already. Some believed in the message. In missions, no matter where a missionary goes, we must believe that God, wherever they are sent, no matter how bad it seems where they're going, that God is going to save some. Some will believe. Yes, Satan will be there to confuse and to distort and to slander and to oppose But Satan, he may persecute missionaries, but he cannot stop the gospel. Missionaries must know themselves they are in a spiritual battle. And we, as ascending church, must know that they are in a spiritual battle and we are in that battle with them. And we must pray for them. Now there's so much that's interesting here. I know you want me to spend more time on it, but we're moving on. Third principle. The third principle, the missionaries proclaimed the gospel. We think about missions, we have to think about the preaching and the proclamation of the gospel. Look at verses 13 and following, 13 to 16. Now, Paul and his companions put out to sea from Paphos and came to Perga in Pamphylia. But John left them and returned to Jerusalem. But going on from Perga, they arrived at Poseidon Antioch, that's not the same Antioch they came from, and on the Sabbath day they went into the synagogue again and sat down. After the reading of the law and the prophets, the synagogue officials sent to them saying, Brethren, if you have any word of exhortation for the people, say it. Paul stood up and motioning with his hand, said, Men of Israel. We'll stop there. So they kept traveling to new areas. I want you to see that. They set sail again, this time from the island of Cyprus. They headed north. They came to the area that today is modern-day Turkey. on the south coast of Turkey along the Mediterranean Sea. And so they've gone from an island in the Mediterranean, they've sailed north and they've gone to the coast of Turkey. Again, they haven't really gone all that far from Antioch, but in ancient days it was harder to travel. Their destination, however, was not just One spot. They didn't just go to the island of Cyprus and call it quits and come back home. They went to Cyprus. They went all throughout Cyprus. And now they left Cyprus and they went to new territory. Now, by the way, there's nothing wrong with a missionary being sent to one spot and staying there and building a ministry over time. We need missionaries to do that, but that's not what the apostles here did. They knew something that I'm afraid often the modern church has forgotten, and that is that the gospel is an urgent message. It's the only hope for the nations, and it's a message that's not just supposed to go to one place and stop It's going to go to one place and then it's got to keep moving. It's got to keep spreading. There's so many places that need to hear the gospel. They have to keep moving as evangelists. Indeed, Jesus Christ Himself followed this very method when he went all throughout the villages and the cities of Israel proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom. He was not satisfied to do one little area. He wanted everywhere to know of the arrival of his kingdom. And so there is this urgency. And I think for us we ought to use every technological means that we have at our disposal to get the word out to the four corners of the earth. Now, I think very importantly, looking back at the text, lest you think that all first century missions was wonderful and without division. Please notice that they had ministry issues and problems in the first century, too. This was not a perfect team. In fact, it wasn't even all that experienced of a team as one might like to have. Everybody has to start somewhere. This is what the Holy Spirit had chosen. So they went out, they got started, they selected John Mark to go with them, and John Mark proved to be not all that good for their team. Right as the opposition was increasing and the difficulty, we're not exactly told why he departed, but he abandoned them. This is the same John Mark, who would later write the Gospel of Mark, and would later prove to be a very faithful worker for the Gospel, but not here. Here, he abandoned them. And in Paul's mind, this was clear evidence Mark, John, was not ready for this kind of ministry. And given what Paul would have to suffer on this very missions trip, you can't blame him for saying that And again, please notice the ministry pattern of these missionaries. They preached, but where did they go? They went to acceptable places. What do I mean by acceptable? Places that were expected where a new message would be given. They didn't start going door to door that would not have been effective. They went right to the synagogue. right to the established presence of the Jews there and proclaim to the Jews first the gospel, and then the message would go out from there to the others in that area. You need to remember that back in the first century there were still many Jews that did not live in the land of Israel. They were part of what was called the diaspora. These were the Jews when Nebuchadnezzar sacked Jerusalem and they were scattered all throughout the world. Many of them did not come back with Zerbabul and with Ezra and with Nehemiah. They stayed in the Greco-Roman world, they got integrated into it, so there were Jews all throughout the world, and there were synagogues wherever there was a large population of Jews, and God indeed blessed them in different places that they went. And so that's who Paul is running into out here, the Jews that are scattered throughout all of the world. And they would build a synagogue. The synagogue was their gathering place, much like our church would be. They'd have worship there, they'd have the reading of the law, they'd have teaching, and they'd have many social functions there as well. It was very important to their culture. And since the gospel was to the Jew first, it was only natural that the gospel went first to the place where the Jews gathered the synagogue. They went to the official place where the Jews gathered. They proclaimed the gospel there. And please notice that the gospel that they preached involved a very carefully thought-through message. It wasn't a quick outline. There was a lot of teaching that went into his preaching of the gospel. There wasn't a bare bones, four-point outline gospel that was given Paul focused on the Lord Jesus Christ. He went through a history lesson, and he really taught them while he was doing his evangelism. Look at the message that he preached that we stopped short of doing. Look at verse 17. The God of this people this is now his sermon The God of this people Israel chose our fathers and made the people great during their stay in the land of Egypt. See he's going way back in history reminding them of what their scriptures teach. And with an uplifted arm he led them out from it. For a period of about forty years, he put up with them in the wilderness When he had destroyed seven nations in the land of Canaan, he distributed their land as an inheritance, all of which took about 450 years. After these things, he gave them judges until Samuel the prophet. Then they asked for a king, and God gave them Saul, the son of Kish, a man of the tribe of Benjamin, for forty years. After he had removed him, he raised up David to be their king. This is where he really wanted to get. He's giving all of that to get to David. Concerning whom he also testified and said, I have found David, the son of Jesse, a man after my heart. who will do all my will. From the descendants of this man, David, according to promise, God has brought to Israel a Savior, Jesus. That would have been a very dramatic moment in the sermon. After John, this is John the Baptist, had proclaimed before his coming a baptism of repentance to all the people of Israel And while John was completing his course, he kept saying, What do you suppose that I am? I am not he, but behold, one is coming after me, the sandals of whose feet I am not worthy to untie. Verse 26 Brethren, sons of Abraham's family, and those among you who fear God, there were God-fearing Gentiles in the synagogues as well. To us, the message of this salvation has been sent out. For those who live in Jerusalem and their rulers, recognizing neither him nor the utterances of the prophets, which are read every Sabbath, fulfilled these by condemning him. And though they found no ground for putting him to death, they asked Pilate that he be executed. When they had carried out all that was written concerning him, they took him down from the cross and laid him in a tomb. But God raised him from the dead. And for many days he appeared to those who came up with him from Galilee to Jerusalem, the very ones who were now his witnesses to the people, and we preach to you the good news of the promise made to the fathers. This is supposed to be a great moment for the Jews. That God has fulfilled this promise to our children in that He raised up Jesus as it is also written in the second Psalm. You are my son, today I have begotten you. As for the fact that he raised him up from the dead no longer to return to decay, he has spoken in this way, I will give you the holy and sure blessing of David. Therefore he also says in another Psalm, You will not allow your holy one to undergo decay. For David, after he had served the purpose of God in his own generation, fell asleep and was laid among his fathers and underwent decay. But he whom God raised did not undergo decay. Therefore let it be known he's coming to the end of a sermon now. Therefore let it be known to you, brethren, that through him Forgiveness of sins is proclaimed to you. And through him, everyone who believes is freed from all things from which you could not be freed through the law of Moses. Therefore take heed, so that the thing spoken of in the prophets may not come upon you. Behold, you scoffers and marvel and perish, for I am accomplishing a work in your days, a work which you will never believe, though someone should describe it to you. Man Paul is bold here. He is such a teacher of the gospel too. Like I said, this was not a four-point little you know, reduced gospel. This was a message that was tailored for these people that went way back into the scriptures, gave them a lot of history, and this was probably just the summation of what he said on that day And he leveled it all down on them at the end, and he said, The invitation is for you. We're bringing to you good news. Therefore, you need to be careful not to reject This is your great opportunity. This is your moment where the message is coming to you. And he said, Jesus is the Messiah, Jesus is the Son of David, Jesus is risen, Jesus has appeared to his followers. Now you need to believe the good report. Receive forgiveness of sins. He even builds off of John the Baptist's famous ministry, which shook the entire nation of Israel, and the news of that surely resounded out of Israel to many other places. And he reminded them of what John the Baptist said in testifying to Jesus. And he even closes with a warning not to reject the message. Clear and thorough gospel preaching. That's part of missions. That's the central part of mission. Please, brothers and sisters, notice the power of salvation and getting results in evangelism preaching is in the message of the gospel itself and what the sovereign spirit decides to do with that message on any given day. There were no hymns sung, nothing wrong with hymns. There was no walking the aisle. There were no hands raised in response to an invitation. There was no invitation to get up and do anything. There was no emotional manipulation to try to get sinners to respond to the gospel so the preacher really looks like he's filled with the Spirit. It just was truth. It was truth that was spoken boldly, lovingly, confrontively, succinctly, accurately, and clearly. And clearly scripturally. The word itself preached, the gospel preached by a spirit-filled person is what God used to save some. And please also notice Paul's message did more than just say you're a sinner, Jesus died if you trust in him. It was a weighty evangelism teaching time, emphasizing belief not in a crucified Lord, but in a resurrected Messiah. This whole message is well constructed and designed to convince them. And from this, we should know that evangelism is not primarily a pre-packaged outline. There's nothing wrong with memorizing outlines, but it's much more than that. In this situation, the missionary had to know his subject very well. He was standing before people that would be skeptical and have many questions. And at that moment and afterwards when they asked him questions he had to be ready to answer them and answer them from the Bible. And that means that missionaries have to be very well taught in the scriptures. Or they're not ready. They're not prepared. They're not just anybody who wants to go out and talk about Jesus. They're prepared. They're trained. And that's important. All right, I gotta keep moving Fourth principle. They established local churches amidst opposition. They, on the missionary trip, they established local churches, and they had to do it amidst opposition. Look at verses 42 through 52. As Paul and Barnabas were going out, the people kept begging that these things might be spoken to them the next Sabbath. Now, when the meeting of the synagogue had broken up, many of the Jews and of the God-fearing proselytes followed Paul and Barnabas who speaking to them were urging them to continue in the grace of God. Verse 44, the next Sabbath nearly the whole city assembled to hear the word of the Lord. But when the Jews saw the crowds, they were filled with jealousy and began contradicting the things spoken by Paul and were blaspheming. Paul and Barnabas spoke out boldly and said, It was necessary that the word of God be spoken to you first, since you repudiate it and judge yourselves unworthy of eternal life, behold we are turning to the Gentiles For so the Lord has commanded us, I have placed you as a light for the Gentiles, that you may bring salvation to the end of the earth. Verse 48. When the Gentiles heard this, they began rejoicing and glorifying the word of the Lord. And as many as had been appointed to eternal life believed. And the word of the Lord was being spread through the whole region. But the Jews incited the devout women of prominence and the leading men of the city and instigated a persecution against Paul and Barnabas and drove them out of their district. But they shook off the dust off their feet in protest against them and went to Iconium. And the disciples were continually filled with joy and with the Holy Spirit. Well, there was opposition. There was religious opposition to the gospel. Satan works inside of false religion more than any other place, and you can mark it down when missionaries go to places it won't be the atheists persecuting them. It'll be some religious person who has some place of prominence and who sees a challenge to their religion. In this case, there was jealousy. But in the midst of all of that, people were believing, they were rejoicing, they're being filled with the Spirit. A church was born, indeed, churches were born. Disciples were being made. The power of the Holy Spirit was working. God's word was increasing and growing and spreading. And many were begging, teach us more. We want to hear more of this. Give us more teaching. We can't get enough of this. Begging to hear more of the gospel. Man, should that motivate us? People want to hear. And so the missionaries. Though they kept traveling, they didn't just preach and quickly leave. They reinforced their preaching of the gospel with more teaching to strengthen them in grace, as it says. This was follow-up Missions is not just preach and leave is preached they got to keep moving, but they taught them and built them up in the faith first It is establishing believers. That's what missions is. And when you establish believers and have them together, that's what? That's planting churches. What is missions? Missions is preaching the gospel and planting churches. That's what it is. That's the heart and quorum. They let God give them the greater opportunities. They had a slammed door with the Jews, and they took the leading of the Spirit of God, a wide-open door to who? The Gentiles. You see God's hardening and you see God's open door, that's his sovereignty and salvation. You can't have a clearer statement of God's sovereignty and salvation than right here in chapter 13 As many, verse 48, as many as had been, had been appointed to eternal life, believed. Who is it in times past that appointed them unto eternal life, but God only God appointed some to believe, and because they were appointed to believe, they believed. You may not want to talk about election, but it glorifies the power of God and it glorifies the purposes of God. Because you see without election nobody would pay attention to the gospel because they love their sin and they're dead in their sins and they're blind and they do not want to respond to it, and it takes God's movement God's initiative to move upon those whom He has chosen, grant them the eyes to see, the faith to believe, respond to the gospel. And Paul understood that, and Barnabas understood that, and they believed in election, and they were totally committed to evangelism and missions. You believe in election, you are the ones who should know that God has granted to us open doors and because of his sovereignty in that we could be successful in mission. Jesus said, no one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. John 6. 44. God is the power that makes missions work. Fifth principle. They kept following the same pattern, planting more and more churches. Acts chapter 14, verses 1 through 7. And further on, we see more of this too. In Iconium, they entered the synagogue of the Jews together and spoke in such a manner that a large number of people believed, both of Jews and of Greeks Verse 2 of chapter 4. But the Jews who disbelieved stirred up the minds of the Gentiles and embittered them against the brethren Therefore, they spent a long time there speaking boldly with reliance upon the Lord, who is testifying to the word of his grace, granting that signs and wonders be done by their hands. But the people of the city were divided, and some sided with the Jews, and some with the apostles, and when an attempt was made by both the Gentiles and the Jews with their rulers to mistreat and to stone them, they became aware of it and fled to the cities of Lyconia, Lystra, and Derby. and the surrounding region. And there they continue to preach the gospel. God just keeps moving them by responses or by persecution, and they're going where God wants them to go. Verse 8 At Lystra a man was sitting who had no strength in his feet, lame from his mother's womb, who had never walked. This man was listening to Paul as he spoke. who when he had fixed his gaze on him and had seen that he had faith to be made well, said with a loud voice, Stand upright on your feet. And he leaped up and began to walk When the crowd saw what Paul had done, they raised their voice, saying in the Lyconian language, the gods have come, have become like men and have come down to us. And they began calling Barnabas Zeus and Paul Hermes because he was the chief speaker. The priest of Zeus whose temple was just outside the city, brought oxen and garlands to the gates and wanted to offer sacrifice with the crowds. But when the apostles, Barnabas and Paul, heard of it, they tore their robes and rushed out into the crowd, crying out and saying, Men Why are you doing these things? We are also men of the same nature as you and preach the gospel to you that you should turn from these vain things to a living God who made the heaven and the earth and the sea and all that is in them In the generations gone by, he permitted all the nations to go their own way. And yet he did not leave himself without witness, in that he did good and gave you rains from heaven in fruitful seasons, satisfying your hearts with food and gladness. Even saying these things with difficulty, they restrained the crowds from offering sacrifice to them. They've got a lot of missionary work to do here. Verse 19, but Jews came from Antioch and Iconium, and having won over the crowds, there they are again, they stoned Paul. And dragged him out of the city, supposing him to be dead. That word supposing indicates he wasn't dead. But while the disciples stood around him, he got up and entered the city. The next day he went away with Farnabas to Derby. Well we see more of the same, and that's the whole point of this point. It was more of the same Missions doesn't change from this town to this town or this country to this country or this time period to this time period. Missions is missions is missions, it stays the same. More traveling to new places, more preaching of the gospel. Preaching is always central to missions. More starting with the Jews in the synagogue, more people believing, more people in opposition, more miracles to confirm the word to the Jews and others. Much more teaching to try to get the people better grounded because they're coming out of pagan religion and they need lots and lots and lots of patient care. A couple of extra notes here, though. Even though God elects, there is still the responsibility of the preacher to preach with all the persuasion that he has. And that is what God uses in his election. You see both of them in this text Election never discourages vigorous evangelism, rather, it establishes the success of it, and so they move forward, and so they used every human means that they had to persuade from the Word of God. We should also note that missionaries face much opposition. We said this before, but that means we need to really understand that missionaries have a hard, hard life. And they need not a little bit of support, but a lot of support. They're slandered, they're stoned, they're physically persecuted, they're sacrificing things. If they had families, which these two at this point didn't seem anyways They'd be suffering a lot of things, so when we support our missionaries, we ought to really, really do a good job. They're suffering a lot. And one other note, the gospel is a very divisive message. Have you noticed that? Everywhere it went, people get angry. Everywhere it went, it splits the I mean the the town was happy and fine before they came They showed up, and everything is split. There's almost a war going on, and they're the instigators. And you know what? That's what Jesus said. The gospel would do. It would divide men, and the division is good. It's not bad. The unity we have is a unity inside the church, inside of Christ. We are different from others. And again, I say they were not in and out of town. In and out makes good workers, but not good missionaries. That was a bad one, huh? They stayed a long time it says, and they taught, and they taught, and they taught, and teaching is at the core of the Great Commission. Jesus said, Teach them to observe all that I commanded you, and they're busy doing that. Teaching is necessary to establish churches. Missionaries are not just evangelists but capable preachers and teachers. Sixth principle. They strengthened churches and appointed leaders. They strengthened churches and appointed leaders. Verses 21 through 25. After they had preached the gospel to that city and had made many disciples, they returned to Lystra and to Iconium and to Antioch, strengthening the souls of the disciples. encouraging them to continue in the faith and saying, through many tribulations we must enter the kingdom of God. When they had appointed elders for them in every church, having prayed with fasting, they commended them to the Lord in whom they had believed Verse 24, they passed through Pisidia and came into Pamphylia. When they had spoken the word in Perga, they went down to Italy. Please notice the whole work of disciple building. They preached, they made disciples, they made many disciples, and then they returned right back to the churches that they have planted and started, and they encouraged them. They give them words of encouragement. They appointed elders for them. They they were a plurality of elders in every church. There were new churches, but they chose the most mature men that were available. They appointed them and they commended them to the Lord. The Lord would uphold the churches in their absence. They had taught them. They had to move on. God was their master. God would sustain them by his grace. They even went back to Pisidia and Pamphylia and Perga, continued speaking the word. The Lord protected them this time through. They ended up all the way back down at the coast. The Mediterranean coast at Italia, ready to set sail for their home church. And we come to the seventh and last principle. They return home with a report. for the sending church. They return home with a report for the sending church. That's verses 26 through 28, they're at the end of chapter 14. It says, From there, that's Italia, they sail to Antioch. from which they had been commended to the grace of God for the work that they had accomplished. When they had arrived And gathered the church together, they began to report all things that God had done with them and how he had opened the door of faith to the Gentiles. And they spent a long time with the disciples of their home church So they got on the boat, they sailed home. It had been 18 months or so on this first missionary journey. They were upheld the whole way by the grace of God. They had been commended to the grace of God. The grace of God had sustained them. God had led them. They arrived back home. They gather the whole church together. It's not a thing on the side. Everyone is excited. They want to hear about it. And then they start telling story after story after story. Do you think some of those Christians were weeping and crying? and rejoicing when they heard how they were part of this and God had used them and hundreds, maybe thousands, maybe tens of thousands of people had come to Christ. They had a real sense they were part of the work. They were part of those other churches out there. Those were their boys out there. They had seen them planted. They were connected to them. The gospel had come to them, it had formed the church in Antioch. They had been faithful, they had prayed, and they sent out others, and the gospel had gone out from them, and now it went out to these other areas. And this was just the first missionary journey. There was so much more. Beloved, it was all of God. God had opened the door of faith to the Gentiles, and that is the main theme. of Paul's first missionary journey, that the that God had opened the door of faith to the Gentiles, and they were pouring into the Jewish to believe in the Jewish Messiah. And they spent a long time administering to their own home church. These are surly things that hope Bible church can be committed to. This whole pattern here is so clear to me. You know, we started this church 12 years ago and 12 years ago. We were brand new church plant, we were the mission. And now we're growing and God is maturing us. We've still got a long way to go, but God has certainly shown his grace here. This is a work of God's grace right here. God's grace has sustained us also. We should be looking for leaders who are qualified, who've given themselves to ministry here to send out as missionaries. And also in cooperation with other churches where men have gone and gotten formal training and we cooperate with them as we did with the Williams family. Their home church being in Atlanta, and we joined in with them and we're supporting them. And we should be committed to helping the smaller churches, even this mid-Atlantic Bible church area, some of whom becoming the Saturday. And they're just in the place where we were 10, 11, 12 years ago. They're just getting started and they need encouragement. All of us most certainly can be praying more fervently for the work of the Spirit of God. Is it true? Why aren't we more committed to corporate types of prayer? We have a prayer meeting every single Sunday morning. We need other prayer meetings as well. I know that. Please examine your own heart and ask yourself Am I committed to missions? And when you answer that with a yes, because I hope you will be, then say, I want to help Hope Bible Church follow this biblical pattern of missions because There are a lot of things people can be involved in. A lot of those things are good, and we praise God for that. But the core of missions is the sending out of qualified men to preach the gospel, plant churches, and come back home. And tell the folks that sent them out about it so that everyone can be connected and rejoice together. Amen? Let's pray and thank the Lord. We thank you, Lord, for your grace. It sustains us, it excites us, it's what saved us. We pray for anyone here that has not responded to Jesus that you'd convict their heart of sin this very day, remind them they're a sinner, they're lost. Remind them there's only one that conquered death, Jesus, and grant them to believe this day. Help them to have a saving faith. We prayed in Christ's blessed and holy name as we look to you to build our missions program. Amen.