And with that, uh, I want to open us in a word of prayer. So let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for this Lord's day that you have made. Thank you for the great gift of faith in Christ that you enable us to rejoice and be glad in it. And so we do pray to you this morning. That you would open our hearts, our ears, our minds, that we might receive from you your truth concerning your holiness, your sovereignty. uh in your uh great will for our lives. And so even as these saints uh who you have drawn to yourself here this morning uh gather here to contemplate these truths, we pray that uh we would not be uh passive in the receipt and handling of uh the perfections that you have made plain to us through your word, but that this theology might be practical. working itself out in our lives for your glory and our good. And so we pray that your will would be done, and we pray that you would be glorified in and through our lives today. Give me wisdom and the ability to effectively encourage and sharpen your people here. And if there are any here that do not know you, Lord, we pray that they might behold Christ. the perfect, sovereign, good God of all creation this morning. In whose name we pray. Amen. Well, good morning to you all. My name is Antonio Weary. Obviously, I am not Pastor Rob. But it is a gift and privilege to be with y'all this morning. He's not in here. That was the first y'all. So there's an inside. There's like an in I'm from California too, so I don't know why this is a thing, but apparently it is Uh there's like a a a group of folks that are keeping they're playing like a game every time they hear a yaw or a legit. I don't know what they're doing, uh, but that that that that's a that's a thing. But it is a it's a privilege to be with uh you dear saints this morning. We are going to continue, as Pastor Rob has started, through God's sovereign glory, going through this book, Defeating Evil, right? And really, our focus is going to be on the person of God. Anyone familiar with the attributes of God? And we can raise hands. This is going to be interactive. Yeah, attributes of God. So what would be an attribute of God? Wisdom. God's wisdom. Right? Forgiveness. Love. God is love, the scriptures describe, right? Holiness. That was that was covered this week, right? Long suffering. Yeah. Grace and mercy. Yeah. And his uh his power, through his power, he's protecting and preserving his people, right? And his purposes. From eternity past, eternity purpose, or eternity future. Any other attributes of God? Loving kindness, as Hesed, right, in the Old Testament. faithful, uh undeserving, unconditional, bound up in the goodness and faithfulness of who God is that He pours out on His people. Yeah Omnipresence, yeah. So now we're kind of getting into about God's attributes. Um do we Have an understanding of those attributes that are reflected in his creation, specifically his image bearers, and those attributes that are unique to him. Anyone got our two words that we came across in the text this week, or perhaps you've learned them in other contexts? Yeah That's right, communicable and incommunicable. Communicable and incommunicable, right? So we have uh these attributes of God and as best we can discern as finite creatures. uh that do not possess the ability to completely wrap our minds around an infinite being. Uh we have in language, communicable attributes of God communicated to us, that we might rightly perceive God And those incommunicable attributes of God that we might rightly perceive and understand God. What's the distinction? Do we remember the distinction between God's incommunicable and communicable attributes? Well it's like if we can have a little bit of it, like we could have a little bit of wisdom that God would give it to us, but we could never Right. So God's omnipresence, his uh I forget the I think it might be Psalm 139 Even as I descend to the uh to Sheol, uh wherever I'm at, like I can't I can't not be in your presence, right, the psalmist declares. The the idea here that God is everywhere and and there's nowhere that God is not. And so we as finite creations, creatures, image bearers, can only be in one place and one time. But we know even as Jesus promised, that even to the end of the age, I will be with you. Right? That the God of all creation is omnipresent That's an incommunicable attribute of God. That's an attribute of God that we can rightly perceive. We can have an understanding of it, but we ourselves cannot manifest that attribute ourselves, right? A versus something like what we covered this week in our text, holiness, right? Moral holiness, and we'll get to that shortly. So today we're going to be working through, this was chapter three in your book. If you mistakenly studied studied and prepared for chapter four like I did, uh surprise It's chapter three. God the grand author of history. Uh so that was the explanation. No, the for the super late email uh this morning. Uh we are in fact in chapter three. And so what I uh want to set before you in sort of the same way that Pastor Rob has uh in the past is sort of what we're going to cover, right? Then we'll go over what we have what we intend to cover and at the end we'll review what we covered So starting with the Grant Author of History, that is the chapter for this week. Three major topics in this chapter, three major aspects of God that we're going to consider this morning. His holiness, his sovereignty, and his goodness. His holiness, his sovereignty, and his goodness. And if that's helpful to have that back there for y'all. There it is. But first, um not a review, but some questions. I got some questions for y'all. Biggest takeaways from last week. Biggest takeaways from last week. Yeah. Um when we're talking about the problem of evil kind of two key ways to try to reconcile that either through the argument of free will or through the argument of um Basically God being sovereign and using evil for his glory. Better good? Better good? What was the greater good. Greater good? Greater good, right? Yep. And what was the what was the distinction between those two? Do we remember? That you will often see those the means of understanding and reconciling or making sense of evil uh by those two means of understanding evil usually come out of a Arminian um or a Calvinistic understanding of uh scripture. Right? Uh any other big actually no, I I want to piggyback off that. Okay More specifically, I would say, uh does the doctrine of grace, since we've gotten into uh Calvinism, how does the doctrine of grace Help us to minister to those within the church who have or are experiencing consequences of moral or natural evil. What I want to impress upon you this morning is the practicality of our theology. Right? A famous pastor once said, all theology is practical. And so it's our hope that the theology uh the truth that we find in God's word and the truth that we learn about God is working itself out in our lives in some practical way. So what does that look like? Yeah, yeah. suffering and we know that God is going to work all things together for the good of those who serve Him, who love Him. But additionally, God is going to Hmm. Did everyone catch that? Recognizing God's glory and His mission And his worthiness alone, of being the one deserving of glory. And that everything, everything, not something, and we'll get more into this later today, but not some things, but everything is for his ultimate Glory. Um I saw a hand over here, sorry. Yeah. Yeah I'm just gonna say it. From the experiential way to through God's grace he gives each of us as aspect of compassion, some more than others, to come alongside people who are suffering and to not throw scripture at them because it might not be the appropriate time, but it's more like Job's friends when before they mess up. Um just those things we remind some of the suffering that those are still existent even though they're going through a different part. And we can bring that compassion to someone and encourage them, uh, again not saying, you know, according to Romans 8. 28, you know, there's the end of it, but uh it just his grace gives us a I know he's done that for me when I suffered in certain ways. He allowed me to have more compassion to other people who want this specifically. I'm thinking through uh related to what you're describing, practically how we walk alongside someone who's going through experiencing moral or natural evil evil. Are there any, so I'm not going to put anyone on the spot, but thinking through Tulip, are there any aspects of the doctrines of grace? um that might help inform how we care for, how we minister to, someone who's walking through, someone who's experiencing, maybe someone who's experienced in wrestling with the after effects of moral or natural Yeah. Could be slightly off topic. Um I have a thirty year plus uh friend who's uh not a believer, but I uh often press upon it. So for example, you you wanted to tell Tell me hey hey had a great day at work and then next morning is like woke up and the house is flooded and there's an inch of water there. And so that's when I like to uh press upon him to remind him the Lord doesn't punish us in this lifetime that's saved for eternity. There may be some consequences There may be some things that happen to us, but it's never a punishment for something you did five minutes ago or thirty minutes ago. There may be a natur a natural consequence of the uh you you ran over someone's dog. Okay, well you recompensed them or apologize or something like that, so Uh there's a rema uh a reminder there that things that happen to us there may be a natural consequence, but it's not a punishment. I I I hear you describing uh the sort of the consequences of living in a fallen world. Yeah. Right? And recognition that this world is not yet what it will be And as Christians, we have a living hope. We have a living hope that all of creation will be made new. Right? And so uh the natural evils that we experience here, uh this side of eternity, uh, are but a a thing that is uh As uh in Romans uh and Paul talk about all creation's crying out, right? It's crying out for the the redemption, for the renewal. And so until that day, we're going to experience hardship and tying it back to having a heart of compassion, recognizing that, if we truly believe that truth We have to necessarily affix our hope then on the one who's going to renew all of these things. Um and so the temptation to maybe overburden ourselves with, oh, I did this wrong or if I would have done this different, maybe I wouldn't have this consequence when it's a natural evil that's occurred, um we're freed, the Christians freed from that pressure because we recognize that this is all a part of God's sovereign ordained plan in our lives. Yeah. God is sovereign. He does think in this time. And sometimes when we go through the trial, uh we have lack of patience. And sometimes it can cause us to sin. Um instead of waiting, like uh Psalms forty one says, I wait patiently for the Lord, and then come into me and bird my cry. And so there are times when we don't have that patience Um and it's a trial. And you fail or pass through the uh Holy Spirit. Uh you pass. Uh my wife Ramona is right here and we she'll often uh remind me of uh in Genesis, right? Um Abraham and Sarah and their impatience in the fulfillment of God's promise to give them a child and then subsequently taking on um uh Who what's her name again? Hagar. Hagar. What? Hagar. Hagar. Hagar and Ishmael, yeah. Uh and that picture, right? That that picture that we see of failing to uh faithfully wait on the Lord, trusting that in his sovereign. timing, uh he will fulfill his word because he's faithful. Um yeah. Um to the question of like how can we apply the doctrine race like specifically when Christians are suffering because of sin. Like to me, what's really helpful is it calls to mind the perseverance of the saints. That in God's sovereignty there's nothing we can do to be separated from you know in whatever our circumstances God not only is able to conquer it but it's not a matter of oh this is some problem and now we have to solve it. God has ordained this ultimately for our I hope everyone heard that. Did everyone hear that? So uh we have I think for the most part been uh responding to how we might minister to those outside of the church. And the response here was how might we minister to those within the church in light of the truth of the doctrines of grace that we've considered, right? And the P, Perseverance of the Saints, is what was just shared. The idea that and it's it's most important that we get this right now. before the storm. Now you might be here today in the midst of the storm. You might be just coming out of the storm. But guaranteed you're in one of those places. About to enter the storm, you're in the storm, or you've come out of it. And if we do not get this, if we do not get this, The difficulty of weathering that storm is going to be way more than in that in that way, in that context, than if we get that now. And so for your sake and for the sake of your brother and sister and your ability to minister to them, the perseverance of the saints, the encouragement That God has ordained this for you. Is it his will that he remove this? Think of Paul in pleading with God three times that the thorn be removed. And what was God's response? My grace is sufficient for you, right? That in weaknesses, that in hardships, that in trials, that in all these things, the strength and power of God might be made manifest. And not anything in Paul. And it was for Paul's humiliation and Christ's exaltation in his life that that thorn was ordained to remain. And so it might not be Christian. That we will pray with and walk with a brother and sister through a circumstance that goes away. It might not go away, and it might actually get worse. Like here and now worse. And so if we're assured by and reminding not only ourselves but each other Of God's promises to cause his saints to persevere, that that good work that he began in his people, he will complete until when? Until the day of Christ Jesus, right? Now is the time. Our theology has to be practical. Now's the time to be seeking ways to to walk our theology out, to apply it. So that when those storms arise, when those circumstances present themselves, we're ready, right? One example that I actually came across this week actually comes from a testimony from Stephen Riesman. Heard that Thursday. Uh that was chapel, right? Thursday. Uh he was sharing a story about a a young girl and a young boy. Two different homes out there in uh Togo? Togo Togo. Uh and the little girl had a really bad leg infection. Man, he might share this later, so I'm sorry if you get this story twice. But it totally relates to this natural evil and uh the Lord's sovereign purposes for ordaining natural evil in the lives of people. And so you have this girl who has this really bad leg infection, and then you have this young boy who has this really bad stomach infection. Both examples of moral evil. We live in a fallen world with decay and sickness and illness and death. And in both of these cases, these individuals and their families were Negatively impacted by this natural evil. Now, in one of those circumstances, God saved the girl, right? Or was it the family The whole family, right? The whole family. God used through this natural evil that was wreaking havoc on this girl's body that was negatively affecting her family, God used that to save this girl. Because she comes now to this doctor Our missionary, right, who presents the gospel, uh her and the family are encapsulated around all these faithful brothers and sisters who are washing them with the word and by God's grace This girl and her family comes to faith. The flip side to that, uh, the young boy comes from a Muslim family. Stomach issues, same dynamic, same ministry, both the girl and the boy, the girl's family and the boy's family are affected or are ministered to by the same ministry. Some are saved and some are not. My point is, God ordained Moral evil to affect both souls, both families, and in his sovereign purposes, ordained to use moral evil in one context to save. It's important that we get these doctrines, these truths about God right, so that we are able to give God praise and glory. We're going to be walking through a number of scriptures. If you got your Bibles, physical or electronic, you want to have that out. And I'll be asking our folks to read. Just to give you a heads up now. So if you have a big voice and you want to read out, that'd be great. One of the big takeaways from uh this week's reading uh was God being the most important reality a person can understand. That was sort of the fundamental foundation that was laid out. God is the most important reality a person can understand. Jesus made that clear when he answered the question. Which is the greatest commandment? Recall that from Matthew 22. Matthew 22, 37-38. Jesus' response there. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart. And with all your soul and with all your mind. This is the great and first commandment. Biblical love for God, like we see there described by Jesus, is inextricably linked to understanding. To understanding, the mind, right? And so true love for God, it isn't an emotion, it's an act of the will. It's an act of the will directed by understanding of God's revealed will. And so true love for God leads to know him, a desire to know him. It leads to knowledge of him, it leads to a desire to know him. It it involves the mind. Because there's an aspect of obedience there, which requires understanding of his commands. And so in order to answer the question of how do we make sense of eagle? This is a problem. How does the Christian reconcile who God is with the presence of evil? In order for us to address this, we have to start with what is foundational. This is Christensen's point uh in this chapter, right? The most fundamental thing that being God Himself. We have to start with God Himself. And so before some aspect of God's creation Which would include evil, right? Recall that Satan is God's Satan. So before some aspect of God's creation can be understood, we have to understand him. Does that make sense? The first attribute and perfection of God that we'll consider this morning is his holiness, right? His holiness. And so we have to acknowledge, firstly, before we approach the holy, holy, holy God of all creation, that as finite image-bearers, we Have a tendency to distort our view of ourselves and God. Right? Think of Jeremiah 17. 9. Jeremiah 17. 9. Uh the heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked. Who can understand it? Consider uh Paul's wrestle in Romans 7, for I don't understand my own actions, Paul says, right? I do not do what I want, but I do the very thing I hate. Right? 1 Corinthians 13, 12, for now we see in a mirror dimly, but then face to face, now I know in part. My understanding, my knowledge is in part, but then I shall know fully, even as I am fully known. Right? Secondly, we have to acknowledge that God alone, God alone is the one who possesses complete and perfect knowledge of every aspect of every person. Right? Their actions, uh, their internal life, their unspoken intentions, God knows it all. Uh if you turn to Psalm 139, this is why Psalm 139 was in my head. Psalm 139, verses 1 through 4. Psalm 139, verses 1 through 4. O Lord, you have searched me and know me. You know when I sit down and when I rise up. You discern my thoughts from afar. You search out my path and my laying down, and are acquainted with all my ways. Even before a word is on my tongue, behold, O Lord, you know it altogether. And so the inspired scriptures are the special revelation of the all-knowing and eternal God. And while many of his attributes or perfections are revealed therein, one attribute, one perfection, is uniquely given a threefold emphasis. Do we recall which that was? That's right. It's holiness, right? God is morally and ethically perfect, right He's transcendently distinct from every outside from everything outside of his essence, and he's morally separated from sin. I'm going to give y'all some of the scriptures here, but then nearly I'm going to have y'all reading it. So we see evidence of that in Matthew 5. 48. You therefore must be perfect, even as your heavenly Father is perfect. Exodus 15. 11, who's like you, O Lord, among the gods, glorious in holiness, awesome in glorious deeds, doing wonders? We also see in the scriptures that God is relationally distinct and utterly separate from sin. And so, in Hebrews 1. 13, recall that you who are of pure eyes then to see evil and cannot look at wrong. In Psalm 5. 5, we read about God that for you are not a God who delights in wickedness. Evil may not dwell with you. He's separate from sin. Recall earlier that we discussed that this holiness, this holiness Is called a communicable attribute of God. Right? This is something with respect to God's moral and ethical perfection. This is something that he calls his people To be even as He is, to be holy, to be sanctified, to be set apart from sin Set unto God for righteousness and good works. This is a communicable attribute of God. Anyone struggle with this? I see all one hand go up. That's okay. I'll put both mine up for y'all. Yeah. So this is a communicable attribute of God. He is morally and ethically perfect. And Again, theology being practical, anyone have those friends, acquaintances, uh whatever the relationship there might be, but those folks who Characterize their faith, characterize their um righteousness by how faithfully they are keeping to some standard of righteousness, some standard of holiness that you don't actually find in the scriptures The person who, oh yeah, I do I do all of these things. You know, I I give to the poor. I I I volunteer of my time. I serve in these philanthropic organizations. I don't I don't do drugs, I don't murder, I provide for my family. How might a True understanding of God's holiness, and a true understanding of our depravity. How might a true understanding of those two things humble us and grow our dependence on the only means of being made right with God? Am I the only person that knows such people or has those relations? Okay. Y'all can like engage and respond. It's alright. It's good It's helpful because it prevents us, it prevents us from becoming Pharisees. Do you see that? That if we have a right understanding of God's holiness and his perfection, And a right understanding of our total depravity that we're not like him. The only thing we have to boast in is the grace he gives us to produce in and through us any good works. That there's nothing Antonio's bringing to the table that's like, yeah, this is me. Everything bad that comes from me, out and through me, that's me. That's Antonio. Anything good, that's God. That's all him. And that's the testimony of the Christian. That's the testimony of the Christian that God's call in our life to be holy, even as he is holy. Is accomplished by our abiding in Him, by our walking in Him, with Him, by His grace. That anything good comes from us. It's a testimony to God's supernatural enablement of us reflecting him. It's a response to his love and grace in our lives. Praise God through his Holy Spirit because He's a teacher. Right. And um it humbles you and knowing that uh you'll feel that you know that there's nothing to do. And there are a lot of family members and friends who base their um Christian or or base their belief in words. But thank God You and God reveals that truth to you. But we failed them often. And so when we understand, you know, His mercy and His grace has accomplished. Yeah. It also creates a complete dependence upon him and makes us realize that he truly is our portion, the reason why There's no other satisfaction as week that we can have. Um so uh we tend to want to be very independent and prideful and think that we are reading something but when we can truly look and see that he's prepared this vessel for his glory and he's doing it all and we'll complete it like And isn't it a helpful reminder Of our need for more of Him and less of ourselves or what this world is offering us as like a fix. That my failure, my stumbling, my inability to faithfully heed that command, to be holy as I am holy, to be perfect as I am perfect. I need more of him. I don't need more of something else or someone. I need more of him. And to the extent that I have brothers and sisters around me that are reminding me of that and that are spurring me on to that. I'm by God's grace enabled to faithfully pursue that. Because it's a pursuit of holiness. It's a pursuit of perfection. What we don't do is we don't say, oh, well, God's holy, I'm not. That's what it is, right? Well I'm not perfect. Well we know that. God is. But we're called to pursue Right? Like Paul describes in Philippians, we're to run that race and to strive with everything that we have. That he would be, by his grace, perfected in our lives, that we would reflect him faithfully. But we're not doing that in our own strength. And we're dependent and abiding in him for that to be accomplished. Yeah. Even the desire for that to be accomplished comes from the talking moment well says it transformed by the renewing of design. Sure. Oh that and then even in Psalm thirty uh thirty four seven or thirty seventy seven four, it says the light yourself, he will give you the desires of your heart. So the spirit of that is not that if we love a ball we say we love the world, we go to church and suddenly get everything we want, but it's he implants in us a desire for him, so he's in the very beginning of that. And then once we're in the word our minds being renewed and our hearts being changed all by the Spirit. And then the things that we want happen to be the same things that God wants. So it's this beautiful transformation. that all starts with God happens because of Him and glorifies God again. So it's this is a need of way to think about it all. So who can boast? Right? Yeah. Yeah. Going back to the the problem of evil and both with problems. unnatural response to the evils in my life that demonstrate God's work in me is how that greater glory comes around to demonstrate his goodness to the people in my life who can only respond to Yeah. I I can't tell you how many times um You know, just being a ministry family, being a ministry military family. Um just really awkward, hard things uh have occurred. Um And it's like, yeah, no, God's got this. And it's the response for those who don't know, like who don't have that relationship, who don't who who aren't resting in those promises, who who don't have that living hope. It's like, okay, so what are what are you two doing? And it's like not the God's doing something and we're just trying to be faithful to stay in line Right? Um so he absolutely gets all the glory. Uh the temptation of the flesh for sure is to, you know, puff out one's chest, like, Oh yeah, look what I did, you know, but you're very quickly reminded, yeah, you got nothing going on, sit down, right? Um Was there another hand over here? Okay. Sorry. Um continuing along in God's holiness. Uh God's holiness makes him alone uh distinct from his creation. Right? So this is a different aspect of God's holiness We heard reference earlier, Isaiah 6. 3, right? Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory. We see that in Isaiah. That was the testimony of the seraphim that Isaiah saw To whom then will you compare me? That I should be like him, says the Holy One. And in Revelation 4. 8, we see again, holy, holy, holy is the Lord Almighty, who was and is and is to come. This is the eternal testimony of every uh servant, every messenger of God that we look forward to. Okay, just a quick aside. And this is why singing is so important. So this is just Antonio now. Um I'm so looking forward to worshiping with y'all but after going ten months of uh how not really having folks that are wanting to sing out to the Lord It's such a preview. Like when we sing out to God, it's such a preview of what eternity will be. Right? And it's such a beautiful picture that uh yeah, I don't take this for granted. And it excites me so much to uh be with you all uh together as as we lift our voices and worship the Lord. But yeah, this is this is a The holiness that we're considering here is unique to God. This is the incommunicable, right? This is the incommunicable aspect of God. We sometimes refer to this as his transcendence. He is above and altogether separate from his creation. Again, the difference between his communicable attribute with respect to holiness. It's his moral and ethical perfection, and the incommunicable aspect of his holiness refers to his transcendence. His transcendence. With respect to his transcendence. Anyone know any folks here who have either an understanding of God or maybe have been raised with some uh religious practice where God is this altogether transcendent being and there's no personal relationship with him. Or perhaps even if if you're here today, um you may have at one point in your life held this view of God, that he's far above, almost like the in the Wizard of Oz, the You know, he's it's like you know, behind like oh I can't approach him, you know, it's fire and smoke and uh he's transcendent. Anyone know anyone or perhaps that was your um upbringing or or at one time your relationship with God. Do you clearly recall um Um and if we put in your spot we can we can go but but do you clearly recall when that changed? Do you want to share with us? Sure, yeah. I had a traumatic brain injury September 1694. And I literally saw myself, sorry, up but saw myself walking in the light. And that's when I hear that I was like he was Hmm. The personal aspect of this transcendent God. Right, this is this is the person of Jesus. This is God no longer being in the Holy of Holies. That the most sanctified of us sees or approaches, not even sees, but approaches one time a year after making sacrifice and cleansing for himself and the nation. No. This isn't a God hidden behind a veil that no one can approach. This is a God who took on flesh and dwelt among men. This is the God who entered into his creation. This is the transcendent God who was born of the Virgin. Who was tempted in every way. We all here are tempted and yet never sinned. Everything he did was in perfect, perfect fulfillment and alignment with God. It's in the person of Jesus that we are able to enjoy a personal relationship with the transcendent God. That's a mystery to us. That is a mystery. It's a blessed mystery that God cared enough to enter into creation in a sacrificial way in the giving of his son. Anyone here have kids? Yeah That he would give his son, that we would have a personal relationship with him So he's both this transcendent holy, holy, holy God. He's both the God who Isaiah falls to his face and is like, I I I I can't even, I should not even be in your presence. You're so holy. He's that. And he's also the personal God who says, come to me, all you who are weary and burdened, I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me. I thought this was helpful. Uh Christian Christiansen writes, ultimately, ultimately Transcendence points us to the incomprehensible wonder and vastness of God. He is the all-absorbing reality standing behind our feelings. of insignificance, and we intuitively know that such an exalted one deserves our full attention in worship. The life of the Triune, Holy One, is completely independent, self existent, and self sufficient. and self-satisfied in the glory of his own eternal blessedness, having no needs whatsoever. We heard a reference to God's glory earlier. God's effable glory, ineffable glory, separates him from all that he has made. And recall the scriptures describe God as dwelling in unapproachable light This God calls us into a personal relationship with himself through his son. And though God is transcendent, we read this week that he has condescended in order that we know him. And it's impossible, it's impossible for finite man to fully know God, right? But he's given us the ability to truly know him Did you catch that? It's impossible for us to fully know God, but He's given us the ability to truly know Him. And so you may be wondering what in the world does all this emphasis on God's holiness, how does this help us in our understanding of the problem of evil? Well Just want to take a look at what Christensen says here. He says we can't treat God as though he were like us. He's not a creature. He's not bound by our severely limited existence and perceptions of reality as he has defined it. And just highlighting all these aspects of God that Christians articulates. He's infinite with respect to God. He's timeless. He's outside space. He's necessary and independent. He has knowledge and wisdom. He's the source of all knowledge and wisdom. He's the prime initiator of all movement, energy, and action. He is the authoritative king. He's the author of the story. And so without understanding this magnificent vision of God and our humble place before him, we can have no real answer to the problem of evil. We can't think of an attempt to treat God as though he were like us. We have to rightly perceive and understand them. And His revealed will for our lives and his glory. And so the next aspect, actually, uh Where are we at? Man, time flies. Okay. Does this happen to you? Okay, I'm sorry. What's that? Okay. Uh man. Okay, these are application questions I would encourage you to consider though. How's your understanding of God's holiness? How's your understanding of God's holiness helped you navigate through a moral or natural evil in your life. How has your understanding of God's holiness helped you personally navigate through a moral or natural evil? in your life. I would love for someone to answer this, but we got three of these, and this is one. So I'd encourage y'all if you guys meet up. throughout the week to talk about the class or whatever you're reading, to like, yeah, discuss this, right? How how does our understanding of God's holiness help us to minister to another person or how has that personally helped us navigate through a moral or natural evil in our life? The next aspect of God's nature that we're gonna look at to help us understand the problem of evil deals with his sovereignty, his sovereignty over creation and history. If you want to open up to Psalm 115, Psalm 115, verse 3, if someone would read that for us, please. And then if someone could get cued up Daniel 4, 35, to read that afterwards. That'd be great. Psalm fift one fifteen, verse three. Our God is in the heavens, he does all that he pleases. And Daniel four, thirty-five. All the inhabitants of the earth are accounted as nothing. And he does according to you among the hosts of heaven and among the inhabitants of the earth. And none can stay his hand or say to him, What have you done? Right? God's will. The scriptures make plain God's will is his absolute and sovereign determination and ordination of all things pertaining to himself and his creation. God does what he wants. Right? How about Ephesians 1? Ephesians 1. 11 and Matthew 10. 29. Ephesians 1. 11 and Matthew 10. 29. S Someone read that for us please In him we have obtained an inheritance, having been predestined according to the purpose of him who works All things, some things, most things, good things, bad things, all things, right? Is what the text says. All things. Matthew 10, 29. Yeah. Are not the two sparrows so hidden? And not one of them will fall to the ground apart from the car. Right. There isn't a thing happening that God doesn't know about. Right? Absolutely everything. God's will is the final and ultimate cause for everything that occurs. How comforting is that? How comforting is that that even the little things, even the insignificant things He is the final and ultimate cause for everything God's decree is eternal. His decree is eternal. It's unchangeable and it's unconditional according to his good will and pleasure. Psalm 33, 11. Psalm thirty-three eleven and Isaiah forty-six ten. Someone could get those for us. Psalm thirty-three eleven. The council of the Lord stands forever Forever. Forever past, forever future. Right? These plans, this decree, this this will is eternal. It's unchangeable. It's unconditional. Isaiah forty-six ten. And from ancient times, things that are not yet done, saying, My counsel shall stand and I will do all my pleasure. Anyone know anyone or perhaps in your past or perhaps even now, um, you know someone that has feared losing their salvation? Feared losing their salvation. How hard of a struggle that is, how hard of a walk that is, to realize that God's calling you to be holy even as He's holy, and I can lose my salvation. That's terrifying. But knowing if we trust his word, and his word declares that there is a book of life that has names in it. And if my name's in it, it's in it. That's not changing. Knowing that before the laying the foundation of the world, God predetermined that he was going to send his son to die for me. That that doesn't change. That I'm not a variable in some calculus that God has put together. So whether or not I'm gonna by the end of it Everything's gonna work out, right? But no, God has determined in his unchanging, unconditional, goodwill and pleasure to save me. How should that affect our appreciation for the great price that was paid for our eternal lives? Do you ever meditate on that? When we get so caught up in the thick of circumstances or things not going our way? How helpful would it be in that moment to reflect on timeout, man? I've been purchased, and I am part of an unchanging, unconditional plan That God saw fit to include me in for his glory. Who deserves that? Like none of us, right? But praise God that He has in His goodness desired to glorify Himself through blessing us in that way. God's decree is exhaustive. It's exhaustive, right? So every means, every end, every contingency, every desire. Every choice operates under the providential governance of his decree. We're familiar with Romans 8. 28. Anyone want to read that? And then Romans 11. 36. Romans 8. 28 and 11. 36. And we know that for those who are gone, all things working better than this. For those who are called a board is right. Eleven thirty-six. For from him and through him and through him are all things be glory forever. Amen. Right? Every single thing. Uh Isaiah forty-five, five through seven, uh if you want to read that for us, please. There is no God beside me. I will I will urge you, though you have not known me, that they may know from the rising of the sun to its setting down, there is none beside me. I am the Lord, and there is no other I form the light and create darkness. I make peace and create calamity. I the Lord will always say. Amen. And thank goodness he's not like us, right? Fickle and just uh inconsistent, disappointing. Oh man. This begs the question, is there anything is there anything too difficult for God? Is there anything too difficult for God that uh accords with his nature? No. Jeremiah 32. 27 and Genesis 18. 14 are reminders to us that there's nothing too difficult for God. Anyone got those? Jeremiah thirty-two twenty-seven Genesis eighteen fourteen. I am the board where it's not going to be difficult for me. I'll come back next year. Ties into what we were discussing earlier about impatience, right? Jeremiah 32, 27. Behold, I am the Lord, the God of all flesh. Is anything too hard for me? Obvious question, no. How comforting is it to know that there's nothing too difficult for God, that Jesus declared that no one's going to snatch his people out of his hand. And that, if our name is in that book of life, if God has begun a good work in our lives, he's going to complete it. We know how the story ends We know how the story ends. How helpful is that? In the midst of difficulty, in the midst of evil, how helpful is that? Now is the time to be reminding ourselves and renewing our minds on these truths and reminding each other for when evil comes. This is a place of rest for us. This is a place of comfort for us. It doesn't become foreign that we're And we we sometimes you know y on the plane, you know, when you go through the seatbelt and emergency and all that stuff, yeah, we take that stuff for granted. Until the plane's going down, then you're like, what What am I supposed to do? Right? I'm forgetting to put the thing on and like uh now is the time to be rehearsing and reminding ourselves of these truths, about God's sovereignty. And his holiness, and finally his goodness, his goodwill and pleasure for our lives. Same questions as earlier. How might your understanding of God's sovereignty Help you navigate through immoral or natural evil in your life? And similarly, how might your understanding of God's sovereignty help you minister to another who's navigating through immoral or natural evil? I would encourage you to discuss those. Find times find time to discuss those today or sometime this week. And we've looked at God's holiness, his sovereignty, and the final aspect we'll consider this morning in quick time will be his goodness. If God were all powerful, but he wasn't all good, then we'd have reason to fear him, Christensen says, right? He actually suggests that it's because of God's goodness. And it's because that God's goodness is inextricably linked to his sovereignty that we can fully trust him. His goodness is linked to his sovereignty. And so we can trust them. God is the source, standard, and sum of objective and subjective good. We see that in Luke 18. 19, James 1. 17. Just for the sake of time, if you want to take pictures of this, you can and come back to them later. Um God's also the ultimate source of every good that proceeds from his creatures. We were discussing this earlier, right? Nothing good is produced Because of Antonio and for uh Antonio's good. It's a byproduct of what God's doing in my life. Everything bad Antonio produces, that's me. But everything good is God. So God is the ultimate source of every good that proceeds from his creatures, and he's the source and standard. He's the sum of objective and subjective good. He's the standard, right, of what it means to be good. That which accords with him and his word is good. That's that which does not accord with him. in his word is not good, right? That's the idea there. And then God has determined the eternally God has determined to eternally give of himself. And set his affection on others. And so God alone is worthy of praise for his goodness. Got some supporting scriptures there that remind us of that. Does I see a hand up in the back? Oh. Um Christianshan wrote, uh, the believer's hope is grounded in these two realities. an all-sovereign God in which nothing escapes his plans, and an all-good God in which everything, no matter how good or bad, serves these same supremely good plans. God is not causing some things to work for good. He's not causing only good things to work for good. He's causing all things, whether good or bad, to work for his redeemed children and their abundant good. Amen. And so again, how might our understanding of God's goodness help us to navigate Through a moral or natural evil in our lives? How might our understanding of God's goodness help us to minister to another who's navigating through a moral or natural evil? natural evil in their life. We have some discussion questions here that you can take a picture of to further discuss if you'd like. Yeah, exactly the book. Um but just concluding here, the three attributes of God that we considered this morning, God's holiness. That is, God is morally and ethically perfect. You separate it entirely from sin. We look at God's sovereignty, that God's uh exercising of absolute and comprehensive control over all creation is unique to him alone. And God's goodness. That God is the ultimate source and standard of goodness and love. So pray that this has been encouraging. If you have any questions, do not send them to me or ask me. Pastor Rob's right there. I'm just playing. Uh but that that you you know how to reach Pastor Rob and um I'll be available I think for a little bit. Uh but yeah, hope to fellowship with you all later. Hope this was helpful in encouraging your faith. And uh blessings to you all. Let me close this out in prayer. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your grace, for your goodness. uh for your sovereign will in our lives. Uh would you please help us to uh imbibe these truths uh to seek how we might be intentional to faithfully respond to your goodness uh according to your sovereign will in our lives uh as we Intentionally pursue your holiness. And so guard and protect us from sin and temptation as we seek to do just that. Bless your people, we ask, and glorify yourself, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.