Dear Heavenly Father, Almighty Creator of Heaven and Earth, we gather today to worship you and praise you and uh just to praise your glorious name. We thank you for this day that you have made this crisp. clear day and we thank you so much for your loving kindness and your mercy and your grace. We thank you for your word and how you've revealed yourself and revealed your plan of redemption in that word. And We thank you for the privilege of gathering to around that word to study it. We ask, Lord, that you would pour out your Holy Spirit on us such that we could truly understand what you want to teach us from your word today. We thank you, Lord, for the great love that you had for us in sending Christ Jesus to live as a man. To die on the cross for our sins. We thank you that you raised him from the dead, and he sits at your right hand, such that we serve a living Savior. What a glorious thing that is, Lord. We pray all these things in Jesus' precious name. Amen. Okay. So um We have uh we have a couple of uh distinguished guests at church today, not really guests, but um of course we have Teresa Gillary in the house, uh one of our missionaries. Um I think I s yes, she's here. Uh she was here last week too, but I didn't uh I didn't embarrass her by calling her out last week, but uh If you get a chance to greet Teresa, please do that. She's uh she's in town for a little while. And also today, uh the first Sunday for our new pastor, Antonio Weary, and his wife Ramona and their kids. And so If you see them in church today, please give them a big welcome to the church. All right, we're in uh part number 12. So 12 of 13, so believe it or not, we're all the way almost to the end. So this week and next Sunday will be the end of uh this course and of course that means that it's time to register for the next quarter of equipping classes. So Please do that. They've been advertised the last couple weeks in Life at Hope with a link to be able to register for classes And I'm going to be starting into Genesis next quarter. Well, last time I did it in five quarters Uh this time I think I may try to do it in four quarters instead of five. We'll see. I know it. Isn't that amazing? How how amazing God is He made the whole He he made not the earth or the whole universe in in six days. And it takes and it takes me five quarters just to go through Genesis and Yeah. Alright, today we're gonna talk about finding hope in the darkness. So we have this dark world that we live in. Where's the hope come from. Well, we're going to talk about four things. One is that Christ takes away our evil. The other is that Christ takes on our sorrows. We're going to talk about the hope and reality of future glory, and we're going to talk about praising the glory of God's grace. those four things. But first let's take a look back at what we did last time. So last time we looked uh at what the rest of the story is. So we know about uh Christ is the grand hero of history. We t we studied that before. And he comes and he dies on the cross for our sins. And then he goes back up to heaven. But what's the rest of the story? And so we talked about the fact that Christ's work of redemption is all-encompassing, that he's the cosmic redeemer who's going to restore all things when he comes again. So uh Isaiah 53 talks about it's a uh talks about the coming of the lamb who is to be slain, the suffering servant But Isaiah 9 predicts a lion-like figure who will rule the world as a mighty king. So which is it? Is the Messiah going to be a suffering servant or is he going to be a conquering king? And the answer, of course, is both. And in Revelation 5, we see those images put together in one passage. In verse 5 He's the lion of the tribe of Judah who has conquered. And in verse 6, he's the lamb standing as if it had been slain, right there in consecutive verses. And then in uh the next chapter, Revelation 16, the whole world is uh cowering in fear before the wrath of this same lamb. And so Jesus is in fact the victorious king of the universe. He was the suffering servant who died for our sins, but he's coming again. That's the rest of the story. Coming again as the victorious king of the universe. And of course he uh he came according to 1 John 3. 8. The reason the Son of God appeared was to destroy the works of the devil. Uh but as we look around us in the world, the works of the devil are still here with us. So what does that mean? That means he's coming again. Uh he's coming again to he has defeated Satan on the cross. And he's coming again to finally defeat Satan and toss him into the lake of fire. Now, where does the assurance come from for believers. The assurance of salvation, the assurance of resurrection, um and and to heaven. It comes from the empty tomb. The empty cross must be followed by an empty tomb. In order to give believers assurance that there will be a resurrection from the dead. And then the author pointed out also in the last chapter that Christianity is unique in uh among religions in that it makes its truth claims are tied to actual events in time, space, and history Things like the incarnation, things like the crucifixion, things like the resurrect- the resurrection. Uh those things are events that happen in history, and the theology is tied to those events. Those events have to be true or Christianity collapses, as Paul pointed out in 1 Corinthians chapter 15. And the Bible contains, in addition to these big events, All kinds of very small details that are verifiable in things like archaeology. And we see, of course, over and over and over again, the more they dig out of the ground, the more the Bible turns out to be true. To quote uh one of my favorite former pastors. A guy named Lon Solomon used to say that all the time. The more they dig out of the ground, the more the Bible turns out to be true. So the the uh Christ is coming again to reign in the millennial kingdom He's the all-encompassing Redeemer. He's already come to rescue sinners and defeat enemies, but he's coming again to restore all things. Um he's gonna bring he's already brought glory on himself in salvation, uh, but he's coming again to bring glory on himself in reigning in the millennial kingdom as well and to restore all things, to to restore the the entire creation. The final stage is what Peter talks about, the period of restoration of all things. And then in Revelation chapter 21, he's making all things new. And the author throughout the book is talking about how the entire story uh of history is J-shaped instead of U-shaped. In other words, it starts out with a very good creation uh the Garden of Eden. But it ends up in heaven, in the new heavens, in the new earth, which are better than the original Eve Eden. So it's not just U-shaped, it's J-shaped. And of course the image that we get of Christ when he comes again is different from the image of the lowly and gentle and suffering servant that we had in his first coming. He comes in Revelation 19, then I saw heaven open, and behold a white horse, and the one sitting on it is called faithful and true. And in righteousness he judges and makes war So Christ in the His first coming was not coming to judge and make war. In his second coming, according to Revelation 19, he's coming to judge and make war And it says he is clothed in a robe dipped in blood. And so this doesn't look like the same Jesus, but in fact it is the same Jesus, right? The same Jesus that was lowly and gentle. And and he's he's not actually different, right? When he comes as a conquering king, well he was always a conquering king. Even when he came the first time. But he he submitted himself to the Father's will, to death, even death on the cross And of course, when he comes again as the conquering king, he's also still the same Jesus. Who is gentle and lowly in spirit? It's always the same Jesus. He's both the conquering king And the suffering servant. Always the same. Okay. He descends from the he's going to come to the Mount of Olives. We talked about that from Zechariah 14. He's rule over them with an iron rod, Revelation 19, which is a quote from Psalm 2. And he's coming to tread the winepress of the glory, of the fury of the wrath of God. So remember that Christ is God. And when we talk about the attributes of God, God always has all of his attributes. So his mercy and his judgment and justice are always together in God at the same time. He's always perfectly righteous and just and uh and a judge And he's also merciful and full of loving kindness and full of grace, always at the same time. God the Father is, God the Son is, God the Holy Spirit is. Always, all of his attributes always together. Okay. And of course the rest of the story is he reigns for uh a thousand years while Satan is bound Satan is loosed for a very short time in order to be destroyed at the bottle of Armageddon and tossed into the lake of fire forever. That's the the rest and then there's the the new heavens and the new earth. a wound or disease is that the millennial kingdom had Jesus Christ expelled on earth in her reigning and it started with only believers, everybody was a believer. But at the end of the thousand years, Satan comes out to say He has no trouble getting an army as vast as the sands of the seashore. All these eating people at the end, and it just goes to show that evilness of the human heart because even in the presence of God itself, they weren't raising their children's right because these children And there were so many of them at the end. I think that's just an amazing lesson. Yeah, it is amazing that um no matter how perfect the circumstances and the situations are uh the the evil in the human heart will lead people uh off the off the wrong way. And we we see that throughout history, not just what's happening gonna happen in these after these thousand years. But look at the the children of Israel. They they were there. They saw with their own eyes the salvation of the Lord through the plagues and especially through the the Passover, uh and then through the Red Sea, they saw with their own eyes these walls of water and dry land across the sea and then the sea coming and just they saw that with their own eyes and they're immediately Grumbling and complaining to Moses, why did you take us out of Egypt? Were there not graves in Egypt? Why can't we just go back to Back to Be back to Egypt Club was thriving within You know, days after they had seen with their own eyes the salvation of the Lord. So that that's the nature of the human heart. Always has been, always will be Even when the Christ is physically ruling everything from earth, it won't be any better than watching God with their own eyes part the Red Sea and do the Passover and all those things. Yep. Alright, so he's coming in to restore the cosmos. Romans 8 draws a the parallel. We talked about this parallel between the redemption of God's elect and the redemption of the entire creation. The fallen creatures have the curse of the moral evil, the entire created order. has the curse of natural evil. And the redemption will be complete of creatures and the entire cosmos. So the end of the story ends up being better than the beginning. And Romans 18 says the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed. And so we end up with the new heavens and the new earth uh far outstripping the glory of the old. Um and so that was what we learned the last time. So any questions? Yes, Bob Yeah, I understand what um so the Christ kind of rainbow down these days, right? I mean what happens to all the soul or all the people on earth who died during that time? Will they be going the same way as we are or is there a different different Yeah, so uh in Revelation twenty-one there's the Great White Throne judgment, and so everybody will be judged at the Great White Throne Judgment and There are books opened at the Great White Throne Judgment, and the first book that's opened is the Book of Life. And so if you're written in the Lamb's Book of Life, then off to heaven you go. If you're not written in the Lamb's Book of Life, then other books are opened. And those other books are everything that you ever did, everything that uh that everybody who's not written in the book of life, everything they ever did is then examined and judged. And if you made one mistake, off to the lake of fire you go. Um and so e i essentially what that means, of course, is that everybody who's not lit in written the Lamb's Book of Life is off to the lake of fire. Yeah. And and of course, right before that, Satan And death and Hades are thrown into the lake of fire. And then everybody whose name is not written in the Lamb's Book of Life into the lake of fire. Yes. Yep. Mm-hmm. Okay. Oh, any other questions left over from last time? Alright, so this leads us to one of the most important questions when we assess any theodicy. What practical value does the Greater Glory Theodicy or any theodicy have for us as we live in here and now? What good. So what? That's one of it too, yeah. So what What difference does it make? Um well the Greater Glory Theodicy, I believe, gives us confidence Um and this kind of confidence was spelled out in the fourth century by Augustine He said the omnipotent God would not allow any evil in his works unless in his omnipotence and goodness, as the supreme good, he is able to bring forth good out of evil For God judged it better to bring good out of evil than not to permit any evil to exist. And so th that goes back That's um Augustine uh who lived what six sixteen hundred years ago. Um So we're we're going to talk in this lesson from this chapter about four practical ways that having a theodicy that is biblical, that that recognizes that God's plans and purposes are to bring about his greater glory, gives the believer hope. The first one we'll talk about is that Christ takes away our evil. And so uh first and most important consequence of God's redemptive plan is how he addresses evil in the hearts of his redeemed people. So everybody is born, since Adam and Eve, with a sin nature. We're born with a sin nature and then we sin. And so there's evil in our hearts. And so what w what does God do about that? Well the first that's the first uh uh and most important consequence of God's redemptive plan is how he deals with that evil in the hearts of his people Um and so when people address this problem of evil, theodicy, uh what about evil in the world Uh typically we, all of us, tend to focus on the evil that's out there. What about Jeffrey Dahmer? What about Hitler? Um the you know the the the easy one, the easy ones to identify and the ones that are not me That's the key. What what about those really bad people out there? Don't look at me, look at those really bad people out there. Uh how do we how do we uh How do we address those really bad people? 'Cause because we don't I don't really want to address me. I don't want to address the evil in my own heart. But the the fact is it's evil is not merely a problem in the external world. It's not just out there. It's first and foremost in here. In me. Every human being makes his or ho his or her own special contribution to the moral degradation in the world, to make the world the ugly place that it is. And so first and foremost, God had to deal with the evil in his own called and chosen people. And so, of course, we have a great capacity for self-deception, every one of us. It's endemic in our fallen state, Jeremiah 17. And so we tend to think more highly of ourselves than we ought. And one of the consequences of that is it's really easy to find someone who's worse than me. And say, well, look at that guy. Look at that girl. I'm way better than that. Um, but what's the standard? Perfection. Perfection. Be perfect. Be perfect as I am perfect, God says. So that's the standard. And so any amount of comparison with somebody who's worse than me is pointless. So the first thing that God had to deal with was evil in the hearts of his own chosen and called and elected people. And so Christ does this. He takes away the uh our evil. Um there is something that makes the problem of uh internal evil even more acute. Um and it uh uh R. C. Sprohl used to say that the evil that we commit, the moral evil that people commit, is cosmic treason. Cosmic treason against our creator. So uh and we see this in in scripture, we see this in examples in scripture when David abused his power as king and took Bathsheba, had her husband killed, um a wide swath of evil descended on many lives. You can read about that in 2nd Samuel, 2 Samuel chapter 11. It was a disaster for not just David, but the whole kingdom However, when David was brought low and moved to repentance, his primary focus was on the damage he had created in the vertical relationship with God. So uh turning your Bibles to Psalm 51. So Psalm 51 is the Psalm that David wrote about his own confession of his sin with Bathsheba. And his murdering of Bathsheba's husband. Yeah, absolutely. So so that's right. And so if you remember the very first sin, the um it's you know, Satan is there and he tempts Eve and Eve eats the apple and gives the It gives the fruit to Adam and he eats. And and so God, um, God comes to them. First he gives them a chance to confess. He says, have you Eaten from the fruit for I I forbid you. And what is Adam's response? The woman that you gave me, right? So whose fault is it? W well well it's literally everybody else's fault in the universe except for Adams, right? Right. There's only, you know, him and and Eve and God And so he's he's able to blame uh literally everybody else in the entire universe except Adam. Right? The woman that you gave me She gave me the fruit so yeah, who's it's definitely not my fault. You know, it's Eve and God and you know. So yeah, that's cosmic treason, the f the very first example. Um okay. Very good. So Uh turn to Psalm 51. And this is David kind of pouring out his contrition when he's repenting of his sin. And he says, be gracious to me, O God, according to your loving kindness. So how can he get for forgiveness for what he's done? Only by God's grace. Be gracious to me, O God, according to your loving kindness. It's only by God's grace that he can get forgiveness. According to the greatness of your compassion, blot out my transgressions. Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity and cleanse me from my sin, for I know my transgressions, and my sin is ever before me. And then look at verse 4. Against you, you only, I have sinned and done what is evil in your sight. So what has he done? He's committed adultery and he's murdered a man. But what is what does he say here? Against you, you only cosmic treason. The sin that he's committed is a sin against God. Now it is a sin against Bathsheba and Uriah and But it's first and foremost cosmic treason against God. So that you are justified when you speak and blameless when you judge. Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity and in sin my mother conceived me. He has a very strong understanding of original sin and the fact that he is born with a sin nature. Behold, you desire truth in the innermost being, and in the hidden part you will make me know wisdom. Okay, now At this point, uh cast your mind back to how was how was David confronted about his sin with Bathsheba? By Nathan the prophet, who came to him and told him a parable. Right? And the parable turned out to be about him. It was about him. It was a a rich man came and there was a poor man with only one lamb, and the rich man took the poor man's his only lamb to have a feast for his guests and and and David is immediately indignant and say that that the man in that parable should die And then Nathan says, you are the man. And and that hits David like a ton of bricks. And and he ends up writing uh he ends up uh confessing his sin, repenting, and writing this song Behold, you desire truth in the innermost being, and in a hidden part you will make me know wisdom. God made him no wisdom. Through Nathan the Prophet. Verse 7: Purify me with hyssop, and I shall be clean. Wash me and I shall be whiter than snow. Make me to hear joy and gladness, let the bones which you have broken rejoice Hide your face from my sins and blot out all my iniquities. Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a steadfast spirit within me. Do not cast me away from your presence, and do not take your Holy Spirit from me. Restore to me the joy of your salvation and sustain me with a willing spirit. Then I will teach transgressors your ways, and sinners will be converted to you. So this is David crying out to the Lord in contrition about his sin. Okay, so in Psalm 51 is David's humble prayer of confession He says, against you you only have I sinned. So moral evil is ultimately about one thing, a personal problem between human beings and the rightful creator, possessor, and judge of our souls. It's cosmic treason. And so God pours his primary energy into the rescue of sinners. People who cling to Christ and His saving grace, and that's where our first line of hope lies, clinging to Jesus and His saving grace. In Isaiah 53, of course, we saw that Jesus was crushed for our iniquities, and with his wounds we are healed, and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. And so where does all that evil go, according to Scripture? All that evil that's in my heart that I've done goes on him. So he takes away our evil. He takes um all that evil. The Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. So not a single human soul can see, can really see, the glory that God gains for himself until that person has experienced grace by which God repairs his or her shattered soul through the crucified and risen Christ. That's how we see, that's how we can really experience God's glory in grace is to have been a broken sinner who's saved by grace. Then we can really experience grace without that experience, what what would we know of grace? Ooh, nothing. You you couldn't know anything of grace unless you were a broken sinner who was saved by grace through the crucified and risen Christ. And so The end game of God's salvation of sinners is the maximization of his own glory. And that's really what we're talking about in this whole 13-week course is that The purpose of all of this, including your salvation and my salvation, is to maximize his glory And we're going to look at some scriptures today that really talk about that. So in Romans 5, Paul talks about Adam's disobedience bringing ruin to us all and then the obedience of the greater Adam, who is Christ, undoing that damage. And he says something very interesting in verse 20 of chapter 5. Now the law came in to increase the trespass. And so the moral law of God came into a corrupt world like a thousand sons, exposing every dark corner of sin. Self-deception of cursed creatures prevents them, prevents us, from seeing how many of our sins, like filthy cockroaches, scurry across the floor. Until that is, the light of moral truth is turned on, and then you see the cockroaches scurry. And so that's the function of the law, to shine a light like a thousand suns on the filthy cockroaches of our sin. And so we can see them scurrying across the floor. They cannot remain hidden in the light of the law. But remember what the end game is. The end game is always of God's salvation of sinners is the maximizate maximization of his own glory. And we're going to take a look at some scriptures. Let's let's start with First Timothy chapter one. So First Timothy chapter one, Paul is talking about his own salvation. So First Timothy chapter one, starting with verse twelve. So uh the first Timothy chapter one, Paul uh an older pastor writing to Timothy, a younger pastor. And he says this, 1 Timothy 1, verse 12, I thank Christ Jesus our Lord, who has strengthened me because he considered me faithful, putting me into service. Even though I was formerly a blasphemer and a persecutor and a violent aggressor. Yet I was shown mercy because I acted ignorantly in unbelief, and the grace of our Lord was more than abundant with the faith and love which are found in Christ Jesus. It is a trustworthy statement deserving full acceptance that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, among whom I am foremost of all. Yet for this reason I found mercy, so that in me, as the foremost, Jesus Christ might demonstrate his perfect patience as an example for those who would believe in him for eternal life. Now to the King eternal, immortal, invisible, the only God, be honor and glory forever and ever. Amen. Notice what Paul's talking about here. He's talking about his own salvation. He's talking about the fact that he was rescued as the foremost of sinners. And at the end of this passage, he says What's the what's the real reason, the real purpose, the real result of his salvation in verse 17, the honor and glory forever and ever of God. So that's the the end game of Paul's own salvation is The only God be honor and glory forever and ever. That's what he's trying to teach Timothy here. Where does the honor and glory go for Paul's salvation? It goes to God. And why is it why does it bring special glory and honor to God in Paul's case? It's because he's saved as the most wretched sinner you can possibly imagine. And that brings honor and glory to God. That's what Paul's teaching Timothy here. And so God God is able to turn even this guy Saul into a follower of Christ and a faithful servant of Christ. And that brings special glory and honor to God. And Paul rejoices in the fact that that brings special glory and honor to God. All right, let's look at another passage. So uh Romans chapter 5. I just mentioned this one about Um how the law and salvation work together. So um Romans chapter five, uh we're gonna just read some little clips from it, not the whole thing. The whole thing is worth reading of Of course. But let's take a look at Romans chapter five, a few selections. So verse one and two. Therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom Also, we have obtained our introduction by faith into this grace in which we stand, and we exult in hope of the glory of God. And so we're justified by faith. We're saved through our Lord Jesus Christ. And what's the result? What do we exalt in because of that? The hope of the glory of God. So what what is Paul saying here is uh the end game of our salvation, the glory of God Therefore, just as through one man sin entered to the world, and death through sin, and so death spread to all men, because all sinned For until the law of sin was in the world, but sin is not imputed when there is no law. Nevertheless, death reigned from Adam until Moses What is Paul saying there? That the law didn't invent sin, the written law of Moses. There was sin before that, obviously. He says death reigned from Adam until Moses. So when Adam sinned, he fell, and death came from. and and sin and death came into the world and sin and death were there from Adam all the way up to Moses. So Moses when he wrote down the law didn't invent sin. It was already there. So nevertheless, death reigned from Adam until Moses, even over those who had not sinned in the likeness of the offense of Adam, who was a type of him who was to come. But the free gift is not like the transgression, for if by the transgression of the one the many died, much more did the grace of God and the gift by the grace of the one man, Jesus Christ, abound to the many So then, as through one transgression there resulted condemnation to all men, even so through one act of righteousness there resulted justification of life to all men. For as through the one man's disobedience, the many were made sinners, even so through the obedience of the one, the many will be made righteous. The law came in so that the transgression would increase, but where sin increased, grace abounded all the more, so that as sin reigned in death, even so grace would reign through righteousness to eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. So what is that last section saying there? The law came in so that transgression would increase. Shine a bright light on sin so that none of it was hidden. But where sin increased, grace abounded all the more. So what did this increase of sin provide? It provided the opportunity for more and more and more grace, for grace to abound. Um that's what Paul's saying here. He's saying that God used evil for good purposes and uh and the more evil people did, the more grace came in and the more glory God gets That's what he's saying. Um so what's the what's the first um objection anybody might have? What's the first read what what what does Paul say in Romans 6. 1 right after this verse? So so we just go on sinning so that grace may abound. May it never be. So that's that's what Paul says right after this Um so but the law does not does nothing to eradicate sin, right? The law just points out yes. Explain how the secret seat is not even The right way of vegetation. The offman investigates the five is human private. Mm-hmm. Could you speak a bit about how it doesn't Oh of a universal salvation? Yeah. It it yeah, so it it's you have to be careful uh because there's a lot of scripture that t that talks in universal language because, uh especially the these New Testament letters Um remember that that the Jewish people were God's chosen people. God's chosen people, Josh chosen people. Be separate, be separate, don't intermarry. I will be your God, you will be my people. Always just Israel, just Jews. And then Christ dies, and he dies for all men, not just Jews. And so quite a bit of the New Testament is making sure that the Jews in the audience understand that we're talking about all men, not just Jews. And so when you see Salvation language, and it's talking about all men. So John 3. 16, for example, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son that whoever believes in him may not perish but have everlasting life Uh he loved the world all of it, so does that mean universal salvation? There's lots of universal passages like that And the the key I think to understanding those is to understand that in the first century that It was very difficult for Jews to understand that it was talking about everybody and not just Jews. And so I think that's the key to understanding 518 as well. Okay, yeah. I'm just out trying to understand that I don't like ourselves the same But it uh God is really glorified because that person is convicted of the sin and is repenting, so it is the the repentance that really glorifies God. Right It is. And the the fact that God overcomes sin is really the thing to be to be um uh we're celebrated and and to praise and worship God for. Um but so so why why isn't it that we don't just sin a lot more and therefore God gets all these extra opportunities to be glorified Alright, let's talk about that. Uh yeah. Um on on that uh universal thing. In John seventeen, uh Verse 8 it says, For I have given them the words that you have gave me, and they have received them and come to know uh know in truth that I came to you. And they have believed uh they have believed that you sent me. And then he says, I am praying for them. I'm not praying for the world, but for those whom you have given me, for they are yours. Yeah. So uh one of the keys is to Take the whole council of scripture. So the whole council of scripture makes it clear that not everybody's saved. Uh all the way to the end when you have the great white throne judgment and you get people thrown into the lake of fire. So we know for certain that everybody's not saved. So when we read a passage like 518, we know for certain it doesn't mean that everybody's saved, because we've got lots of other scriptures that say not everybody's saved. And so then how do we understand what he means by all men? And I think what he means is to make sure that everybody's clear that it's not just Jews. Yeah. Okay. Right, every tribe and tongue and language and nation. It's for the whole world, meaning that it's not just for Jews, it's for everybody. It's the Gentiles too And it's very difficult for us to understand, for us to put ourselves in a first century context for how radical that was for the Jewish ear. I mean that they've been taught for millennia that they're supposed to be separate, that they're God's people and everybody else is not. And you can't even intermarry with them because they might bring their foreign gods with them. So you've got to be separate. You're not like them. I'm your God, you're my people. And then here we have in the New Testament being taught, well no, God really he had a people for his own for a certain purpose to produce this Messiah And now that Messiah has come, and that Messiah is for everyone, the whole world, all of mankind. Not just the Jews. And so you have lots of language in the New Testament that is going out of its way to make sure that it's clear that this Messiah is not just the Jewish Messiah. He's the Messiah of all of mankind for all men. Yes. I just want to say I think in in Zechariah, oh that was also saying that not All Jews is entering though within the key dungeon? Well, of course not yeah, not all Jews have ever been saved at any point along the way. We had all sorts of rebellious people uh in the nation of Israel uh all along. Yeah. Okay. Uh so let's talk about uh the fact that the law does nothing to eradicate sin. It points out sin, it says it defines what sin is, it shines the spotlight on it And it compels the children of darkness to flee. Rejection of its standard leads them down a wide path of greater shame and rebellion. Greater and greater shame and rebellion. And then we get this marvelous truth, though, in Romans 5. 20, where sin increased, grace abounded all the more. The more that grace had an opportunity to reign through righteousness leading to eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord, in accordance with verse 21. So the more that God's undeserved mercy is extended to the perpetuate the perpetrators of these evils, uh his glory and grace are unleashed in ways in which they could not be otherwise. More and more Grace and more and more glory for God as the perpetrators of evil are extended mercy. So, uh this grace is not a license for more sin, and that's what Paul points out in the verse right after the verses we read. Romans 1, um that would trivialize the price that God paid. He he sacrificed his son to make this grace a reality. His grace does not pave the way for more sin, but in accordance with uh Paul goes on in Romans 6. 2 to say that uh that he put sin to death. that we might be made alive in God, in, to God in Christ Jesus, in verse 11 of chapter 6. Instruments for righteousness in verse 13 of chapter 6. So that's the purpose, that we could be made alive in God in Christ. instruments of righteousness not to do more sins that grace could impound, as he says in 6. 1. In addition to that We have no way of knowing how God in his infinite wisdom will use evil for to further greater goods. In other words, God in his perfect wisdom and infinite omnipotent power He can use evil for good. We don't have the insight to do that, right? I can't tell who who to throw into a pit and sell into slavery that will end up being a good thing. That that's not a decision that I'm qualified to make God was qualified to make that in light of his perfect wisdom and infinite power, omnipotent sovereignty over all things, he could deign that a certain evil should occur, like throwing my a brother into a pit and selling him into slavery for good, but we do not have God's perfect wisdom and infinite power to make evil things turn out for the good. We can't do that. And so to to say that I should just do evil so good is bad well, no No, God can do that. He can let certain evils occur, but he's already filtered all that through his perfect wisdom and sovereign omnipotent power such that it turns out for good. I cannot do that. You cannot do that. No human being can do that. Only God can do that And so to say that why don't I just do evil so that good can abound, what I'm really saying is I'm going to put myself in the place of God because I know better than he does, and I can I know which things to do such that good will abound. But I don't. I don't have that ability. Neither do you. Um others uh so and there's uh of course other um uh possible objections to the greater glory theodicy um and one of those is that uh this is nothing more than the ends justifying the means And the example that's often given is it's like a father who throws his son into the river to drown only to jump in afterwards and heroically save him. But that's not what's going on here. And in fact, that misses a vital point. The vital point being that there is greater good for a redeemed sinner than there would be for the hypothetical good person who never fell. And therefore has no need of redemption. Love, grace, mercy, kindness, and compassion God pours out on prodigals. The weight of their redemption is far greater than the weight of their corruption. And the hypothetical unfallen good person, hypothetical because there is no such thing Uh unfallen good person can have no concept of and no appreciation for divine grace They would have no need of grace, no appreciation of grace, no conception of grace. And so Did Adam and Eve experience God's glory as rightly in their unfallen condition when divine grace was unnecessary? And the author of the book says, I don't think so. I think he's right. Um they had a relationship with God where they um um experienced God and and worshipped him in some fashion, but um They didn't have this, they didn't have an experience of grace that can only come from having fallen And so I think that's a vital point. So uh if we look at the suffering sermon and Isaiah's prophecy, Isaiah 53 There's two things that Isaiah says, uh the Holy Spirit says through Isaiah here. Um one is that he bears our sins, but also that he bears our sorrows. So not only does Christ um take away the evil in our hearts, take on the evil in our hearts, but he also takes on our sorrows, according to Scripture. In fact, it says he's a man of sorrows and acquaintance acquainted with grief in verse 3. These sorrows and griefs are of course not his own. He lived for eternity past and uh perfect fellowship and relationship with God without any sorrows or griefs. It was only when he took on humanity, when he took on flesh that he assumed the sorrows and griefs of those he came to save. Verse 4 says, surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. So not carried his sorrows, he's carried our sorrows is what the scripture says. So Isaiah his use of griefs and sorrows, according to one commentator, circumscribes all that mars our lives. The good life is always eluding us, constantly balked by sorrow in whatever form it may come, disappointment, bereavement, tragedy. But he makes his our burdens his. He carried our sorrows, is what the scripture says. So uh Jesus vicariously embraces our pain and sorrows. Of course he had his own pain and suffering and sorrows directly, but he but what the scripture says is he also embraced our pain and our sorrows. And then he asks us to embrace him and all that is demanded of us as followers of Christ. So he embraces us first, and then he asks us to embrace him. And The scripture says this is not a heavy burden. His taking on all that is wrong with us, and our taking on all that is good and wonderful in him. That's a really good exchange for us. Him taking on all that is wrong with us and our taking on all that is good and wonderful in him. And that brings us shalom or peace. And uh Matthew 11, 28 and 30 says, Come to me all ye all who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart. And you will find rest for your souls, for my yoke is easy, and my burden is light. And that's for those who come to him, those who are called Those who are elected, those who are regenerated by the Holy Spirit and come to Him, what do we get? We get rest for our souls. And he's gentle and lowly in heart. Now, what do those who reject him get when he comes again as the victorious conquering king? They get uh the treading out of the wine press of the fury of God from the same Christ that we get gentle and lowly and rest for our souls, those who are unrepentant sinners get um Well they get not not gentle and lowly. Uh yeah. Same Christ. We get gentle and lowly, they get treading out the wine press of the fury of God So the gentleness of Christ, his humble heart, this is what most overwhelms sinners and draws them irresistibly to him. So the heart that's been regenerated by the Holy Spirit is drawn to Christ, drawn to this humble heart, this um gentleness of Christ. And we're drawn irresistibly to him. Yes. What does that mean objectively? Yep, absolutely. And yet embrace our hands on object we wouldn't. Yeah. So uh good question. So let's uh you're you're like one or two slides ahead. So hold hold that for a second. And so one of the things that we can hang on to is because he conquered pain and death through his own death and triumphant resurrection, he will never abandon us. And we can hold on to that. Alright. So Let's take a look at Ross's question here. The Christian has no promise that all pain and suffering will be eradicated in this lifetime. Right? This is the question that Ross was just asking. We will still get sick and injured. We'll still mourn the death of loved ones. The enemies will attack us. Satan and his evil minions will dog our every step We will bear ill treatment. We will be persecuted. Jesus promised us that we would be persecuted. But this leads us to a third important truth. That we have the hope and reality of future glory. So this is really the answer to what about the fact that we still have to live this life and we still suffer? One of the purposes for prolonged and painful suffering is to increase our longing and to magnify the hope and reality of future glory. So persistent commands in the New Testament are for believers to fix their gaze heavenward, looking for our blessed hope. In the words of Titus 2. 13, the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ. We're supposed to be always looking forward to that, fixing our eyes on the author and perfecter of our faith. And we're going to take a look in a minute at 2 Corinthians chapter 4. But Paul and his missionary companions were afflicted in every way. They were persecuted. Persecuted, struck down, carrying the body of death of Jesus, always being given over to death for Jesus' sake. Well that doesn't sound very glorious So, uh, but he goes on to say, we do not lose heart. So why is it that we don't lose heart amidst all this suffering? Well, the way Paul puts it is though our outer man is decaying and our inner man is renewed day to day. Outer man referring to our mortal bodies Cursed by the fall, subject to pain and suffering, sweat and toil, disease and decay. Uh that word for decay in verse sixteen is pretty harsh. It's a kind of rottenness, like a rottenness in your bones becoming pronounced as you get older. And all the mental anguish that accompanies a materially as well as morally corrupted world and the weight of affliction seems unbearable. So let's take a look at the scripture and what it says. So take a look at 2 Corinthians chapter 4. So why do we have hope even though we are afflicted? Why did Paul have hope even though he's afflicted? This is a good question that Ross asked. So let's take a look at 2 Corinthians chapter 4, where Paul goes through this. So he's talking about the treasure that we have. And then he goes on this little tangent here, starting in verse 7, but we have this treasure in earthen vessels, so that the surpassing greatness of the power uh of the power will be of God and not of ourselves. So what's the first purpose? of the fact that we have this treasure in earth and vessels, is that so God will be glorified. We are afflicted in every way, but not crushed, perplexed, but not despairing Persecuted but not forsaken, struck down but not destroyed, always carrying about in the body the dying of Jesus, so that the life of Jesus also may be manifested in our body. For we who live are constantly being delivered over to death for Jesus' sake, so that the life of Jesus also may be manifested in our mortal flesh. For all things are for your sake, so that the grace which is spreading to more and more people may cause the giving of thanks to abound to the glory of God. So what's the whole purpose? So he's out on the mission field. He's out winning souls for Christ. And what is the purpose? What is the ultimate end of all that is the giving of thanks to abound to what? The glory of God. So this is what Paul says he's doing it all for. This is what Paul says the purpose of going out on the mission field and suffering all these things, these afflictions and Um and everything else is for your sake. He's talking about the people that he's preaching to, the sake of those who uh are s the the gospel is spreading to And and for what purpose is he is he out there trying to uh to to preach the gospel and bring people to Christ? Is so that more people will give thanks and that giving of thanks will abound to the glory of God. That's the whole purpose. Therefore we do not lose heart. And because of that, he he doesn't lose heart. He knows that the he what he's doing is producing glory for God and therefore he doesn't lose heart. Therefore we do not lose heart. But though our outer man is decaying Whose outer man is decaying? Yet our inner man is being renewed day by day, for momentary light affliction is producing for us an eternal weight of glory, far beyond all comparison. While we look not at the things which are seen, but at the things which are not seen, for the things which are seen are temporal, but the things which are not seen are eternal. So there's a diagram in your book. It's on page 183. Figure 91 on page 183. It's a diagram of those uh last three verses that we just read. And so I think it's a good diagram. So It shows there that the outer man is constantly decaying, decaying towards death, right? Everything's falling apart. Just a few years ago I was running marathons and now it's a chore to get from here to there. Um so and I'm not even that old. Um so the outer man is constantly decaying towards death. But what happens at death? Future glory. Now, as we live in this world, the inner man is constantly being renewed towards future glory. The outer man is subject to the curse which is visible. We can see the fact and look in the mirror and see the fact that I'm decaying. That's visible and temporal. But the inner man is subject to redemption which is invisible and eternal. And so what does the scripture tell us we're supposed to be focused on? The invisible and eternal. That's what we're focused on. The fact that um that my inner man is getting stronger and better. more fit for heaven as my outer man is decaying towards death. But that's the only true for me. Correct. That's correct. And so then in verse uh at the end there in verse 17 and 18, he's talking about momentary light affliction producing an eternal weight of glory. The momentary light affliction is visible and temporal. The eternal weight of glory is event invisible and eternal. And what are we supposed to focus on? The invisible and eternal the eternal weight of glory, which is far beyond all comparison. And so that's the key as we go through this life As we as our body falls apart, our inner man is being renewed day by day and just marching on towards eternal glory. And that's what we're supposed to be focused on as all these things around us seem to be Um there seems to be disaster all around us. Even for believers, uh the the the whole litany of disasters in Paul's life He points out there's a several scriptures where he talks about, you know, how many times he was shipwrecked and how many times he was beaten with rods and all these things. That's all the visible and temporal and but that's not Paul's focus. His focus is on the invisible and eternal. His inner man is being renewed day by day, and he's urging us, the Holy Spirit is urging us through Paul to be the same way, to be to have our eyes fixed on what is invisible and eternal And that invisible and eternal is more and more glory for God. But also, in accordance to this scripture, is more glory for us because of God's glory. And so we're going to talk about that here in a second. So the hope and reality of oh we're almost out of time. Uh when we experience Christ's egg uh redemption simultaneously the fact that our outer man is daily getting worse, our inner man is being renewed day by day. The inner man is the new self, Ephesians 4 and Colossians 3. We're a new creation in Christ, 2 Corinthians chapter 5. And this new creation in Christ is uh regenerated by the Holy Spirit, empowered by the Holy Spirit, who enables us to be renewed day by day. And we're being conformed to the image of Christ, Romans 8. 29. And so Paul is emphasizing the contrast here. There's this big contrast between our outer physical person decaying and making its way towards death and our inner spiritual person getting better, stronger, more mature, more sound, ready to run a marathon any minute. Alright, no matter how bad our outer man is decaying, the inner man is becoming more spiritually mature more conformed to the likeness of Christ and getting better and better and better, and more ready for life in heaven. And so this this should be good news to us. This should be what our where our focus is, according to Paul, rather than looking at the circumstances around us and the fact that things um appear to be going wrong in so many different ways to our in our physical uh physical life and physical being. And then of course once our material bodies actually die, they too will experience a new birth. So we got that going for us as well. So the affliction participates in a vital cause-effect relationship, producing greater future glory. And so suffering is not an accident. Suffering in the life of a believer is not an accident. Losing a job, being mistreated by an abusive husband, becoming a paraplegic via a diving accident. like uh Johnny Erickson Tata, experiencing a miscarriage, being imprisoned for preaching Christ, suffering the consequences of a previous life of drug addiction. Nothing in the life of a believer is wasted. Nothing So yeah. With all that, you know, you just say here's the whole Jane one. Um Ch uh verse two. Consider it all joy. My brothers, when you encounter various proud things, but he's endurance that doesn't have perfect result so that it may be perfect, he thinks laughter is nothing. Yep. And so our that's our inner man being perfected through outward trials. Our inner man is being perfected. Yep. Very good. That's exactly right. That's exactly the same concept that the Holy Spirit is expressing through the Apostle James as he uh expresses through the Apostle Paul. And sometimes your attempt to fell that crowd will be allow our pleasure desires. you know, to to stand up trusting in God and leaning towards him. So you know we act out as well. Right, and that's why Paul says to focus on the eternal invisible rather than focusing on the temporal um and the visible. We're supposed to be focusing on what is this trial really producing in the inner man That's what we're supposed to be focused on. Yep. And so no event that might otherwise be a source of ruin that God does not use to produce future glory. And so when afflictions in this life are more severe for believers, future glory will be exponentially greater. God's grace and glory are magnified more fully. when believers suffer more deeply. That's what the scripture teaches. And so that's why James says, consider it all joy. Right? Because you're th when you see that kind of a trial, uh uh especially a severe one What is that doing? It's producing greater, greater glory from God. And um I was in pain. I mean I had a headache that the Medicaid didn't work and I just cried and cried and prayed. And God gave me uh momentary relief, excellent, and that That can't be home. Yep. You know, no, right? Yep. Uh the greater glory the greater God's glory, the greater our future joy. We rejoice in God's glory. So greater glory for God is greater joy for his redeemed people. All right. I've got to land the plane here. Praise for God's glorious plane. So it provides us a firm foundation for us to worship God. The glory of God's redemptive grace fuels our worship. And so in prefall Eden there was worship of God, but it was not from a position of brokenness and contrition. There was less apprehension of the holiness of God because they didn't know anything about his grace. There was no apprehension of the display of love for creatures in the pardon of sin. freely given by grace. So um and I think this answers a possible objection to uh this kind of theodicy Uh where the depths of God's love for creation have been less uh any less if sin and evil had not entered the world. Uh grace is a form of divine love that he the greatest glory on God's actions. And so there is greater glory for God. Greater demonstration of love by God because he gets to demonstrate grace. And it that kind of love, the love as demonstrated in grace, can't be displayed to those who are untainted by sin. So only to rebels, prodigals, prostitutes, drug addicts, thieves, drunkards, liars, murderers. It brings relief to the oppressed and the brokenhearted. So the highest worship that humans can offer is praise to God for his redemptive grace. Alright. Sorry I didn't leave any time. We're out of time. So uh if you let me let me close this with prayer. If you have any questions you can uh you can come up afterwards. Uh dear Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for your wonderful grace for the fact that you have saved sinners like me. We thank you, Lord, that you've demonstrated your love in this way. um and that in your infinite wisdom, your divine, uh perfect knowledge and sovereignty over your creation You have decided that the best glory, the most magnificent glory can come to you through your demonstration of grace to fallen creatures. And what a wonderful thing it is, Lord, to be in your grace. We thank you, Lord. We thank you for the opportunity that we have to worship you now in corporate worship. And we pray that that worship would be acceptable in your sight, and that the things that we do, the things that we say, the songs that we sing now would bring glory to your name. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.