From Genesis to Revelation. We thank you for designing the body of Christ as you've designed it so that we can uh we can gather together, we can worship together, we can encourage one another, we can lift one another up, we can bear one another's burdens. We thank you for all of that, Lord. And most especially we thank you for Christ, for his life and for his death. For his resurrection, for the fact that he sits at your right hand interceding on our behalf, for the fact that he's coming again to be the the reigning king, uh to rule over the entire universe. universe and that his reign will last forever and ever and ever and ever. We thank you for all these things, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, so we're up to to part eleven and so that means that it's almost time to start registering for equipment classes for next quarter. So we have today and we have two more Sundays and then beginning the first Sunday of December will be a new quarter. And so be looking out for Life at Hope with registration links. Uh I think the Life at Hope for this week already has a description of the classes coming up. I'm gonna be teaching Genesis again. Um I just I looked back through my notes and it was It's been three years since I I taught Genesis the last time. Okay, so today we're gonna learn about the rest of the story. So the rest of the story is that Christ is not only the Lamb who was slain, but he's also the lion Lion, the lion of the tribe of Judah, and he's coming again uh as the conquering hero. Christ is the victorious king of the universe, and he's coming to for the millennial reign, for a kingdom uh honor. For a thousand years, and then of course he's going to be reigning in the new heavens and the new earth forever. And we're also going to take a look at the fact that there's a restoration for the entire cosmos, uh, that Christ and His that God's great Great kind of redemption includes redeeming mankind, but also all of his creation, the entire cosmos. Well, first let's take a look back. So uh the last chapter took seven that uh Lorphy covered in in two weeks um talks about Christ as the grand hero of history the hero of the story and so first there's the incarnation and then And there is his substitutionary atonement, his death on the cross. But the incarnation is such a baffling mystery that Christ is 100% man and also 100% God at the same time. And there's a table in the book that lays this out side by side. He's the uncreated creator, but he takes on a created nature. He's an infinite, unbounded be being, but he takes on a finded nat finite bounded existence. He's the immutable, unchangeable God, but he yields to the mutable conditions of a human being. He's the omniscient one who is the source of all knowledge and wisdom, but he takes on a human mind that learns and grows in knowledge and wisdom, as the scripture tells us. Th this is a baffling mystery that theologians call the hypostatic union, the union of a hundred percent God with a hundred percent man and the um the the very difficulty of wrapping our minds around how that can be the fact that he had a divine will that was not subject to temptation but a human will also that was subject to temptation. That he it was necessary for him to have a human body so he could shed blood. As as God doesn't God is spirit, he doesn't have a human body, it can't shed he can't shed blood. blood. He had to have a human body in order to shed blood. Okay. Uh so w we went through all those things in chapter seven. And so we learn that the this divine human savior is the hero of the story. He defeated the death and destroyed the enemy forever. Um in Romans uh Romans ten nine says if you confess that Jesus is Lord with your mouth and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead you will be saved. And so but and this intersects with the problem of evil in that uh the fall introduced this uh this quagmire of reb of of evil of because of rebellious creatures dishonored the holy creator uh there's no solution solution to the problem of evil that can be found within the worldly plane, i is how the author of the book described it. Uh consequently the crises could be solved only by God himself. And he did that by injecting uh his divine son into uh a human being. Jesus is the hero because man cannot save himself. None is righteous, no not one. All our righteous deeds are like a polluted garment. No man can by any means redeem his brother or give to God a ransom for him. So we couldn't save ourselves and so God had to save us. If we were going to be saved, it had to be an action of God. Scripture makes that clear. God alone can save. Salvation belongs to the J to the Lord. Jonah two nine. I I am the Lord, and besides me there is no Savior, Isaiah forty three. The Lord is my light and my salvation, whom shall I fear? Psalm twenty three. seven. Uh this Jesus is the stone you builders rejected, which has become the cornerstone. Salvation exists and no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given to men by which we must be saved. Acts four. And so Jesus is the was hero of the story, and if Jesus hadn't come to be the hero of the story, there wouldn't be any hero and there wouldn't be any story. So he was absolutely the necessary hero of the story. So Any questions about what we went through the last two weeks in chapter seven? Yes, Carrie. Are you mic? Am I mic'd? I I am mic'd, but are you not hearing it? Do I need uh Oh, so it's it's coming out from some? So it's coming from the speakers on the roof, but maybe not quite enough volume? Okay. Uh is it better? Is that better? Can you hear it better over here? Thank you, Daniel. Okay. So any any questions about uh chapter seven? All right. Let's take a look at chapter 8, the rest of the story. So Christ is the lion and the lamb. The Bible portrays Christ's work of redemption in an all-encompassing way. He's savior of an elect group. of sinners, but he's also the rescue rescuer of creation itself. Uh we have this uh these verses, uh Ephesians 1 10 for example about the cosmic redeemer who is poised to restore all things Not just some things, but all things. Not just people, but his entire creation. Christ defeats evil in two ways: through his incarnate condescension, suffering, and death. So the plan of Redemption and his death on the cross, and then through his resurrection, ascension, and return, as as first as the s uh the the suffering servant, and then as the conquering king. Two ways he defeated. evil. So he's appointed to establish his worldwide kingdom both by a cross and a crown. The cross and the crown. He will soon come to judge and to restore the entire entire cosmos in his second coming, bringing all things under his wise and benevolent rule. Yes. I think that takes me back to the very beginning of this book that people were reading. by God Christians and that there's two kinds of evil because I never really thought of it. I mean the moral evil is what evil men do other evil. And the natural evil in those earthquakes, tsunamis So that's the two ways Christ is remaining it. Correct. And the natural evil. That's right. And so in in the end there will be a new heaven and a new earth and we will not see all these natural disasters and natural correct. Very good. So, uh Christ heroic actions provide further testimony to the greater glory theodicy in that the curse on the created order is supremely will supremely magnify his glory when he overcomes that. The overcoming uh the eff all the effects of the curse, not only the effects of curse on people, but the effects of the curse on All of creation. It will bring glory to God. Uh the Messiah's improbable and inglorious path to the cross, in other words, being falsely accused and beaten and and murdered on a Roman cross, uh, alongside his resplendent honor as the risen and reigning Lord, so we have this tremendous dichotomy. You've got this um uh uh the same Christ who is who goes meekly to the cross being beaten, comes again, as we'll see, what we're gonna really focus on today, he's gonna come again and he's not gonna be like that this time. He's gonna be the the the reigning king of glory when he comes again. And uh the the author gave a cultural reference here that I'm not sure everybody will get. Uh Paul who knows who Paul Harvey is? Who remember? Paul Harvey. So yeah, so I can remember listening to Paul Harvey in for me in the nineteen eighties, late eighties and early nineties, uh when I was living in Japan, Armed Forces Radio had had a they carried Paul Harvey. Uh and so I used to l every day I would hear hear Paul Harvey and Paul Harvey what we what he would do is he would take some well known personal event and he would give some background information that wasn't so well known about that person or event. And after he had g given this this story, he would say always at the end, and now you know the rest of the story. This is Paul Harvey. Good day. That's how he would always say it. Um and uh so I remember that, but probably and probably nobody under fifty has ever heard of uh Paul Harvey. Uh But he uses that that reference the rest of the s cause that's how he s uh he would say at the end of each one of these little vignettes. And now you know the rest of the story. Um so that's what he's talking about. So uh if you'll open your Bibles, we're gonna start taking to look at the rest of the story. Open your Bible to Revelation chapter 1. Revelation chapter 1. And so um the book of Revelation tells you its title. Uh In the first chapter. So what's the title of the book according to the the book itself? Revelation of Jesus Christ. The Revelation of Jesus Christ. That's the name of the book. The Revelation of Jesus Christ. And uh in chapter one, starting with Verse nine, uh John is recording these events. The apostle John he says, I John, your brother and fellow partaker in the tribulation and kingdom of perseverance, which are in Jesus, was on the island called Patmus because of the Of the word of God and the testimony of Jesus. I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day, and I heard behind me a loud voice like the sound of a trumpet, saying, Write in a book what you see and send it to the seven children. Churches to Ephesus and to Smyrna and to Pergamum and to Thyatira and to Sardis and to Philadelphia and to Laodicea. Then I turned to see the voice that was speaking with me, and having turned I saw seven golden lampstands and in the middle of the lamp. lampstands I saw one like a son of man. Where does that phrase son of man come from? Daniel. Daniel. Daniel seven. Uh and w who w who used it over and over again in his earth earthly ministry? Jesus. That was his his most um frequent self uh uh self description, the son of man. Uh so then I turned uh to see the voice. I saw one like a son of man clothed in a robe, reaching to the feet, and girding. across his chest like a golden sash, his head and his hair were white like white like white wool like snow, and his eyes were like a flame of fire, his feet were like burnished bronze, when it has been made to glow in a furnace, and his voice was like was like the sound of many waters. In his right hand he held seven stars, and out of his mouth came a sharp two edged sword, and his face was like the sun shining in its strength. When I saw him I fell at his feet like a dead man, and He placed his right hand on me, saying, Do not be afraid, I am the first and the last, and the living one, and I was dead, and behold, I am alive forevermore, and I have the keys of death and of Hades. The Apostle John coming face to face with the risen, glorified King of the universe, Jesus Christ. Now remember who the Apostle John is. He during Jesus' earthly ministry, he was one of Jesus. Jesus' best friends. He was the inner circle, uh Peter, James, and John. Uh he he knew Jesus personally as a friend to sit around the campfire and eat meals with and walk along the way with. But When he sees Jesus, the risen, glorified Jesus, the King of Glory, what is his reaction? Does he run up and give him a hug and say, Hey, I missed you, buddy? No, he falls down. like a dead man falls down like a dead man. This Jesus is not like the Jesus in his earthly ministry. Hi his glory was veiled in some way And now it's completely unveiled when John sees him in this vision and he falls down like a dead man. He doesn't run up and hug him like a bro. Um and so this is the risen Christ and how the risen Christ will return. Also he must have been here but to go back what um said to the end was John cannot be right. Right. John must have looked at the right he was terrified falling down like a dead man on his face, terrified and Jesus uh tells him not to be afraid. Okay. Remember after the transfiguration He did, yep. Absolutely. So J John had had a glimpse of it before. But just a glimpse and he and he didn't follow up down like a dead man in that instance. Um and so this is another order of magnitude here. He does get a glimpse, you're right, at the uh Mount of Transfiguration. Uh and Peter talks about that in uh later on as in Second Peter as well. Um okay, so um let's move a little bit forward in the story to Revelation chapter five. So So move forward to Revelation chapter five. And we get this description of Jesus. This uh this dual description of Jesus in Revelation chapter five. So Revelation chapter five, verses one through nine. And so this is John receiving more visions. I saw in the right hand of him who sat on the throne a book written inside and on the back, sealed with s up with seven seals. So who is it that's sitting on the throne? The father sitting on the throne, uh, and I saw a strong angel proclaim with a loud voice, Who is worthy to open the book and to break the seals? And no one in heaven or on the earth or under the earth was able to open the book or to look into it. Then I began to weep greatly. This is John. John's weeping greatly, because no one was found worthy to open the book or to look in into it. And one of the elder said to me, Stop weeping. Behold the lion that is from the tribe of Judah, the root of David, has become so as to open the book and its seven seals, has overcome so as to open the book and its seven seals. And I said Saw between the throne with the four living creatures and the elders a lamb standing as if slain, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God, sent out into all the earth. And he came and Took the book out of the right hand of him who sat on the throne. When he had taken the book, the four living creatures and the twenty four elders fell down before the Lamb, each one holding a harp and golden bowls full of incense, which are the prayers of the Saints, and they sang a new song saying, Worthy are you to take the book and to break its seals, for you were slain and purchased for God with your blood men from every tribe and tongue and people and nation. So who's that talking about? That's Jesus. He's he's the lion of the tribe of Judah. That's what the angel says about him when he's going to take the the scroll, but then when he's taking the scroll he looks like a lamb that has been slain. So he's a lion of the tribe of Judah, and he's a lamb looking like he was slain, and he's worthy uh to be worshipped by uh the elders um and the uh and the full. living creatures and all the angels of in the succeeding verses, uh all bowed down and worshiped to him. So he's the lion and the lamb. So in Isaiah 53 see the the prophecy of a suffering servant, a lamb sent to slaughter. In Isaiah nine we see a lion like figure who will rule the world as a mighty king. And so there are I think we've talked about this in previous classes, there have been Jewish scholars down through the ages who have postulated two Messiahs because they r they read all these descriptions and say, Well, that can't be the same person. There's gotta be two messiahs. Messiah, so suffering servant and a and a mighty conquering king. Um and we know from the full counsel of Scripture, including the Book of Revelation, that it's one Messiah and two comings. comes the first time as the suffering servant, he comes the second time as the conquering, ruling king. And there's prophecies about both in the Old Testament. And uh those who are not regenerated by the Holy Spirit uh are are unable to see. So Revelation five puts these two images together in in one passage. Christ has Lamb and Christ's lion together in the same passage. The lion of the tribe of Judah has conquered and therefore he's overcome, therefore he can open uh the seven seals. The lamb standing as he's as if he's been slain, has ransomed people for God, as it says there in chapter five. And then in chapter six we'll see that the whole world will be cowering in fear before the wrath of that very same Lamb in Revelation chapter six. Yes. question but it's interesting to a question. So it speaks here of opening the scroll and before the book and what there was the book do we have names and it means I can't on the back of the back scrolls. You can you can yeah you can right on the scroll on both sides, yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And so, yeah, and uh when you scroll through the book of Revelation, of course he opens the scroll and it's the wrath of God that uh that's released there. Um So so we have these descriptions throughout scripture of a a conquering king. Um and the first time Jesus came, what did his po uh what is this his disciples expect? A conquering king. Conquering king. Well when are you gonna restore the kingdom to Israel? When are you gonna r walk up there and take Jo David's throne in Jerusalem? That's what they were expecting. Uh they were just a they were a little bit early. Um because he will walk up there and take David's throne in Jerusalem. Uh just not not yet. He wasn't that wasn't his purpose uh the first time he came. And the disciples had difficulty understanding that. Jesus had to explain it to him over and over again, the reason why he had come. Uh so Christ is the victorious king of the universe. Um the the core and defining component of Christ's redemptive mission when he first came Was substitutionary atoning sacrifice on the cross. Um, and that's reiterated in Hebrews chapter 9. Uh it served as a ransom that redeemed enslaved souls, according to Matthew 20. And the Messiah gave gains victory over the enemy, uh evil forces arrayed against the judge of the universe uh by that method. Um the penal substitution serves as the central motif of the atonement of Christ. uh by which the lion and the lamb both in the person of Christ secures victory. So that's why he came the first time to overcome sin and death by this substitutionary atonement, by his death on the cross. But the JSAP story of redemption follows a carefully scripted narrative and that's not the end of the story. There's more to the story. Um there's uh of course it started with uh humanity's enslavement to sin. Um the whole world now as we know it uh lies in the power of the evil one, first John chapter five. However, uh none of this took God by surprise and And he had already anticipated all this, already put his whole plan into um into place and started to reveal it in Genesis chapter three. So there was failure in the garden, um and in in the Garden of Eden and success is bounded in another garden, the Garden of Gethsemane. We have these uh these pictures that that the that God painted in his word. A garden at the beginning uh a garden at the time of the redemption in Christ. Garden of Eden, the Garden of Gethsemane. We started with a tree, the tree of the knowledge of the good and evil, when people fell. And then we have a tree Uh we we have the cursed tree according to Galatians 3. 13 to which the seed of Eve was Eve was nailed. So a tree and a tree, a garden and a garden. These uh elements of God painting a picture for us to see. uh with symmetry to it. Uh Satan was defeated as the Messiah's death gave birth to victory. So Satan bruised his heel and Christ crushed Satan's head. So John 1231 tells us that the ruler of this world will be cast out. How is the ruler of the world cast out? Well when Christ is lifted up from the earth on a cross. That's uh John twelve, thirty two and thirty three. Apostle John also tells us the the reason the Son of God appeared was to destroy the works of the devil. And what were the works of the devil? death. So Jesus deposes the ruler of this world and establish his own rightful claim as the supreme king. But how did he do that? He dou he did that by suffering and dying on the cross to defeat sin and death. and the devil. Hebrews two uh draws this same connection between the power of Satan and the power of death. Uh both are defeated on behalf of believers, uh, that through death he might destroy the one who has the power of death, that is the devil. That's what Hebrews two tells us. Through death he destroys death. This is a um a mystery. How do you destroy death by dying? Well that's the plan that God had and God worked out and it's a great it's not a it's a mystery but it's he had revealed it all the way through. His disciples didn't expect it even as he was explaining it to them. that he had to go to the cross. Uh to to destroy death he had to die. It's a marvelous story. I mean if you if it wasn't true you wouldn't believe it. Uh so that you that something like this y i you i if if somebody made up something like this you would say, No, that's way too far fetched. That can't be right. So if believers were are are ever to be assured, how how do we know that we'll have eternal life? How do we know that there's something after the grave? So when you die, how do you how do you know that there's there's more to it after the grave? Well, because of Jesus' resurrection, uh the empty cross Has to be followed by an empty tomb. Without that empty tomb, you've got nothing. And Paul went to great lengths in 1 Corinthians chapter 15 to explain that. If Christ is not raised, then our whole faith is in vain. W what what would we be fixing our hope in if if Jesus was still in the grave? Wha why would we have any expectation of our own resurrection if Christ was not raised? That's the point that Paul's making in First Corinthians fifteen. You need to have an empty tomb after that empty cross. So the resurrection transforms the cross from a symbol of despair to a symbol of hope. So uh remember the absolute dismay and despair that the disciples were in between the crucifixion and the resurrection. I mean they were a mess. Really from the time that Jesus was taken captive, they were a mess. You've got Peter Denaiam, you've got one of his disciples is running off naked with his garment behind him. Everybody's in despair. And including when Jesus comes again and they don't recognize him and he's walking with the two guys along the road and um it it's obvious that the the the guy the the disciple he's talking to, the disciples he's talking to, are um they say things to Jesus like, We had hoped that he was the one. And now he's dead. Um and so what does Jesus do? He explains to them everything about himself from the scriptures. And what are the scriptures? The Old Testament, so he's explaining from the Old Testament about his the reason why he had to go to the cross. Um and but they're in great despair. So the cross is a symbol of despair only for a very short time. And then we have the empty tomb And then the cross and the empty tomb together are a symbol of great triumph over death. Together. Cross, empty tomb, uh a s great symbol of uh triumph. Christ's triumph over death. Um any questions about any of that so far? I've been kind of rolling along here for a little while. Uh questions, comments? Hell good. Criumph over hell, good. Right. So all people were destined for hell and now yeah. Death and Hades. Mm-hmm. Yeah, it could be kinda hard to make a necklace with an empty tomb, but I suppose I s suppose you could try to show, you know, something with the stone roll off to the side or something. Um yeah, and he makes a point in uh in the chapter about the difference between a crucifix and a cross, uh if you remember. So um he he makes he makes the point that the symbol is not Because not only is he not still on the cross, but he's also not in the tomb. There's both an empty cross and an empty tomb. And so the symbol is not really Really that's not really a very accurate or encouraging symbol to have Christ full on the cross. Yeah. I think I told you my story before. w we went um we went to see a concert, a musical concert, and it happened to be in a Catholic church. And so there was a stage and the the the concert musicians were up on the stage. But above the stage It was a huge, I mean like ten feet tall crucifix with the Jesus hanging on it. Right above the orchestra. It was very distracting. Uh very distracting. Um yeah. So yeah, that's a unfortunate symbol I think to to have uh to have one of your main sin must be Jesus still stuck on the cross. Uh because that was a time of great despair for his followers. It wasn't until he had an empty tomb, um, and especially with the coming of the Holy Spirit, that they were really uh energized uh as followers of Christ. All right. A any other big comments, questions about any of that? Uh okay, s somebody uh so uh Christianity is also um It's a a unique religion in that it's not confined to the uh the realm of just ideas. Uh it's preeminently connected to actual events in time and space and history. And the writers uh of the the Bible, especially the New Testament, they go out of their way to make it really plain, really clear, that they were eyewitnesses, that they these events actually happened. They saw 'em with their eyes, they heard them with their ears. Uh when Peter talks about the Mount of Transfiguration, he says, We were there with him on the mountain, we saw him transfigured, and we heard the voice of God from heaven say, This is my beloved son, whom I well pleased, listen to him. Jesus Paul Peter makes uh I mean it's almost like he's saying, pay attention to what I'm saying here. I saw and heard these things. Apostle John does the same thing in first John chapter one. The things that we have seen, the things that we have heard, the things that we have touched, we now relay to you, Apostle John says. And so it's actual things that happen in real space-time history. The Bible makes a big point about um emphasizing that that fact. The Bible is consciously written as history. History of uh recorded history of things that that really happened. Attention is given to verifiable details, and so archaeology all the time is digging things up over there in the Middle East and it's always continuously confirming little details of the Bible that are not strictly necessary for the theology, but there's all these details details in scripture, historical details about people and places and empires and kings and and archaeology keeps confirming these things over and over and over again. Uh because of the central importance of These actual historical events of the crucifixion and the resurrection. Um it's actually essential that those things actually happened. As Paul says in First Corinthians fifteen, i if they didn't really happen, then your faith is is in vain. The whole religion just collapses without these historical events being actual real true things that happen. Yes, Bob. Uh good question. I don't know. So th I mean there's two there's two big artifacts from history, the Holy Grail and the Shroud of Turin. They come up over and over again. Shroud of Turin I think has been found. The the question is, can you really see Jesus? his face in there, is it really the clock that was on there? I don't know. But here's what I would say that the the the Bible does not emphasize those things. I mean there interest there's interesting historical side deals, side details, and it can be very interesting to look into those things. But my caution would be don't lose sight of the big picture. The big picture is the cross On the empty tomb. Um yeah. Yeah. Uh any other questions or comments? Okay. So, uh Greater Glory Theodicy, this idea that everything That is happening in this whole plan is to bring glory to Christ. Glory to Christ. And it includes the what we're going to see in the rest of the story. It fortifies believers to stand firm. When challenges concerning evil come, We will not be moved because God is sovereign and in control. He's got a plan. That plan has gone to script all the way up to now, and we are firmly confident that it will continue. continue to go to script all the way till we're in glory in heaven. Um and so nothing can move us from this firm conviction. When Slin Slyn and Enslaves us, we have a Redeemer. Uh when temptation and pain and suffering threaten to undo us, we know one who came forth victorious for us through pain and suffering, through un believable pain and suffering. God's eternal promise, fulfilled through the death and resurrection of Jesus his son, is what did this, that we who have fled for refuge might have strong encouragement. To hold fast to the hope set before us. That's Hebrews chapter 6. And it goes on to say, as a sure and steadfast anchor for the soul. What a great passage that is. An anchor for the soul. Especially for a navy guy. It's one of my favorite passages. I have an anchor for the soul. Ephesians uh Hebrew six. Um so Uh Jesus, our great high priest, has succeeded for us where everybody else failed. That's why we have an anchor for the soul. So we have this uh this promise that Christ is coming again. And then he's gonna reign in the millennial kingdom. So he's an all encompassing Redeemer who rescues sinners, defeats his enemies, and restores the whole created order. And why does he do this? What's the old Ultimate purpose. The ultimate purpose is for God to bring glory to Himself in salvation, in judgment, and in cosmic restoration, the restoring of the entire cosmos. So all All things are the subject of Christ's redemptive work. Ephesians 1:10 tells us about that. All things in Christ, things in heaven, things on earth. And so the final stage occurs in What Peter referred to as the period of restoration of all things in Acts chapter three. When the former things have passed away and the coming king begins making all things new, we there's a reference to that in Matthew nineteen and then we see it come to be in Revelation chapter twenty one. And that's the consummation of this great J shaped storyline creation, fall, redemption. The redemption is um The work of redemption on the cross is done, but the ultimate outworking of that redemption of people and the entire cosmos is still to come in his second coming. So any questions about that? So a cosmic wide restoration. That's what we're looking forward to at Christ's Second coming. So uh and uh Paul talks about this in Second Thessalonians. So if you open your Bibles to 2nd Thessalonians chapter 1, uh Paul's talking to the Thessalonians about uh the second coming of Christ. Second Thessalonians chapter one, uh starting in verse three. Second Thessalonians chapter one starting in verse three. He's writing to this church in In Thessalonica that's going through some uh some trials and tribulations and persecutions. And Paul writes this, We ought always to give thanks to God for you, brethren, as is only fitting, because your faith is great greatly enlarged, and the love of each one of you toward one another grows ever greater. Therefore we ourselves speak proudly of you among the churches of God. What a great thing for Paul to say to this church that He's bragging to all the other churches. What you guys just just have you guys seen what's happening in the church in Thessalonica? These guys are really, really, really serving the Lord. Uh therefore we ourselves begin Proudly of you among the churches of God for your perseverance and faith in the midst of all your persecutions and afflictions which you endure. So why are they such a model to the other churches? They they are steadfast and faithful. Faith in the midst of persecutions um and midst of persecutions and afflictions. Um verse five. This is a plain indication of God's righteous judgment, so that you will be considered worthy of the kingdom of God. For after all it is only just for God to repay with affliction those who afflict you. What's he saying? God will punish them. Um and to give relief to you who are afflicted and to us as well, when When? When the Lord Jesus will be revealed from heaven with his mighty angels in flaming fire. What is that? That's the second coming. And to give relief uh to you who are afflicted and to us As well, when the Lord Jesus will be revealed from heaven with his mighty angels in flaming fire, dealing out retribution to those who do not know God and to those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus. These will pay the penalty of eternal. eternal destruction, away from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his power, when he comes to be glorified in his saints on that day, and to be marvelled at among all who have believed, for our testimony to you was believed. So what's he saying there at the end? Y you are true followers of Christ, and so when Christ comes again, he's gonna punish those who are afflicting you and lift you up. Um He's talking about the second coming, and he's talking about this to a church in the first century as something to give them encouragement. So and the Holy Spirit had it recorded in the scriptures that's hand down to us why? For our encouragement. As well. So for our encouragement of wo as well. So when we suffer, especially when we suffer for the sake of Christ, these people were being persecuted and suffering for the sake of Christ. Christ and Paul brings up the fact that Christ is coming again and you will be vindicated. Okay. Any questions about that? Also m the emphasis is uh not a faith in creed, but the love towards one another. Yep. Yeah, so what was the reaction to external pressure and persecution? Is to love one another within the body of Christ. Christ. Their faith increased and their love for one another increased. Okay. So uh Paul's message to the Thessalonians, he points to all believers to Jesus who delivered us from the wrath to come. Uh, for God has not destined us for wrath, but uh to obtain salvation, uh, through Christ. That's uh f uh Thessal First Thessalonians uh one five, uh uh or five nine, I'm sorry. Uh so the description of future judgment in the book of Revelation then comes around and it's not for the faint of heart. The things that happen in the the seal and the trumpet and the bold judgments are very severe. Um So, uh, the Lamb who was slain, uh, Revelation five, is no longer gentle and lowly in heart, as we see in Matthew eleven. When he comes to judge, when he comes to open the seals that pour out these The wrath of God on the unrepentant. He's no longer gentle and lowly in heart. He's no longer John's best friend around the campfire. Lamb serves as warrior king, breaking his enemies with a rod of iron. Uh prophesied in uh Psalm two, and then that same description ruling with a rod of iron is in the book of Revelation. The king returns in full battle regalia, fierce and valiant image of Christ at the second coming. Revelation 19 says, Then I saw heaven open and behold. Hold a white horse. The one sitting on it is called faithful and true. And in righteousness he judges and makes war. He's coming to judge and make war. His eyes are like like a flame of fire, and on his head are many diadems, and he has a name written that no one knows but himself. He is clothed in a robe dipped in blood, and the name by which he is called is The Word of God. So who is that? That's Christ. We've seen him described as the Word before in John chapter one. But what is the image of Christ now? Word again. He's the warrior king. He's coming in judgment and to make war and his robe is dipped in blood. And it's not his own blood this time. Not his own blood this time. Not his own blood. Uh So this is a far cry from the tem tender and compassionate Jesus who eats with sinners and shows love for prostitutes, receives the rayman blind and crippled and mute. Um He's coming to judge the second time. And so no Knowing all this, having read the description in Revelation, what should our motivation be as followers of Christ? When when there's so many people who don't don't who who are ignoring the fact that This is coming for them. It should stir compassion in us for unbelievers. Because when Christ comes again at this time it's too late for them. It's too late. It's too late for and who are these people? There are friends, there are coworkers, there are neighbors, there are family members who are unsaved. Our doctors and our nurses, uh policemen and firemen. And this is what a Awaits them if they're unrepentant when Christ comes again. Because when He comes again He's not coming as the gentle and lowly and meek suffering servant. He's coming as the warrior King to judge and make rule war is what the Bible test says on God's enemies, anyone who's unrepentant. And so this is a a a ferocious this is a um this should cause a us to be motivated to share Christ with our unbelieving anybody around us who's unbelieving. So when the Lord descends from the sky to the Mount of Olives, we see that in Zechariah chapter 14. So where will Jesus come again? Mount of Olives. We're left. So he's coming to the Mount of Olives, Zechariah 14. He will rule them with a rod of iron, Revelation 19. Where did we see that before? Psalm two. Psalm two says he's going to come and rule with a uh rod of iron. Revelation nineteen says he's coming to rule with a rod of iron. He will tread the winepress of the fury of the wrath of God. Revelation 9, 15. Tread the winepress of the fury of the wrath of God. At his first coming, Jesus shed his own blood. At his second coming, He will shed the blood of the impenitent rebels. And the dragon and that ancient serpent was the devil, and Satan will be seized, Revelation 22, and cast into the abyss for a thousand years. He comes up from a short time to be um to get his final to to to be finally vanquished and uh thrown into the lake of fire. So Christ establishes his just and righteous kingdom but as he's coming to do that he He's uh coming as this uh uh of this righteous king with the treading the wine press of the fury of the wrath of God. So in the millennial king, in the millennial reign of Christ, uh the restoration of The cosmos begins, a decisive reversal of the curse. Uh we see throughout scripture God's covenant promises to Israel. Goes all the way back to Genesis chapter twelve. It's repeated in chapter fifteen, actually two or three more times. And these covenant promises to Israel find their final fulfillment in that millennial kingdom. Now, according to Romans chapter 9 to 11, it was God's predetermined plan that the Jews would reject their Messiah at a First coming. Hmm. God's predetermined plan that the Jews would reject their Messiah does first coming. And why was that? But for us, uh Romans chapter. Chapter eleven, seven to ten tells us that that he might open their covenant promises to the Gentiles. Uh to the Gentiles, that the full number of the Gentiles might come in, that the the the Jews rejected him until such a time. As the full number of the Gentiles come in. All of that, none of that surprised God. There was no, God was not surprised when the Jews rejected Jesus as their Messiah. Daniel chapter seven of course predicts um the second coming. Uh Jen Daniel chapter seven verses thirteen to fourteen. Uh day it's a it's in the midst of a series of visions that uh that Daniel sees. They kept looking in the night visions, and behold, with the clouds of heaven one like a son of man was coming. And he came up to the ancient of days, who was presented and was presented before him. And to him was given dominion, glory, and a kingdom that all the peoples, nations, and men of every language might serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion, which will not pass away, and his kingdom is one which will not be destroyed. So at the end of the millennial kingdom, does Christ cease to reign then? No. No, he he's got a millennial kingdom there in this current earth, and then he continues to reign in the new heavens and the new earth forever and ever and ever and ever and so Daniel is pointing that out that the k his kingdom never ends. It's a millennial kingdom um in in this world, but his Christ's reign doesn't end then at the end of the millennial kingdom. Daniel chapter seven. Yes. Um in in that verse uh the Son of Man is returning to Christ. Yes. Yes. Mm-hmm. Yes, yeah, The Ancient of Days is yeah, it's a very good song. Uh Um and so uh w once Christ starts to reign in this uh millennial kingdom when he comes again, the government of the w and the entire world is on his shoulders, as Isaiah nine says it would be. Righteousness will start to transform everything. At the end of the millennium, uh we have in Revelation uh description in Revelation uh twenty, uh Satan and all his henchmen will be cast in the lake of f uh the birds will fire. They they they get out, they've been in there for a thousand years, they come out, the The Battle of Armageddon is really not much of a battle. Um Chr Christ and the people with him can't be killed. So y you know, they make short work of Satan and his little rebellion. Uh and they throw Satan into Christ throws Satan into the lake of fire. Um and and of course, all the way up to that point, Satan has been nothing more than a fool in God's hands in order that God might display his mighty power in defeating Satan. Satan's evil uh and bring himself glory in in judgment. Yes. wanted to take God's place and um you wonder how self aware he is that everything that he does just falls into God's plan to bring God more glory. Um y y y I it's a good It's a good uh I mean you wonder. Is he is he is he aware as he's doing these things? Hmm. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. lot of pride have a have some self awareness issues in in my experience, so maybe he doesn't. Maybe he thinks he's winning. I mean think about it. Maybe maybe he thinks he's winning. According to Romans eight, there is a parallel between the redemption of God's elect and the redemption of his creation, the entire cosmos. Uh fallen creatures carry the curse of moral evil and And the entire created order bears the curse of natural evil, as William Anne was talking about earlier. Um for the redemption to be complete, restored sons and daughters of the kingdom need a restored cosmos. So if we're to be glorified, which we will be, we need a glorious place to be. And that's not this world as it is now. And so this is part of Christ's restoration of all things. that Peter was talking about in Acts chapter 3. And so let's take a look at a couple of passages of scripture. Romans 8, first of all, let's turn to Romans 8. So Romans chapter eight, uh Paul's talking about um the creation, and and he he gives this kind of word picture of the creation groaning when he's describing uh natural evil. As it exists in the world today. So Romans chapter 8, verse 18 to 22, for I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that is to be revealed to us. For the angst This longing of the creation waits eagerly for the revealing of the sons of God. For the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it, in hope that the creation itself also will be set free from its slavery to corruption into the freedom of the glory of the children of God. For we know that the whole creation groans and suffers the pains of childbirth together until now. Where did the pains of childbirth originate? Well curse in the garden, Genesis chapter three. Well when did the groaning of the creation whole creation start? The curse, Genesis chapter three. Paul's making he's he's drawing that together on purpose. The Holy Spirit through Paul is drawing that together on purpose to show that those two things are the result of the same curse that happened at the same time. He uses that imagery of childbirth on purpose. Um that's not an accident. Um so the whole creation is cursed, and Christ came and he is restoring all things, not just the way. For people to be redeemed, but also a way to redeem his entire creation, so we have a new heavens and new earth for those redeemed people to live in. Okay. And uh Second Peter chapter three is the other one. So if you'll turn ahead to 2 Peter chapter 3, Peter's talking about the second coming and this whole description in 2 Peter chapter 3. The whole chapter is great. I'll just focus in on a couple of verses. He's talking about But then he says in verse seven, But by his word the present heavens and earth are being reserved for fire, kept for the day of judgment and destruction of ungodly men. So what do we We just read from the book of Revelation that Christ was coming to do the second coming, the destruction of ungodly men. Judgment and destruction. And then further down in verse 10, but the day of the Lord will come like a thief in which the heaven Heavens will pass away with a roar, and the elements will be destroyed with intense heat, and the earth and its works will be burned up. So he's talking about the the entire world being remade. But remember he Just compared it to the flood in the days of Noah. So the flood in the days of Noah, the the flood covered the entire earth and killed everything with in which was the breath of life, except for the people and the animals of the world. in the ark. But the earth didn't disappear. It was still there. We just remade it. Um and so there's a comparison here to what's going to happen at the end. The current earth is going to be reserved for fire burned up, but there's gonna be a new heavens and a new earth. It's not just gonna be out of existence. I thought I I always thought before I read that chapter chapter in the book that there he was a little literally going to make a new earth like a new planet. New according to the book, no. I I think he's gonna remake it in the s in the i it's a there's an analogy to remaking the whole earth with the flood. Um but I think it's gonna be the same? Well, uh it it's it's new and and in what way it's new is is not exactly clear. Um but I think it will be the same. Yeah. Yeah, so yeah, yeah, that's a good pass away. Can you explain that a little what that means to the other planets or well so the elements are gonna melt in intense heat and so um it's it's a great remaking i in in my view. He's he's remoulding everything um and and exactly what that looks like or how it's done, uh I'm afraid I don't know. So um yeah, so then we we get a description of the new heaven and the new earth and there's a new Jerusalem that comes down out of heaven. Um but how exactly, scientifically how that works, I don't know. But I think Richard is on to something and has a good point here. God made this universe and when he made finished making this universe he said it's very good. And for that to completely go out of existence, um, I think in in one sense, uh Richard is right that that would be a victory for Satan that he had completely destroyed something that God made very good. Now it would be God that did it, but um I think it makes more sense um that he would be he would remake it. He would take this creation, it's been marred by sin, and he remakes it into a new heaven and a new earth. But not in the sense that the the the former one is completely of existence. Like it winked out of existence. The entire universe winked out of existence and but he made a new one. Reading scriptures without only about that thing. It's gone and he gives us a new one. Yeah. So Yeah. That was amazing. Um I wouldn't I would not make a pronouncement like yeah, I know what's gonna happen and and and yeah, this is this is this is what God's gonna do. Um God doesn't completely destroy uh anything that He created. Even to the things that are um to him for for health, He doesn't destroy the death before that's the first time. Punishment, yeah. That's true. That's true. Even Satan is in the lake of fire. and not kind of winked out of existence. Uh that's a good point. When he made the earth first, isn't that kind of when he remakes the earth when he said it's perfect. Yeah. Yeah, so um yeah, it's it's the ultimate um as the author points at J shaped. There's this this very good creation here at the beginning with no sin and uh and then it was marred by sin. But the new heavens and the new earth Is better than even the Garden of Eden. No possibility of sin. That's right. Alright, so the restoration of the cosmos, uh Adam sinned, his disobedience brought a curse on the whole creation, as we've just been talking about. Uh the creature in his habitation were made vulnerable, sweat and toil, and death and decay came into the world along with sin. Uh the shalom piece of Eden was shattered. Um and then for redemption to be completely complete the creation undergoes its own death and rebirth, uh essentially. Uh Christ returns to consummate his kingdom. Uh sa in Second Peter as we just read, we get this imagery of fire melting elements. Uh Um and the author says this, and so this is the point of contention that we've just been discussing. These are the author's words. Peter is not describing utter annihilation, rather it is a death by fire, just as the world of Noah's day was a death by flood. And that's the comparison. that Peter makes right there in second Peter chapter three. He says, Just like it was destroyed by water and the flood, this it's gonna be destroyed by by fire. Um he m Peter makes the Holy Spirit through Peter makes that comparison. And so the author says that means that it's not completely annihilated. Um the end of the story is far better than the beginning. More glory to God. Uh the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed. That's how Paul writes it. Um through the horrific conditions of the fallen world, uh we can fully appreciate the glory and grace of its redemption and look forward to the new heavens and the new earth. earth. And so um God pays uh the price, um, if if you will, uh, for this glory, but it's worth it. It's a price worth it to make to show his show forth his glory It's worth it. The cross was worth the glory that he gets from it, in other words. That's the story, really. Why did God do this? Because it brings more glory to his name than if there was never a fall and never a need for the cross. The new heavens and the new earth were far outstrip the glory of this present world. So a redeemer of incomprehensible worth was required to rescue the world from its curse. Not just rescue us, but rescue the entire cosmos. Okay. Um any questions? About any of that. Any comments about any of that? the rest of the story as Paul Harvey would say. Yes. Um would he go to make the new earth with you know, fire everything. Then those of us who have been reigning with Christ on earth for that thousand years and all that, will we then go back to heaven while we So we're not sub subject to the second death. Um and so we'll be with him. We'll be reigning with him, we'll be with him in the new heavens and the new earth. Now it The Bible doesn't describe exactly where we are, what we have what happens when this remaking fire happens. I I don't see a description of exactly what happens to us while that process is going. Well Yeah. It's just in time of God can do anything in a split in less than a second time. God spoke and the entire universe came into existence. I think God will speak and there'll be a new heaven and a new earth. And so I think probably mm I guess, probably to us, it will be the blink of an eye, but but faster than the blink of an eye. So there will be this world and then there will be the new world um and I don't think we will be aware of the transition. That's my guess. Yes. Alright. Any other questions or Comments? Yes. I think we mentioned that um the part of the other book and the clock uh should motivate us to um passion for her. Um, because I think um often um I think a lot during during the pandemic recently uh this getting finished with here every day and it seems like there's just something bad on the on the front cover every day of the government not working in different parts of the world. or people suffering during the world. There is very much that belonging for Christ's coming and given for um for his justice and for just his perfect um righteous things. Um but then thinking about how um my own uh family friends how that reality um impacts impacts and I think should be Right. Um what are encouraging to encourage being uh motivated to create the value touchdown in question and also recognize that it would be uh things that I can you know between watching Christ coming and then uh in a sense just knowing knowing what what that means for them again remember motivates the officers to be thankful um for uh for the gospel and Um and then also um recognize that uh the word is like oh attributes are in in one in one pool they can't can't have. His mercy is always there along with his justice. Yep. And I just suppose to uh understand his character better and explain better. Amen. Let we'll let that be the last comment. Very that's a good comment. Uh let me pray. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for this uh the revelation that you give us in your word about the rest of the story. uh that you have uh told us how things are going to go. And we thank you, Lord, that um uh that that you have such compassion and such mercy and such loving kindness. Kindness in the midst of your judgment. Uh we thank you for that, Lord. And we pray, Lord, that as we read these things, we would be motivated to share the love of Christ with those around us. Share the light of Christ with We thank you for the opportunities that you give us, Lord, and we pray through your Holy Spirit that we would seize those opportunities as they come. And we pray that the Holy Spirit would give us the words to say such that we can could be instruments in your hands uh to advance your kingdom. We thank you, Lord, for the opportunity that we have now to worship you in corporate worship. And we pray these things in Jesus' name.