This hope that we have in Christ Jesus, the light of the world, that we could shine that light in the darkness. because of what Christ has done for us on the cross. What a wonderful privilege all that is, Lord, and we pray through your Holy Spirit that you would always give us the words to say and those opportunities so that we could reach out with the good news of the gospel of Jesus Christ to others. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright. So we have come to part seven. And so we're gonna we're gonna slow down just a little bit here. Yeah, continue. Yeah. That's uh that's quite a Quite a hymns thing we've got going on there. Um so uh we're gonna slow down on uh chapter six a little bit. We're gonna spend two weeks on chapter 6 from the book, which is kind of the center of his the author's uh idea and thesis about this greater glory theodicy. Chapter number six explains what that is, and so we're going to actually spend two weeks on that. And uh later, and then of course the next chapter after that is about the grand hero of history, which is Christ. And we're going to spend two weeks on that chapter as well. So if you read the whole chapter, then you're going to be a week ahead, which is nice. So we're only going to start into chapter six today. So today we're going to talk about the first part of Greater Glory Theodicy. We're going to talk about the argument for this Greater Glory Theodicy. We're going to talk about uh how glory is God's ultimate purpose. And we're going to talk about what well what is the center of supreme glory? What is it that brings supreme glory to to God and where where is that centered. And then we're going to get into a little bit of a controversial issue, but it's worth digging into this issue, the redemption unnecessary without the fall. So we're going to talk about the center of supreme glory and why the fall was necessary to bring that supreme glory to God. Okay. But first we're going to take a look back at what Lorfey covered last time. So I did get a chance to listen to Lorfe's teaching from last time. I hope all you enjoyed that and I I really do thank uh Lor Lorfe for standing in while I was teaching the new member class last week. So we you talked last time about God as the master storyteller Uh so uh God has uh written all of history before the foundation of the of the world and so he not only writes the story but he's also uh making sure the story goes how it's supposed to go And so last time Lorfe read the first few verses of Hebrews chapter 1. Long ago, at many times in many ways, God spoke to our fathers by the prophets. But in these last days he has spoken to us by his son, whom he appointed the heir of all things, through whom also he created the world. And so this is talking about how God has revealed his plans and his purposes throughout history In the Old Testament, in um at many times and in many ways. So what is that talking about? That's talking about the fact that God revealed himself in many different kinds of ways in the Old Testament. He spoke directly to Adam and Eve. He spoke directly to Cain and Abel. He spoke directly to Noah He spoke directly to Abraham. Then he also spoke through the series of prophets. And those prophets always started out by saying, this is the word of the Lord, or thus saith the Lord, to make sure that it was clear. that it wasn't the prophet's own words, but it was God's words. And so that was God speaking and revealing his plans and purposes for history in the Old Testament in many way in many times in many ways. to our fathers by the prophets. And these last days, so what is he talking about in the last days? Who th when when was he so from the time of Jesus onward So he's writing in the first century, the author of Hebrews, and he's saying that now, now, God has fully revealed himself in His son Christ Jesus. And so that's how he's showed the culmination of all of his plans and purposes throughout history. And so how does God speak to us primarily? He speaks to us through scripture. And all these many times and many ways and all these prophets are recorded for us in the pages of Scripture so we can read how he has revealed himself. And we can also read about the life of Jesus Christ. We can read about his life in ministry in the New Testament. And we can read about uh the works of his apostles and how they established the church in the New Testament. So that's how he speaks to us is through Scripture. Um and so The bottom line, of course, is that the whole focus of this revelation was his redemptive plan, to glorify himself through Jesus Christ, the slain Lamb. And then how does this scripture that we read and know and understand apply to what we're studying now, this uh problem of evil, this uh theodicy, the solution? Well it doesn't come right out and say, here's here's how you've solved the problem of evil. We don't have a chapter and verse that we can open up and God says, This problem of evil, this is what I'm this is how you solve it But he gives us stories and shows us how God uses All the events of man and all the events of history, whether good or bad, for his divine purposes and for his glory. And we've we've come to this before. The story of Joseph is one of the primary examples he gives. And and the Bible spends a lot of time on the story of Joseph Genesis chapter 37 to Genesis chapter 50, 14 chapters are dedicated to this story of Joseph, so it's important. The story of Joseph is important. And it shows us, it gives us a glimpse into how God works through history. and very specifically how God works through the evil actions of evil people to accomplish good purposes. Okay. And then of course the ultimate example of evil acts of evil men bringing about good purposes is the cross. the crucifixion of Christ, the the torture and murder of the perfect Son of God, perfectly obedient, without sin. tortured and murdered, and that was for a good purpose. And as Peter points out in his sermon in Acts chapter 2, he was delivered up by God's set plan and foreknowledge So that was all part of God's purpose and plan was for these evil men to do evil things for good purpose, for our good and for his glory. Okay. Um and so this is the the the overall narrative of scripture. It's um the the the ultimate culmination of that narrative is in the cross of Christ. Um and so it we c uh we it was described it's described in the book as a grand narrative for all of history and Essentially it follows an ark from God's good creation in Genesis 1 and 2, uh corruption uh caused by the sin of mankind in Genesis 3 and then the whole rest of the story where Jesus fixes it. Um and so that wa that's the arc of of history and he talked uh we you you talked a little bit last time about Frytag's pyramid. Um this kind of pattern for good stories. Um and it's of course it's patterned after the good story, the good news of uh the the the plan of redemption in Scripture. And it starts with an exposition, which is the creation of the fall, and then there's a rising action, which is the movement towards redemption. all of the promises of a Messiah, of a Savior, starting in Genesis 3. 15, all the way throughout the Old Testament, all these um pointing forward to Christ, uh the story of um Abraham almost sacrificing his son, and then the Lord providing a sacrifice, all these things pointing forward to Christ, pointing forward to Christ, pointing forward to Christ. And then the climax is the incarnation, death, and resurrection of the Redeemer. And then the following action is the establishment of the Redeemer's kingdom. So the church is established and the church is given this great commission to make disciples of all nations. And then the denouement is the consummation of the Redeemer's Kingdom when Christ comes again. So that's the story that you went through last time. Any questions about what you learned last time? Before we go into something new. No questions? Lord Yes. where it's referencing the kingdom. And then the DM and Y also references the paper. So with the one in the calling action The millennials? And then the final is the heaven eternal kingdom? So you could look at it either way. So there is a sense in which we have Um he's established his kingdom on earth in in terms of the fact that he's got a church, he's got a people. Um mm all of us. Uh but then you have um you have two more acts in the play essentially. You've got the Millennial Kingdom where he comes again. And then you've got the new heavens and the new earth and e the eternal kingdom. So th there really are two more acts after what we have now. And I would say the ultimate denouement is the eternal kingdom. Yeah. Okay, any any other questions? Good question. So the other the other thing that uh uh Lorfey brought up last time is this uh phrase U catastrophe. Um I think it was J. R. Tolkien who actually came up with this phrase uh this term, a sudden happy turn in the story just when things seem hopeless. And so uh in the in the great redemptive story that's when Jesus is in the tomb. The apostles are completely demoralized. Absolutely demoralized. Uh well Christ is dead. They thought we thought he was the gonna be the the Messiah. We thought he was the one. When when they're talking to Jesus and they don't know who he is, they're uh along the the the road they they're they're downcast and they're saying, Well, we really thought he was the one and now he's dead and um and so but then he he rises up again and so that's the U catastrophe. He was dead in the tomb and then he's He's alive again. Um the good catastrophe. And so uh Christ's suffering fulfills God's grand epic of redemptive story, creation, he is the word made flesh, fall, he bears the curse, redemption. He purchases his people, restoration. He rises to inaugurate the new creation. And so there's a quote from the book that's the problem of evil is not answered by human argument, but by divine action. by the author of creation himself who entered his own story in the person of Christ to redeem his fallen creatures and to glorify his name forever. That's a good quote. Alright, any questions about any of that? Alright, let's get into chapter number six and the greater glory theodicy. So at the beginning of this chapter, he quotes from Milton's Paradise Lost. He quotes a section of Milton's Paradise Lost. And the section that he's quoting is actually quoting from a hymn written that most scholars believe was written by Ambrose. in the fourth century A. D. , uh, that's talking about the fall. And so it's talking about the purpose of the fall. And in the Latin it's O Felix Culpa. And an English translation of that is OFortunate fall. Oh fortunate falls. So talking about the fall as a fortunate thing. Um So that is a little bit strange and unsettling to us to talk about the fall as fortunate. Yes. Ambrose lives in Austin. He did, correct. Yeah, so Am Ambrose was one of the early church fathers, and uh he did a lot of uh good work for Christ and his kingdom. Um so yeah, so but he and he so he taught he had this phrase, oh Felix Culpo, oh fortunate fall, and then Milton quotes that in his Paradise Lost, Oh fortunate fall. And that's a little bit strange and unsettling to us. How could the fall of Adam and Eve be considered fortunate? Was their sin necessary? What was Ambrose saying? Why did Milton echo it in Paradise Lost? And so the whole passage is uh of Milton that's quoted at the beginning of the chapter summarizes the threefold biblical storyline that we talked about last week, creation, fall, redemption And then the words are the words of the archangel in the story of Paradise Loss, that the future paradise will be a far happier place than Eden That's the point in Milton's Paradise loss of that section. Far happier than Adam was in Eden. So the fall of Adam and Eve therefore produces this greater good. So the future paradise exceeds the original. That's the point of that section. So, um what do you think about that? Did that when you read that, did that sound does that sound horrible? It's very difficult. Yeah. Because when you think of the the the perishing of all that will not accept Christ Yeah, not yes, that's right, for all of history. And so including however many millions that the flood wiped out just like that, only eight people left. Yeah, there's there's a lot of consequences of that fall that are really horrible. Uh yeah, it's very difficult. Yes. Why did God create so many people? Why didn't He just create the chosen ones? Yeah. So there's a lot of things to struggle with i in the in the story of of scripture. Yes. But on the other hand, uh if you have trouble understanding something Like a Felix called the fortune of Paul. Just keep reading. You know, the sentence that says which is fortunate fall, which has merit and stuff, and so Yes. Right. So that that really is the point. Uh and we'll we'll yeah, we'll get to that during this chapter. Yeah, it it it does. It reveals a lot of things about God we wouldn't know otherwise, but the the point is well taken that it leads to some horrific consequences. Yes, Bob. But like I'm just wondering like what do you all lose to here is a future paradise that seeds the original because how can that be? Right, yeah, yeah. And so how can it be that heaven's better? Yeah. Yeah. So h how how can that be? So and of course we don't know. We haven't we haven't been there, so uh we have to take the Bible's word for it that heaven is this wonderful place. Uh but even those Perfect in earthly terms. Yes. Right. I think that's the real answer, is that heaven i i it it was Eden was perfect as far as a earthly place goes. And heaven is better than any earthly place, including the perfect earthly place. Yeah. Not like yeah, we would not have your capabilities. Yes, that's correct. So that's our position is better. Now Remember that this is all, that all that whole discussion is also secondary. What's the primary focus? God's glory. God's glory. Um and so any benefit that we get is gravy. It's great. It's wonderful. It shows who God is in wanting us to have this spectacular thing in heaven. But that's still only secondary to God's glory. Okay, so let's uh let's continue on. So um this is we're still just in the introduction here. So in assessing the problem of evil, it's impossible for us to explore the untold reasons that God may have for particular instances of sin, tragedy, catastrophe, and adversity. And so this is a real sticking point when it comes to the problem of evil, because when you're having this conversation with an unbeliever, the unbeliever will always have some example Right. That is impossible for us to explain. The the the it's it's it will always be possible for the unbeliever to come up with What about, what about, what about, what about, what about the tsunami in Japan in 2011 that wiped out an entire elementary school of kids? It did. I mean the tsunami came up, there was kids at their elementary school, and every single one of them died. Teachers and all the kids in an elementary school. What's the what's the greater good for that? And so there will always be things like that that uh that we simply cannot explain and there's no uh God hasn't given us a specific uh uh explanation. And so the only thing we can do is point to examples that we do know, that we can understand, that God has told us. where's where obviously terrible things have led to good. And and then uh l let me go to Bob first and then yeah, go ahead. Go ahead Bob Part of the fall is God's judgment of curse for so the terrible things that happen are part of God's Yeah, sometimes. Uh sometimes it's uh a man born blind for God's glory in a particular One of the I guess the big struggle for me if I'm talking to somebody about God's greater good is when the good is So we try to use it as the odds to say, well, you know, in the end, ultimately, you know, this is what's gonna happen, this is better. Right here on Earth. But that just it's a difficult thing. Yep. Yeah. Ultimately we have to go back to the character of God. This is the God who is revealed in the pages of Scripture, as he revealed himself. And it revealed himself especially in Christ, in the in the uh life, death, resurrection of Christ. uh and who he is. Um that's who's in charge of all this. That God is the one that's in charge, and therefore we have faith and we have trust that he does all things for good, for our good and his glory, um, even when we can't understand. And the even harder thing to um uh to accept is that he does not owe us an explanation for everything that he does. uh because we really think that we're owed an explanation. If you if you're if you're really honest with yourself, if I'm really honest with myself, I want an explanation. And I want to be able to judge whether that that's whether he's done the right thing. Uh I I I want to be God's judge. I really do. Um and all people want to be God's judge. We think that we're competent to evaluate God's motives and intentions and actions and C. S. Lewis wrote a book about this called God in the Dock. In the UK, when you're when you're being questioned, it's called Being in the Dock. Um that's their their legal system. You're in the in the dock, the person that's being questioned anyway. Can you say doc or dock doc. Doc, yeah. Sorry, Doc. Yeah, sorry. Yeah, yeah. Uh and so w we think we think we should we should be able to sit God down and question him. And um the whole second half of the book of Job is Job tried that. And and God did a a a nine chapter soliloquy explaining why He was God and Job was not and Job didn't uh get to have uh get to question God and uh get an explanation Yeah, but it's uh it's difficult. From a human perspective, it's very difficult. And um and so we can understand where the unbeliever is coming from when he says, what about What about all these horrible things that have happened? Wh where's God's explanation for that? Mm-hmm, you you follower of Christ? Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Right, so we can certainly point to excellent examples. of why we should trust God in this in this regard. But the unbeliever, that's, you know, it it requires a redeemed soul to be able to really grasp that. The the best example, the very best example is Christ and His life, death, resurrection. And the unbeliever is not capable of accepting that. We get to talk about it. And so that is that's key, that's critical. So uh when when we're engaging in apologetics. We're not the the the the the ultimate purpose of apologetics is not to win arguments. It's not. That makes us feel good and does the other person no good Right? The the ultimate purpose is to point to Christ. That's the ultimate purpose of apologetics. And so we need to have that in the back of our minds. When you go into a discussion where you're discussing these weighty philosophical issues like the Odyssey. Uh for what purpose am I engaging with this unbeliever? Pebble and shoe, so yeah, so that's the way I like to think of it is Um I'm I'm just trying to put a pebble in his shoe. Something that makes him think when he's walking down the road, why is my foot sore? Um Yeah. Uh why am I uncomfortable after this conversation? Um Um and he's uncomfortable because he's got a a hole in his heart that can only be filled by Christ. And uh I I want to help him to realize what he's missing. Um Yeah. Okay. And what ultimately what he's missing is not just an explanation about the the problem of evil, but the redemption that's available only in in Christ. Okay. Um so we're still in the introduction here. Um so uh the the Bible tells us the fall occurred so that the father would have occasion to put the glory of his grace on full display to the work of his son's redemption. This is really the uh the the glory that God gets from the actions of his son is really the purpose of the whole story of history. The Divine Son took on human nature, which is utterly ne unique in all of history. This is a one-off God becomes man. Billions of people have lived in history. This is a one-time deal, a one-time event. The work he achieved to resolve the conflict of evil is infinitely more magnificent than we can imagine. The Bible has an explanation of it. It's a great explanation of it, and Christ is better. than even the explanation that we we have of it, uh and the way we can grasp it. So this glorious grace has no occasion to be displayed unless the colossal conflict of the ages overtook the world. So in other words, in in Christ was necessary because of the fall, without the fall He's not necessary. Only the Christian story can satisfy the longing of the soul of human beings, the hunger for redemption that can be satisfied only by the climax of the cross and the empty tomb. So these things, the cross and the empty tomb, bring the greatest good of all to those who taste of the triune God's glorious grace. All right, so that's our our introduction. So let's talk about a couple of points and his argument for this greater glory theodicy. It's on page 105 and 106 in your book. And this uh uh he and in chapter two we talked about the fact that it's uh kind of a modification of the historical Greater Good Defense. So the Greater Good Defense says that God always has a good purpose for the evil that he allows in the world. But Traditionally, this has been focused on greater good for the people involved. So, in other words, the story of Joseph You know, he Joseph suffers because he's thrown into a pit, he's sold into slavery, he ends up in prison. But there's a greater good for all the people. Uh right, there there's a whole bunch of people, millions of people probably that didn't starve because of all these things that happened to Joseph. And he becomes the Prime Minister of Egypt and he and he uh he he He hoards the food and then he they have food and all these things are great for people. But the greater glory theodicy, the thing that that Christensen focuses on his book is, yeah, that's true, but it more importantly, all of that brings glory to God. And especially the whole grand story of redemption in Scripture with the climax of the cross of Christ and the empty tomb, that brings good for people, yes. But glory for God is really the ultimate purpose for all those things. So we have a wise and sovereign God. He's generated a purposeful plan for all things, good or evil. And he also meticulously ensures that everything in it takes place. So we have God's eternal decrees. We have God's providence in each moment of history making sure that his eternal decrees come about or take place. And so with this plan, God would not allow any evil to occur unless it serves some greater good, some purpose for his glory. some supremely good and wise intention for all the evil that transpires. So that's the character. We know that from God's character. He's good and he's good all the time. And so if he has in his divine sovereignty and his omnipotence allowed some evil to occur, we know that he has some good purpose for it. Now we don't always know what that is, and we don't always get an explanation for what that is. But we trust in who God is his character that who he is as revealed in Scripture that that is the case. Now, when you're talking to an unbeliever, that's a big pill to swallow. That's a big pill to swallow for a believer. But for an unbeliever, it's usually well that's a bridge too far. I can't and and this is where you you start getting individual um uh whatabouts. Well what about this and what about that and what about the other thing? Uh what about the um the the disease from malnutrition that uh that causes blindness in Africa and you know, how can that possibly have a good explanation. And and of course the the ultimate answer, the answer that we have as finite human beings is I don't know. I I don't know why that suffering uh exists But I do know that God is good. Um I I know that. Uh He proved it over and over and over again. We have all these examples in in Scripture about who he is. And so we know that that God is sovereign over everything, and therefore we know that there is a good reason and a purpose. Um but you're still gonna be when you're talking to an unbeliever, you're still gonna be going around and around with this thing because they won't accept that. It's very difficult for a believer to accept when we see uh terrible peop people doing terrible things and terrible natural disasters, both. Um but for an unbeliever it's really hard. Alright. So then he says there's the greater g glory theodicy rests on three premises. And he goes through these three premises and he says if the three premises are true then conclusion number four is true. And so let's take a look at these things. So God's ultimate purpose in freely creating the world is to supremely magnify his glory. So that's premise number one, that God's purpose in creating the whole universe was to magnify his glory. And particularly to his image bearers. Second one is God's glory is supremely magnified in the atoning work of Christ. The reason for all of creation is to magnify his glory, and the supreme example of that is the atoning work of Christ. That's number two. Number three, redemption is unnecessary unless human beings have fallen into sin. That's premise number three. And so premise number four is therefore the fall of humanity is necessary to God's ultimate purpose in creating the world. So premise number one, two, and three are true, then premise number four follows from that. Alright Let me stop right there for just a second before we dive into the details of this. Um any questions about that Yes, well three and then I mean I agree with it, but then um but what about like that's obviously not the way it is. I was just wondering if um I'll try to wrap my head around like the depth number three and other redemption is unnecessary unless human beings have fallen into sin. So there's no reason for a savior if there is no sin. Yeah. Yeah. No no no rede no reason for a savior from sin if there's never any sin in the first place. Yeah. Yep. Any any other questions? Yes. And Joseph ultimately Correct. And many scholars believe that the book of Job was written before those ending chapters in Genesis. It fell somewhere after eleven. So it's like God is setting forth first the fact that he doesn't owe us an ex explanation for anything before he even had the story. Right. And then he goes on to give us an example. He said he sa tells so yeah, so what Ian is pointing out is that most scholars believe that Job is uh in time in terms of history is about the time of Abraham. About the same time period as Abraham and and living somewhere to the east. Um and so the events of Job's life take place long before the events of Joseph's life. And so we get Job in in time, in terms of historical timeline, we get him first, where God Explains, well I I don't owe you an explanation for why this is happening. Uh now of course we do get a peek behind the curtain Anybody who's now able to read scripture that uh we get chapters one and two where uh God and Satan are discussing what's going to happen and then it happens, but Job doesn't get that explanation And God never gives an explanation. He never says, Well, you know, I had this whole thing and I was you know, I'm s explaining this to Satan and I'm glorifying myself and He doesn't get that explanation. All the explanation he gets is I'm God and you're not. That's the explanation Job gets. We get to read in Genesis Job 1 and 2 the kind of the reason, the setup for it. And then later in historic in the historical timeline, God gives a detailed example of all these horrible things happening to a person for good reasons. So that's a good observation. Yes, Bob. So why just report is applying that when that example is an RPG Right. Yeah. Um living in a simple fallen world, suffering and death isn't part of that. Yes. Yeah, so that that is the the first answer, the The first foundational principle t to understand when you're having that conversation about why do bad things happen to good people, uh first of all, there are no good people. Um Yeah. There there are no good people. Um but the the follow-on to that is this whole discussion we're having about theodicy. W why do why do bad things happen at all? Why is there evil in the world, regardless of whether any of the people are good, w why all these bad things? That's what we're discussing here, yeah. Uh God is finite and that would not fall out. Yep, yeah, so that yes, that is that is Rabbi Kushner's ex explanation. So he would rather he would rather believe in a God that um that is limited and can't do away with evil rather than an omnipotent God who doesn't do away with evil. That's Rabbi Kushner's take on it. So he invents a a god that doesn't exist. He he invents a he invents a god that he would prefer. He he would prefer this other god that's that's not omnipotent and can't do anything about evil than the actual God who is omnipotent and chooses to allow certain evil. Yes, Michelle? Because we have a I like the issue of that my God is so big. If I could come up with the good reason for the people, he's too small. He doesn't fit in the dog. Yeah. Yeah, so i it's true that only God could do this. And and so in a sense what Michelle is saying is i if If finite, stupid me could figure it all out, then then what what kind of God really is is that that could only come up with a story that somebody like me could understand all of it I mean that would be that would be a small god who could only come up with a story that I could fully fully and completely understand every nook and cranny. Uh yes. Yes. So if I was sharing this with an unbeliever. An objection I could picture them having is when I say God's ultimate purpose in creating the world is to magnify his glory, I can imagine Yes Yeah, and so y that's definitely a pushback that you will get if you have this conversation. I wouldn't say you might get But if you have this conversation long enough, you will get that pushback. And so this is uh this is the Richard Dawkins pushback Richard Dawkins has written several books where he specifically says that, that the God of the Bible is a monster uh for for doing this. And so uh what's how do we answer for um uh the the first thing that I think we need to establish is um God is uh um transcendence. So go back the chapter before last that with the discussion of God's transcendence. When we try to put God into a category that's makes him like us. If somebody like us said, I'm gonna do I'm gonna arran I have I'm gonna accumulate as much power as I can get, as much control over the world as I can get, and then I'm gonna arrange the world for my glory So if a human being does that, what do we think of that human being? He's a megalomaniac. He's a autocrat dictator, he's a monster. But God is not us. And so uh this is this is the mistake of of of anthropomorphizing God, making God like a human being. But he's not like a human being. He's transcendent. He's holy. Uh he's infinitely holy. And so he he and he alone is actually worthy of all glory. And so i if if anyone but God were to do were to say things like, Yeah, I created everything for for my glory, how would we see that pr that person, that angel, whoever it was, we would say, megalomaniac, monster But God is actually worthy of all glory, honor, law, and praise Um and so that's the difference. And so that's the explanation that's that's uh and it won't satisfy the unbeliever. As long as he's an unbeliever, nothing will satisfy him, really. And so what what are we trying to do? Again, we're trying with this conversation to steer the person towards uh redemption in Jesus. And so yeah, and so y you'll I I would say if you if you have a serious conversation with somebody that you know, somebody that's willing to have this conversation with you you will get a pushback like that. Um and you need we you need to go to God's transcendence. That He's not us. That He you can't You can't frame him in terms of, well, what if a person did these things that God is saying? What if a person said those things? Well, we would think of him as Yeah, he's a megalomaniac. Uh but God is transcendent, other, he's perfectly holy, perfectly pure, perfectly Um he's omnipotent, omniscient. Uh he's holy, holy, holy, and therefore worthy of all honor and praise and worship and glory. Um Um and so he's just saying what's true when he says that everything is created for his glory. Yeah, so yeah, so there's many different scriptures that we can go to that point to this fact that he is other. Yeah. Like the the back end of the book of Job, uh those sort of things. Uh yeah. Bob, go ahead. You had your hand up for a while. Yes, yeah, that's right. Uh it is. It's a ca a category error where God is anthropomorphized, made like us. And so we we have to, it's difficult even for a believer to understand that we're not God. And so Job was, according to God, a very righteous man. And yet he couldn't it took him it took him for till God explained it to him um to understand this fact that God is other. That he's transcendent. That he's in a t totally separate category, as Bob points it out, points out, from man and angels and everything else. Everything else created, he's in a totally separate category. Okay, good question. Excellent question, because this is the kind of thing that will come up in conversation. And you can't let it throw you when it does come up. Don't let it throw you. And and if you can, whatever you can, uh turn turn the the conversation to Christ. Turn to conversation to Christ because this transcendent God then, transcendent other, other category God, became man. So the transcendent became imminent, became close. And because of that, then we can become close to this transcendent God. Only because that transcendent God came close to us by the incarnation in Christ. And so try to bring it to Christ If you can. Yeah. Okay. Um let me let me roll on here. Um so uh we're up to page one hundred and six to one hundred and eight. Glory is God's ultimate purpose. So Uh why did God create the world? Uh was he lonely? Did he just need someone to love? No, no, no, no. So he he had perfect uh loving relationship within the Trinity, within the three persons of Trinity from all eternity before he created, so he didn't need that. God has no needs. He had no obligation to make the heavens, the earth, or us lowly creatures. So when we read in Genesis 1. 1, in the beginning God created, this act is proceeding strictly from his sovereign freedom. He had the freedom to create or not to create. As the psalmist says, our God is in the heavens. He does all that he pleases. Psalm 115. And Paul says, for from him and through him and to him are all things. To him be glory forever. Amen. Romans 11, 36. So notice God is creator, so from him, he's sustainer through him, and he's the goal of all things to him Therefore, in all things to him be glory forever. This is what Paul is saying in Romans chapter 11 Isaiah puts it this way, when he sees as his vision of Yahweh in the temple with the seraphim, they're calling to one another, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts The whole earth is full of his glory. Isaiah 6. 3. And David said it this way: let your glory be over all the earth in Psalm 108. So that's God's ultimate purpose, and he displays his glory throughout the universe. Psalm 19 And so out of the overflow of God's own self-satisfying joy and his intrinsic joy, he has chosen to give his creatures a glimpse of his glory. So it's in his glory that we too find lasting and supernal joy. So the joy Uh the the glory that God gets is also meant to provide joy for his creatures. His creatures that are in relation with Him through Christ get joy in God's glory. And so that's what heaven is all about. Heaven's all about praising God's glory and receiving joy in the fact of praising God's glory. And so you see that in uh Revelation, in the in the glimpses we get of what it's like uh in Revelation Of course in the Shorter Catechism we get the fur very first question of the Shorter Catechism. What is the chief end of man? Man's chief end is to glorify God and to enjoy him forever So uh and so human beings are the earthly focus of this particular um display of glory. So he's displaying his glory. um in a r a plan, a redemptive plan, and that redemptive plan is for people. And so it allows humans to reside in a unique position by which to behold the greater glory of God. So we become recipients of his actions in a unique way. That's different from the animals and different even from the angels Um, in fact, the greatest glory of God is reserved for the work he does in those humans he chooses to redeem, because the redemption in Christ Jesus is the focus of all of his uh story of history. And interestingly enough, we get a little glimpse into in 1 Peter chapter 1 about how the angels long to fully grasp this glorious work of God. A very interesting passage in 1 Peter chapter 1. And so this, the glory is God's. And he displays that glory through this redemptive plan that's in order to redeem human beings, his image-bearers. So uh the center of supreme glory of course is this redemption in Christ. And so um how do we r answer the question where has God supremely magnified his glory? Where where's the ultimate example of that magnifying of his glory? And so how could we answer it? Well it could be the heavens. We could look up and see billions and billions of stars and the intricate design of galaxies and all of that thing. But that's not it. We could look at God's miracles, something like magnificent, like parting the Red Sea, or Jesus feeding 5,000, or giving sight to the blind, or raising Lazarus from the dead. We could look at the fierceness of God's glory and judgment, where he destroyed all but eight people on the whole earth with a a globe clo covering flood, or his destruction by raining down fire from heaven on Sodom and Gomorrah. But none of these things represents the supreme center, the center of supreme glory for God. That's reserved for one place, the death and resurrection of the Son of God to rescue sinners. And so when we get to a description in Revelation chapter 5 of things in heaven, what do we get? We get a focus on the lion of tr the tribe of Judah. In Revelation 5. 5. We get the lamb who was slain in verse 12, who purchased for God a people from every tribe and tongue and people and nation in verse 9. That's the focus when we get to a description, ultimate description of God's glory in Revelation 5. It's focused on Christ and His redemption of mankind. So everything in the narrative plot of Scripture and History is moving toward redemption of cursed image-bearing sinners. The bloody cross and the empty sepulchre are at the nucleus of that plan. God is bringing glory to Himself through this plan of redemption. And furthermore, the redemption of sinners is at the center of an all-encompassing plan to restore the entirety of the fallen world. We get a glimpse of that in Romans chapter 8. And also in Ephesians chapter 1, God's plan to save a chosen people is to the praise of his glorious grace. So right there in Ephesians chapter 1, what's the reason for God saving a chosen people? To the praise of his glorious grace. Right there. Scripture tells us what's the purpose, what's the ultimate purpose for redemption of people. It's to the praise of His glorious grace. It's great for us. But what's the real purpose of salvation is to the praise of His glorious grace. And then also we get this pointing to the restoration of all things by Christ. And all things in heaven and on earth. In other words, the entire cosmos, restoration of all things. this plan of redemption. So the Eternal Son's remarkable incarnation is life of perfect obedience to the Father. His trial and crucifixion, his burial and resurrection, his ascension to his place of former glory, eventual return to vanquish his remaining foes And consummate his eternal kingdom, all of those things are for God's glory. Also, this argument for the greater glory of theodicy is true only if the atoning work of Christ is the sole means of redeeming fallen and alienated people. In other words, if there's some other way, then where's the glory for God? If if you can get to God if if all all paths lead to God, then where's the glory for God in this plan of redemption in Christ. If you can get to God through the Buddha or you can get to God through um Mormonism or Islam or however you want. Then where's the glory for God in that, in this His plan of redemption in Christ? But the scripture is clear, there's only one name, Acts 4. 12. There's only one mediator, 1 Timothy 2. There's only one high priest, Hebrews 9. The scripture is clear. There's only one way to God. There's only one person capable of executing this rescue plan, and that's that's Christ. The Son of God had to take on human flesh in order to make this plan, uh to execute this plan, live a life of perfect obedience, suffer an atoning death. Rise again from the grave to demonstrate victory over sin, death, and the devil, according to 1 Corinthians 15. So that's the plan, and the plan is great for us, but the real purpose, according to scriptures, is to magnify God's glory. Yes? There is only other speech with God who works on according to the council of the U. Yes. Yeah, and so all of this All this laid out, the birth, death, resurrection of Christ is all worked out in accordance with the counsel of God's will, Ephesians 1. 11. Yep. Yep, so not only the suffering of Christ, but the suffering of all the other suffering, also according to the council of his will. Yes. says um they all fell. We're used to hearing the phrase the fall of man, the fall of man, and that's true. But it was also the fall of the earth because the first and that's why we have Yeah, the entire creation groans, uh Paul wrote in Romans. All right, this is the final thing we'll cover today in the chapter. Redemption is unnecessary without the fall. This is page 110 to 112. And so God created the world in a state of perfection, beauty, order, peace, joy, righteousness. It was very good in accordance with the scriptures. Adam and Eve were placed in the garden where they could bask in the glory of their Creator. They could enjoy perfect fellowship with him. And then the fall ruined this paradise. But God also created the conditions whereby Adam and Eve would fall. Otherwise, why the test of obedience? Why the fruit that they couldn't have? Why did he do that? Um why did he place it where they could get at it? Uh why was it in the center? Um So he could have placed flaming cherubim to the guard the way to the garden before the serpent entered instead of after Adam and Eve had fallen. Think about that. Right? He put a cherubim with a flaming sword so nobody could come to the Garden of Eden and eat from the tree of life after they sinned. Well, you could have very well just as well have done that before Satan ever went in the garden, right? Could did did Satan sneak in and and get around God's defenses and God was really surprised that Satan was able able to sneak in there? No, he was not. Um if God had not wanted Satan to be in that garden, Satan could not have gotten into the garden. If God had not wanted Satan to um to affect Job's life, Satan could not have affected Job's life. God could have created Adam and Eve with unflappable wills such that they could choose only good. The same sort of incorruptible wills that all the redeemed will have in the new heavens and the new earth, in the paradise. But instead, he did none of those things. So certainly God had the means, the power, to be able to prevent the fall, had he wished. But he did not do that. So our first parents, Adam and Eve, lived in a pre-fall world where they would willfully and inevitably succumb to sin. And then of course we get the curse that God placed on the creation and his creatures, formed the opportunity for him to magnify his glory. And that opportunity simply would not have been possible in an unfallen world. Without the fall, God had no opportunity to pour out the unprecedented riches of his grace. No need for grace if there's no sin in the world. An unfallen world needs no grace. The Son of God would have had no need to condescend to the plane of this worldly existence. He would have had no need to don the robes of humanity, to experience the effects of the curse via temptation and suffering. No need for any of that if there's no fall. The world would not get to, and of course then the world would not get to witness him overcoming evil and temptation by his humble and hard won human obedience. And the world would never have gotten to witness him demonstrate his victory over sin and death by rising from the tomb. And so all of this is to the supreme glory of God, for a supremely glorious God. Uh and all of it would not be possible without the fall. Yes. According to this predetermined land of foreknowledge of die. Yep. That was why price is definitely everything. Yeah, so it's very interesting that that's in the very first sermon. So the very first sermon of the church is is Acts chapter 2. Peter gives this sermon. And one of the very first things he says is that all this, and so he's talking about Jesus being handed over uh by By you by you people out there. They stuck the people some of the people in the audience were there screaming give us paravas And they know it, and Peter knows it, and he's telling them that all of that was done by the predetermined will and counsel, the predetermined counsel and will of God. All of that. And that's in the very first sermon that established the church right after Pentecost, right at Pentecost. Yes, good point. All right. Any questions about any of that? Yes. where it's a little uh um attempting to compare like with what we again look at Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, it's a good point. Yeah. Set up in a situation where like you know that or put someone in a situation where you know they're just setting them up to fail. Um For us, that's like oh that's it's devious and wicked. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But God had the whole plan all the way up to heaven all mapped out when he before he did that. Um yeah. I like I like I like God's answer to Job. Where were you when I created the world? Yeah, so yeah, yeah, yes. We do as parents let our children fail so that they learn how to do better Yeah. Right, but it's so it's but it's a great point because because our parenting is in the very best sense an imitation of God and how God deals with human beings. So when we when we're at our very best as parents, we're imitating how we're trying to imitate God the Father as a human father. I I'm trying to do that. Um and so yes, there are certainly cases where we allow them to fail and we control the environment as much as we can so that they can learn a a particular lesson. Yep. We we do that as parents. And it is an imitation of s some in some sense for what God does. Yeah. Okay. Uh yes, Joel. That's right. Well seems like something going through suffering the greater reporting galaxies are really hard for the smaller. And so uh when we s first started out this class in the second week, I mentioned the existential problem of evil So there are there are multiple problems of evil. There's the uh the theological, philosophical problem of evil, but there's also the existential problem of evil. And so I I brought up the point, I I brought up the example of Charlie Kirk's widow. So Charlie Kirk's widow, right after her su her husband has been shot and killed right in front of her She doesn't need a philosophical discussion of theodicy. She needs comfort. Um and so that's the existential problem of evil. If you have a friend, a family member, who's just gone through a tragedy Don't sit down and give them a philosophical discussion of the problem of evil. Sit down with them and weep with them and comfort them. That's the existential problem of evil. And there may come a time, a few months down the road, or a few years down the road, where that person needs to have this, needs to struggle with the reasons why. and have this philosophical discussion about the problem of evil. But not in the moment when somebody has suffered a tragedy. Yeah Yeah. I that I wouldn't theological amnesia is one way to put it, yeah, but but really it's the existential problem. The fact that an evil thing has just happened, something terrible has just happened to a person that I care about I I'm not going to give him a philosophical lecture at that point. I'm going to put my arm around him. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Uh any other questions? We're gonna So there are some questions at the uh begin at the end of this chapter. We have like uh three minutes left, I think. Um so any uh uh just any j questions in general about any of this. I know this is weighty stuff that we have to to wrestle with and w the various characters in the Bible really wrestled with this as they That's true. And so that's the ultimate point of this greater glory theodicy is that that God's glory is the ultimate purpose for everything. We get lots of benefits along the way. But the ultimate purpose is God's glory. Uh okay. Any other questions, comments? Sure. about God and about because it's it's still hard. It's it's it's difficult to reconcile but I also I always have to come back to thing that I know that is unshakably true about God as character. Yep. That's right. So and that's that's great advice for all of us. is to focus on who God is. So this is the God that's willing to send his son to a horrible torture and death for my benefit. It's for his glory as well, but it's also for for my benefit. He did that. And that's the God who in whose hands everything else is. Um yeah. Focus on God's character and and person. Um when you're hanging on in in a situation where you're going through something that's that's happened to you that's uh very unpleasant. Uh focus on God and who He is. Okay. Uh any other questions? All right, let me pray for us. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for this opportunity we have to wrestle with these weighty subjects and topics. And we thank you, Lord, for who you are. We thank you that you are worthy of all glory and honor and praise and worship. And we pray, Lord, that you would help us through your Holy Spirit when we get to a point in our own lives where we're struggling. with the things that happen, the things that you allow and your sovereign grace to to happen in our lives, help us to understand that it's uh for your glory and that you ha that you are a good good father and uh and that you want good things for us as well. As you're glorifying yourself, you're doing things that are for our good as well. We thank you, Lord, for the opportunity we have to worship you and corporate worship coming up, and we pray that the things that we say and the things that we do and the things that we think. as we worship you, would be focused on you and who you are, and would be to your glory, and would magnify your name for everyone. We pray all these things in the magnificent name of Jesus Christ. Amen.