What a great testimony. Jesus is the holy and anointed one, is he not? If you're like me, you probably marvel at those who we have seen to demonstrate great faith. We see them in the pages of Scripture. We see them in the course of church history. We're going to look at one today from Genesis chapter 22. If you could turn with me in your copy of the scriptures, Genesis, that first book of the Bible, chapter 22, I'll be reading verses 1 through 19. Abraham is such a great example, particularly in this episode for us. Now it came about after these things that God tested Abraham and said to him, Abraham, and he said, Here I am. He said, Take now your son, your only son, whom you love, Isaac, and go to the land of Moriah, and offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains of which I will tell you. So Abraham rose early in the morning and saddled his donkey, and took two of his young men with him, and Isaac his son. And he split wood for the burnt offering, and arose and went to the place of which God had told him. On the third day, Abraham raised his eyes and saw the place from a distance. Abraham said to his young men, Stay here with the donkey, and I and the lad will go over there, and we will worship and return to you. Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering and laid it on his on Isaac, his son, and he took in his hand the fire and the knife, so the two of them walked on together. Isaac spoke to Abraham his father and said, My father, and he said, Here I am, my son. And he said, Behold the fire and the wood, but where is the lamb for the burnt offering? Abraham said, God will provide for himself the lamb for the burnt offering, my son. So the two of them walked on together. Then they came to the place of which God had told him, and Abraham built the altar there and arranged the wood, and bound his son Isaac, and laid him on the altar on top of the wood. Abraham stretched out his hand and took the knife to slay his son. But an angel of the Lord called to him from heaven and said, Abraham, Abraham! And he said, Here I am. He said, Do not stretch out your hand against the lad and do nothing to him, for now I know that you fear God, since you have not withheld your son, your only son, from me. Then Abraham raised his eyes and looked, and behold, behind him a ram caught in the thicket by his thorns. And Abraham went and took the ram and offered him up for a burnt offering in the place of his son. Abraham called the name of that place, the Lord will provide, as it is said to this day, in the mount of the Lord it will be provided. Then the angel of the Lord called to Abraham a second time from heaven and said, By myself I have sworn, declares the Lord, because you have done this thing, and have not withheld your son, your only son Indeed, I will greatly bless you, and I will greatly multiply your seed. As the stars of the heaven and as the sand which is on the seashore, your seed shall possess the gate. of their enemies. In your seed all the nations of the earth shall be blessed because you have obeyed my voice. So Abraham returned to his young men, and they arose and went together to Beersheba. And Abraham lived at Beersheba. As we study this episode in the life of Abraham this morning, I want you to focus on three things. First, what were God's purposes in all this? Secondly, Abraham's example to us, and thirdly, our application. God's purposes, Abraham's example, and our application. I believe God had two major purposes here for both Abraham and for us. The first one is to test Abraham. He says that specifically in verse 1. God tested Abraham. Abraham. Now that word test in the original Hebrew can be translated to try, to prove, or even to tempt. It's the first time this word has been used in all of the new of the Old Testament, the first time in the Old Testament in chapter 22. Generally, it means to reveal the truth about someone or something. To reveal the truth. For humans, we usually think of testing in order to reveal the truth about something we don't know. And in this sense, it's inappropriate for us to test God, is it not? Because He has already revealed to us. what we are to know about him. In fact, Deuteronomy 6. 16 says, You shall not put the Lord your God to the test as you tested him at Massah. God, however, doesn't need to test to find out something he doesn't know. Why? He's omniscient. He already knows, right? Instead, he tests to provide documentation for what we don't know. It's like an athlete Who volunteers to be subject to more drug tests than would be necessary just to prove that he's completely clean. He knows he's clean, but he wants others to know it. Right? Or perhaps a suspect who voluntarily submits himself to a lie detector test. Not because he doesn't know that he's innocent, but he wants others to know that he's innocent. Or perhaps like Daniel, who asked to be tested about the impact of his not eating the king's food for a period of time. to see what the impact would be on his health. Not so that he would find out, but so that they would know that that was a better course. And it's in that sense that Moses said in Deuteronomy 8, 16 through 18, In the wilderness, he, the Lord, fed you manna, which your fathers did not know. That he might humble you and that he might test you to do good for you in the end. Otherwise, you may say in your heart, my power and strength. And the strength of my hand have made this wealth. But you shall remember the Lord your God, for it is he who is giving you the power to make wealth, that he may confirm his covenant which he swore to your fathers as it is to this day. Now you might notice in verse twelve here in Genesis twenty-two that God said to Abraham after this was over, Do not stretch out your hand against the lad and do nothing for him, for now I know that you fear God. Since you have not withheld your son, your only son, from me. So does that mean that God had to do this in order to find out? No. That word To know here in verse 12 is the Hebrew word yada, which means in this context particularly to know by experience. To know by experience. God experienced, if you will, Abraham's faith in obedience, even though he already knew about it in his omniscience. So, why did God test Abraham? He tested Abraham so that Abraham would see his own heart. And so that we would see and learn from Abraham's example. God's second purpose I believe his major purpose in this episode was to illustrate his plan of salvation. To illustrate in more detail than presumably had ever been revealed up until this time. His plan of salvation. And it involves five aspects that we see from this experience. First is that it involves a sacrifice. A sacrifice. Here in verses 2 and 3 and elsewhere it's referred to as a burnt offering. A burnt offering. Now the word here, um burnt offering, uh, comes from a word that means uh it's related to to going up, rising up. And you can picture here the smoke of a burnt offering rising up to please the Lord, and also offering up to the Lord this burnt offering. That word is used earlier in Genesis, actually, in chapter 8, verse 20, where it says, Noah built an altar to the Lord and took, this is after the flood. And took every clean animal and every clean bird and offered burnt offerings on the altar. God had apparently directed him to do that. That's one of the reasons he had more clean animals with him on the ark. Now this word for altar that's used both here in Genesis twenty-two as well as with Noah in Genesis eight Is derived from the Hebrew word Zalbach, which means to slaughter. This was an altar that was specifically prepared for slaughtering, for sacrifice. And we see earlier in Genesis that Abraham had built altars like this three other times, although in those earlier occasions there wasn't a particular reference to what was slaughtered or the details of it. But He built altars like that unto the Lord in Genesis 12 and 13. So God had previously indicated to both Noah and Abraham the need to make such sacrifices to him. This was part of his plan of salvation. However, in those cases, the sacrifices was what? An animal In this case, God was giving a greater insight into his overall plan of salvation in his command to Abraham And this brings us to the second aspect of this plan of salvation. It's a sacrifice, but it's a sacrifice of an only begotten Son. He says in in verse 2, offer up your son, your only son. And he's even specific there, whom you love, Isaac. That um may seem strange to us because if you've read the first eleven chapters of of I'm sorry, the uh chapters 12 through uh 21 leading up to this, you realize that Isaac is not his only son. In fact, he's not even his oldest son. His other son was named Ishmael. However, Isaac was his only begotten son. His only begotten Son. Here in this text, there is a Hebrew phrase that's that's used three times here in verse 2, again in verse 12, and again in verse 16, where God says Your son, your only son. That phrase is never ever used elsewhere in all the Old Testament. It's referring only here to Isaac. That's interpreted for us in the New Testament, in the book of Hebrews, chapter 11, verse 17, which I read earlier. Where it says, by faith Abraham, when he was tested, offered up Isaac, and he received the promises, and he who had received the promises was offering up his only begotten son. That term in the Greek, in the New Testament, that term only begotten is actually a compound word. the um the the um the only part and then the begotten part. And it's used repeatedly of the Lord Jesus Christ. John 1. 14, John 1. 18, John 3. 16 and 18, 1 John 4. 9, all referring to the Son of God, God's only begotten Son. Isaac, then, as the only begotten son of Abraham, the one who was um uh highly praised, the one who was highly favored, the one who was uh superior, the one who was special, the one who was uh unique. That's sort of a flavor of what only begotten means. Isaac, then, in that role, foreshadowed, was a prefiguring of the only begotten Son of God who would be a part of who would be the the one who would fulfill this plan of salvation that God would bring to us And it's also s significant, I think, that uh Isaac, even in the manner of his birth, somewhat miraculous, not a virgin birth of course, but um is also something of a type of the miraculous birth of Christ. So, first two parts of this plan of salvation was it involved a sacrifice, and that sacrifice was of an only begotten son. But thirdly It involved the sacrifice of an only begotten son whom God would provide. Whom God would provide. Look at verse 18. Abraham said, God will provide for himself the lamb for the burnt offering, my son. And verse 14, after it happened, Abraham named the place The Lord will provide. As it is said to this day in the mount of the Lord, it will be provided. The emphasis here is that God supplies the substitutionary Sacrifice for sin. It's not man who supplies the sacrifice. In fact, the word here for provide means really to see. And sometimes we we s we talk that way. The Lord will see to it. He'll provide. He'll make sure that that uh what is needed is is provided When Abraham named the place the Lord will provide, or as the King James puts it, Jehovah Jira. He was testifying to this provision that God would make, not just here, in the form of a substitute for Isaac. But also that God's plan of salvation ultimately involved a substitutionary sacrifice for sin provided by God. Now uh it it uh it's mentioned here in in verse fourteen that uh over time it became known that uh by this phrase In the mount of the Lord it will be provided, or as the King James says, in the mount of the Lord it shall be seen. Actually some translations put it this way, On this mount the Lord shall be seen. I think that gives us some insight into Abraham's understanding here that what he was participating in foreshadowed the ultimate fulfillment of God's plan of salvation. Through the sacrifice of an only begotten Son whom God would provide. The fourth aspect, though, of this plan of salvation that's illustrated through this Is that it's a sacrifice of an only begotten Son whom God would provide at the place God had chosen. Look at verse 2. It says, Go to the land of Moriah and offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains of which I will tell you. Now, where was the land of Moriah? Well, it's generally the area surrounding um present-day Jerusalem. That was the land of Moriah. The only other verse that actually uses the word Moriah is 2 Chronicles 3. 1 Where it says, Solomon began to build the house that is the temple of the Lord in Jerusalem on Mount Moriah. Where the Lord had appeared to his father David at the place where David had prepared on the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite. However, Genesis doesn't say go to Mount Moriah. What does it say? The Lord told Abraham to go to the land of Moriah, to one of the mountains. Mount Moriah was the place where the Jewish temple was later built, of course, and it's now uh one of the dominant features of of that that uh platform, if you will, on that top of that mountain is the Dome of the Rock, the the Muslim uh mosque. But he says, go to one of the mountains there. In verse 2, he says, one of the mountains of which I will tell you. What do we learn from that? Well, first of all, God had chosen the actual location, not just the general vicinity. He chose the actual location where this was to happen. And secondly, God gave Abraham verbal directions in advance. He didn't simply wait for Abraham to get to the general area and then kind of fine-tune it like your your uh your um GPS systems might today. Um He gave them specific verbal instructions back when he was in Beersheba to strongly suggests that God described for Abraham the physical appearance of the mountain, a description that would distinguish it from the others in the area. We know it was um quite a ways between Beersheba and this um Mount where the where the sacrifice took place. In fact, um it's about forty-two miles from Beersheba to Jerusalem, most of it uphill. And when we see in verse four that Abraham said, or it's it said, um, on the third day. It makes sense. It was quite a trip. It was not an overnight thing. It took quite a commitment to get there to follow God's very specific instructions about the place of the sacrifice. Then it says, and continuing in verse 4, that Abraham raised his eyes and saw the place from a distance. So Abraham obviously recognized it based on the description that God had given him. Now it raised his eyes doesn't mean it was still much higher than him. It mostly means it was over there. In fact, it specifically says over there But then Abraham called the name of that place the Lord will provide. He tied it to the provision of the Lord, the sacrifice of the Lord, that's a part of his whole plan of salvation. The actual place was tied to that. God provided an animal sacrifice in this instance. As a substitute for Isaac. Again, demonstrating not um Not so much the and not prefiguring so much the the system of animal sacrifices that would be a part of the law, but rather the the substitute Nature of God's plan of salvation. That substitute, of course, became ultimately the Lord Jesus Christ. When he became our substitute for sin. Abraham said God would provide for himself the Lamb And years later, John the Baptist, looking at Jesus Christ, would say, Behold, the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world. God appears to have planned this event, even the place of it, to foreshadow the death of Christ. Not the eventual practice of animal sacrifice that we see under the law of Moses. And even that system of sacrifice was was um instituted in part to foreshadow that ultimate sacrifice that would need to be paid. Therefore, even though some people, many people actually believe that this sacrifice took place on the mountain where the temple was later built, Mount Moriah. There's nothing in this passage here or elsewhere in Scripture that necessitates that. Rather, it's more likely that it was a nearby mount, one that was easy to recognize based on a verbal description, for example, having the appearance of a skull. The one on which the sacrifice actually being foreshadowed eventually took place. In John 19, verses 17 through 18, we read that they took Jesus therefore and he went out, bearing his own cross to the place called the place of a skull. which is called in Hebrew Golgotha and called in in Greek of course Calvary. There they crucified him, and with him two other men, one on either side, and Jesus in between. So, God is explaining his plan of salvation as requiring a sacrifice of an only begotten son. Whom God would provide at the place God had chosen, and then fifthly, requiring faith alone on our part. Consider the the facts that Abraham grappled with in this episode. First, God had promised him on five previous occasions. That he would greatly multiply his descendants and bless the world through him On two of those prior occasions, God had revealed to Abraham, even before Isaac was born, that this would be accomplished through Isaac. Third, God specifically commanded Abraham to sacrifice Isaac as a burnt offering to the Lord. Fourth, Abraham must have known that child sacrifice was an abomination to the Lord. More and fifth, more importantly, Abraham greatly loved Isaac. Just think what's going through his heart. And sixth, most importantly, if Abraham obeyed God by killing Isaac, Isaac couldn't be the one through whom He would have these many descendants and through whom the Lord would would bring a blessing to the world. Or could he? We read earlier from Hebrews 11. I'll read again 17 through 19. By faith, Abraham, when he was tested, offered up Isaac. And he who had received the promises was offering up his only begotten son. It was he to whom it was said, In Isaac your descendant shall be called. Now get this. He considered that God is able to raise people even from the dead, from whom also he received him back as a type. A type of Christ. That is a a foreshadowing of the work of Christ, the the the resurrection of Christ was actually foreshadowed here even by him receiving Isaac back. God could have actually allowed Abraham to go through with it and then raised him from the dead But he chose not to. He knew Abraham's heart, and we were able to look into that and see his heart as a testimony to us as well. But Abraham did this why? Because he had faith. It was an act of faith, not simply a work, not simply a a thing that he did. That's perhaps partly at least why Jesus referred to Abraham when he said, Your father Abraham rejoiced to see my day, and he saw it. And was glad. John eight fifty-six. The point is that while Isaac foreshadowed Christ, This event emphasized that God's salvation, like the provision of the ram, was totally by God's grace. Which is to be responded to as Abraham did by faith alone. Now, I want to turn to Abraham's response to all this, Abraham's example to us, and I think we see Both an example of his obedience and of his faith in these passages. In fact, as I read through this, I see sixteen specific things that Abraham ended up doing in order to be obedient to this command from the Lord. In verse three, he rose early in the morning, he saddled his donkey, he took uh two of his young men with him, he took Isaac, he split wood for the burnt offering. He went to the place God told him. Uh verse six he took the wood of the burnt offering and laid it on Isaac. He took in his hand the fire and the knife, and they walked on together. After they talked a while they walked on some more Verse 9, they came to the place. Abraham built the altar, he arranged the wood, he bound to Isaac, and he laid him on the altar. And in verse 10, he took the knife to slay his son. This happened over the course of three days. Think of how many opportunities he had to question God. He had plenty of rationale for questioning God. What's going on? Have you lost your mind? Right? But over the course of three days he steadfastly pursued obedience to the command of God. We see here three aspects of his obedience. He obeyed promptly. We see in verse 3, so Abraham rose early in the morning. He didn't waste any time. He obeyed, secondly, without complaint or question. Read through that. Where is he complaining? Not at all. And then thirdly, he obeyed fully. Had God not intervened, that knife would have come down. He obeyed promptly, he obeyed without complaint or question, and he obeyed fully. Why? Well, it's because of his faith in God. And actually, there are four aspects of Abraham's faith that I want to focus on here that will be a lesson for us. First. Abraham had faith in God's promise. He believed that the promise that he had already been given would still be fulfilled. Through Isaac. In verse 5, Abraham said to his young man, Stay here with the donkey, and I and the lad will go over there, and we will worship and return to you. Now that may seem straightforward But when he says, we will worship and return to you, those verbs are all in the plural. What he's saying is, we will worship and we will return. He had absolute faith that God somehow was going to work it out so that Isaac would return with him. Abraham fully expected that. Why? Because God had promised that it would be through Isaac. Abraham had faith in God's promise, therefore he obeyed. Secondly, Abraham had faith in God's provision He believed that God would somehow provide that sacrifice for him. It's interesting in this exchange between Isaac and Abraham in verses seven and eight, Isaac said Behold the fire and the wood, but where is the lamb? I'm not seeing how this is going to fit together. Abraham said, look, and get this, God will provide for himself the lamb. For the burnt offering, my son. Now, Abraham was not just saying this as a delaying tactic. How do we know that? In the very next verse, he bound Isaac. As that sacrifice. Rather, he had concluded that God would have to provide the way to fulfill both his promise and his command. And he had faith that God would provide that way. And because Abraham had faith in God's provision, he obeyed. Thirdly, Abraham had faith in God's plan. Faith in God's plan. He believed that God's salvation required a substitutionary sacrifice to God. When uh in look at verses eleven through thirteen where the angel says, Stop and um don't stretch out your hand, I know that um Your faith is strong, and so on. In verse 13, says Abraham raised his eyes and looked, and behold, behind him a ram caught in the thicket by its thorns. And Abraham went and took the ram and offered him up for a burnt offering in the place of a son. When God had prevented him from actually sacrificing Isaac Abraham realized that the command still needed to be fulfilled. There still needed to be a sacrifice, and that God would provide it. God's plan of salvation involved a sacrifice. Abraham knew that. And even though God didn't give him an additional command, he didn't need to, he already commanded him to sacrifice, Abraham understood that a sacrifice was still necessary. And the ram Was a substitute for Isaac. Now that was very much like what happened in the Garden of Eden in Genesis chapter 3. God uh slayed some animals, made skins to cover the shame of Adam and Eve, and that pictured Right from the very beginning that a substitute for sin was required as a part of God's salvation It's the same thing here. Abraham had faith in God's plan, and so he obeyed. Fourthly, Abraham had faith in God's place. He believed that this mountain would one day be the place where God's salvation would ultimately be provided. In verse 14, again, Abraham called the name of that place, the Lord will provide, as it is said to this day, in the mouth of the Lord, it will be provided. Abraham and his descendants took special note of the fact that God went to great lengths to orchestrate where this would take place. And he even named the place in commemoration of God's present and future provisions. He didn't say On the mouth of the Lord it it has been provided. He says in the mouth of the Lord it will be provided. He's looking forward in faith to what God was about to accomplish. That was fulfilled, of course, in the substitutionary death of Christ on the cross for our sins. The Lamb of God who had no sin of his own, that pure and spotless Lamb of God, who Whose blood was shed, body was broken in payment for our sins I believe on that very same mountain. Now the question is, what does this all mean to us? There are bound to be some of you here today Who have not yet approached God in faith You have not repented from your sins. You're still in your sins. You still need that provision for sin. God is not calling you to sacrifice your only begotten Son. He's done that for you. You remember in John 3. 16 where it says, God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish. But have eternal life. Now why would you perish? Because of our sin God is holy and cannot tolerate sin in his presence. And apart from his solution to our sin, that's where we're ending up. An eternity separated from him. Earlier in the Gospel of John, chapter one, it says, But as many as received him, that is the Lord Jesus Christ. To them he gave the right to become children of God. Not everyone is a child of God. Only those who come to him in repentance and faith. are his children. In fact, Paul reminds us in in the book of Romans. That if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord, that is, He's your master, your King, the one whom you obey. And if you believe in your heart, it says, that Jesus, that God raised him from the dead. You confess with your mouth Jesus is Lord. You believe in your heart that Jesus was raised from the dead by the power of an Almighty God. Then it promises us you will be saved. If you have not Turn to him as your Lord. If you have not turned to him as your Savior, I encourage you to do that today. This would be a great time to do that. The alternative, of course, is to spend an eternity separated from God. Now if if you have some questions about that or if um if in fact you do. Trust Christ alone for your salvation today. I'd like to chat with you after the service today to encourage you, maybe give you some scriptures that would encourage you. But for the rest of us, I want to ask, how do you apply the example of Abraham in your life? Today. All too often I'm afraid that our lives are characterized by a weakness of faith. And a lack of obedience. And unfortunately, we rationalize that. We come become fairly sophisticated at excusing ourselves From complete faith and complete obedience. Do we not? We might say something like this: Well, you know, God talked directly to Abraham, gave him a very specific instruction, no wonder he obeyed. If God would do that to me, I would obey. Well, I got news for you. God has done that. In fact, you have more direct revelation from God than Abraham ever dreamed of in the pages of Holy Scripture. Very clear We've got no excuse. No excuse. And I think when we respond with a weakness of faith to God's very specific commands, And a lack of complete obedience to God's commands, we're demonstrating essentially a practical atheism. A practical atheism. That even if we don't say it with our words, we say by our actions, I don't really trust what God said, therefore I'm not going to obey. Or I'm going to obey on my terms. Can you imagine saying that to God? I don't fully trust you, God, so I'm gonna make up the difference and do it my way. In Ephesians five twenty two and through twenty-eight we have What I'll offer as a first example of some areas where where perhaps we're a little slack in our faith and obedience. The first is in the area of marriage. Where in Ephesians 5, 22 through 28 we read, Wives, be subject to your own husbands as to the Lord. For the husband is the head of the wife, as Christ also is the head of the church, he himself being the Savior of the body. But as the church is subject to Christ, and so also wives ought to be to their husbands in everything. And then he continues, husbands, love your wives, just as Christ also loved the church and gave himself up for her. so that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word, so that he might present to himself the church in all her glory, having no spot or wrinkle, or any such thing But that she would be holy and blameless. So husbands also ought to love their own wives as their own bodies. Now Those commands are clear, right? Wives, submit to your husbands. That's to the Lord. Husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the church. There's no mystery there. Now I imagine it's quite possible that some of you wives don't submit to your husbands all that consistently. And you may well rationalize why you don't have to. You offer some excuses. Well, he's lazy. He's such a poor example. He doesn't listen to me. But do you realize those commands don't come with any qualifications? It says, wives, submit to your husbands. As to the Lord. You're going to make excuses about your submission to the Lord? No. So you can't make excuses about your submission to your husband. In fact, when you do, you're revealing a lack of faith in God's plan. Husbands, I'm imagining that some of you probably don't love your wives quite the way Christ loved the church. Sacrificially. And you too may rationalize your lack of obedience there Saying, well, you know, she squanders all of our money, or she's too worldly, and she's not submissive. But again, those commands to husbands are not qualified. It doesn't say, love your wives if, it says husbands love your wives, as Christ loved the church, who did so. Completely, even when we didn't deserve it. And if you don't love your wife as Christ loved the church, you're in sin Because you're demonstrating a lack of faith in God's plan. Do you really have faith in God's plan? Then, like Abraham, you would obey promptly. You would obey without complaint or question, and you would obey fully. Let me give another example here We're in what some people are calling a huge financial crisis, an economic crisis in our country and around the world. It raises the question about our financial priorities In Matthew 6, Jesus said, Do not store up for yourselves treasures on earth, where moth and rust destroy, and where thieves break in and steal, but store up for yourselves treasures in heaven. Where neither moth nor rust destroys, and where thieves do not break in or steal. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. And then later, in that same chapter, he says Do not worry then saying, what shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or what shall we wear for clothing? For the Gentiles eagerly seek for those things. But seek first his kingdom and his righteousness, and all those things are going to be added to you. Now again, those commands are clear. There's no doubt about what he means there, right? Don't focus on material treasures, don't prioritize, but rather prioritize things of eternal value Don't worry about the provision of our daily needs. God's taking care of us. We need to do our part to work, but ultimately he's in control. He's not going to let us flounder. Many of you probably are overly worried about material things We live in a very materialistic culture, and whether we recognize it or not, we get sucked up into that. One of the consequences of that, perhaps, is that many of us perhaps are giving back to God only from the scraps of what's left over. after we do what we want with those resources. That reveals a lack of faith in God's provision. God has promised to provide. He's also given us commands. If you really have a faith in God's provision, then like Abraham, you would obey promptly. You would obey without complaint or question, and you would obey fully. Let's take a quick look at evangelism. If you're a child of God It's no mystery to you that you are to be God's ambassador, a witness for Christ. A um a messenger of hope to a dark and dying world. But many of us, perhaps most of us, are reluctant to share our faith in Christ, what is actually the greatest news that anybody could ever hear Because it affects their eternal destiny and joy. Why are we so afraid? I think I know why we're so afraid. It's because we're afraid of what people are going to think of us Or what they're going to say to us or about us. Or heaven forbid what they're going to do to us. In other words, we don't have faith in God's protection. In Matthew 5, verses 10 through 12, Jesus said, Blessed are those who have been persecuted for the sake of righteousness. For theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are you when people insult you and persecute you and falsely say all kinds of evil against you because of me. Rejoice and be glad for your reward in heaven Will be great. For in the same way they persecuted the prophets who were before you. And then 2 Timothy 3. 12, perhaps one of the most challenging verses that I read in the New Testament. It says, indeed, all who desire to live godly in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. All who desire to live godly in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. That's a promise. Jesus promises that we're blessed if we're persecuted for the right reasons on account of Him. Do you really have faith in God's sovereignty and protection? Then like Abraham You would obey promptly. You would obey without complaint or question. And you would obey fully. Lastly, I want to look at the whole area of anxiety very quickly. Philippians 4, 6-7 says, Be anxious for nothing, but in everything, by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God. And the peace of God, which surpasses all comprehension, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. Now that command, again, it's clear. Be anxious for nothing. But we tend to fret. We tend to worry. We tend to reveal that deep down we really don't have faith in God's promises. That's a practical atheism. It's calling God a liar. It demonstrates a lack of faith. So are you a practical atheist demonstrating a lack of faith in God's plan, God's provision, God's protection, and God's promises? Or do you prove that you trust God fully by obeying Him promptly, fully, and without complaint? And when you don't fully understand God's command, like I'm sure Abraham didn't Do you allow for God's supernatural power? God's supreme wisdom, certainly greater than ours, his consistent goodness? If you don't allow for those things, you're probably very much limiting him in your thinking. And that becomes an excuse for disobedience. The Apostle James cited this example of Abraham, James chapter 2. He says, Was not Abraham our father justified by works, that is, obedience? When he offered up Isaac, his son, on the altar, you see that faith was working with his works. And as a result of the works, faith was perfected. And the scripture was fulfilled, which says, and Abraham believed God, and it was reckoned to him as righteousness. And he was called the friend of God. Now you see that a man is justified by his works, that is his obedience, and not by faith alone. Indeed, if our faith in God does not demonstrate itself through our obedience, then we don't have saving faith. I want to close by singing the hymn, Trust and Obey, after I pray And as you sing that hymn, I want you to commit yourselves to growing in faith and in obedience as we sing through the words of that song. Let us pray. Father, we are humbled by the example of Abraham. We're challenged, and yet we know that it is right. To trust you completely, fully, and obey you without excuse. Give us the strength by your grace. To have that faith and to have that obedience, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen