Uh we're going to be going through a book. So some of you have it and some of you do not yet have it. This man, Scott Christensen He's a graduate of the Master's Seminary. He worked for John MacArthur for a while. He wrote first he wrote this book. And this book is called What About Evil. It's like 800 pages long and it and it's kind of it's kind of a a seminary textbook on this subject, uh Theodicy, what a the problem of evil. He wrote this book first. And then everybody kept asking him, well when are you going to come out with the one for the common person that the that that's not a seminary textbook. And so then he came out with this book which is more like a summary and written for the general audience. It's a summary of this book. And so we decided that this book would be much better for you to have than this book right here. And this book has very convenient discussion questions at the end of each. chapter. And so we're going to be spending quite a bit of time on the discussion questions for each chapter. So today I'm going to do an introduction to this topic and this issue. And we're starting in chapter one next week. So that's the book that we're going to be using. Uh this is the schedule. So uh today an introduction and we're gonna talk about what is this problem of EO Why is it a problem? Um and then we're gonna uh then chapter one is gonna be encountering the darkness. Uh w these uh where does this evil come from What kind of evil do we see around us? And we're going to march through this book almost basically a chapter at a time. Sometimes the chapters are uh of a nature that I think it needs two weeks to get through a chapter. in some cases. So uh you're also gonna have a couple of guest teachers along the way. There's there's two weeks when I'm gonna be out uh teaching the new member class and and Lorfe is gonna be teaching teaching uh for me and we're also having a pastoral candidate um a man named Antonio Weary who's coming to uh to do his candidate visit to take a a staff pastor position with us if everything goes well. Uh and that's the twenty eighth of September he'll be here. He'll be preaching that day, but he's also going to be teaching this class that day. the twenty eighth of September. And so all of you will get to evaluate this pastoral candidate, uh Antonio, when he comes to visit the church. You'll also hear him preach that day as well. Okay. So what are we going to learn today? So I'm I'm going to I'm going to tell you what I'm going to tell you then I'm going to tell you then I'm going to tell what I told you. Uh so this is what I'm gonna tell you We're going to do an introduction to the problem of evil. We're going to talk about how to think like a Christian. How do I engage my mind? and think like a Christian. We're going to talk about spiritual warfare. The fact that living the Christian life is indeed spiritual warfare. We're going to talk about the fact that we're called to always be ready to engage in this spiritual warfare. And then we're going to talk about, well, what is this problem of evil? How do we define it? How does it come up in conversation? And how do we use it as an opportunity to share the gospel with unbelievers? So how to think like a Christian. So here are uh my suggestions. First, be self-conscious about your own presuppositions. And I'm going to tell you about uh What each one of these means. Recognize the ultimate authority of God in His Word. Make sure what we think is grounded in and corrected by the Word of God. And apply God's Word to every area of your life. Steps. To think like a Christian. Think like somebody who has been redeemed by the blood of the Lamb. That should make a difference in how we see the world. It should make a difference in how we think about everything, not just on Sunday mornings, but seven days a week. It should permeate our things. So first, be self-conscious about our own presupposition. So every person, believer or unbeliever, starts with a set of assumptions or presuppositions about how the world is and how it is organized. And this these presuppositions, the these foundational truths, the things that we know to be affect how we interpret everything else that we see. And for the Christian, we have two basic presuppositions. The first presupposition is that God is. God is. And so the Bible starts with, in the beginning God. There's no effort made to prove God's existence. He just is. That's a fundamental presupposition of the Christian worldview, how we see the world, that God is. The second one is he is not silent. God is, and he is not silent. He's revealed himself. has revealed himself in the pages of Scripture. Those are the two fundamental presuppositions of a Christian, and we will never be shy about those two. The unbeliever, of course, is not neutral. He's not without presuppositions, and we should not be either If you if you find yourself in a conversation with an unbeliever and he says, we're just going to be neutral. Everybody's going to set aside their presuppositions. No, they won't. No, they won't. What will happen is the unbeliever will sneak his presupposition And you'll end up having to have the conversation on his terms. Never do that. Never set aside the scripture. Ever, ever, ever. Ever ever. Okay. Proverbs one seven. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. Fools despise wisdom and instruction. The fear of the Lord. God is And he has revealed himself in Scripture. And the nature of the God that we find in Scripture, uh He necessitates uh uh uh the kind of fear, the awe of who he is as revealed in the pages of scripture. So the fe and the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom is what the scripture Scripture says Proverbs twenty six four and five Do not answer a fool according to his folly, or you will also be like him. Answer a fool as his folly deserves, that he not be wise in his own eyes. In other words, don't take the unbeliever's presuppositions. Don't argue on his term. The scripture is telling us right here, Proverbs, be wise, do not argue with the unbeliever or engage in a conversation with the unbeliever as if his his presuppositions are true, as if his view of the world is true because it's not. If his view doesn't include the God of the Bible, then his view of the world is false. It's folly. Don't have a conversation as if his foolishness is true. No, we don't you don't Don't be rude about it. There's no there's no call to to be rude about that, but just do not ever uh concede this point. God is, and he is not silent, and we see everything in the world in the uh in the in in light of those facts, um and we will never compromise in that area. Okay. Everybody see that? Any any questions about that? Well we're gonna talk about how that uh how that comes up and and how it ca you can apply that in in in a practical Number two, so uh we have presuppositions. We we presuppose that God is and He's revealed Himself. Uh the unbeliever has a different set of pre presuppositions Supposition that God is not and that He hasn't revealed Himself. One of us is right and one of us is wrong. Okay. Uh recognize the ultimate authority of God in his word. So w where does our authority come from? Uh to where where does our thinking come from? It comes From God and His Word, and that's our ultimate authority. Romans 3, 3, and 4. What then, if some did not believe, their unbelief will not nullify the faithfulness of God? So if if all the experts are If all the really smart people say one thing and God's word says another thing, what what does this scripture tell us? That all the really smart people are wrong about that Right? That's what the that's what the word says. Um so and and we there's examples of this of course. Uh all the really smart people sa tell us that uh that a virgin could never have a baby. It we've never We've never observed it. We've got uh thousands of years of doctor's reports and no virgin has ever had a baby. So that's not possible for a virgin to have a baby. Uh nobody ever comes back from the dead. That's not possible Um an axe head can't float. Um y you know, you can't turn water into wine. Uh you can't make five loaves and two fishes feed five thousand people. Uh these things are all impossible. And the very smartest people will tell you that they're not possible. And so therefore when the Bible tells you that those things happened, they'll scoff and say, no, that That that can't be. But the scripture tells us that let God be found true, though every man be found alive. liar. All the very smartest people. Uh nothing takes precedence over the word of God. Not even what the unbelievers referred to as facts. So because what one sees to be a fact and how one interprets facts depends on our presuppositions, if if an unbeliever presumes that God is not there, therefore miracles can't be, therefore um all the things in the Bible that are miraculous cannot be. So So that's uh um be careful when you're having a conversation and an unbeliever tells you that something is a fact. Um facts are interpreted through the lens of your presupposition. And if the unbeliever presupposes that God doesn't exist, then he will have all kinds of facts that are not true. So let's look at some scripture Let's take a look first of all at 2 Peter chapter 1. So open your Bible to 2 Peter chapter 1. Let's take a look at this scripture. What we're doing here is trying to lay a foundation for discussing this problem of evil. There's some basics that we need to get uh clear in our heads about how to think about issues like this before we can actually think about the issue itself. itself. So a basic foundation here. So uh the ultimate authority of God in his word, what what does the scripture say about itself? Essentially here. Uh second Peter chapter one. So starting in verse sixteen, this is Peter uh writing. He says, For we did not follow cleverly devised tales when we made known to you the power and coming. of our Lord Jesus Christ, but we were eyewitnesses of his majesty. Who is we in this passage? The the apostles, Peter and the other apostles is who he's talking about. Um we didn't we didn't make this stuff up. We saw it with our own eyes. So how do we determine who who's an apostle So it's somebody who has seen the earthly ministry, the death and resurrection of Christ, somebody's seen it with their own eyes, that's an eyewitness to Christ's life, death, and resurrection. So do we have any apostles currently living? Among us. No, why not? There's nobody alive that's an eyewitness of Christ's earthly ministry, death, and resurrection. That w that's the the main um qualification to be an apostle. And Peter lays it out there in verse sixteen. He and the other apostles, hey, we saw all this happen. We were eyewitnesses of his majesty. For when he received Yes, go So um I would say about that that there it's possible there's two possibilities. One that the person is not a believer, the other is that he's a believer that's wrong about this particular thing. So you you can actually be a believer and be wrong about things. Um I wouldn't know anything about that, but yeah. Yeah. No, so all all of us have mistaken beliefs. You know, there's no there's the I don't think there's ever been two Christians who agreed about every word in the Bible and what it meant and what what the implications were. And so everybody's either one person's right and everybody else is wrong or everybody's got something that they've got wrong. And so somebody could be wrong uh about that, or they could be an unbeliever. Uh okay, so uh Peter then continues along, for when he received honor and glory from God the Father, such an utterance as this was made to him And we ourselves heard this utterance made from heaven when we were with him on the holy mountain. about. The Mount of Transfiguration. So who was there? Peter, James, and John were there. And so they saw this and heard it with they heard God from heaven. call down and say, this is my beloved son with whom I am well pleased. So what's Peter laying out here? He's laying out his credentials as an apostle and an eyewitness And saying, uh these things I'm telling you are not things I made up. I'm an eyewitness. Uh we could go to 1 John chapter 1 and and John does the exact same thing in 1 John chapter one. He says, the things that we have seen, the things we heard, the things we have touched with our hands, now we tell you. So the apostles were very intentional about saying, hey, these things that we're telling you are things that we didn't come up with on our own. We're not inventing a new religion. We're not inventing anything. We're just telling you what we saw what we heard. And so that's what Peter's doing here. And he's given this example of the Mount of Transfiguration. So we have the prophetic word made more sure. So um when you see a italic word in your Bible, what does that mean? So it's not there's no Greek equivalent to made there. That's what the Greek says. We have the prophetic word more sure. More sure than what? More sure than our eyewitness. That's what he's saying. That's what he's really saying here. Um that that the the prophetic word is even more short. I I'm an eyewitness. I saw this happen. Well the prophetic word though is even more short But know this first of all that no prophecy of Scripture is a matter of one's own interpretation. For no prophecy was ever made by an act of human will, but men moved by the Holy Spirit spoke from God. Testament. So what is this the prophecy that he's talking about? He's talking about the Old Testament. Um and it was never none of those prophecies earlier. And so the prophets in the Old Testament were careful to say the same thing. So this is our ultimate authority. The scripture Any questions about that? So um we uh what have I done here? I've gone backwards. I don't want to go back. We go forward Um Luke sixteent. Um so here's another example in the scripture. Um and so see if you can tell what uh what what I'm What uh event we're talking about here. Uh verse twenty seven, he answered, Then I beg you, fathers, send Lazarus to my father's house, for I have five brothers. Let him warm them so that they will not also come to me Abraham's bosom to heaven, and the uh the rich man goes to Hades and he's in torment, and he he talks to Abraham who's long dead at this point. And he asks Abraham to send Lazarus to his brothers. So send Lazarus to my father's house and talk to my brothers. And Abraham replied, they have Moses and the prophets Let them listen to them. No, Father No, Father Abraham, he said, but if someone from the dead goes to them, they will repent. He, Abraham, said to him If they do not listen to Moses and the prophets, they will not be convinced, even if someone rises from the dead. So What's Abraham saying there? That the scripture is authoritative enough that it's more sure even than if somebody came from the dead and said something to you Um it's it's that authoritative. Um but also notice that this is just this very interesting s uh section of scripture. Th this is of course before uh this is during Jesus' earthly ministry. So it's before he he died and rose from the dead. And so when Jesus rose from the dead, did all the Jews immediately repent? No, they did not. So somebody did come from the dead, and Abraham was right about this. If they're not listening to uh to Moses and the prophets who were pointing forward to Christ Then even when Christ comes back from the dead, they're not going to repent. And they didn't. History tells us that they did not. All right. Um any questions about that? Laying the foundation? Yes. So good question. Uh the and the s the simple answer is I don't know. Um I don't know. There's a couple of uh instances where Where uh Saul talks to Samuel after Samuel has died. Um there's this one Um, but, you know, I I I don't know. So there's uh so uh s souls that die apart from Christ go to Hades And in Revelation we see that death and Hades are thrown into the lake of fire. So those who die apart from Christ still come back for this great white throne judgment to be thrown into the lake So Hades is someplace where they stay to be tormented before the ultimate torment in the lake of fire. And we have these couple of cases where some Somebody in this case, somebody from Hades is talking to somebody from A Abraham is with with the Lord. Um so it it's not clear to me um that these may be just one offs. Yeah. So there's nothing in scripture about talking to Saint Peter Peter. So this this the scripture describes um Hades as a place where those who die apart from Christ go and then being being r resurrected for the great white throne judgment, final judgment to be thrown into the lake of fire after The scripture tells us that those who die in Christ are with him that day. So the thief on the cross, for example, he he died. He committed it he was saved there on the cross, and Jesus himself told that man, Today you will be with me in paradise. So in Christ you die paradise Yeah. Yes, Gloria. Yeah. So uh we don't know for sure. I mean he um in First Corinthians chapter fifteen. And Paul talks about the fact that Jesus appeared to the twelve and he appeared to five hundred people at one time, and then last of all appeared to Paul, uh, but of those 500 people, were all 500 saved? The scripture doesn't say that all 500 people that saw him saved, but uh on what basis are we saved? We're saved by grace through faith. W and and everybody is dead in their sins. person, um there is no amount amount of evidence that will evidence somebody into the kingdom. And so even seeing somebody come back from the dead will not automatically make somebody Believe, repent and believe. It takes regeneration of the Holy Spirit, it takes uh grace, salvation by grace through faith, and that does not automatically come because of a big And so uh one of the things that I want to make sure everybody's clear on is uh this this the broad topic here we're talking about is apologetics, and when you engage in conversation and apologetic conversation conversation, evangelistic conversation with your unbelieving friends and coworkers and neighbors, uh family members. Um you you can't argue somebody into the kingdom. It it it's not a matter of just piling up a big bunch of evidence. It's good to have evidence. It's good to have uh clear c kind of reasoning. Like when somebody says, What if somebody moved the body? Well i the the best reply to that is, well, all all of those eyewitnesses, all these apostles, um, except for John were martyred. They went to their death and none of them recanted. Uh well people will die for something that's a lie, but they won't die for something So if the apostles deliberately stole the body, then they would know that Jesus didn't really rise from the dead. And under torture, nobody will be tortured for such a something that they know is not right. They'll be tortured for something that they think maybe mistakenly think is right, but not something that they know is just a big hoax. And all of them were tortured to death. And so that's the real reasoned answer to What if they move the body? It doesn't that doesn't make any sense at all. But that argument doesn't automatically make every Jewish person fall down and r at the feet of Christ and repent, right? It it's a it's a good reasonable response to that that question, but having a good reasonable response to every question that an unbeliever has will not automatically make him repent and So i i so having all the answers is not the um um the the the the get out of jail free card for the unbeliever. It requires the uh the intervention of the Holy Spirit, and we, by God's grace, uh And it's still a mystery why he allows us to participate in that process. But he does. And in fact he commands us to participate in that process to share the gospel, um, even though he doesn't need us God doesn't need us to save anyone. He allows us to participate in that process. And that's a great privilege, really. Okay. Yes. Well it's like this passage of scripture says. It's like the scripture says if they don't believe Moses and the prophets, they're not going to believe even if they see a person come back from the dead. That's what the scripture says. And so we shouldn't be surprised that that in real in fact in real life happened. Yeah, good point. Uh Richard, go ahead. Yeah. He called it the sign of Jonah. Um yeah. you're gonna get. And and yes, it did not change everybody's mind. All right, good questions. Any any others? All right. Um so then the third thing, uh make sure what we think is grounded in and corrected by the Word of God. Is our thinking in line with Scripture? Uh open your Bibles to Colossians chapter two. Colossians Colossians chapter two starting in verse two, my purpose is that they may be encouraged in heart and united in love, so that they may have the full riches of I tell you this so that no one may deceive you with fine sounding arguments. So a really smart person comes along with really smart sounding arguments. arguments that don't include Christ. What is Paul saying about those kind of arguments here? Well all all the uh all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge are hidden in Christ. If somebody's giving you a fancy sounding argument And so Paul's warning them. Uh see to it that no one takes you captive through hollow and deceptive philosophy which depends on human tradition and the basic principles of this world rather than on Christ. Keep your eyes focused on Christ. Keep your thoughts anchored in Christ. As you and gay. And no matter how fancy the arguments are, no matter how smart the person is that you're talking to, he doesn't have if he doesn't have Christ, he doesn't have the treasures of of wisdom and knowledge and and you do. You do have the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. No matter how many PhDs he has, you're on a much firmer foundation than he is when you discuss matters about the world that God made and the Okay. Any questions about that? So we must keep in mind that all wisdom and knowledge is grounded in Christ and His Word as we're engaged So as we're engaging with this idea of the problem of evil, all the wisdom, all the knowledge is grounded in Christ and His Word. as we as we work through this very difficult issue of the problem of evil. Yes. Yeah. So i don't n don't ever give up the word of God just because they don't believe it. Keep keep giving answers from the word Now there could be a time when you're going to step through reasons why um uh uh kind of uh uh philosophical reasons or um intellectual reasons why the scriptures are reliable. uh the great lengths that the Jewish scribes went through to copy every letter perfectly. Uh you could s we you can bring up things like the Dead Sea Scrolls and the Isaiah scroll that was found. Um in one i it was written in one fifty BC or so and um and the earliest copy before that that we had of Isaiah was So the Jewish scribes were so meticulous that they didn't make mistakes. So there's not Nothing lost. Um you can bring up arguments like that. Now n none of those arguments is ultimately going to be, you know, argue the person into into the kingdom of heaven. But there are good reasons to trust the reliability of the Bible. There's lots of archaeology. There's little details in the Bible about um things that are that seem to be incidental The Hittite Empire, for example. And if you read a book written in the eighteen hundreds, there are many secular scholars who poo-poo the notion of the Hittite They had never dug up anything about the Hittite Empire. Well now we've got all kinds of archaeology that confirms everything in the Bible about the Hittite Empire. Um so there's lots of evidences that the Bible is reliable. From outside the Bible. But that's not the main point. You can make all those kind of arguments. You can go down a rabbit trail, in other words, uh arguing about the reliability of the Bible. But ultimately, we will stand on the word of God. Um even if the unbeliever tries tries to f and he will, he'll try to force the argument onto some other ground. Don't ever let that happen. Yes, Bob. Yeah, for a materialist, for somebody that's a a materialist, they don't believe in the spiritual realm. They don't believe in anything other than um things in the physical realm. So they can they will never accept miracles, for example, because miracles are not something in the in the physical realm or don't come from the physical realm. Yeah. So uh from a certain perspective, you you're not trying to uh change his mind so much as put a rock in his shoe. You're trying to put a rock in his shoe so that as he's walking down the road something's bothering him, right? And it gives the s the whole the Holy Spirit takes advantage of that the the f it uses the the conversation that you had with that person that bothers them um because they don't understand what you're saying and they're it's annoying that you keep telling them that uh that uh Christ is Lord and that they uh are dead in their sins and that they need salvation. I don't need salvation. I'm a g But something about that bothers them, the the rock and the shoe, that uh the Holy Spirit takes advantage of. Now that whole situation is uh under the sovereignty of God and the sovereignty of his Holy Spirit using you, using me, using us. in the process of bringing a sinner to repentance and salvation. But make no mistake, it's not my work, it's not my deal. This is not my show. This is the Holy Spirit's show when a sinner comes to repentance. But for reasons that are a mystery, he allows us to participate in that Process. And our participation in that process is conversations with unbelievers. And out of obedience to Christ, we have these conversations. Yeah, Richard. Yeah, so um i it is. And so when we when we talk about worldviews and presuppositions, um there's only one worldview and one set of presuppositions that are That's the biblical presupposition that God is, He's He is not silent, and the fact that we are all dead in our sins, and the fact that Christ died uh for the salvation of of his chosen. Those are all true things. And if somebody has a worldview that's different from that, then that worldview will be at odds with reality. And one of the the tools of apologetics is to listen to the unbeliever, listen carefully about what he believes. uh assess and diagnose where those beliefs are contrary to what the Bible reveals to be reality. And and pressing that um that discord, the discord between reality and what the unbeliever believes. And showing them how their their um their beliefs lead to something absurd. argumentum ad absurdum um is the technique. So there are powerful techniques of of arguing, and they can be dangerous in the wrong way. hand. silly beliefs. If that's our attitude, that's not going to be as effective as I feel empathy and pity for this poor unbeliever who's trapped in this satanic lie and I want to help liberate that unbeliever from the prison that he's in. If that's the attitude that I go out and use kind of These techniques to show how his beliefs are contrary to reality, and I do it with gentleness and respect, and I do it with love, then the the Holy Spirit can use that. If if I start to feel that I'm the smartest person in the room and and I'm just gonna crush this uh this po this unbeliever with my giant brain Um that's not something that's not going to be useful to the Holy Spirit. Yeah. Excellent. Perfect. That's the perfect scripture for what we were just talking about. An excellent passage. Thank you, Gloria. Okay, so and the fourth thing is to apply God's word to every area of life. So not just when we think about heaven and hell or sin and salvation, or prayer and evangelism, but also in the science lab. You're doing science in God's world. That God created. On the softball field, at the movie theater, in the voting booth, at the grocery store. The Bible touches on every area of life. It's not just um a book about uh um worship. Although it is. Of course it's a book about worship. It's a book about God. He reveals who he is and that he's worthy of worship. But it's not just that. It touches on every area of life. It's applicable to every area of life. And we should be drinking in God's word. It should be permeating our entire being. And we should be looking at the world and everything that we do and everything that we say. see in it through the lens of Scripture. Applying God's word to every area of life. Okay. So that how to think like a Christian. So I'll just give you a couple quotes. I'll leave this up here for a minute. This is uh C. S. Lewis said this. I believe in Christianity as I believe that the sun has risen. Not only because I see it, but because by it I see everything else. So he's a really smart guy with lots of PhDs. Um but he's also uh uh a follower of Christ, and so that's how he saw the world. I'll give you one more. Who knows who Flannery O'Connor is. Okay. So uh I see from the standpoint of Chris Christian Orthodoxy. This means that for me, the meaning of life is centered in our redemption by Christ and what I see in the world, I see in its relation to the world. This is what it means to think like a Christian, to see the world in light of Christ's redemption, to see everything in light of Christ. See everything through the lens of Scripture. So two famous writers who became famous because they're good writers have written this about how they this is how they express this concept that we're talking about talking about of thinking like a Christian. So uh I just want to lay this foundation. Make sure that as we approach anything in life life, including apologetics, including this problem of evil, that the foundation for everything that we do is that we're thinking like a Christian, thinking like somebody who ha has been redeemed by Christ and seeing everything in the world through this central fact of our lives that we've been redeemed by Christ. Okay. Spiritual warfare. To live the Christian life is to be engaged in spiritual warfare. 2 Corinthians 10. Open your Bibles, turn your Bibles to 2 Corinthians chapter 10. 2 Corinthians chapter 10, starting in verse 3. So we use part of this passage for one of our ministries here at the church. Uh second Corinthians chapter ten, starting verse three. For though we walk in the flesh, we do not war according to the flesh. For the weapons of our warfare are not of the flesh, but divinely powerful for the destruction. of fortresses. We are destroying speculations and every lofty thing raised up against the knowledge of God, and we are taking every thought captive to the obedience of Christ. So this is what Paul's saying. This is how we approach our interactions with unbelievers that uh it's a spiritual world. warfare. And what we're going to talk here about uh in what way it's spiritual warfare. But let me just give you a few paragraphs from John MacArthur. So this is John MacArthur's commentary on the section So uh to successfully fight the spiritual war requires weapons from the heavenly arsenal. Only those divinely powerful weapons are suited for the destruction of the enemy's fortresses That term would convey to the New Testament reader the thought of a formidable stronghold. Fortresses was also used in extra The word was also used, that same Greek word used to refer to a tomb, to a fortress, a prison, a tomb. Fleshly weapons cannot successfully assault the formidable strongholds in which sinners have entrenched themselves. Such impotent weapons cannot bring about the destruction of those fortresses which Paul defines specifically as speculations. A general word referring to any and all human or demonic thoughts, opinions, reasonings, philosophies, theories, psychologies, perspectives, viewpoints, and religion. So it this is thought warfare. This is warfare of the mind to destroy the the these These bad thoughts that have imprisoned the unbeliever. The fortresses in view here are not demons but ideologies. So it's not the spiritual warfare that this passage is talking about is not warfare against demons. It's it's clearly ideologies and Paul's he has a phrase in there to make sure we're that we're clear about that. The forces of you here are not demons but ideologies. We are not called to convert demons, but sinners Uh the battle is rather with the false ideologies men and demons propagate so that the world believes them. Doom souls are inside their fortresses of ideas. which become their prisons and eventually their tombs, unless they are delivered from them by belief in the truth. He goes on to say Paul further defined sinner strongholds of ideas as every lofty thing that has any unbiblical There is the key. Spiritual warfare is a battle for the minds of people who are captive to lies that are exalted in opposition. In first Corinthians three twenty he called them the useless reasonings of the worldly wise. All the anti biblical ideologies, false religions, and pseudo gospels spawned by Satan. The objective of our warfare is to change how people think, taking every thought captive they have and making it no longer captive to a damning ideology, but captive to the obedience of Christ. To do so, the proper weapon is necessary. To assault and throw down the fortresses of false religions, opinions, beliefs, and philosophies, only one weapon will suffice, the truth. Only one thing exposes and corrects lies Thus the only offensive weapon in the Christian soldier's armor is the sword of the spirit, which is the word of God. Assaulting the proud fortresses of the ideas that sinners erect against the truth. This Greek word which I won't try to pronounce, taken captive, literally means to take captive with a spear. Using God's truth, believers smack That spiritual warfare that Paul's talking about in Second Corinthians chapter 10. It's warfare of the mind. It's smashing down these fortresses which are prisons that the unbeliever is trapped in. So the idea is that we care about people that are trapped in these prisons. These are our friends, our coworkers, our Our family members, our neighbors, and they're trapped in these prisons and Paul's saying we need to engage in spiritual warfare. We need to go in there and smash down the fortress that's that's captured and imprisoned our friends, our neighbors, our co-workers, and we lead them out of that prison and to Christ, to obedience to Christ. So from their prison to freedom in Christ. That's the spiritual warfare that we're we're having to vision. And that should be the object of apologetics, of apologetics and evangelicals. Evangelism outreach to our unbelieving neighbors. They're trapped. They're trapped in this fortress, and we've got to knock down the walls and go get them. Okay. Everybody see that? Spiritual warfare. So if you are a follower of Christ, you are engaged in this this spiritual warfare. You're a soldier in Christ's army, and you are commanded to take part in this battle, this spiritual battle. Okay. Uh and we're always to be ready. To live the Christian life is to be ready to defend and proclaim the gospel which is our hope. So turn back to First Peter chapter three. First Peter chapter 3. So we're engaged in spiritual warfare and we're supposed to always be ready. So 1 Peter chapter 3, starting in verse 13, who is there to harm you if you prove zealous for what is good So if you're engaged in this battle, who can hurt you? But even if you should suffer for the sake of righteousness, you are blessed. And do not fear their intimidation, and do not be troubled. But sanctify Christ as Lord in your hearts, always being ready to make a defense to everyone who asks you to give an account for the hope that is in you, yet with gentleness and reverence, and keep a good conscience so that in the thing in which you are sla So I want to drill down on a couple things here. Uh so what's the what's the precursor? What's the uh what's the foundation, what's the launching point for uh being ready to give a defense. It it's it's obvious that you've got to go y you must go to seminary. It's obvious that you must that you must read a giant stack of books about a poly No. So there's nothing wrong with going to seminaries. Seminary is great. There's nothing wrong with reading books. Reading books is great. But what does the scripture tell us is the preparation for going out and being ready to uh to What does it say? Sanctify Christ as Lord in your hearts. That's the preparation. That's the primary preparation that you need. Now, it could be that seminary can help you do that. It could be that reading a big stack of books can help you But the real power to be able to make a defense, an effective defense for the hope that is in you, is to sanctify Christ in your heart as Lord in your heart. That's what it says. And then you're supposed to always be ready to make a defense to everyone who asks you to give an account for the hope that is in you. So you're ready to talk about this hope that you have, the hope of in the gospel. of Jesus Christ. But also you're supposed to do it with gent Why do you think that's in there? Yet with gentleness and reverence. How well does the Lord know us? He knows us better than we know ourselves And so what what's the temptation when you have when you have the truth and somebody else doesn't and you know it, uh what's the what's the temptation Beat beat the person over the head. Beat him about the head and shoulders with that truth until he's a bloody mess. That's what I want to do. I want to beat him down. Uh uh but what does the scripture warn? We get we need to do this with gentle sense and reverence. Why? Because uh is it us that's arguing the person No, it's not. It's the Holy Spirit who's using our interaction to be able to uh to to go in there and um and regenerate a a lost soul so that the soul can be saved by grace through faith. Yes. Right. So i well so yes, this particular uh uh passage is talking about being ready and somebody asking Uh now we are also told to go and make disciples of all nations. Uh so that's not waiting for somebody to ask in that passage uh in the Great Commission. But this particular passage, yes, says be ready for somebody that asks. Uh and and always be ready. Uh yeah, that's good. Uh let me just give you a few uh we're almost out of time. I have to go fast because um I really like once again I I just uh John MacArthur's commentary on this particular passage is When believers sanctify Christ as Lord in their hearts, they affirm their submission to his control, instruction, and guidance. So whose power are we going out in? We're going out in the power of Christ, not not my own power, uh under his control, instruction, and guidance through the Holy Spirit. In so doing they also declare and submit to God's sovereign majesty and demonstrate that they fear only him. Sanctify means to set apart or consecrate, but in this context connotes giving the primary place of adoration. They recognize his perfection, magnify his glory, extol his preeminence, and submit themselves. themselves to his will, with the understanding that sometimes that submission includes suffering. This honoring of Christ as Lord is not external, but in the heart of true worshipers, even when they must face unjust suffering. That submission to and trusting the perfect purposes of the sovereign Lord yields courage, boldness, and fortitude to triumph through the most adverse situations. Christians must be ready to make a defense of the faith. The Greek term uh defense, apologia is the one we get the term apologetics from. Uh it often means a formal defense in a judicial courtroom, but Paul also used the word to denote ability to answer those who questioned him. Always indicates believers' need for constant preparedness and readiness to respond, whether in a formal courtroom or informally. Account is logos, word, or message, and calls saints to be able to at the time someone asks, present tense, to give the right words in response to the questions. about the gospel. The gospel is identified as the hope that is in believers. Hope is synonymous with the Christian faith because the motive for believers embracing Jesus Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior is their anticipation of escaping hell and entering eternal glory. Thus hope becomes the focal point of any rational explanation believers should be able to provide regarding their salvation. So this is going to become important when we dive into the problem of evil because when the problem of evil comes up, it can come up in a lot of different circumstances. But one of the circumstances it comes up in is something really horrible has happened. And the unbeliever wants you to wants to know, look at this horrible thing that just happened, this school shooting or this tsunami. uh all these people are dead, it's horrible. What do you have to say, Christian? Wha w what where's your God now? Um something horrible has happened. Why do you have hope? So So that it will come up in circumstances like that, and we need to be ready to give a reason for why we have hope in light of the horrible things that we see all happening all the time. And so that's what this scripture is really getting at. So we have uh a defense of the faith. Um the term arose er early in uh in Christianity in the uh second century. Um and so what are we defending? When we talk about apologetics and defending the faith, what are we defending? We're defending the Christian worldview, our hope and How do we defend it? We defend it through the systematic use of reason, but the use of reason has to be guided and directed by Scripture through the power of the Holy Spirit because why? The fall uh the the fall is comprehensive. The fall affects the mind will and affection So my reason uh for a fallen person, the reason is also fallen. And so just reason by itself is not enough. It has to be reason that's been sanctified. Reason that's been um pulled back from the effects of the fall by salvation in Christ, by sanctification by the Holy Spirit and by His Word, your reason can be rep Prepared, but uh reason is affected by the fall. Uh so it has to be reason guided by and directed by the scriptures and the power of the Holy Spirit. And we're defending it of course by because of the the the the scriptural necessity to always be ready to make a defense. That's why we So the problem of evil. So we've gotten an hour and ten minutes into an hour and fifteen minute class, and now we're gonna get to the problem of evil So uh but that's what we're gonna be doing from now on really, uh is talking about the problem of evil. So the problem of evil of course is much worse for the unbeliever than for the Man and to the rest of creation because Adam had been given dominion. Um and the discussion of the problem of evil is actually a good opportunity to engage our secular friends, relatives, co-workers, neighbors in spiritual conversation because uh the news is full of bad news. Bad news sells, right? Uh you know, everybody will be talking about the school shooting or the earthquake or the um the you know the the child is uh labor s uh smuggling ring. Everybody's talking about these things and gives you an opportunity to say uh if and especially if they ask, well where's God and all this Um so here's how the objection is usually stated. If God is all loving and God is all powerful, he's just and loving and he's powerful, then i why is there evil in the world? If he's all loving he will want to get rid of the Um these three propositions are are uh referred to as the inconsistent triad and uh apologetics and how Though the unbeliever probably doesn't realize it, his worldview as a whole, and so we should always start a conversations about this when if you're engaged in a conversation. conversation like this um with some questions to find out what the unbeliever actually believes. What is evil and where does it come from? What is good and where does it come from? Uh how do you distinguish between So uh a typical unbeliever, somebody that has a secular humanist worldview, has absolutely no basis to account How do how does he if sa if he comes to me as a believer and says, Well why did this evil thing happen, the first thing I will typically ask is Well w on what basis do you say that that's evil, right? So uh you know, you'll you'll hear about uh Jeffrey Dahmer, he killed and ate people. Um And so he says, Well that's evil and why why does your God allow that? And I say, On what basis? How do you know that that's evil? How does he know? How does the unbeliever know that that's what's his standard for good and evil? Where does that come from? How does What does he know? And and he may say something like, well everybody knows. And that's true. But that's true, but he doesn't understand why that's true and why that's a big problem for him Why does everybody know? Um and we're gonna go into uh a lot more about this later. Um I just want to introduce you to it. So the Bible has answers of course for all those questions. Um where does evil come from? Uh evil is the it's is uh the absence of good not a thing in itself. Uh so uh uh good is not contingent on evil. Evil is contingent on good. There has to be a standard of good that something deviates from to be able to identify evil. Um So evil evil requires that there be a standard of good from which it departs. Good does not require evil. So in heaven there will be no evil. So you can have good without evil, but you can't evil have evil without Um and where did it come from? The the universe was created perfectly good, there was no evil in it, and then Adam and Evil What is good and where does it come from? God is good. God is the source of everything good. To do good in human context is to obey God. So how do you distinguish between good and evil? Evil is the absence of good, not a thing in itself. So if good is obedience to God, then evil is the absence of obedience to God or disobedience to God. Uh how do we know what God has commanded us to do so we know what to obey and what uh what what obedience and disobedience looks like? We study his word. He's revealed in his word what is good and what is evil what we've been commanded to do, and obedience is good and disobedience is the Bible has answers to those questions, but the unbeliever, uh press him. See what he comes up with. What how does he know that something's wrong? How does he know that something is wrong. By what standard is something is anything right or wrong and and um and press 'em gently and in love and And eventually you'll see, you will see, and hopefully you can make him see, that in his belief system he he really doesn't have any basis to determine what is good and what is evil. Evil. Why? Because he was created by God in the image of God and he's given a conscience and by uh general revelation and by um general grace uh uh he he he knows what's right and wrong. But he he he can't account for that within his worldview without without Okay. So uh let me just um I'm gonna skip to the end here. Um okay. Um any questions about the foundation that we're laying to be able to discuss the problem of evil. Alright, we're going to do chapter one next week. So if you have the book, you can read chapter one. I'm going to see about trying to get um an electronic copy of chapter one posted to the website So if you didn't get it, you can at least look at chapter one ahead of time in uh electronics. Okay. All right. Let me uh let me close this with prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for our time together, our op to look at your word and what you say about yourself and about your word and help us Lord to think about these things and to think like a Christian, to think like people who have been redeemed by Christ. And to see everything in the world through the lens of your scripture and through the through the lens of our redemption in Christ. We thank you, Lord, for the opportunity we have right now to worship you in corporate worship. The things that we say and the things that we do and the songs that we sing will be glorifying to you. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.