Let's uh let's let's get started with a word of prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for this day and the opportunity we have to worship you together. We thank you for your sovereign control over every minute of history. We thank you for your sovereignty over all of your created universe. We thank you, Lord, for your word. We thank you for revealing who you are in your word and for revealing your great plan of redemption across all of history. We thank you, Lord, for the opportunity to study your word here together. We pray that you would open our hearts and minds and through your Holy Spirit you would You would enable us to be able to understand what we should learn today from your word and that we would also be able to apply your word to our lives and that we would live every day for Christ. We thank you, Lord, for loving us. We thank you for adopting us as children into your family. And we thank you for the opportunities you give us to engage with people around us, with those who are in living in darkness, our friends and family members and neighbors and co-workers who do not yet know Christ Jesus. We pray that you would equip us, Lord, through your Holy Spirit, so that we would have the right words to say. We thank you for the opportunity to partner with the Holy Spirit in your work of redemption. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, so we're on part eight, and we're in chapter six in the book. So we did the first half of chapter six last time. Uh we're doing the second half of chapter six this time. And uh and then next time we'll the next two weeks after this we'll be doing chapter seven about the grand hero of history who is Christ Jesus Today we're going to be taking a look at uh we're going to be using kind of a transition from the last thing that we learned last week uh about the fall, about the necessity of the fall. We're going to start with that this week and then we're going to get into uh a study, a little study of the Exodus and how it prefigures this the greater glory that God is displaying throughout all of uh history but how the story of the Exodus really points forward to Christ. We look we look at the the typological significance of the Exodus. What what is especially the Passover of course, what does that point forward to? Um and how the Exodus um tells us about God's supreme glory and a New Testament passage that is a commentary on that Old Testament story. So a lot of times in the New Testament there are um amplifications and explanations of w things that happened in the Old Testament, but And this is one of those examples, and this is a really w one of the clearer examples of the New Testament explaining the Old Testament. So Romans chapter 9, we'll take a look at that But first we're going to take a look back at what we did last time. So this was this chapter is kind of an explanation of what this Greater Glory Theodicy is from the author And we mentioned all the way back in chapter two that it's kind of a subset of the greater good defense. So the greater good defense in theodicy is that everything that happens Even the bad things that happen are for some greater good. And the biggest difference in the this greater glory theodicy that we're studying here with this book is that all of these things are really primarily for God's greater glory. Now they often are also for our good. And if we really understand what is good for us, what's good for us is God's glory And so if God is glorified, then ultimately that's good for us. Even in situations where the world would look at it from the outside and say that's terrible. One of the examples that we've used in the book is Johnny Erickson Tataff. And from the world's perspective to be a Paraplegic is all bad. There's nothing good about that. But if you read the things that Johnny Erickson taught her writes, she considers it to have been for her good and God's glory that she is uh uh she ha she suffered that accident and became uh crippled uh in the world's eyes. Um but if you're looking at from uh from heaven's perspective, from a eternal perspective then these things that are that that seem to be bad from a worldly perspective, um if God has brought those circumstances about in the life of a believer, they are f actually for our good and his glory, because his glory is really what's for our good. Okay, so that's the Greater Glory of Theodicy, and that we started to study that in the first half of chapter six last time. There were four three premises that lead to a conclusion. The fourth is a conclusion. And we're gonna I'm gonna briefly go back so that everybody remembers this, but There were three premises. God's ultimate purpose in freely creating the world is to magnify his glory. God's glory is magnified in the atoning work of Christ, and redemption is would be unnecessary unless there was a fall into sin So no fall into sin, no n necessity for redemption in Christ. Therefore the fall of humanity is necessary to God's ultimate purpose in creating the world to magnify his glory. And so that's what we went through last time. And we saw that God's purpose, his ultimate purpose, is to display his glory throughout the universe. And he does this in various ways, uh, but he has chosen to give his creatures a glimpse of it, particularly the creatures that are created in his image. That's us. And so the Westminster Shorter Catechism, the fur very first question is what's the chief end of man? Um and the answer is man's chief end is to glorify God and to enjoy him forever. That's the purpose for which we were put on this earth. And so Humans reside in a unique position by which we behold this greater glory. It's on display for every every created thing. for angels and animals and everybody else, but we're in a unique position as image bearers to behold his glory. And of course, as we said, the greatest glory is uh is in the redemptive work of Christ, and that redemptive work is worked out on us. uh uh on and in us. Um and so there's a very interesting passage of scripture we took a brief look at last time, first Peter chapter one, about how gr angels longed to fully grasp this glorious work of uh Um and then the Supreme Work of course uh is in Christ i is in the redemption in Christ, but that redemption is not only for human beings, but for all of creation, to restore the entirety of the fallen world, Romans 8 tells us. God's plan to save a chosen people is to the praise of His glorious grace. And it's things in heaven and things on earth are are being restored, all things in Christ. Um and so the entire story of redemption, um his incarnation, his perfect life, his trial, crucifixion, burial, resurrection, uh, eventual return to vanquish remaining foes. and to set up his eternal kingdom, all of that is to his glory and for the restoration of all of creation. Um and so we talked about the fact that of course this is the one and only plan. There's no backup plan, there's no alternate plan, there's no other way. There's only one name, Acts chapter 4. There's one mediator, 1 Timothy chapter 2, there's one high priest, Hebrews chapter 9. There's only one. And he, that plan of redemption is the supreme demonstration of God's glory. And then of course that redemption would be unnecessary without the fall. So our uh the our original parents, uh Adam and Eve, um Succumb to sin and temptation. Uh that led to the curse God placed on creation, uh the curse on people to die. Uh and um to inherit a sin nature uh ever since then and a curse on all of creation as well. Um and the this has of course then led to the opportunity for him to magnify his glory. And so an and to be able to demonstrate the the supreme example of his glory in Christ. Okay. Any questions about what we talked about last time? Alright, so this time we're going to do the second half of chapter 6. And so it starts on page 113. Uh so if you're following along the book we're at we're on up to page one thirteen. Um and so the conclusion uh as we started into at the end of last week is certain the fall of Adam and Eve was necessary to God um maximizing his his glory. However, there's an important philosophical distinction, uh it's a true distinction, that it's not an event that occurred by an intrinsic or absolute kind of necessity. In other words, something that forced God's hand. There is nothing that forces God's hand. That it has to be done and there's nothing God could do about it. Um that would suggest that God was somehow obligated to make a world that would become corrupted. And that's not so. He had no obligation. He had no obligation to create at all. He was under no obligation to make a per uh a particular way. He was free to act according to his sovereign pleasure. Psalm 1153. Once God decided to create the world, in fact, it would be good. It would be very good Uh Genesis one thirty-one. Each day it is good, it is good, it is good. At the very end, it is very good. Uh that's the only kind of world that a uh good, perfectly good creator could make is a very good world. So God is perfect goodness and therefore he could not establish the world in an initial state of corruption. However, that does not mean that he would never create a world that would become corrupted, because that's exactly what he did. Nor does it mean that he is morally culpable for Adam's sin. So God decreed the fall to take place for a supremely good and wise purpose, but he did not directly cause Adam to sin. That's an important distinction. There is mystery in how Adam and Eve, created in a state of moral perfection, could fall from that state. There is mystery there. Um, how can that be? How can God create this very good world and put people in it that didn't have an already fallen sin nature, and then they end up falling? There's some mystery there uh because it's outside of our experience. We're th this is not how we are. We are all born with a sin nature. We don't know what it's like to be born without a sin nature. Nobody does. Nobody since Adam and Eve has known what that's like Right. So i it's outside of our of the experience of any human being that's lived since Adam and Eve. And so there's some mystery there about how well how did that happen. Um nonetheless, it was all part of God's plan. Let me stop right there and see. if anybody has any questions. Because it's not easy to wrap your mind around. Yes, and correct. That's right. That's a good point. Everybody that's ever been born by the natural biological process has been born with us in nature because Adam and Eve were not born by the natural biological process. Yeah. Do they have do they have belly buttons um and and and how um how old would you say they were if you saw them? The day they were created. If you if you had been there and you saw Adam and Eve standing there the day they were created, how old would you have said they were? Um Right. Yeah, so yeah, so everything in God's plan was ordained from the foundation of the world. So uh in other words, i it um i it's easy for us to think of the f Things like the fall taking God by surprise. Nothing that happens takes God by surprise. Right. Yes. Yep. Very very good. Oh you never mind. Oh did we uh oh. Oh I'm s I apologize, I didn't realize that. Um w was it up before and then it went out or was it okay. Okay. Yeah. Okay. So an any other questions while he's doing that? While he's getting the screen back. Does anybody have any questions so far? Yes, Bob. Correct. That's right. Yeah. So Adam and Eve fell. And once they fell they were cursed and everybody that's born from them was born with a sin nature. So Cain and Abel and all the others that that they gave that Eve gave birth to were born with a sin nature and everybody else. the rest of the good question. So are are we good over here? Excellent. Thanks, Joel. So this Greater Glory Theodicy argues that once God decided to make a world that would supremely magnify his glory, then no other world is possible. It had to include this fall and redemption once he created a gor uh decided to create a world that would be the one that supremely magnified his glory. Because that happens in Christ, and there's no need for redemption in Christ if there's not a fall. No other scenario could achieve that glory-maximizing goal, and that is what makes the fall necessary. All right, so let's take a look at Exodus. So if you open your Bibles to the beginning of the book of Exodus, we're going to be kind of skimming through the first 14 chapters of Exodus. Uh we don't have time to to read and exposite 14 chapters of the Bible uh during this class, but we're going to be skimming across the narrative. And so I think most of you are familiar with the story and the Exodus, but That narrative of Moses in the Exodus is a microcosm. It's a reflection of the grander storyline of Scripture. It has the these big motifs of creation, sin, bondage, divine rulership, uh presence, glory, judgment, mercy, all of these things are present in the Exodus story. Including, of course, deliverance and the covenant promises that are made on the on the end of that at Mount Sinai, because the exodus leads to Mount Sinai. And these themes help illuminate the Greater Glory Theodicy that we're going to look at. So it's an important story to be able to explain this Greater Glory Theodicy. So if you remember back to the chapter before this one that Lorfe taught, there Freytag's pyramid and this idea of storytelling. It starts with an exposition and this exposition of the story actually starts at the end of Genesis. So at the end of Genesis, remember Genesis 37 to 50 is the story of Joseph, and Joseph goes to Egypt. He becomes the prime minister of Egypt, and eventually uh Jacob and all of his descendants come down to Egypt. And so how many people did they have? Seventy. They had seventy people. There were seventy of them in total when they first got to Egypt, the whole family was down there. Seventy of them. And they Joseph settled them in the best of the land, the land of Goshen Um and that is the the end of the the book of Genesis. Uh the pe and it says the uh at the beginning of Exodus, the people of Israel were fruitful and increased greatly, they multiplied and grew exceedingly strong So that the land was filled with them. And so they were fruitful and multiplied from that 70 until there were millions of them. But these the favorable conditions didn't last long Uh you know the story, uh a new pharaoh comes along, um and this is the rising action in Fraytek's pyramid, uh a new ruler of Egypt didn't know Joseph He feels threatened by this burgeoning group of uh of foreigners who are living in his land. Um and in Exodus chapter one, he enslaves these these foreigners. And then he orders that newly born boys be slaughtered, also in Exodus chapter one Verses 12 and 15 and 16 talk about that. And then, of course, this one baby is saved, this baby Moses, preserved from death in Exodus chapter 2. And he is divinely destined to be his countryman's redeemer. Um God has chosen him to redeem his people. Of course, in the middle of the story, he has to flee after he kills one of Israel's taskmasters. You can divide up Moses' life into three 40-year segments. Moses lived to be 120 years old Forty years he lived in the palace in Egypt as a prince of Egypt. Forty years he lived in the wilderness as a shepherd and um in the land of Midian and and he he gets married, um and at the age of eighty, God calls him back to lead his people out of Egypt. And for then for 40 years he leads the people. So 40 years and 40 years and 40 years of Moses' life. So he wasn't ready for leadership until the age of 80. Uh he need he needed to be trained until the age of eighty before he was ready to lead God's people. Um okay. Uh so God compels Moses to return to Egypt and confront Pharaoh and demand that he release God's people. That's Exodus chapter five. Um but And then of course we get the story that of Pharaoh's heart being repeatedly hardened, and sometimes it says Pharaoh hardened his heart, and sometimes it says God hardened Pharaoh's heart. Both happen. Uh both are listed in the text, and we go through the plagues. And then the story reaches its climax when Pharaoh's heart is hardened one last time in Exodus chapter 14. So his heart keeps being hardened through ten plagues. Um and even after he leaves l lets them go, there's one less h one last hardening and he he goes after him with his whole force of chariots. So deadly retribution is at hand. The Israelites are terrified. Here comes all the chariots of Egypt after them. And then Moses in, this is Exodus chapter 14, verses 13 and 14, Moses exhorts the people, fear not. Stand firm and see the salvation of the Lord, which he will work for you today. For the Egyptians whom you see today you shall never see again. The Lord will fight for you And you have only to be silent. Shut up and watch what the Lord's about to do is what Moses says. He says it in fancy words. He's a well-educated man, but essentially he's saying, just just Shut up and stand over there and watch what the Lord is about to do. And so Yahweh miraculously parts the waters for the Israelites. escape. And then the following accident occurs immediately after that. He brings abject confusion to the Egyptians. They go into the water and he kills every last one of them. Um they're all destroyed. The uh as Moses had said, the Egyptians that you see here today you shall never see again. Um and so God fought for them And he's and he did it in a spectacular way that everybody could see. And so if you remember when when Israel gets to the promised land, or even the countries around the promised land What what do the what do the what do those peoples always say? They're afraid of the Israelites because why? They had heard what happened to the Egyptians. They had heard. Everybody in the ancient Near East knew about what had happened to the Egyptian, and and that made them terrified of Israel and their especially of Israel's God. Yes, Bob. Well, so uh so he got uh he was he had a front row seat to everything that was happening with all of the ten plagues Because Moses had clearly said that Moses had said to Pharaoh, this is what God says, let my people go. So Moses was was speaking for God, actually through Aaron most of the time, but he was he was delivering messages from God to Pharaoh. Throughout that whole story. And so, yeah, so Pharaoh knew, hey, this is what the this Hebrew God is saying, and then he got to see that everything that God said he was going to do, he did. All the plagues Up up through the the the killing of the firstborn and the Passover. Pharaoh was a front row seat for all that. And so yes, he knew who God was and he had seen God in action. Right That's right. So there was a a clear distinction uh that that it it wasn't just a natural event that it was affecting the Egyptians and not the Israelites. He keeps hardening his heart. He knows, but he's hardening his heart. And this one last hardening is the the Red Sea and the destruction of all of his chariots Exactly. Yeah, so good point. So though there was a purpose for all this, it was dis display God's glory for the Israelites, for the Egyptians. And for all the surrounding nations, uh for the whole world to see who this this God is. Yes, Austin. Yeah Yeah, so uh throughout that whole passage you actually get both Pharaoh hardening and also the Lord har hardening or strengthening his resolve to um to oppose God. Yeah, yep. Yeah. And and of course the Israelites uh we'll see it happen over and over and over again is no matter how much of this they see, they still rebel against God. They still have um they still lose faith. Uh they had seen all these plagues, including the Passover, and immediately they are terrified of the Egyptian um Egyptian chariots as if they don't have this God f on fighting on their side that uh that it's just done all these spectacular things. And, you know, that he does it again and then as soon as they get out into the wilderness they they grumble and complain against Moses and Um, did you bring us out here in the wilderness to die? Were were there not enough graves in Egypt? The the Back to Egypt Club was pretty strong um in in early Israel. Um and it kept coming up over and over again, the the Back to Egypt Club. Okay. Yeah, so God kept demonstrating his faithfulness in spite of the faithlessness of his people And he does that for hundreds of year. Uh from that point he keeps doing it over and over and over again until he ends up sending him into exile Well, hundreds of years later. Okay. And then you have the Denument uh with the song at the end. So the song, Exodus chapter 15, is a song. in praise of God and what he has just done. Um and they're on the way to Mount Sinai, so they've they've gone through the Red Sea, they're on the way to Mount Sinai, but they s they sing the song of praise to the Lord at the end And then of course on to Mount Sinai in chapter 19, they receive the law of uh the national covenant, the law of Moses, the Mosaic Covenant. um designed to prepare them to enter the promised land. Uh which they have this hope for renewing their peace and prosperity that that we'll see in Deuteronomy chapter 27. And then of course their failure to keep the Mosaic Law sets the stage for the l larger redemptive arc of Scripture Uh the the their failure to keep the law, the law is of course pointing forward to Christ, uh and their failure to keep it um points forward to the necessity of the Messiah. Yeah, the law is the Ten Commandments, and then um there is an expansion of that throughout um um the book of Deuteronomy gives it well there's uh in in Leviticus we have all of the um the ceremonial law. So you have the law of Moses with moral law with the Ten Commandments, then you have ceremonial law in Leviticus, and then you have a restating of the law, Deuteronomy's second stating of the law. uh which lays all of it out and also the um the the blessings and the cursings at the end of the book of Deuteronomy. If you obey, if you follow God, then there are all these blessings. If you don't obey, if you don't follow God, there are all these cursings, including the promise that they'll be exiled if they don't obey, which eventually was carried out. Okay. Humans uh uh our our any attempt that we have to redeem ourselves always comes to ruin, to redeem ourselves by following laws, for example. Uh so the world needs a fundamentally different kind of hero and a different plan of redemption. And God was demonstrating this in various ways throughout um uh throughout scripture, throughout the the story of his interaction with people. is that we need a savior. Um and that savior was promised, of course, all the way back in Genesis 3. And then promise more in each stage of the the development of the scripture story is always pointing forward to the cross And Exodus points to that plan. So the story of Exodus points forward to that plan in a bunch of different ways. So we're going to take a look then at the typological significance of this story of Exodus. What are the what is it pointing forward to? What parts of the Exodus story are pointing forward to what? Okay. So any questions before we do that? Everybody got the story of Exodus fixed in your mind? Uh warns. Yeah, and so he a and so he he's not required to, but he often does reveal glimpses of his plan. to various people. And in in this case he told Abraham that his descendants were going to be in Egypt, in a foreign land, and they were going to be um uh servants there. Yeah. And it was going to be hundreds of years. Yeah, yeah. Yes. God. Yeah, I I think we can say all of them. Yeah, right. in some way or other um to show God's superiority to some Egyptian god. Each one. And Israel. Israel ever gonna be the ones you need to worship or or this but it scares me at core actually. Because it wasn't even that long ago. Yeah. Right. So how can you keep from doing that? So if we l if we look at the Jesus' disciples, they were with him for three years. Here's Jesus teaching them around the campfire. every night for three years. And when Jesus dies they completely fall apart. I mean they just fall apart. They fall into despair. They they run they run naked, leaving their garments behind Um they fell apart. Um and then something happened. What happened? So the resurrection happened, but something else happened too. Something happened. What happened in Acts chapter two? The Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit, so what do we have that they didn't have? We have the Holy Spirit, that's a big difference. And notice the difference between So look at the difference between those disciples before and after the Holy Spirit. Look at Peter before and after the Holy Spirit. Peter's a big fat mess before the Holy Spirit And then he's boldly preaching and he's and he's not afraid of the Sanhedrin. He's totally uh he's totally transformed after Acts chapter two. And that transformation is the Holy Spirit. And each and every person that's a follower of Christ has the Holy Spirit. And that's that is such a big advantage over anybody that we see or read about from before Acts chapter 2. Yes, Bob. They're in succession. So there's a plague and an opportunity for Pharaoh to let my people go. And then there's another and he doesn't let 'em go. And then there's another plague. Let my people go. And he doesn't let him go, and there's another plague. Yeah, so that's how the story rolls out. God keeps giving Pharaoh opportunities to in fact he he gives Pharaoh a command over and over again, let my people go. Um No, he wasn't gonna change his mind. And and so uh so that God's glory would continue to build all the way up until that Red Sea spectacular Red Sea Yes. Yes, indeed. Yep. Absolutely. So that was promised all the way back in Ezekiel, a direct promise. There's I think there's a promise in Jeremiah as well. um of putting his spirit within his people. And that was that was um n not that was the new covenant and and it was not something that they were used to having their sp their spirit permanently put into people. There are uh examples in the Old Testament of God's spirit being on people. including prophets. Um but this permanent indwelling of the Holy Spirit is part of the new covenant. It was a promise about the new covenant all the way back in the Old Testament and the reality Mm Acts chapter two was the reality of that manifestation of it. Yes. Yes. So Paul had to oppose him to his face. Yes. And so th there is a uh there's a difference between being indwelled by the Holy Spirit and being filled with the Holy Spirit. What's the difference, indwelled and filled? Yep. It can. And and what's the manifestation of being filled with the Holy Spirit? Surrendering to the will of God and to the to the direction of the Holy Spirit And so that can come and go, and it did in Peter. Um he didn't lose the indwelling of the Holy Spirit, but he lost the filling of the Holy Spirit in certain circumstances. circumstances and so will we. Well, i we can grieve is another kind another step uh after that. Um yeah. So yeah so it it it is it is a fact that Everything won't be spiritual victory day after day after day just because you're indwelled with the Holy Spirit. That's a good point. Yep, he does. Yes. He you know so we're commanded to be filled with the Holy Spirit. So that's something that um is not a automatic all-the-time thing. Yeah. Okay. So we have this contrast in this uh story of Exodus in the divine judgment against the Egyptians and the mercy for the Israelite. There's a really stark contrast there, and that the deliverance of the Israelites cannot be fully appreciated without the backdrop of extreme justice. That gives us a it's a stark contrast that um that grabs us uh when we read that story. That there's this pr such a profound difference between the the mercy that showed to Israel and the judgment that's uh on on uh Egypt. Now who who What what does everybody deserve? What do the Israelites deserve? Judgment, just like the Egyptians got. But instead they get mercy because of the blood Yeah, and so that's of course one of the types, one of the prefiguring, one of the the the pointers pointing forward to Christ. So uh the principal goal for uh this deliverance of the Israelites Um in Exodus fourteen, this is what this is God, God says, I will harden Pharaoh's heart And he will pursue the sons of Israel, and I will get glory over Pharaoh and all his hosts. And the Egyptians shall know that I am the Lord. So divine glory is the goal here The reason why God hardens Pharaoh's heart and has him pursue the Israelites and he says God says it right out loud. I mean it's not a secret. I w the reason he hardened Pharaoh's heart And so it is God says, so I will get glory over Pharaoh and all his hosts. I mean there's th there's no There's no mystery, there's it's not in uh in hard to understand language. It's God just flops it right out there on the table. He explains exactly why he hardened Pharaoh's heart. So I will get glory over Pharaoh and his hosts. really clear. Divine glory is the goal. Um plagues were undeniably supernatural, as um Ann pointed out. We we had we ended up having plagues that only affected the Egyptians and not the Israelite. Obviously not a natural occurrence. And then in during the song in Exodus chapter 15, it says Who is like you, O Lord, among the gods? Who is like you, majestic in holiness, awesome and glorious deeds, doing wonder? And so this is the praise and glory that God gets for what he has done in this song in Exodus chapter 15. There is no one like our God. So uh if you if we go back to this story, uh there were God had all the options he wanted at the beginning, he could have ensured that uh Pharaoh complied peacefully with Moses' initial request God could have turned Pharaoh's heart so that the first time Moses walked up there and said, Let my people go, God could have made it so that Pharaoh said, Okay, there you go. Take your take your stuff, take your people, and go. God could have done it that way. But that was not God's purpose. He wanted to show the magnificence of his power. Um and he wanted to be it wanted it to be proclaimed in all the earth. So that kind of a rescue is far more glorious uh because the conflict seems unrelenting. It seem there there's this villain the Pharaoh that is just hellbent on uh opposing God and opposing his people. Uh and that makes the victory so much Sweeter. Um yet the Exodus is no match for the broader story it typifies. So the Exodus is a pale imitation of the real story. the real story that it's pointing forward to. The true hero, the son of God, who's the better Adam, who's the better Moses, as as Peter explains it. uh in Acts chapter three, um Christ is better than Moses, uh comes to bring true and lasting rescue to the vast panorama of God's people, not just Jews, but people from every tribe and tongue and nation and language. Um and pointing to this story is the real purpose of Exodus. Pointing to the the real story of redemption that's to come in the new covenant. Yep. Yeah, so there there are um there are Jewish writings about this from outside the Bible. Now there are Uh there there are not Egyptian records of it, which is not surprising. Uh because well if you look at all the rest of the ancient Egyptians' writings, it's all about their conquests They they write this stuff that makes them look good. And this story does not make them look good, and so it does not make the the Egyptian written history Now, I don't know about archaeological records or and or written records from the other uh surrounding areas. I I don't know It could it could be. Um but yeah, it it's a good thought. Uh but I I don't know. Yes. Yeah, so i they glimpse in part because part of the Passover Seder is how long must we wait? Lord for the Messiah. That's part of the s so so they see that the Passover is supposed to be pointing forward to the Messiah, but they missed him. Um, and so they're still kinda waiting for him and they missed him. Uh and that's very sad. But they do they do see that it's supposed to be pointing forward to the Messiah. Yeah. They they do see that. It's part of the Seder ceremony. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Right. That that is that is one of the ways. So uh the all the Old Testament passages about the Messiah, there are passages about a suffering servant. And there are pass passages about a triumphant king. And so many of the rabbis thought, well, that can't be the same person. The suffering servant and the triumphant conquering king, that can't be the same person. So they came up with this two Messiah story to try to fit all those Old Testament passages. about Jesus that talk about him as suffering servant as well as uh a triumphant king. And so uh and what we understand is it's one Messiah and two comings and they some of them have written that it's two two Messiah. Uh yeah, good point. Uh and any others? Okay, so um the tenth and final plague, of course, is the ultimate one that points forward to Jesus as the Passover land. as the Passional Lamb. It comes right after the ninth plague, which is a very interesting thing. Egypt is covered in darkness so thick you could feel it in Exodus chapter 10. And it's dark for the Egyptians and it's not dark for the Israelites. How how does that work? How can it be dark in one place and and these people are living in the same area there? How can it be light on the Israelites and dark And how can the dark be so thick you can feel it? Um and that was the ninth plague. Um and it provided psychological terror. preparing Pharaoh and his people for an even more terrifying, mysterious angel of death, the destroyer from Plague No. 10. But the sons of Israel were spared. The angel passed over their doors marked with blood of the Passover Lamb And that's in Exodus chapter twelve, and all of that uh in fine detail is pointing forward to Christ And God made them remember. He instilled it into the uh the memory, the the conscious memory of the people, and with this Passover celebration year after year after year, that many Jews are still doing to this day, um, becauseigned this so that they they should recognize the Messiah. when he came. And of course many of them didn't. Um and of course what does this tell you that they had to put they had to do something. They had to put blood on the on the doorpost uh that the the the Israelites could have been subject to this judgment if they didn't do what God told 'em to do. Um this unexpected display of mercy that uh where Yahweh der uh diverted his wrath. uh required them to obey the steps that he he gave them. Um and this mercy was denied their Egyptian neighbors So when we think about these things, it should instill in us a holy fear of this God, this awesome God that has the power of life and death. We should have a holy fear of God. Uh and it should cause us to appreciate the undeserved glories of heaven as never before. When we think about situations like this, where some receive mercy and others receive wrath and judgment. The grace of God towards wretches, a supernal, supernatural grace that supremely magnifies his glory, is what we see in this um this story of Exodus. And the supreme example that it's pointing forward to is Christ. Um in Psalm forty says that we're saved from the pit of destruction and out of the miry bog. That's where we are. And it's such a great salvation here So um and of course Israel was was commanded to celebrate this Passover every year. Uh Israel's perpetual celebration of Passover became a typological pointer to the coming Redeemer. So the the blood on the doorpost is what caused the angel of death to pass over them, and the blood of Christ is the only thing that caused death to pass over us. And so God just drilled it into the collective conscience of Israel, this idea of the Passover. Yes. Well, uh it originally was on the Jewish calendar. Um I don't know, do the do modern Jews have it fixed to a certain um Gregorian calendar date? I don't know. I don't know. I I it's it it h historically it has always been on the Jewish calendar. Uh the the month of Nissan. Yeah. Yeah. And that's one of the questions they asked Jesus. They said, Doesn't Elijah come first? And uh and Jesus says, Well, Elijah has come. And they didn't recognize him Yeah, yeah. So uh Jesus seemed to indicate that uh the Elijah that the Old Testament was pointing forward to was John the Baptist. Yeah. And so uh God read uh the uh The coming Redeemer who's to rescue God's people, and he and he redeems in a in a way that was very confusing. uh from the Old Testament prophecies, uh, by abject humility and weakness, not by coming in and and seizing the throne of David. He comes in as a suffering servant by humility, uh, and offers himself as the Passover lamb, uh, 1 Corinthians 5. 7. And so, of course, it's no mistake that God providentially ordered Jesus' crucifixion fifteen hundred years later to occur at the Passover. That is not a mistake. Um that was uh divine providence that he ordered the events of Jesus' life so that he went to the cross on Passover. Um and he was the the Passover lamb. Alright. Um next we want to take a look forward to Romans chapter nine. So if you'll turn in your Bibles or tune your devices to Romans chapter nine Romans chapter 9 in some ways is a commentary on Exodus 1 to 14, but there's some other things thrown in as well. So let's uh let me just read Romans 9 10 to 23, and then we'll talk through it a little bit Uh starting in verse ten, and not only this, but there was Rebecca also, when she had conceived twins by one man, our father Isaac, for though the twins were not yet born. and had not done anything good or bad, so that God's purpose, according to his choice, would stand, not because of works, but because of him who calls It was said to her, to Rebekah, the older will serve the younger. Just as it is written, Jacob I loved, but Esau I hated. What shall we say then? There is no injustice with God, is there? Nay it never be. For he says to Moses, I will have mercy on whom I have mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I have compassion So then it does not depend on the man who wills or the man who runs, but on God who has mercy. For the Scripture says to Pharaoh, For this very purpose I raised you up to demonstrate my power in you, and that my name might be proclaimed throughout the whole earth. So then he has mercy on whom he desires, and he hardens whom he desires. You will say to me then, why does he still find fault? For who resists his will? On the contrary, who are you, O man, who answers back to God? The thing moulded will not say to the moulder, Why did you make me like this, will it? Or does not the potter have a right over the clay to make the same lump one vessel uh of the same lump, one vessel for honorable use, and another for common use What if God, although willing to demonstrate his wrath and to make his power known, endured with much patience vessels of wrath prepared for destruction, and he did so to make known the riches of his glory upon the vessels of mercy? which he prepared beforehand for glory. So, um Romans chapter 9 and Exodus. So there's one place in Scripture that offers an explicit basis for this greater glory theodicy that we are discussing here, and that's Romans 9. And Paul picks up the theme of the Exodus in the middle of that discussion to make much of the glory of God in redemption. And so notice he starts out with God's sovereign freedom in election. He hated or rejected Esau and loved or chose the scoundrel Jacob. And then Paul can hear the hue and cry. He answers the he answers these objections before they can be made, of course. That's not fair That's not fair. And so is this not preferential treatment and justice on God's part? However, it's not a matter of justice or fairness. What would justice be Justice is everybody goes to hell. Everybody. Everybody goes to hell. That's justice. That would be fair. Fair. The fair thing is for everybody to to go To hell. But God, so it's not a matter of justice, but it's God's unrestrained prerogative in choosing, which Paul lays out in verses 15 and 16 of what we just read. Um and then he gets to the events of the Exodus and he says a very interesting thing. The f the scripture says the Pharaoh. So so God uh Moses was delivering God's words to Pharaoh Pharaoh. So God was speaking to Pharaoh, and God said to Pharaoh through Moses, For this very purpose I have raised you up. This is the whole reason you were born. That I might show my power in you, and that my name might be proclaimed in all the earth. That's what God said to Pharaoh, the reason why he was born. glory that his name might be proclaimed in all the earth. And so and then uh Paul goes on to explain this passage from the Old Testament. So then he has mercy on whomever he wills, and he hardens whomever he wills. So In effect, Israel gets the warm velvety robes of mercy, and Pharaoh gets a stone cold heart. And that is up to God to decide. Yes. In fact, e Egypt at the time was the most powerful nation on earth, so he thought he was really the bee's niece. So I have, and there are various um candidates uh f for the for the pharaoh Um but there there's and there's a recent discovery of a tomb with a pharaoh with a young son in the tomb with him and why would a pharaoh be buried in the same tomb with a young son and yeah Well, uh that's the speculation that that particular tomb is why he's buried there. That's because his son has died before him and So it was put in there. Uh typically you wouldn't have that, but there's a there's one Pharaoh's tomb that's like that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So I I don't think we know can be certain, but there are some clues from archaeology about who these people might be. Yeah. Well it was it was a number of years later, um and it was not necessarily a a direct descendant of that pharaoh, but maybe a grandson grandson or or great grandson. Alright. So continuing with Romans 9. So uh in Romans 9. 19, why does he still find fault for who can resist his will? So this is the natural question that you may get when you're discussing this with an unbeliever. Well that doesn't sound fair if God chooses some and doesn't choose others. And Paul responds by striking a fatal blow to our human pride. He's actually re referencing a a passage from Jeremiah eighteen, and he says, But who are you, O man, to answer back to God will what is molded say to its moulder, Why did you make me like this? Um The potter has a right over the clay to make it however he wants. So understanding why God chooses to dispense mercy to some but not others is inscrutable. We cannot, we're not in God's place to be able to do that We are in no position to judge his freedom, his goodness, his righteousness. But we want to. We really want to. We want an explanation. We want him to explain himself. Especially with things that touch us that touch on our lives. We want an explanation about why things have happened. Um why has this why have I um contracted this disease? Why have I lost my job? Uh why, why, why why why have these things happened to me And we are not in a position to judge God's motives or intentions or righteousness or choices. And that's what Paul is saying here. Does does the pot talk back to the potter when he's making something? Um that's that's who you are in comparison to God. It's It's actually a bigger, there's a bigger gap between us and God than there is between a pot and a potter, but uh but the illustration is a good one. Um so when standing before the mysterious glories of this transcendent God, what is the response? The re the true response that we should have is to fall on our knees And with Job say, I have uttered what I did not understand, things too wonderful for me which I did not know. Job forty-two, when Job repents in dust and ashes for questioning God and his goodness and his choices in Job's life. He says, I have uttered what I did not understand. And that's what we should say when we uh if we find ourselves questioning God as well. Um and so at the end of that passage in uh 922 and 23, what if God, desiring to show his wrath and to make known his power, has endured with much patience vessels of wrath. So in order to make known uh the riches of his glory. So that's why he has had patience with the vessels of wrath. So um supernatural terror that God inflicted on Jesus in Egypt, uh wave after wave of his judgments with plague after plague that elicited no repentance served to highlight his miraculous mercy on these helpless Israelites. It's a stark contrast that highlights his mercy. Mercy as opposed to what they actually deserved, and what they actually deserved, he showed this is what it would look like. What I'm doing to Egypt is what You Israelites deserve, but instead I'm giving you mercy. So a quicker inquirer form of judgment would not have allowed the sons of Israel to appreciate the glory of their rescue If Pharaoh had just let him walk out the first time Moses walked up there, how appreciative would the Israelites have been? I mean, they already were pretty ungrateful. It would have been worse if they had just walked out on the first try. All right. I think we're almost out of time, aren't we? Ooh, yeah. Yeah, Bob. Yep. Yep. Mm-hmm. Yep, he sure does. Um so uh we've run out of time. Let me um let me just let me work forward here um and just take a look at this uh hymn by Isaac Watts. So The end of this chapter has a part of a hymn by Isaac Watts, a famous hymn writer. Alas, and did my savior bleed, and did my sovereign die? Would he devote that sacred head for such a worm as I? Was it for crimes that I had done he groaned upon the tree, Amazing pity, grace unknown, And love beyond degree This is the greater glory of Theodus. Alright, let me close this in prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for the opportunities that we have to study your word. Uh for the way that uh Paul in Romans chapter nine explained uh some of the things that happened in uh in the book of Exodus and how you are indeed truly sovereign over your creation, including us. And that we have no standing and no right and no um no ability to judge your intentions and motives and actions And we just thank you, Lord, that you are righteous and good and that everything that you do is the right thing. uh because you have done it. We pray, Lord, that that your glory would be magnified again and again and again in everything that you do And we pray, Lord, that the things that happen in our lives would bring glory to you as well. And we pray, we thank you for the chance to worship you and corporate worship that we're about to have. And we pray that that worship would be glorifying to your name. And we pray these things in Jesus' name, Amen.