Good morning everyone. Those that do not know me, my name is Lorfe. I will be covering for Pastor Um Thompson this morning. I am definitely not Pastor Thompson, but I will try my best. I will give you all my best as we walk through chapter 5, this chapter 5 review. How many in here this morning took time to read chapter five? Well good. Please contribute. Alright, we'll get started here. I will open us up in prayer. Heavenly Father, thank you for yet again another day. Thank you for Your mercies which are new every morning. Thank you for your patience and your kindness. As we gather here this morning, I pray, O Lord, that your words will be proclaimed, and that your hands will be not only upon me and to guide my words, but will be upon your people and their ears. I pray that collectively as we run through this chapter of the book which you've um placed on Scott Christensen's Heart to Write about the Palm of Evil, that we thoroughly dissected in that we walk out of here not in the same manner we walked in. Thank you for the energy that you gave me this week to be able to sit down and to just wrestle with this for myself in terms of The one true story, the greatest story ever told. I'm thankful that you provided Your writers, O Father God, the authors of this book, the infallible, inspired, inerrant words, that we today can reflect on. And as we reflect on it and as we go through your story, What does that mean for us, your people? Have your way. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. As you see in the outline. I have um three things that I'd like to talk about from the reading this week. Number one God is a speaking God and a master storyteller. Number two How does God communicate with His creation? And number three, going through Christensen's book In terms of how has God structured the Bible in a way that we can thoroughly comprehend it, which he calls the biblical story pattern or structure. And here are the objectives that I have for chapter 5. To reveal how the story of Scripture itself is God's theodicy. And by now we all should know that a theodicy is a defense of God's justice or righteousness in the face of the presence of evil. We also are made aware that evil is not a thing. It's not a substance. It's not something that we could hold on to. It's not something that we could grab. Evil is the absence of. The absence of what, one may ask? The absence of good. So those that do evil things and those that act in a way that is evil, they do not have goodness within them. And that should cause us to watch our response to a world that does not know God. That should cause us to have empathy for them, patience with them, love for them, because our goal is to share the gospel Which will then allow them to understand and have a better comprehension of good, so that they do not do evil things. We know that there are two types of evil from the class that you have discussed. There's number one Moral evil and natural evil So as we go through here, we're going to see that, again, the Odyssey is the defense of God's justice in the face in the presence of evil. God's self-revelation and his pardon me. In his story, he explains how he brings glory to himself and goodness to his people through, number one, creation, which I have here as formation. The fall, the flood, the fallout, redemption and restoration in the person and work of his one and only Son, Jesus Christ, who is the ultimate hero of God's story. Objective number two is to have an acknowledgement as we go through what evil is, is to have an acknowledgement of ourselves. And that is, we as humans have been infected by the poison of evil. And we do not have the will to suppress it, nor the power to defeat it. But when we gaze upon our divine hero who is dragged even deeper through the conflict, we succumb to the deadly curse of it, of it all. And we then rise and he rises up victoriously, we can see where glory is. The beauty, the grandeur, the magnificence is supremely magnified of Christ. Everything is magnif is to magnify Christ. It's not to magnify ourselves. It's not to magnify our pastor. As we go through the Bible, it's about God and how is He glorified. And God uses evil to show that. I won't read the rest of that because we'll um we'll continue to talk about it, but I'll go through the last sentence. Um well no, I'll just jump to the application. And so As we go through number one, which is the learning, and number two, acknowledging that we cannot save ourselves, what does that mean? We should take that and apply it. If we're grateful for what God has done and we truly have a great comprehension of what He's done through His story, should we not tell others? I know that when I watch a basketball game or a football game and my team is winning, I'm super excited. Right? And when your team loses, you go into hiding. You don't want to see anybody. Maybe because you were talking But why don't we have that same enthusiasm for God? Do we not reflect on what he's done for us on a daily basis? Or do we just take it for granted? You know, in the church I grew up in, all you had to do to be safe was to walk up to the altar, say a prayer, and you were saved. You could go about living your life doing whatever you wanted. But when you discover what salvation truly is and what God has done for you You realize how insulting that is to God to just walk up there, say your prayer, and not have a change of heart. Those of us that are saved and those of us that recognize what Christ has done on that cross are constantly going after him, are constantly seeking him. We're not looking to our own efforts. We're not looking to our parents or family. We're looking to him first and foremost. And as we walk through today through his story, Hopefully, you will be reminded of how God was merciful towards his people, a sinful people. And when you look at the different characters in his story, you will see that many of them were not much better off than we are. But God chose them. When they were cleaned up, when they figured it out, when they said the sinner's prayer? Absolutely not. God said, While you were yet a sinner That is God magnifying his glory. God uses sinners because he wants to show you that he is greater than you. And that his love for you is not dependent on you. Because you don't have enough love to make God change. If that makes sense. There's nothing that you could do to make God love you more. All he wants us to do is to recognize how much he loves us and to live a life that reflects that to a lost and dying world So, number one, God is a speaking God, a master storyteller. And I have here Hebrews chapter 1, which says, long ago and many times in many ways, God spoke to our fathers by the prophets, but in these last days he has spoken to us. by his son, whom he appointed the heir of all things, to whom also he created the world I remember walking into a store once and I saw a guy with a big sign. I said, Let me tell you what God told me. I said, that's strange. I've been walking him for a while and I don't think I've heard him. So let me go find out what he told you. So I walk up and he's trying to sell the book obviously. And he was like, Yeah, you gotta get the book because I have it I have it all written in terms of what God told me And I said, Hm. So did you read his word and he gave you some sort of revelation? No, I was dreaming and he just gave me this vision. A future cult leader. Cult leader. Um, No, he was writing a book telling people what God told them. And it wasn't based in Scripture. He didn't go to Scripture to confirm anything. It was just this what God told me and I'm just gonna write it down. I'm not saying that God can't give you a vision or a dream. But when you out but but but if he's giving you a a message to go and tell the world, it's like right here in his word. Yeah. Yeah. That that had the two magical tablets that nobody's ever seen and that the angel took back. Um I don't know if he was just extremely smart or foolish, but if I had two golden tablets I would have pawned them. But anyway So, God speaks to us today through his son and his written word that he has revealed to us. And we can rest assured that it's God speaks to us because his script his the Bible tells us in 2 Timothy 3. 16 that All scripture is God-breathed and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, and training in righteousness, so that the man of God may be thoroughly equipped. And then in 2 Peter 1:20, it tells that that no prophecy was given to man on his own accord, but man moved along and wrote as they were carried along by the Spirit of God. So the word that we have is not man-made. The word that we have is God ordained and God guided. It is true, it is infallible, it is inerrant. And if that's the case, why do we treat it as though it's not so? When you get text messages, you go through the whole thing. When work sends you an email, you read the whole thing. Back in the day, when you used to send letters to each other, especially if you were dating somebody, you couldn't wait to get that letter in the mail, especially if you're in the military. To cut through it to see what the person said We wanted to know what that individual was saying. So why don't we want to know what is God saying to us? Are we just too busy for him? Or do we just think that we have all the answers already? When the Creator speaks, as I just mentioned. What should we do as the created beings? We should hear intently. So as you're going through his word, are you just speeding through it to just check off a box? Or are you sitting there meditating on it? As Joshua wants us, day and night. Are you praying, saying, God, what are you saying to me? And I'm not gonna lie, as I was going through this. Um it's early in the morning and I'm just sitting there just going through this and said, Okay God, prepare me to come and stand before your class. I wanna make sure that I give them my best and give you my best. And I just kept stopping. I just kept stopping and I was getting frustrated. I was like, what are you doing? But I'm not gonna lie. I just started tearing up. And saying, man, I'm going to stand in front of your people to tell them about you and about the grandeur of your story. But here I am. I take it for granted myself. I'm deep in your word now because I want to treat your word properly in the front of your people. But why am I not doing this all the time? As we hear his word, do we internalize it? Do we memorize it? Do we wrestle with it? The Bible tells us to let his words richly dwell in us. Only God's word could change you. If you are a believer and you are still doing the same things that you were, I would check that I would check that. And if God's word is not convicting you as you go through it, I would check our pride. Scott Christensen writes, God is it is the master of language. He has scripted the whole history of the world as a grand epic masterpiece God inspired his vessels, the authors that he uses to pen his 66 books, to tell the story about what he is doing in the world. His story is meant to give us, his readers, a framework for understanding the larger all encompassing plan. If we're ever gonna understand what evil is. Or is not. We have to understand God's story in its entirety. Not bits and pieces that only fits us when we're going through something. But the whole of his story. Every event across every time, whether good or evil, is under God's sovereign rule. Nothing happens. Well nothing catches him off guard. I love it when Isaac Bagley, um one of my brothers here from church, whenever we're talking and we're just sharing things with one another, he always reminds me. Amen. God doesn't have a plan B. Where you at and what you're going through, he had already known that. God doesn't have a plan B Using language through men, as I mentioned, 2 Peter 1, 20 to 21, God composed the 66th book. And I call this, or it is, his magnum opus. That's um one of R. C. Soul's favorite words, Magnum opus. That is God's greatest work. And what is his greatest greatest work? His redemptive plan to glorify himself through Jesus Christ, who is the slain lamb, who died for us. I just want you to reflect on that. He comes into his own creation. Because of something you did. He created a perfect world. You broke it. He comes in and he fixes it. He doesn't come in and scold you. He doesn't come in and just continue to beat you down. He comes in and says, I'm gonna fix it. I'm gonna redeem it. And I'm gonna provide you a way. to be in the same position that you are with me in Genesis 1 to 2. Do we respond like that? Do we respond like that? You can read the passage that I have here. I'm gonna go to To number two, natural or general revelation. There are two sources from which man obtains knowledge. There is reason through reading, through learning, through studying. And then there is experience, things that we experience in our lives. So both of those mechanisms provide us with knowledge. But those sources, they're limited. Those sources don't give us answers to all of the questions that we struggle with Man's mind is finite, which means it's limited, and therefore cannot answer all the un un unanswerable questions, no matter how much he searches, no matter how many books he reads, no matter how many podcasts he listens to. There are just some things that we will not be able to fully answer. And sometimes that frustrates us. Because in some sense we wanna be like God. We wanna know a lot of things. We wanna have all the answers. Especially as men, sometimes we don't like to reach out to others for help. And there are some ladies like that as well. We like to figure everything out on our own. I know that sometimes it takes me a long time to build something when the instruction manual is like right there and my wife comes in like it's right there I'm like I know it's right there thank you. I got it And then the chair is like upside down and I'm waiting there like it works, it works. Could you go get me something real quick? You know, we don't like to Ask for help. But God's instruction manual for us is right here in His Word. And when we don't have those those answers, especially in the church, what do we do? And I've heard it often, Deuteronomy 29, 29. Who knows what that is? The secret things of the Lord belong to the Lord. And so, I don't know. We just punch it. God's story, scripture Does not offer us a philosophical solution to the problem of evil. Rather, God's story reveals Christ uh a Christ-centered history of redemption, wherein he, God, wisely ordains, governs all things and assigned a purpose even in the midst of a bitter situation. And brings saving good from acts of evil of evil creatures. So as we go through the Bible and we see certain circumstances. God will use those circumstances, even though that God didn't God didn't create the evil himself, but God will ordain that evil will use it to bring about glory to himself. And so, as you're wrestling with the problem of evil, where does evil come from? How can a good God allow evil, or how can a good God not stop evil? Remember that if evil were not present, We would not truly comprehend the nature of God and the depth of his love. We only appreciate something when we go through the hard trials. If you're running, if you're working out, if you're about whatever the case may be. You gotta put in hard work, but the results feel good, right? When you put in that hard work, the results you get out of it feel good. And so when we look at God, We would not truly appreciate him if we didn't have any trials in our lives. And I know as believers you all have trials in your lives. I know you all go through things. And when you came to Christ, there was something new and liberating you. You cannot put that burden on him You don't have to carry that anymore. Like um, what's the name of that movie? Bunyan. Pilgrim's Progress. But you wouldn't have known how it felt to let that burden go if you never carried it Genesis 15, 19 to 21. We typically just read uh verse 20, which says, God meant it uh you meant it for evil, but God meant for good. But I went back to verse 19. Do not be afraid. Am I in the place of God? Joseph is speaking to his brothers. And remember this situation here. I think Joseph was a little prideful and arrogant. Look at my coat. Hey, why aren't you working over there? I'ma go tell daddy. And I'm looking at this dude like, man, if you were my little brother. constantly just telling on you. And after he tells on you, he's like rewarded and gifted. And you come home and you're like, I've been in this field all day and this dude like walking around with this nice coat on him Put his feet up. But I think God caused the whole situation. Or not cause it because I don't want to put the evil on God, but God allowed it to happen. To cause Joseph to be sold into slavery, to cause Joseph's um mind to be revealed, to allow Joseph to work through Egypt and then to the point where Joseph becomes second in charge. And then what happens? A famine hits the land. And Joseph is the remedy for that famine. Because God is revealing certain things to him that other men around him do not have, certain visions to him that other men do not have And through Joseph, God saves his people. God saves his brothers. But Joseph did not realize that when he was going through it He probably had a lot of bitter and animosity towards his brothers when he was going through that situation. But as he reflects back on his life, He's like, man, I would not have been in this situation if it were not for God And if I were not in this situation, I would not have been able to help all these individuals out, to feed all these people, to preserve my people. Upon that reflection, when his brother shows up, Joseph says, Man, I've forgiven you a long time ago. Look at me. If I wasn't here, I would have been starving like you guys. But look at me, come on in, come celebrate with me. You meant it for evil, but I recognize now God meant it for good. But I would not have understood that if you never sold me into slavery. If I was never accused, if I was never jailed. But even the two people that God put in jail with him. God used that for his glory. Because one was prophesied and he was killed, the baker, and the cupbearer was sent back. Why? The world will tell us that it's a coincidence, right? But as you're reflecting on the as you've seen the whole story now, you could see that the reason the cupbearer was allowed to go back to sit next to Torah is because God was going to use him. to mention about this guy called Joseph that interpreted a dream. And then I got him gonna give this fair a dream as well and I'm gonna cause him to Sort of lose his mind and start threatening everybody in the kingdom. If you don't tell me what my dream is, you're gonna face the consequences. Like, I know a guy named Joseph, I have a buddy. But God ordained all that And us sitting back watching that, we're just like, wow, what a God We could sit there and just look at the tragedy of it all, or we can look at the other side and see how good God was and how God used that tragic situation. To bring about glory, not to Joseph, but to himself. And why did God want to preserve Joseph and his line? We'll get to that in just a moment. But look back at Genesis 3. 15. Okay. Sorry. A little dry up here I think that uh joke of template. I was thinking was really trying to make development so that uh that and one thing he did know that both And spread that to your light. Induce that with whole life. Just regarding the situation. Just what? What's the last part? He always put God first in his heart. Rich, the reason I say that is typically when you are and maybe you're right in terms of the na na na naivete, is that how you say my wife? Naivete, did I say right? Thank you. Um even with that you will not be picked on or something done wrong to you when you are just being loving and friendly toward your family. You know? Even even when you're being naive, um if you're like it's it's only when you're like picking on your family or doing certain things. And I I don't know. I mean the Bible doesn't Clearly tells us so we c we could speculate, but I know that in my family it uh there are some things that you're naive about and maybe you're right, I'm not I'm not sure, but there's some things that you're naive about, but something was happening that causes brothers To say that we don't like this guy. Maybe that's it. Absence of good. Um, yes. Well how about this do it most important thing that came up what really kicked it off was the the coat of many colors. Because remember that Joseph had a dream and a dream he was the he becomes The other sheets are bowing down to us. So what it signifies that he's going to step into the place of the firstborn. And the firstborn receives a double inheritance from his father that becomes the spiritual leader of the whole clan. Joseph and a dream and when he got the first coat signified that was gonna happen and then God's overall plan God made it happen when he sent it something to J something to Egypt, the famine, the family comes down, he tell them all to come down and pick out a place in Egypt which is Gosh He even worked with the with um the Pharaoh to to put them in the land of Goshen to celebrate them from the festival of Egypt. So Egypt wouldn't see their religious practice. practices and come against them because the animals they use in their religious practice was an offense to the Egyptians. So he didn't take them out of Egypt and put them in Goshen apart set 'em apart. And so God the whole thing out. So the basic thing was they was afraid of him becoming taking the rule leadership of the first born 'cause you know the first born becomes the leader of everything. You mean Egypt. Now there were the first born of the family born as a a um a practice in Egypt I'm not Jewish history. Oh always, even with his um Joseph Esau Now Esau's supposed to have been the first one by the way. Jacob passed to Jacob, right? God knew what kind of man he was, an evil man. And so God took the firstborn right that's supposed to pass Esau and it pass it to Jacob Jacob and all throughout ancient Egypt. You and Israel, you always see the firstborn like Christ is the firstborn of God's new creation and everything. So it follows that same practice all the way through scripture. What follows the same practice all the way through firstborn. Okay. Firstborn just a double inheritance and become No, I get that, so w I I'm trying to see what point are you trying to make. I'm saying the biggest thing you were saying was the Jealousy between the family, between a brother and a brother. That could be possible. But scripture does tell us about the cloak of many colours and Joseph dreams. So the scripture right then is tying us in to where the problem arises. And we can see when Joseph had the dreams and the group file, they said, but you want to rule over us I think like Richard said, it might have been evil. You know, just the evil in their hearts that caused it to happen. But the deprivation of good. So it was the the evilness. God still using that evil to bring about glory to himself. But the fact that the Lord has made to him a dream. So good to hear. Joseph didn't put an emphasis on the coat that he had, but what he spoke about was how uh how God has revealed the dream and that's where it arcans. Yes. Thank you both. Yes. Uh stories uh seven three uh Jacob uh this is thirty seven thirty-three. Now uh says uh now Israel, Jacob, love Joseph more than than any of other of his sons of he was the son of his whole age and he made fanny role many color. So can you imagine elotism? There are many factors, yes. But there are many things that are happening in that household. But egg at the end of the day I think if we step back We look at it, God was controlling. God was ordaining to bring about glory, not to Joseph, not to his father, not to his brothers, not to Egypt, but to himself. Okay, through natural evil, which is the general revelation that God gives to all people so that they are not without exclusive, it tells us that Uh in the scriptures, the heavens declare the glory of God. Thus gods proclaim the work of his hands. Day after day they pour forth uh they pour forth speech. Night after night, they reveal knowledge. They have no speech. They have used no words. No sound is heard from them. Yet their voice goes out in all the earth. Their words to the ends of the world. And then in Romans 120, for since the creation of the world, God God's invisible uh qualities, his eternal power, and his divine nature have been clearly seen, being understood from his workmanship so that men are without excuse Um pardon me one second, I think I have to go to another sheet here. I apologize. Does your paper writing on the bottom? Yeah, forgive me. I think I may have covered up some things. I apologize to you all. Um Okay. Okay. It it pretty much says I moved it. Um I got it. Thank you. This is the PDF copy, I apologize. Okay. Um there was only one one passage that was covered. It was in Hebrews eleven three. By faith we understand that the uh universe was created by the word of God so that What is seen is not made out of things that are invisible. I have a couple quotes here from um from John Cowan from his institute. When it's when in regards to natural revelation. No man, however, though he be ignorant of these is incompassit incapacitated for discerning such proofs of creative wisdom. So no matter what your mindset is, no matter who you are, whether you are in God, whether you're not in God, there are just some things about the creation that you can't deny. No one is without excuse No one can say there's there's not a God because God writes his his um his story not just in the pages of scripture. But throughout the world, so that we all know that there's a God. Those of us that are saved and those that are not saved, everyone knows that there's a God. Some of us choose to suppress it. Because we want to give in to our evil desires. We want to live a life that is pleasing to us. As opposed to being pleasing to God. The elegant structure, quote number two, the elegant structure of the world serving us as kind is is kind of a mirror in which we may behold God Though otherwise invisible. The world is a reflection of God. There's an order to the way that the world is structured. It's not an in a disordered world. We didn't get all this, even the ability to go through the Bible, to have dialogue, that didn't just come out of nothing. I know that's what the world tells us, this big bang theory, and that we just evolved and at one point in time we were fishes, dolphins, whatever. I I don't know, but That's not orderly. You need something or someone outside of time to create time. You need someone that's ordered to create order. Things like that don't just come into being on their own. And then the last quote I have here. Let me move my uh passage back. I apologize to you all again for covering that last passage. No one who has the use of their eyes can be ignorant of the divine skills manifested so conspicuously in the endless variety, yet distinct as well as orderly away Of the heavenly hosts. And therefore, it is plain that the Lord has furnished every man with abundant proof of his wisdom. The more we could share with the world that there is a God and that He has a good intention for them, the better their life will be A person I have a personal note here at the uh at the bottom of um general revelation. When facing a moral or natural evil, fix your eyes to Calvary. We look like ruin. We looked like Ruin was uh did I write that correctly? When yeah, it's like what thank you all for reading my notes. What looked like ruin was uh redemption for God's uh creature. Let me read that again. When facing a moral or natural evil, fix your eyes on Calvary. What looked like ruin was redemption for God's creature. Okay, this is gonna be the longest part here. I'm trying to go off of um Scott's Christian book and I love how He took us through the different parts of a story um identifying the conflict and then going to the resolution and he used the um The U shape, the fray tag uh um image, did you all see that in your books? Page eighty-six I believe, where it goes exposition and then say with me. Rising rising what? Then we get to the then we go. Do you all remember the chart? What is it, Nate? My man. And then what's the last one? I had to Google that. I had to watch the computer's mouth. What? Dei what? De Numa. Okay. Who said that? I know my name's French. Thank you for pointing that out. I love you. Wow. Okay, I said this in the beginning. God created Man corrupted, Jesus fixed. As we go through the Bible, God created Man corrupted and Jesus fixed. All right. Every Wolf Prophet story, according to uh Christensen, highlights a pointed, an emotional or sad or touching scene. Which is uh and then and then uh it's introduced and then a conflict is introduced that grabs the attention. And marketing I think you call that like the hook. They tell you that if you don't get somebody like hooked in in the la in the first um like two seconds or three seconds, you've lost them. That's why when you're watching something and an advertisement shows up, if they don't get you in the first two seconds, you're gonna do what? Skip the ad. Speaking about that, a funny story real quick. So my wife and I we're we're allowing our kids to um watch Little House on the Prairie. And we have to tell them that when we were watching these shows back in the day, that we didn't get to see two episodes back to back. We have to wait an entire week when we're watching the show. We have to be home at that exact hour when the show was starting. And if we're a couple minutes late. There was no there was no rewinding. And my and uh me being who I am decided not to pay for the ad free account at a house And so w my my son's barking a show and every fifteen minutes or something like that, he's being bombarded with ads. And I could just see the frustration in his face. He's so used to Disney and I could just see him just like What is this like so upset and so I know that he's not being hooked in the first five minutes. I know there's nothing that they could do to hook him in to make him watch the ads which frankly I don't want him to watch nowadays. But as you go through the Bible though And you reflect on in the beginning. Do you ever just stop and think, what does that mean? So if it was in the beginning, so there is a beginning? And when was that? Is there a date? Is there a time? Can you share that with me? Is it four trillion years ago as the world actually says, or do I have to just go back and add and tally and do all that? Which I'm sure Pastor Thompson has done, which I haven't done. But I'm sure he has uh what our our our world is, I think about six thousand or so years old based on on um on reform math but science will tell us that's a billion years. So when you think about that in the beginning, what does that mean? But even that, what do you mean that you have no beginnings? Like we're all born. And we all grow in knowledge. And we all come into adulthood. So where did you come from? What do you mean in the beginning? That should hook you in. That should cause you to what does that mean? Okay, there's a God that doesn't have any beginning. There's a God that just said that opened his mouth and said, let there be. How did you know what light was? You know, there's just so many questions that you have, and that should hook you into the story of the Bible, and that should keep you there until you get through it so that you comprehend God. But when you're just going through it like you don't care or it doesn't matter to you, that hook will never grab you Again, um God's story, scripture, is a single unified story which reveals how man came into conflict. with a holy God. As me and Richard were talking in Austin. You know, and we're just going back and forth in the last and for like a minute. Trying to figure out who was this Joseph guy and how was his life before that? You know, trying to insert things that that are extra biblical that we just don't know. Sometimes we have questions. We want to know about God and we want to know about the people that He used. We want to know about their character. We want to know how God redeemed them. Because the truth of the matter is, all of us want to know a story about redemption. Because we all need redemption. And so we want to see how we relate to these characters Were they better than me? How did they walk? How did they talk? Did they make mistakes? And I think sometimes that's why we wallow in our mistakes sometimes is because we feel as though we're the only ones that have experienced this situation Nobody else in this entire world is going through what I'm going through. When you go through God's word, humbly go through it. There's some bad guys in there that have done some pretty bad things. And God said, I am gonna use you. Because the worst off you are, the greater my glory will be. The more skin that's on you, the greater I'll be presented. So, how do stories begin? Christensen tells us that it starts with the uh conflict and the resolution. In the Bible, the conflict begins where? Where's my guy Aaron? He's being quiet today. Where does the conflict begin? God creates all things very good, right? Genesis 131 tells us everything was very good. Again, we pause. If everything was very good, and God said everything was very good, did that mean that Satan hadn't fallen yet? I'm sorry? That means it was very good. But does that mean everyone, including the angels? You know, Everything in his creation, but he said it was very good. They did on those six days. I believe he created the angel. But he said everything, you know, like let the heavens, the earth, everything was just very good. And so And let's jump to um the third bullet. God is the uncaused cause, the uncreated creator. He is the source of all things. The one who originated everything and who sustained everything that exists. He doesn't need you. He doesn't need me. He's God. He created everything. It was good. He said what it was. And then here's the conflict. Are we there yet? Oh no, not yet. Isaiah 46, 9 says, I am God and there is no other. I am God and there is none like me. And then Exodus 3. 14 says, I am who I am. Don't question me, Moses. I am who I am. But then, as they're experiencing the goodness of God, And it's hard for me to to to to imagine because your pride says, man, if I was in that garden, I wouldn't have touched it. And then I I forget who it was, but somebody said you probably would have been gone the moment he said you would I will make you from dirt, you would have fell right back down But they're in the midst of the garden, they're experiencing the goodness of God. And then what happens? The serpent comes in, which we know that's Satan. And he says to the woman, and she's in that garden, and she's experiencing the goodness of God. He comes in distractions and to challenge God's word and said, Did God really say? Did God really say And as I said earlier, this is why we need to be in our words constantly. This is why we've got to meditate in our words because Satan is still using the same tactics today. Did God really say? Well, could God have created multiple genders Cause God has said that you don't need to be married to another uh two men could be married. So there are a lot All these people, did God really say? That's the question. And we see that it's not new to us. It's been happening since the garden. And we have to be rooted in our word. No matter how uncomfortable we are to say without without fear of the consequences, yes, God did say And I know it's tough sometimes. But guess what? In the midst of your persecution, when you stand up for God, He is glorified And I have here um Revelation twelve nine, which refers to uh Satan and the and the great dragon was hurled down, the ancient serpent called the devil, who was in the garden. And then also, uh, I have a a passage here from John 844, which I'll try to talk about uh a little bit later. But man disobeys God by listening to the serpent as we just talked about. The serpent appeals to um Eve, lost uh the uh the her flesh, her eyes, and the pride of life. Evil enters into the world, man trusted self rather than God. The Lord God made garments of skin for Adam and Eve, and I mentioned that earlier. Look at that. God could have walked in right then and then shut it down. And said, I'm done. You're done. I'm self-existing. I've always been here. I don't need you. I'm shutting it down. Eden is shut down. Adam and Eve, you're done. But what did he do? My man. What did he do? The Lord made garments of skin for Adam and his wife and clothed them How many here have thought about that? I know sometimes we jump into the Adam and Eve and what they've done and we just move past it But God covered them in the midst of their shame. Adam, where are you? I hid and I got a little twig right here covering me and my wife. Let me give you something better. That's not sufficient. Adam. Eve, what were you missing that I did not give you? What did you not have in here? Generations from now, people will not experience what you're experiencing until my second coming. I am walking in the cool of the day with you. I am speaking with you. I am talking with you. You are in my presence. But you go and listen to the serpent? You know, it's almost like when um when Jesus looked up at Peter. That dude means false. Peter had this sort of like this shame. Like I didn't speak up for him. They asked me if I knew him and I said no. I felt like Peter was ashamed in that moment because he didn't stand up for Christ, his friend. The one he was hanging out with, the one he was so bold to cut mouth's ear off, and all of a sudden now they're like, Do you know him? Nah. No. Huh. I am Petrus, not Peter. You know, and I feel like in the same moment right here, God is in the garden and God is like What are you missing? What did you not have? You listen to the serpent You listened to his lies, and now you brought calamity, not just on yourselves, but all of humanity. However, in the midst of that, I'm gonna cover you. In the midst of that, there's no forgiveness of sin without the reminiscent of blood. I am gonna sacrifice an animal, which is a foreshadow of the things that come through my son, Jesus Christ. But I'm gonna do that for you now. Because when I when when people come back and they read the story Yes, they're gonna see the sins that you did. Yes, they're gonna see how you disobeyed me, but they're gonna see my glory is magnified. Okay. Then we get to the flood. The law saw that the wickness of man was um and the flood correlates to what What Christians has as still the the the rising conflict. The Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth. Every intention Of his heart were wrong. But Noah found favor in the eyes of the Lord. But Noah found favor in the eyes of the Lord. Then tell us that Noah had to do this, Noah had to do that, Noah found favor in the eyes of the Lord. And again, God could have in that moment, just like he could have done in the garden, I'm done. I'm shutting it down now. He could have said the same thing with the flood. But a family found favor in the eyes of God. And to preserve What did you just say? The story wanted to continue? Yes, sir. I'm sorry? To have the story continue, God chose a family. Put them on an ark, told them how to build the ark, gave them the instructions, sent the animals to him again to preserve his creation. And once again Who is magnified? God is magnified again We fall, God picks us up. We fall, God picks us up again. For his glory, to show the type of God that he is And when you reflect on that, that should really get you. That should cause you to change, to say, if God could do this for me. Do I reflect that in my church body? Do I reflect this nature of God, the love of God, in my community? Do I reflect this in my marriage? How do I reflect God? Then we get to what So we have creation, we have fall, we have um flood, thank you for paying attention, and then we have the fallout from man's rebellion Right? So it's almost like they're not I think they are, but they it's almost like they're not telling each other what's happening. Like keep making the same mistakes over and over and over again. And I'm waiting to see God not be glorified, but I continue to be amazed of his patience, of his love for his creatures. Man's heart remained corrupted. And he again rebels against God's commands to fill the earth. Right? Go and multiply and fill the earth to do it. But man said, no, let's congregate together. Let's build a tower to the heavens. Is that what you were told to do? It's simple. Just go out. Just listen to what God told you. Take your wife, your family, just spread out, but it's like no. We come together, we're struggling together, then apart. Let's let's just Create this nation and we could be like God. Let's just build this tower. Let's just come to him. God's just like, it's not what I told you to do. It's simple. But I don't know why it's so hard for you. And so God comes in and the Lord came down to see the city and the tower. The Lord said Come, let us go down and confuse their language, so that they may not understand one another. God's confusion in that moment caused man to scatter And sometimes we may just go past that story. But if men had remained where they were, they would just continue to have a community of sinners. It would have just come in uh stayed there and just um have leaders that were not honoring to God, leaders that were not following God, leaders that are not talking about God And they were able to do whatever they wanted to because they had one language. So God brought about the confusion. God said, Go out and multipl go out and spread and subdue the earth. And God brought about the confusion to force them To go out, to bring about his story, his glory, to let the story continue Okay. I might actually be done today. Thank you all. M my wife came in yesterday, uh walked by the table. You know. It's a lot of pages. Think you want to cut it down a little bit? I did. Can you tell we have fun with each other? It's not always like that though. Huh? I'm a sinner, saved by grace. And I've been blessed with a wonderful wife that loves the Lord. Alright. Rising movement to redemption. Okay. The seed of the woman, which refers to the Messiah, will crush the head of Satan. Defeating uh Satan def uh defeating Satan. Sin and death. And I'm I'm not sure why I can't read this morning. I promise I did all this The seed of the woman, which refers to the Messiah, will crush the head of Satan, defeating Satan, sin and death and the full spectrum of mortal and natural evil. Isaiah 7. 14, behold a virgin will be with child and will give birth to a son, and will call him Emmanuel. Romans 5, 18 to 19. So then, just as one trespass brought condemnation for all men, also, so also one act of righteousness brought justification for the life for all men. For just as through disobedience the one man the w the one man God Lee I might have said I might have somebody else read for me this morning. The many were made sinners. So also through the obedience of the one man, the many will be made righteous. God establishes seed descendants of Abraham to bring about his plan of salvation God told the woman that the seed of the woman will crush the head of Satan and that Satan, his seed, will crush and bruise the heel of um of the Messiah. Right? There are two deaths, two cops two things are gonna happen. The Messiah's gonna die and Satan's gonna die. But only one will rise up, only one will defeat death And something that I found interesting as I was going through this and I don't know if I just didn't think about or meditate on it enough, said in John 8. 44, you are The the son of your father Satan. And as you delve into that a little bit more when he talks about the seed of the serpent. Those that are the sons of Satan obviously were the Sadducees and the Pharisees, but it's also talking about anyone who opposes the will of God. Everyone who tries to stop the progression of the gospel is a son of Satan, which it tells us in 1 John. You are a son of your father if you're trying to block the spreading of the gospel, the gospel that brings about life, the gospel that provides salvation for all. The climax of the incarnation, death, and resurrection of the Redeemer, as uh Krishna uh says. All seemed lost as a result of Adam's sin. So this is the climax. This is the peak of the story. Right? So we've gone through the um exposition. We've done the rising conflict. Now we're the climax. What is the climax um scene here? But Jesus, the promise seed of the Messiah, hero, was born. The divine author himself, as I mentioned before, came down into humanity, entered it directly, as it was prophesied in John 1 and 14. The incarnated Christ has taken center stage He is in his own story of redemption. But he didn't come as the Jews had anticipated. They were expecting it like this. Mm this hero, as Christensen said um from all these books that I and stories that I haven't seen, um with Tolkien and And Lord of the Rings and he was making references. I was just like, I don't know these I know somebody. I know the story, but I don't know the story. Huh? I know that one. Two thousand ten. I got that one. But he was he he was describing all these all these huge heroes and and Jews were expecting him To come like one of these heroes. You know, somebody that's coming on a horse with a sword and coming in to like just take out all the enemies, but it's just like, wait a minute. You're sending in the suffering servant. What is he gonna do? How's he gonna defeat sin? And I love how um forgive me if it was not this book but another book that I was reading, but one of the authors said that God uses an unconventional method to defeat an unconventional problem God was not gonna send the hero that man was expecting. God was gonna send the hero that he needed. And as I thought through that and as I was wrestling with Fully man and fully God, and how God was gonna defeat sin, but yet is still God Something that came to my mind uh was okay the the human side of him. felt everything that we feel. Went through all the struggles that we did. He be he was God made flesh, and so he was fully man. But he was also fully God. And I wonder if that fully man was relying on that fully God to show us As men, we cannot rely on ourselves. But like the man Jesus relied on God, we ourselves need to rely fully on God and not ourselves Because it was not the man. The man was going through everything that we're going through. It was it am I making sense? Jesus came through the truly man was experiencing everything. He went through starvation, I mean um temptations. He he he he fasted and he was thirsty he needed to eat He was constantly praying. And I don't get the I don't fully get the ins and outs, and I'm not gonna punt and say Deuteronomy 29, 29. But all I know is that he was fully man, and he is fully God. That man was showing us how to rely on God. He was always praying. He was always seeking the Father. And for us to really get a grasp of evil And understand what the purpose of it is in our lives. We are constantly to be like Jesus. The man Jesus constantly seeking out God, constantly praying to him, constantly asking him to guide us through our troubles Because it's overwhelming when you sit in it and you're going through it and you feel like there's no way out. There's I don't know what to do here in this situation. But I think it gives us comfort. Well I hope it gives you comfort. When you sit back and you say, okay, God, I don't know what you're taking me through. This human flesh right now is going through a lot. I'm overwhelmed. I'm out of money. I lost my job. I work for the government. Um I just lost a spouse. I just lost a friend, whatever the case may be. I hope you can step back and say, I don't know what you're doing. But I do know that when I went through that old, old story, that great story, as Chad Christensen says, That it will work out for your glory. And if I'm a small piece of that, and your name can get glorified through my troubles and my trials. I'm okay with that. Because that's the least I can do is to glorify your name because you died on the cross for my sins. You died on the cross so that I may be redeemed. You came into what I broke and you fixed it. And you didn't just fix it in a way that like a nail and hammer. But you fix it. I posted this a couple weeks ago. We all witnessed what happened to Charlie Kirk. Right? Who saw that live? Who saw the video? Okay, if you haven't seen it, that's fine. I don't recommend that you watch it. But I just couldn't get it out of my mind. And as I was dealing with that, wrestling with that Not Charlie. I thought about my Lord And I think sometimes we don't think about, we don't reflect on how he looked up there on the cross. Many movies portray it. And we see it, we go along, w we we just walk out the theater like it means nothing, and we go about our lives. But as we've gone through the climax and um I don't know if we'll go through the um to the uh to the falling action, but we've but at at well the Yeah, the climax. And we we watch our Lord and Savior in that cross doing what he's doing because of what we broke. Should truly make you appreciate this story that He has written for you. Should also give you comfort that this is not the end. You read um I at least want to read this last uh since I have down here. The palm of evil is not an answer by human argument, but by divine action. By the author of creation. Himself who entered his own story and the person of Jesus Christ to redeem his fallen creatures and glorify his name forever. When you're talking to individuals about evil, try to point them to the Savior We will never fully be able to comprehend the depths of evil where it came from. But what we do know is that God uses and ordains evil. To bring about his glory. And if we could play a small part in that, in the way that we live, it is worth it. For his name's sake. Thank you all for this opportunity. I pray that you're able to go through the rest of the notes. Forgive me for my inability to read this morning. Um Let me first out. Father God, I thank you for this topic. I thank you for um Scott Christensen's insights to even put this together in terms uh in this format of looking at your story through the lens of a movie. The conflict that we put on ourselves. And how you came in to resolve that conflict because you knew that we did not have the ability to. I thank you for each and every person here this morning. I pray as we prepare to go out into your sanctuary to hear Your word proclaims that we will be excited about this story. There's so many books that we share with one another in terms of cookbooks, help books, workout books. But do we read your story? Do we reflect on your greatness, your patience, your love? In how you put into place a plan to redeem sinners since the inception of the world to magnify yourself Father God, it is unfortunate that we have natural and moral evil and sometimes we are consequences of it. But as we begin to understand that you use evil and ordain it to bring about glory to yourself I wouldn't say that we fully welcome it at all times, O Lord, but we understand and we will have understanding for why you're using it in our lives. Thank you for the class this morning. Thank you for the opportunity to um share your share your word with them. I pray that you are with them not only here but throughout the week and I pray that if anybody's going through any health problems or Any physical challenges right now, Father God, that you would have your hands upon them if they're going through any marital problems, any friends' problems, that you will have your hands on them right now, Father God. May your name be glorified in every aspect of our lives Not just today, but tomorrow and always. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen.