Uh let's start out with a word of prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for this wonderful words day that you have made. I thank you for each and every one of my brothers and sisters here. What a joy it is to be part of the body of Christ. To have so many brothers and sisters wherever we go, to be a great family, all adopted. in Christ into your family. We thank you, Lord, for the opportunity we have right now to gather around your word. We pray that through your Holy Spirit you would open our hearts and minds so that we could truly understand what you're trying to teach us from your word today. And we pray, Lord, that we would be not just hearers of the word, but doers. That everything that we learn from your word would be something that we can apply to our lives so that we can be better servants of Christ, so that we can be better servants of others, so that we can glorify your name. We thank you, Lord, for who you are and what you've done. We thank you for your great plan of redemption in Christ that you've revealed in the pages of Scripture from Genesis to Revelation. We thank you for your great love in sending Christ to die on the cross for our sins. And it's in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. Amen. All right, so we have arrived at uh part five. It was uh very interesting for me to be sitting out in uh in the audience and hearing someone else teach uh this class. Uh but I thought he did a great job and uh I don't I don't know if you saw the uh the message from Pastor Gabe, but uh we did. The the elders unanimously decided to uh offer Pastor Antonio a position and he immediately accepted and so he's going to be coming. He's got some things to wrap up in California before he comes here. But we should be seeing him soon So that's yeah, it's a good uh uh it's it's a good thing that the war is gone to bring uh customer and Alright, uh so lesson number five and chapter four in the book, and it's uh entitled Who is to blame? Who's to blame for the evil in the world? That's what we're going to talk about today. So who's to blame? The problem of moral responsibility is what we're talking about. We'll talk about uh this question, is God the author of evil? We'll talk about moral responsibility in Scripture. How does the scriptures, what does the scriptures have to say about moral responsibility? We'll talk about God's supremely good intentions and everything he does. And then we'll talk about biblical compatibilism. a strange word that doesn't really roll off the tongue, compatibilism. But we'll talk about what that means and what it is and how it's worked out in the pages of Scripture. But first let's take a look back at uh what uh Pastor Antonio went through last time. So the last time we talked about God and who he is, we talked about his holiness, his sovereignty, and his goodness. So his holiness Um there's two kind of respects aspects to his holiness. One is the his righteousness, the things that he does, and then the other is who he is So in respect to what he does, his acts of righteousness, we've got many scriptures and and Pastor Antonio many scriptures he's morally and ethically perfect. He's relationally distinct and separate from sin, so there's no sin in him And in terms of righteousness, right, actions, that part of divine holiness is a communicable attribute. We can have it too. In fact, when we're in heaven, we'll be saved from the presence of sin. We'll be righteous in that respect, as God is righteous. However, there's another component of his holiness that Pastor Antonio talked about last time that makes him completely distinct. He is not a creature. He is holy in his being. He is transcendent. He is God and we're not. And so in that respect, that kind of holiness, his transcendent holiness, is an incommunicable attribute. We can never be God. We can never be transcendent like God is. So that part of his holiness, we can't be like that. We also talked about his sovereignty. We'll talk more about his sovereignty as the class goes on, but his decrees are eternal, unchangeable, unconditional. We see this throughout Scripture, Old Testament, New Testament. We went through some of these scriptures. We talked about this last time, Psalm 33 and Isaiah 46. His decrees are exhaustive. Every means, end, contingency, desire, and choice operates under his providential guidance. So everything is under his control. We see that in Romans 8 and 11 and Isaiah 45. And we also get this repeated reminder throughout Scripture that nothing is too difficult for God. He can do anything. And that's part of his sovereignty that we talked about last time. And then the final thing we talked about last time was God's goodness. He's the source and the standard of goodness. Um and God's ultimate source is the ultimate source of every good that proceeds from him to his creatures. And so We talked about this in the very first class, that without a standard of good, you can't define good and evil without some sort of a standard. Um and that standard is God. He is good and he has uh kind of promulgated for his creatures um moral rules, moral laws that are the standard of good behavior for these creatures, and that's the definition of good God and his decrees are good, and so evil is defined as any deviation from that standard. And we talked about the fact that good can exist without evil, but evil can't exist without some standard of good from which it is a departure. So, for example, in heaven there will be good without evil. But the the the the term evil doesn't even make any sense without some standard from which it's a departure. So uh hold on for one second, I'll get to you in a second. So uh what I talked about the very first class was if you're discussing the problem of evil with an unbeliever, one of the things to make sure to do somewhere in the conversation is ask him how he defines good and evil. What is his standard and where does it come from? And why why should we pay any attention to his standard? Why does he pay any attention to his standard And just make sure you s just listen to what he says. Because without a transcendent standard of good, there's no there's no way to define this concept that could be put at hand. God is good, but evil can't even be defined without good I mean this is of good in some way. And I find it very interesting that God is also light. And dark is a thing you can't define Either there's no such thing as darkness, it's just the absence of light. Just like evil is the absence of good. Yet both of those are attributes of what God is. He's all good and he's all light. Yeah, that that is why the analogy of light works so well with God and why it's used in scripture so often to describe God as light uh it because it fits in that in that way. Very good. Alright. Any any other questions or comments from last yes. So on the subject of that that God is good. So God is good and so holy that He has no evil. But the what was brought up last in brought up in the book and brought up past times to God So how in what sense can God create evil and evil absolute evil All right, so that's today's class. That is today's class. So that's what we're going to talk about today. So Hold that question so we get it to the meat of today's lesson. That's what we're going to talk about. That really is the heart of the Odyssey. How can these things both be? Uh yeah, that's what we'll talk about. So um so uh going back to God's goodness, he's determined to turn a heal of himself and said it's a fact on others. He's worthy of all praise because of his goodness. And there's a quote that Pastor Antonio gave from the book last time the believer's hope is grounded in these two realities in all sovereign God in which nothing escapes his plans, and an all-good God in which everything, no matter how good of that, serves these same supreme good plans God is not causing some things to work for good, He is not causing only good things to work for good, He is causing all things, whether good or bad, to work for His redeeming Children and their abundant good. Um and I would add for his glory. Uh yeah Okay. So uh that was last time. So today we're going to talk about how does this these things fit together. How can God be sovereign and not be blamed for evil? So who is to blame? the sense of this question. Uh and how can it be that God's not to blame, if He's sovereign, control of all these things and yet we see evil in there? How is it that this can be true and God not be to blame. So we're going to talk about who is to blame and how does this all work. So first we're going to uh first he uh the author Christensen in this chapter he starts out talking about The problem with moral responsibility. He gives an example of the tinker of Bedford. Everybody know that phrase, the tinker of Bedford? Who's the tinker of Bedford? Oh by you. His name is Budman and he wrote Pilgrim's Progress. He was a thinker and he was from Bedford, so he goes the moniker that you'll sometimes see is the thinker of Bedford So in this the beginning of this chapter, Problem of Moral Responsibility, this is the Vexing question, when facing a life in depraved fallen world, where do we cast point? Where does moral responsibility lie for the evil that we see all around us? So if, as the Bible says, God is sovereign over every detail uh time space history, the whole scope, every action. How can he escape being charged with all the evil that unfolds in his creation, moral and natural? This is the first and most fundamental charge that a theodicy must answer. So this is the purpose of thinking through these things and thinking about theodicy is Um how can God be sovereign, receive evil in the world, and he doesn't mean he's he's not gonna want it? Um and everyone has to answer that question every Every believer has to answer that question and has to be ready essentially to answer that question when the unbeliever asks us, What about evil you say that you've got a Sovereign is control of everything. Well look at all the things that we see around us. He's in charge of that. Well he must be a monster. So that's what we're gonna be working to. That's really the meat of this discussion and this this issue. And so uh in Exodus four uh the context is uh there's a burning bush And Moses turns aside and sees this burning bush that doesn't burn up. And God talks to him out of there. And in this conversation, towards the end of the conversation, when when Moses is trying to beg off the task that God's given him Saying he can't speak very well and all these things. And at the end of that conversation, God says, who has made man's mouth? Who makes him mute for death or seeing or blind? Is it not I the Lord? Well what is God saying there? Who's responsible for people being born blind? What is God saying right here? He's saying I am responsible for that. We'll get in a later lesson to uh a detailed talk about the man born blind. Um So w the man born blind, when Jesus meets the man born blind, so he's an adult now, the parents say he's of age, so he can speak for himself. So he's the all his life as a blind man And what what did the disciples ask Jesus? Who said that this man was born blind? Um well who made him blind according to Exodus 4. 11? And what does Jesus say? Neither this man nor his parents sinned, but for the glory of God For God's greater glory, the greater glory the Odyssey, this man was born blind and lived his whole life blind for this moment where Jesus can heal and bring glory to God. That's what the Scripture says Um, and that sounds harsh to our ears when we think that through. He made a guy blind for his whole life. So I'll tell you not his whole life, but up through adulthood, so that his glory could be modified uh magnified in the moment where Jesus healed him. Now We also don't know what would have happened to the rest of his life if he wasn't born blind. If he wasn't blind, maybe he dies when he's free from some freak accident because he ran over the edge of something Um we that's uh something we can have no possible knowledge of, right? Yeah. I think it also depends on our definition of phrase that because if they That is bad to be of course this is a political situation, but I think it it comes down to what our standards are and whether they're really based on Right. That's that's a good point. So yes, and so what is good and what is bad is God is good and he's the definition good and everything he does is good And so the fact that that man was born blind was for a good purpose. Good intention for that man to be born blind. Okay Uh so as we continue. So then the question is, so does all this that we've learned, all this that we've talked about, does that mean that God is the author of people No. Is he the author of the no, yes. Alright, let's talk about that. Um so we uh we have there he makes an analogy in the in the book. He he makes it uh several times during the book Um and you made the case in the last chapter, he brought it up in the last chapter, we'll bring it up again, that God can be considered the transcendent author Who crafts the unfolding plot line of history? In other words, he's like an author who's writing history. Um and he makes an analogy here to J. R. Tolkien, he made up the Middle Earth stories, he's the author And he says in the chapter, well, nobody blames Tolkien for the evil stuff that Sauron does. Everybody knows Sauron is uh say that that that Tolkien's a wicked man because Sauron did wicked stuff in the book Nobody says that, right? Um he made up the whole story, the whole world of Middle Earth, including the uh the moral structure of what is considered good and what's considered bad inside Middle Earth. He made all that Um but nobody says that that Tolkien should be thrown in prison because Sarov did bad things in the book he wrote. Right. Um so it's uh he's making that analogy to God as the author of history. Um of course the yes. Chapter 5 of paragraph 4 says that God orders and governs the sins of men and angels to his holy end is so Sinfulness thereof proceeds only from the creature and not from God, to being both holy and righteous, neither can be, neither is or can be the proof. Yeah, so uh uh the WCF five four and three one are both applicable to this, and I I think they did a good job of explaining that in the Westminster Community So yes, uh absolutely the simpleness of the act doesn't proceed from the simplest proceeding from Right. Yeah. And we're going to talk about how that works and the fact that there's some mystery there as well. Um but so the whole evangelical truth tradition has consistently denied that God is the author of sin. He doesn't make people sin, for example. He doesn't sin and doesn't make people sin So we have to carefully delineate what we mean by the God as the author of the metaphor. And typically what we mean, God can't be the author of sin, is no different for Calvinists and Arminians. He can't be justified as lame for sin or evil. He is not the doer of evil. He is not infusing evil will or implant evil thoughts into the creaturely mind. So that that's the the background to to come at this question. God is not doing evil, he's not enticing people to evil, he's not implanting evil thoughts into their minds. Um that's not how his sovereignty works. Yes, that's right. That would be completely incatible incompatible with his attributes and character as God. He can't do those things. Okay. So evil is confined to the creaturely plane of existence. It doesn't touch God. He's separate from us and sin with him doesn't touch him, it's not part of him, he can't be in the presence uh of sin as as part of his character, and so evil is only on the creature plain, therefore it can't touch him. And this means that God can't tempt others. We'll talk about James chapter 1 here in a minute. Thus it is in this sense that God cannot be the author of the evil. He can't be the author of the evil in that sense. the the sense that he's causing people to do evil, he's making people do evil, he's bending their will to evil, he's not doing that. Uh he couldn't do that and st and still be done. So he's not the author of evil in that sense. However, uh, and because he is the supremely control of all things, we we have to be able to say that God is the author of evil in a different sense. He's the author of the entire picture, and that picture includes evil, uh, but he's not the one that's that's doing evil or enticing or causing people. to do evil. But he is the author of everything in his sovereignty. So it's a it's a we have to be careful about in what sense He's the author. So he has an essentially an asymmetrical relationship to good and evil. He's the the author, the source of all goodness, and all good in the world directly proceeds from him. Without him there is no goodness. It all comes from him. Every good gift comes from the Father. So um And for the same reason God cannot be the direct cause of evil. Nonetheless, he ordains all evil to exist as the one who stands outside history as its author. God is the ultimate cause of everything without being the direct cause of evil. So this is something that's not easy for us to wrap our minds around. Not easy. And we're going to give I'm going to give some examples in Scripture so you can see this. You can see it with your own eyes. You can watch it happen with your own eyes when we go through the scriptural examples. So only creatures who do evil can be said to be the direct or immediate cause of their evil thoughts and actions, even as God must be the mysterious and remote indirect cause of those same actions. This all history is under his uh authority. All right. Um So continue with moral responsibility in Scripture. So where does Scripture locate moral responsibility when is the general topic of moral responsibility? What does scripture have say say about that. Well there's two criteria that we see uh in the Bible to answer this question of of how do we determine moral responsibility So first, as human beings, we possess an innate knowledge of good and evil. Paul talks about this in Romans 1 and 2. We have a conscience. We have it's imprinted on our heart, good and evil. Now people can sear their conscience. You can be in habitual evil to the point where you no longer feel guilty about it But that doesn't mean you don't still have an innate knowledge of what is wrong and what's right. People are are imprinted that it by God are imprinted with that uh uh innate understanding of the nature of good and evil. Uh so um God gave the Israelites the Ten Commandments with the moral law. But most people in history had never heard of the Ten Commandments, most people that lived throughout history Uh you have thousands of years of Chinese people and Incas and Aztecs and they never heard of the the tank. But that doesn't matter because God has written the substance of these fundamental moral laws in the hearts of every human being, whether they read the tenth of the And Paul talks about this in Romans 2, 14 and 15. He explains that the human conscience bears witness to moral right and law. So that's one, every human being is imprinted with this innate knowledge of right and wrong. And secondly, moral responsibility is crucially tied to the intentions of the heart. In Scripture, over and over again, the intentions of the heart. Not always the external action that everybody else can see, but what's in your heart with the intentions of the heart, that's what the scripture focuses on for moral responsibility. So, for example, in Proverbs 423, keep your heart with all vigilance, for from it flow the springs of life Jesus said, for where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. Matthew 6. 21. The heart forms the fundamental desires, determines the choices that we make. So what does the scripture say about the human of hearts? Say look. Genesis 6. 5, then the Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great on the earth and that every intent of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. That's what the scripture says about the human heart. There is no one who does good. The Lord has looked down from heaven upon the sons of men to see if there are any who understand, who seek after God. They have all turned aside Together they have become corrupt. There is no one who does good, not even one. That's Psalm 14, 2 and 3. Now take a look at Psalm 53. There is no one who does good. God has looked down from heaven upon the sons of men to see if there is anyone who understands, who seeks after God. Every one of them is turned aside, together they have become corrupt. There is no one who does good, not even one. So when we see something like this in Scripture, where the Holy Spirit essentially stamps his foot and says, hey, pay attention to this because I'm saying it over and over again, what does this tell us? It's important. It's something that's fundamental to understanding life. This is a fundamental principle of life. Jeremiah 17, the heart is more deceitful than all else, and is desperately sick. Who can understand it? I, the Lord, search the heart, I test the mind, even to give each man according to his ways. according to the results of his deeds. So it's the intentions of the heart determine moral responsibility, and this is what God looks at Let's continue. So we saw Psalm 14, we saw Psalm 53, Romans 3. As it is written, there is none righteous, not even one, there is none who understands. There is none who seeks for God, all have turned aside, together they have become useless. There is none who does good. There is not even one So the Holy Spirit says it twice in the Old Testament and then quotes it for good measure in the New Testament to make sure that everybody understands that this is the reality of the human heart. So Romans 3. 10 to 12 is quoting both Psalm 14 and Psalm 53. For all of sin and fall short of the glory of God, Romans 3. 21. So this is once again the standard that God has set, the the glory of God is his perfect holiness. Uh that's the standard. All have departed from that standard by s and that sin departing from God's goodness is sin and fall short of God's glory. And then James chapter one, this is key to determine where who's responsible for the evil that people do James 1, 13 to 17 says, Let no one say when he is tempted, I am being tempted by God, for God cannot be tempted by evil, and he himself does not tempt anyone. But each one is tempted when he is carried away, enticed by his own lust. Then when lust is conceived, it gives birth to sin, when sin is accomplished, it brings forth the action. Do not be deceived, my beloved brethren. Every good thing given and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights, with whom there is no variation or shifting of shadow. So who is morally responsibility for evil? We are I am. Where does all the goodness in meeting everybody else come from? The father of lights. Mm. And so this is really clear the way James explains it. Yes, sorry. So I've always heard that one passage to say that it's Jesus being tempted in the wilderness, but that's Yeah, so it of course Jesus is the hypostatic union the union of 100% man, 100% God, a divine will and a human will. So his human will was subject to temptation. Divine will not. Hypostatic union. Hundred percent God, hundred percent man. So as man, subject to temptation, as God not subject to temptation So not able to sin as the divine being, but as the human being, 100% human being, subject to temptation as we are, as we see in Hebrews. Hebrews says that he was subject to temptation in every respect, as we are, because he was 100% man. But because he was a hundred percent God, he was able to one hundred percent resist that you're not so this is the mystery of the hypostatic union one hundred percent god hundred percent man of Christ and why he needed to be both a hundred percent man and one hundred percent God. So if he wasn't hundred percent man he couldn't be tempted But he was a hundred percent man, so he was tempted in every way, it's real. Uh but because he was a hundred percent God, he passed the test. That's the wrong. Yes. Follow up on that question. Sure. That verse says uh uh each one is tempted when he is carried away by his own lust. Yes. There lust are being desired. The temptations that Christ is here is what did people do you think they were doing by his was or So uh Satan um gave him temptations that are common to human desires. Right Lust of the eyes, pride of life, and the bo uh lust of the eyes, lust of the flesh, and sinful pride of life. Most of pride of life. Those three things. Same thing, three things you do with Eve. I th that uh that John talks about in the first first second. Um so yes, he tented in accordance with what desires uh are common to human beings. That's what he did. That's what's saying that we got to this in a different way. So what we're saying is ultimately So Christ was given the opportunity to be tempted. Ultimately it's his part that is or is not tempted Because he is ultimate good. There was no temptation internally. He had the opportunity presented by Satan But there was no instance in which he was maybe I'll do that. Yeah, so no, he wasn't carrying away his own lust because he didn't have any lust Right. But the the mystery is how he was a hundred percent man and a hundred percent God. So in his human will he was subject to tempting. In his divine will, he was not subject to sinning. Right. So Satan it was futile for Satan to try to tempt him. But he did tempt his human will. Yeah. Yeah. So so so he desired. I guess you can say it that way. But this passage of course is talking about people. It's talking about us. And so i it's it's really It's a James is a very practical book. It's how to live practically as a follower of Christ. It's not really addressed to Christ, the how to live as Christ. It it's just to us to have a live as a follower of press. Yes. So I was gonna say that same thing as the hang up with Jesus and the temptation here is the word lust, which is also desire and it's As a human, he desired food, and we know he desired to bring all people to him, and so he was being tempted by Satan for those desires that were natural in him, but he wasn't carried away Right. And so what what was Satan trying to get Jesus to do? Worship him. Trying to get him to worship Satan. Right? That's what Satan was trying to get him to do by tempting him with these various desires. Um and of course Jesus was not going. And he quoted of course scripture in each case, and you just quote it from which quote? So it is a key distinction between regular people and just the Jesus did not have a sin nature. Correct. That's it. That's it. So we're going to talk about that in a minute. That he did not have a sin nature. He was fully human, but he did not have a sin nature like we do. And of course, yeah. And so there are and there are some fine points that the scripture makes about him being the seed of the woman. not the sea of a romance. Um so not um in that sense Adam's descending and not uh not Um inheriting the sin nature uh from Adam. Um but yes, yeah that's that's a a good way to think of it as well So here we have it in James telling us in James chapter one that where do we locate the moral responsibility for sin located in the person who is carried away by his own lust and um and so that's not God. That responsibility is obvious. It comes out obviously If you look at scripture where the moral responsibility lies. Then he talks about God's supremely good intentions for everything he does. Pages seventy to seventy two. So the Bible's testimony about moral responsibility is crucially tied to one's internal motivations, desires, purposes. intentions and that has application implications for whether God can be held responsible for evil. So God has motivations, desires, purposes, and and intentions as well. But they can in no sense be regarded as evil. Evil doesn't touch him, it's not part of his character, it can't be part of who he is So his uniqueness as transcendent and sovereign Lord of the universe, as we talked about last time, means that his intentions are always pure and good and righteous. Uh we see that come out in Isaiah uh forty-six. I think we talked uh I think uh Pastor Antonio read this passage last time, but Isaiah 46, 9-11, remember the former things long past, for I am God and there is no other. I am God and there is no one like me. Declaring the end from the beginning That's talking about God's sovereignty. And from ancient times, things which had not been done, saying, My purpose will be established and I will accomplish all my good pleasure. Calling a bird of prey from the east. So he controls what the animals do. the man of my purpose from a far country. That's what all the people do. Truly I have spoken, truly I will bring it to pass. I have planned it. Surely I will do it So this is talking about God and his sovereignty. And God is like this and we are not The term good pleasure in this passage, hepes, means to will something in which one finds delight or pleasure. to will something in which one finds light or pleasure. Psalm 54 uses the same term, the same Hebrew terminology, for you are not a God who takes pleasure in wickedness. No evil dwells in you. So God could never take pleasure in evil. He takes pleasure in all that he does, according to Psalm 46, and according to Psalm 5, he could never take pleasure in wickedness or evil. So all that he does is good and not wicked worthy. The utter holiness, goodness, righteousness, and justice of God makes it impossible for him to take delight in wickedness. Whatever the Lord of the universe brings to pass must have some transcendently good intention standing behind it. This is the Council of Scripture as we read it from the Old Testament to the New Testament. And there's no better example found than God's good pleasure in bringing to pass the greatest injustice that the world has ever known. In Isaiah 53, we get this same Hebrew term, that it pleased God. It was his pleasure to crush the messianic servant. The Son of God, putting into grief. How could this be true? Could God take pleasure in seeing, even ensuring without fail, that his innocent son would be murdered Is this not preposterous and blasphemous? So does that fit? Did he have a supremely good intention for the evil that the Jewish leaders and the Romans did to Christ? The answer is yes. He had a supremely good intention for bringing that to pass, the greatest evil that has ever occurred in all of history, the torture and murder of the Son of God. He had divinely good intention for that. Yes. I think there's two ways to look at the will of God. There's his decretive will for He decrees all things that comes past and then there's his deceptive will in the according to law of will according to his law, but God doesn't reach them But he still decrees it for his own holy. So yeah. And so the the author calls that his sovereign will and his moral will. That's how the author describes that concept which you've just had this year. Yeah. Yes. Yes, go ahead. Yes. But uh it is God's intention to um make Christ sin for us so that we become righteous. So a a a massively good result from the evil that the Jewish leaders and the Romans did. I think the difference is God knows the outcome and we don't. We don't have the mind of God. You know, we want to know why, why was evil Happening, but God knows it's ultimately for some good good purpose. And we have to accept that by faith He not only knows it, but my purpose will be established and I will accomplish my good pleasure. I have spoken, I will bring it to pass. I have planned it, surely I will do it. It's not just a well I I looked forward and and well we did this thing so I guess I'll have to make some good out of it, you know, it's to The the women sinners gave me lemons, I gotta make lunday. No. He planned this all from the beginning. All of it. Uh yes. Got um ultimately august straight uh evil always for his end victory And we talk about man blaming God, perfect example. Man has always blamed God from the very beginning. Uh and for example, uh said the woman you came leave. I went to sleep single and woke up married But but he's without real to um uh the greater good ends at all is that uh he also Um everyone that was a part of that act, that civil act, was accountable. Right. They were responsible. God cursed every last word now. And that's still applied today. But the greater good is that that God promised us a a Savior. We have a hope. And I wondered, you know, when God gave, you know, uh them this this hope, not understanding that it was Christ But he gave us glimpse after glimpse after glimpse of this hope. That is the mercy to God in the even in the midst of ego Evil, God orchestrated it for his end gain, for his end glory. Yeah, so it goes all the way back to Genesis chapter 3 in the fall, in the in the aftermath of the fall You already had a promise of the of the the side. Yes. Dan. Um basically the first question is Aren't people right for blaming God for evil since God has already in the Bible says the evil that he has And caps the whole human race, I decreed it. And then the second thing is you run into another problem is how can God create a perfect being? without a sinful nature and without any sinful desire and that person participates in sin. That was the state of Adam. Perfect, even the angelic post before his um sin against God. These are perfect absolutely perfect things without any evil design because God cannot do anything evil or create anything evil. Yeah, so what does James 1 say Um help me out of here. Let no one say when he is tempted, I am being tempted by God, for God cannot be tempted by evil, and he himself does not tempt anyone. But each one is tempted when he is carried away in Ticed by his own lust Then when less is conceived, it gives birth to sin, and when sin is accomplished it brings forth death. So uh so how did the first sin occur? So barisai Right. What what uh so the fall of Satan, we don't the scripture doesn't say very much about the fall of Satan, but what was what did Satan desire? Be like God. Be like God. You want to be God What did Satan tempt Eve with? To be like God. So to know good and evil to be like God, he he twisted God's words. He said, did God really say And what she she looked at the fruit and saw that it was good for food and it was desirable to make one wise and she took it So let me ask you another question behind that question. I ain't gonna keep going on with questions. But the next question is, why would God have in the God The tree. Yep. And then we give a restriction about it, but he's placed it in the God. Right. For his glory. For his glory. So and we'll we'll get to more of this later on. Why um would did did the fall take God by surprise? No. No. He planned it. He planned it. And so uh the author of the book calls it a new catastrophe, a good catastrophe. Why? Why is it a good thing that people fell? Why is it ultimately a good thing that God put the tree in there? That they had a fall Because his glory, and also for us, heaven is better than Eden Heaven is better than even fallen. And so we are better off from having fallen and been redeemed than to never have fallen at all. So we're better and God's glory is magnified. And so we'll talk about this more later, but there are certain attributes of God that could not be displayed in his creation without a fault. Forgiveness, grace, mercy, uh all these things, grace in particular There can never be grace unless there is a fallen creature to to to need grace. And so God is glorified by demonstrating all of his attributes in his creation. And without the fall, he could not demonstrate all of his attributes in creation. So the fall glorifies God, and it's also for our good as well. Because heaven is better than eating And we'll have a particular lesson on that and a few lessons. He calls it a a J-shaped story rather than a U-shaped story. A U-shaped story in uh in uh in storytelling, in movies, and books is where everything starts out okay and then there's some disaster that brings everything down to a catastrophe And the hero comes along and rescues and everything's good at the end. So it starts out good, it it descends like a new to the catastrophe, and then there's a heavy new. The scriptures is a J-shaped story. It starts out in Eden, and then there's a following catastrophe, and it ends up way up here in heaven. Oh, yeah. That's ruin. Um yeah. And so that's the reason why there was a tree in the garden and there was this One command, don't eat the tree and got new and planned for them to eat from the tree and fall and re be redeemed, um, and all of that was it. It was a good intention, good plan, good brings glory to God and brings good for his creatures Okay. Um yeah, good question. Excellent question. Because these are the kind of questions that y we need to be able to answer for an unbeliever. Uh we can be able to s answer these things. So uh let's see, where was it? Um oh there were other questions though over here. Well, it was more of a statement uh falling off of Anne in that uh she was saying something about we can't know what uh God is uh uh thinking. Um But I I put my uh my uh faith and joy in like all the things that are going on in the world that We as true believers, we know the end scores. Just look at Revelation. So we know what is going to be the end. We may not know all the details to get there, but we know what the end is going to be, so Take joy in that. Christ is victorious. Through the Holy Spirit. God reveals that truth through us. So that's the hope we have. Know it. See what the end. Revelation. I tell you these things so that you may know that you have an eternal. Um okay, so um Continue with this theme. God can never take pleasure in evil. He can never have evil intentions. His pleasure stems from the unsearchable riches of good that necessarily came from the evil that was perpetrated on his son. And this is the heart of the greater good the others. That's what the author is is is talking about, and that's what the story of scripture I think tells us as well. So the transcendent author of history can never have evil intentions for the evil that he providentially ensures would take place And there's a paradox at work here, a seeming contradiction that's really no contradiction at all, just a mystery. He exercises his sovereign will in the death of his beloved son. decree, his will is decree, even as it comes at the hands of those who violate his moral will, his moral standard Um so God's sovereign will is that which he ordains to come to pass, his decrees that Bob was talking about a minute ago. His moral will always relates to what he has established and commanded as good, righteous, just, and true, because all these things proceed from his character, who he is as God. is good, righteous, just, and true nature. Alright, so uh the last thing we're gonna do, the rest of the time we're gonna talk about compatibilism. So uh I swiped this from John MacArthur. So John McCarthy wrote a systematic theology with a man named Richard Mayhew. It's called the Biblical Doctrine A Systematic Summary of Bible trees. So this is from MacArthur's systematic theology. Compatibilistic theodicy. Compatibilism holds that when properly defined, human free will and divine determinism are complementary ideas. That is, it is possible to accept both without being logically inconsistent. Compatibilism contends that one's will is free within the boundaries of one's nature. Unregenerated human will is free only within the limitations of human finiteness and depravity. Since depraved human nature cannot obey God, fallen humans are free only to sin. While humans sin freely in that they want to sin, doing so without coercion. A biblical theodicy accords with a compatibilistic view of human freedom A biblical theodicy assumes not that man in his fallenness has the ability to obey God, but rather that fallen humans in their corrupted nature choose only what serves their own pleasure and power. And then you give some biblical principles that explain it. So we'll talk about these things as we go. That God prefers all advance, Ephesians 11 The Paul resulted in difficulties and catastrophes. God predetermines sin but makes man accountable for his sin. God hardens sinners in sin. God never tempts people to sin. God is never blamed in Scripture for sin or portrayed as enjoying the sin he permits. God never coerces man to sin but ordains that man sin freely and thus be culpable. God controls people's sin working mysteriously through secondary causes. God is glorified in his justice when he causes calamities and judges sin. God has graciously provided salvation from sin for those who believe in Christ. So those are principles that MacArthur lays out that are make compatibilism through from a scriptural perspective. And we're gonna talk about this in much more detail right now. So uh let's talk about compatibilism. So it's an attempt to reconcile these two theological propositions that seem to be in opposition to one another. One, that that every event is causally determined by God's sovereign decree on the one hand, with the free will and moral responsibility of man on the other hand. That both do exist and are compatible with one another. That's compatibilism And so let's take a stick away. The definition of the will is fixed by the biblical truths of original sin and spiritual depravity of man So these two truths render the definition of will in regard to fallen man as captive to sin. Acts 8. 25 A slave to sin, John 8. 34, Romans 6, 16 to 17, and subject only to its master, which is sin, Romans 6. 14 These are biblical illustrations of the will being in bondage to sin, the human will, of fallen man, the natural man. unregenerate man. Therefore the will of man is free to do as it wishes, but it wishes to act according to its nature. And since the nature of the fallen will is sinful, every intent of the thoughts of the fallen man's heart is only evil continually. as we saw in Genesis 6. 5. What man wills to do is subject to and determined solely by his nature. He will act in accordance with nature as nature is fallen, and bodies to sin, and slave to sin, and obeys its master, sin So man is free to choose that which is determined by his nature or by the laws of nature. To illustrate, I cannot choose to float up to the ceiling. I I I I I can say, hey, I'd like to float up to the ceiling. But uh that's a choice I cannot make. I cannot float up to the ceiling. Why can I not float up to the ceiling Because the laws of nature's gravity prohibited. But this does not mean that I am not free. I don't s I don't s I don't say I don't have free will because I can't flip up to the ceiling. Right? Because I can't make a choice that's impossible or it's a a choice that's contrary to nature, the laws of nature. Right? It doesn't mean I'm not free because I can't float up in the ceiling. Theologically speaking, though, the natural man is unable to submit himself to the law of God, Romans 8, 7, and 8, and unable to come to Christ unless the Father draws him to himself, John 6, 44. The natural man still acts freely in respect to his nature. He freely and actively suppresses the truth in unrighteousness. Romans 1. 18 Because his nature renders him unable to do otherwise many, many scriptures that say so. Some of which we've already talked about. Psalm 14, Psalm 53, Jeremiah 13, Romans 3, Job 15. The spiritual reality is that every bit, it is every bit as fixed and inescapable as the law of gravity The unregenerate man cannot act righteously just as I cannot float up to the ceiling. See that? Everybody see that? You can't do something that's contrary to your nature, that's contrary to the laws of nature. And the spiritual law of nature is that an unregenerate man cannot act righteously He's free to act in accordance to his will. I'm free, as an unregenerate man, I was free to act in accordance with my will, which and my will was always to do evil, to be sinful Okay. There's two good examples of this. Jesus confirms this concept, and they're found in Matthew 7 and Matthew 12, and I'll try to go through them. Matthew 7 is a good tree and a bad tree. Uh a bad tree cannot bear good fruit. Right? A bad tree cannot it has to be turned into a good fruit So this illustration is about unregenerate man and regenerate man. An unregenerate man is a bad tree. It cannot bear good fruit unless it's turned into a good tree. Matthew 12 is Jesus talks about a good man brings forth good from the good that's in his heart, an evil man brings forth evil from the evil that's in his heart. So an evil man can only produce evil because his heart is evil. He has to be turned into a good man. He has to be regenerated, uh regenerated by the Holy Spirit in order to become a good man. Otherwise, he only does evil out of the evil that's easy. And so Jesus is illustrating this concept in both those places, Matthew seven and Matthew twelve. Alright, and so I'll finish with an illustration from Scripture, a long illustration from Scripture of this principle. It takes up 14 chapters in the Zupoga Jesus. From Genesis thirty-seven to Genesis fifty. It's the story of Joseph and his brothers and his family. So it starts in Genesis thirty-seven. I think we're all pretty familiar with the story Uh Joseph's brothers hated him because his father loved him more and they all knew it. They knew that this little s snot Joseph the father's favorite. Um and so yeah, and so he kind of he was he was a teenager anyway. So full of himself. Anyway, so but he also had dreams and there was a dream and interpretation of dreams with all his brothers down not only his brothers but his father and his mother down to him. uh in Genesis 37, 5 to 11. So the brothers didn't like it. And they got an opportunity and they sold them as a slave to a traveling Medianite trader. They were on their way to Egypt. Then they uh dipped his tunic in blood of a slain goat in order to deceive the father of the thing Joseph has been bought. So they planned their crime Right? They planned their crime, they they made up uh fake evidence to fool their father. They this was definitely pre-meditated After many years during which Joseph had and he was thrown into prison, his life keeps getting worse and worse, but the Lord is always with him and blesses him and raises him up to be the Prime Minister of Egypt. And then the brothers have become, and he reveals himself in chapter, Genesis chapter 45, he reveals himself to the brothers. At the end of that sequence where he's revealing himself to his brothers, Joseph says a remarkable thing. So then, it was not you who sent me here, but God. He made me father to Pharaoh, Lord of his entire household, and ruler of all Egypt. Genesis 458. So who does Joseph say sent him to Egypt? That God caused them to be sold into slavery and thrown into prison. That God was responsible for all that. And in Genesis 50, later on when they're still they're still wrecked by guilt and afraid that Joseph will take retribution on him. Genesis 50 is after the the father Jacob dies and they think, well, he's just being nice to us because dad's still alive. Once dad's gone, then he's gonna pounce on us And Joseph's reaction to that is, Genesis 50, 20, you intended to harm me, but God intended it for good. To accomplish what is now being done, the saving of many lives. The Genesis story tells us that it was in fact the brothers who sold Joseph into Egypt. However, Joseph makes it clear that God had done so. Those who reject the concept of compatibilism would say that this verse is simply stating that God used Joseph's brother's actions for good. However, this is not what the text says. From Genesis 45 to 50, we are told that Joseph's brothers had sent Joseph to Egypt. That's one. Number two, God had sent Joseph to Egypt. Number three, Joseph's brothers had evil intentions in sending Joseph to Egypt. Egypt. And number four, God had good intentions in sending Joseph to Egypt. So the question is, who sent Joseph to Egypt? The bewildering answer is that both Joseph's brothers and God sent him to Egypt. It was one action being carried out by two enemies, the brothers and God doing it simultaneously, one for evil intentions. And one for good intentions. That is compatibilism in action. Yes. So the Westminster Confessor State in Chapter Five refers to that as the full causality, not the primary cause. And then the secondary. Yes. It does. And that's right. Um and there's a um There's a an illustration of that in the in the book. It's it's this one right here. God is the remote primary cause humans to be made for secondary cause and it ends up with a human action like being sold in Yes, another term for that is divided concurrents. Yep. Yep. Yeah. And uh and the fancy theological term that we're using here is compatible with it. This is also uh uh predestination, right? I mean God uh uh sovereignty and predestined uh Isaiah forty six human Isaiah forty six. I find it from the beginning. From the free will. Indeed. Alright. So uh any questions about any of that? Uh uh we've got a whole list of discussion questions from the end of the chapter, but I want to give you a chance to ask the questions that are burning your mind right now as you heard all this. So this is a heavy chapter. It's not easy to understand these concepts. Really. Yes. So that would be for the ball. How does how does that relate to people as those data since they didn't yet have a full nature? So they didn't have a s a fall in nature, right, that's right. Uh but they did evidently, um, have the ability to be tempted. Um they still had a human nature in the fact that they were temptable. And so along comes Satan and tempts him, and the temptation leads to sin. And so that is, as you point out, prior to a fallen nature. So they still had a human nature in the sense that they were extensive. beginning of like God knows well everything but like what would happen um if you uh like let's just say like a car accident did happen and what would happen if it didn't happen. Yeah, so yeah, so like I was just wondering like will we ever next when we get up go there and ask God like hey I mean I had this car I Yeah, so perhaps. He does know what would have happened under other circumstances. theoretically possible that we could have some alternative possibilities when we go to heaven. However, the scripture uh uh I think makes clear that we'll be really wrapped up in worshiping people. So I think we're it's likely that we won't that will not really be our concern. But we it's possible that we uh it's theoretically possible we could ask him to think that is uh remote like an excuse for divine the else Um in what sense do you mean? It's like it is um that is great. I mean you can But it is uh in the defined will that we get elected. Well so yes. So God has this divine plan that includes acts of human evil. But he also preempts acts of evil at his will as well. So for example, when Herod decided to kill all the babies in Bethlehem God had an angel go to Mary and Joseph and tell them to go to Egypt so that Satan's plan to kill Jesus wouldn't work. So he preempted At least a certain part of that evil that Satan planned. Now notice what he didn't do. He didn't warn all the Bethlehemites. So lots of babies died But so that was God's sovereign will that he preempted some evil and not other evil Right? So we have no idea how much evil he has preempted. We never know how much he has preempted. sin um be innocent but quite capable of uh sin. Yeah. When we get to heaven, you will not send someone to sin. Do you think it's because we no longer have the uh um simple nature or is it because of something else? I think that's no, it's a good question. So I think the s the sin nature is completely gone in heaven. Okay. So we're better than Adam. Yes. Right? Because Adam still was temptible. Yes, and we won't be. So the sin nature is all these things that we're talking about, the intent of the heart So all these scripture verses that that I did a few minutes ago about the intention of the hard is always evil uh continually, that's the sin nature. All those uh scriptures that I talked about in the section on moral responsibility, all of those scriptures are a way of defining the sin nature. The ones that talk about the fact that people are slaves to sin. That's the sin nature. All of those scriptures that talk about our our depravity, our inborn depravity in Romans chapter 1, that's the same nature. The ch the challenge I that's that's quite that's very reasonable and makes sense to me. The only challenge that I'm trying to work through my mind is that's the nature of that something that it was well was it in Adam when he sinned or no and it wasn't no so all he had to do Well once he succumbs to it, then it became dominant in him and he has that Yes. Yeah, that was part of the curse. Yep. Okay. Okay. Would it be fair to say that before Adam and Eve committed to Ag that we did not love the word their God with all their heart, for mind, and structure. So um Mm perhaps. Um they didn't have that commandment yet I mean they only had one command. So yeah, so uh in that sense you could say, well, if they loved him, they would have obeyed his command Yes. I think that's a that's a reasonable way to think about it. If if they had loved them, it was close to that. Yes. So um so they have they had that sin nature and evil in general about evil, the we would boil down into that we as humans we want to disobey God and therefore disobeying God stands evil and I would say that. Right. We we sin because we're sinners and we're sinners because we sin. Both And the sin nature makes it so that's the only way direction we can go without being regenerated by our industry. Um I have a question about free will again. So I've always been told with the uh fall, with Adam and B that it was based off of free will. So after what you said how there was good intention and the ultimate purpose was sort of us to go to heaven, which that hit, I love that. Um I'm now confused with the free will. So Promat this thing and what you're saying is that is every evil intention, there's good intention behind So uh so God's intentions are always good. So if if He allows so think of God as a filter. If He allows evil through His filter, then there's a good intention for that evil. He filters out lots of evil that we don't really know about but he doesn't allow. But there's other evil that he allows to read through his filter, and he does it always for a good intention and purpose. Oh I'm sorry we've both been on the king of course. So the Hebrew in Genesis doesn't say that Adam and Eve were perfect or complete. It said that they were good and very good. Yes. We are not perfected or completed without the unity with the Holy Spirit. We can only be made into like Jesusness once we have the Holy Spirit That's right. So yeah, our sanctification process is a work of the Holy Spirit. Requires Christ, requires the Holy Spirit within us. Uh yes. Oh yeah, I got a another free wheel question because this is something came up. I got two questions. I'm gonna do everything in two The first one is uh um when God created Adam and Eve and the God and everything God allows free will. And by allowing free will, God Himself opened the door to sin because um And and we didn't put it open the door. I said he planned for all. Well he planned like you said he planned the whole thing because just to have surprised by their choice. A gap paid love, a real love, you there has to be a choice, it can't be forced. And God didn't force his love or have it. He gave him a choice to choose him And so that opened the door. So for in that sense, this the stress that we've been having, Adam and Eve did weren't born with a sin nature. They weren't created with a sin. sin nature. They weren't born in a normal way. They were created directly by God. They were not created with a sin nature. And so in that sense they actually had a choice. Right. That that people that are fallen and unregenerate don't have. However, the choice that they made is not a surprise to God, and he had the whole plan laid out that included the fall. So what's your second question? Because this is this has got to be the last one. So I'll I'll stick around for a while if you if you have a question. Uh dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for the opportunity to wrestle with the truths of your word. There are some things, Father, that are difficult for us to understand, but we know that you are good and you're good all the time. We thank you, Lord, for your good and perfect plan of redemption of uh fallen mankind, that that you really did in in intended for our glory and your glory uh to to make this whole plan culminating in the death, the life, death, and resurrection of Christ to redeem fallen mankind. We thank you for all that, Lord, and thank you for the opportunity we have now to worship you in corporate worship and pray that it will be acceptable in your sight and bring glory to your name. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen.