All right. Uh let's bow and pray. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for this day that you have made. We thank you for the wonderful privilege it is. to gather as the body of Christ and worship you. We thank you for your sovereignty over all creation. We thank you that you are a wonderful and creative God that has made the the wonderful and spectacular universe all around us and everything that we see of beauty We pray, Lord, that as we grapple with these difficult concepts from your word about evil and where it comes from and what the purpose is for a world that is no longer perfect like it was when you first created it, that you would give us wisdom through your Holy Spirit to truly understand your plans and your purposes as far as it is possible for us to understand. through your revealed word. We thank you, Lord, that you have revealed yourself in your word, that you've revealed some of your plans and purposes. And we thank you that you are a good God and that we can trust that your purposes are always better than our purposes could be. We thank you, Lord, for loving us and for For loving us enough to send your one and only son to die on the cross for our sins. And we thank you, Lord, that you raised him from the dead and that he sits at your right hand interceding on our behalf. We thank you for all the wonderful promises in your word. And we pray, Lord, as we study your word, that you would open our hearts and minds to your Holy Spirit so that we can truly understand what you're trying to teach us And so that we could apply it to our lives as we uh we live out the the Christian life for your glory. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Yeah. Okay, so here we are ready to start uh part two. So uh everybody now should have This book, which is actually the second book that this author, Scott Christensen, wrote about this topic. He wrote the big 550-page um seminary as essentially a uh a a seminary guide for level guide for uh this pro this uh issue And then he wrote a more popular summary and we're going to the more popular summary. And so uh if if you if you're coming in late a little bit and you you haven't yet gotten the book, we have copies of the book in the back. There's a couple of other books that I would recommend that we're going to touch on in today's lesson. The first one is called Fault Lines by Body Bauchman. Excellent book about current events and how they affect the church. Um the next two books are about the same man. Uh they're about of the man named Louis Zamparini, who we're going to talk about here in a minute, who's uh figures prominently in Chapter 1 The first book about him is by Laura Hildebrand. It's called Unbroken. They made a movie about it that you may have seen. The second book is the one he wrote about himself, called Devil at My Heels. The second book focuses quite a bit more on his conversion to Christ and his life and service to Christ afterwards. If you read the book Unbroken or saw the movie, the movie in particular stopped kind of his conversion to Christ and didn't talk anything about his life in service to Christ Uh then let my yields the book he wrote gives much more of the glory of Christ and talks about his conversion and his subsequent life as a follower. of Christ. And the the last one is called the Black Book of Communism. It's uh it's a book written uh by uh six scholars in France It's written in French. I have a English translation of it. But it documents, very thoroughly documents all the atrocities committed by communist governments around the world and with numbers, with very specific numbers of how many they killed So it's a it's a real slog with that book, but it really demonstrates the problem of evil how evil on a giant industrial scale and how we've seen it uh play out in the uh 20th century. Uh so all all good books to to talk about this problem of evil Alright, uh so we last time we did an introduction, this time we're going to dive into chapter one. Uh how many had a chance to read chapter one? Quite a few, that's good Um I posted in Chapter 1 for those that didn't have the book, but there were a there was a couple of people that had questions. I just want to address that before we start also. If you're going to Hope Book on a phone using the app, you cannot download files. So anybody that tried to look for the file on your phone through the app you you weren't able to do it. Because you can't, because the app doesn't allow that. So you have to go on a computer through a web page to the the hopebook and then you can download the files Uh including each of these lessons that I posted on it. Yeah. Um could you also go to the web page on your phone and down there? Quite possible you could, yes. Yeah, I think you could probably do that. Okay, cool. Thank you. Good point Okay, so encountering darkness chapter number one. So uh as I said before, I'm going to tell you what I'm going to tell you, then I'm going to tell you, then I'm going to tell you what I told you. So this is tell Chapter 1 of the book. We're going to look at the example of Louis Zamparini, a little bit about his life. We're going to look at moral and natural evil. We're going to look at the existential problem of evil. I'll tell you what that is. I'll give you an example here in today's class. And then we're going to talk very briefly at the end about a solution to the problem, and then of course we're going to have questions and answers. after that. So let's first let's take a look back. Some of you were not here last week, but even if you were, it helps to renew a little bit. So here's what we talked about last time Then we need to recognize the authority of God in His Word. Romans 3 may never rather let God be found true, though every man be found a liar. So if all the smartest people in the world say one thing and God in his word says another thing, who's right? God in his word. Um nothing takes presence over the word. So make sure and the second thing is make sure what we think is grounded in and correct by the Word of God In Colossians 2, Paul says, my purpose is that they may be encouraged in heart and united in love, so that they may have the full riches of complete understanding. In order that they may know the mystery of God, namely Christ, in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. So all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge are grounded in Jesus Christ and his word. And then we talked about the fact that as followers of Christ, we need to apply God's word to every area of life. It doesn't just apply to worship on Sunday mornings. It applies in all in your profession, it applies in your leisure and recreation, it applies in the boating booth, the grocery store, everywhere. The Bible touches on every area of life. Then we said that to be a follower of Christ will always involve spiritual warfare. The Christian is engaged in spiritual warfare We went through 2 Corinthians 10, 3 to 5. For though we walk in the flesh, we do not war according to the flesh. For the weapons of our warfare are not of the flesh, but divinely powerful for the destruction of fortresses We are destroying speculations in every lofty thing raised up against the knowledge of God, and we are taking every thought captive to the obedience of Christ. So in other words, spiritual warfare is warfare of the mind primarily. uh i in this i in in this uh admonition from paul, this exhortation from Paul that uh that we need to be engaging ideas that are raised up against the knowledge of Christ, against Christ. And then we always need to be ready. Uh to be a follower of Christ means you must be ready. Uh to give um um Being ready to make a defense to everyone who asks you to give an account for the hope that is in you. And we pointed out three things last time about this passage. First of all, notice that the preparation for this is not necessarily to go to seminary or to read a bunch of books. It's to sanctify Christ as Lord in your hearts. That's the preparation to make an offense that everybody is called to. Now there's nothing wrong with seminary. Not in all three books, but the scripture says that the primary preparation for us to do this is to sanctify Christ in our hearts. And then we're supposed to always be ready. And notice that we're what we're supposed to be ready to do to give an account for the hope that we have. When it is all boiled down, other worldviews, other views other than Christianity always end up in hopelessness. And so you will always see hopelessness around you in this world. And we are different. We have hope. And we're supposed to be able to give an account of that hope. And so Pastor Gates has done some excellent sermons about hope recently, where our hope is anchored. Our hope is anchored in God. And we're supposed to do that then finally with gentleness and reverence. So the truth, if we beat somebody about the heads and shoulders with the truth, it's not nearly as effective as presenting the truth with gentleness And kindness, reverence, respect, that sort of thing. Okay. Um we talked a little bit about the problem of evil, uh that the biblical worldview is the only one that really has a reasonable foundation for understanding the nature of good and evil. And for this reason it's this problem of evil is um is something that's often thrown at the Christian because we have this this view this biblical description of this all-powerful and all-loving God and so where does this evil come from? Now, of course, God is the source of all good, and the fall of man represented a rebellion against God and introduced evil to man and also to the creation which was cursed right alongside Adam. And ultimately I want everybody to have this in mind as we go through that discussion of the problem of evil provides a good opportunity to engage our secular friends, relatives, coworkers, and neighbors in spiritual conversation. We talked about the biblical answers to these tough questions. Where does evil come from? The fact that evil is not a thing in itself, it's a departure from a good standard. And so good can exist without evil, but evil can't exist without some good standard from which it's a departure. So in heaven there will be no evil. There's good there and there's good without evil in heaven. Okay. And then the the issue that we'll talk a lot more about this later, but uh the issue with how we define what it means for God to be all powerful There are certain things that are logically inconsistent, like God can't make a square circle. because a square and a circle are different things and so one cannot be the other. If you define something as a square then it can't be a circle. If you define it as a circle it can't be a square He can't make a married bachelor. The definition of a bachelor is somebody that's not married. God cannot lie. In other words, he can ungod himself Right? He's God and he is perfectly holy, so he can't do something that is unholy. He he can't unmake himself. He can't ungod himself That's not a question of power. That's a question of category. He's God and so you can't be not God. Okay. We'll talk a lot more about that later. So any questions about what we did last time? Alright, let's dive into chapter one then. And we'll take a look at the example of blue zamp for any. How many either read the book on Broken or saw the movie? Okay, quite a few people are are familiar with him then. So uh at the age of 19 he qualified for the U. S. Olympic team and he ended up finishing 8th in the 5,000 meter in 1936 Olympics in Berlin In 1934 as a high school student, he ran a mile in four minutes and 19 seconds, which at the time was the high school record. So he was the fastest high school person in the entire country. And one of the fastest men on the planet as a runner. He he ran 14 minutes and something for that five uh 5,000 meter race and the 3611 race Which is faster than five minute miles for 3. 1 miles, like 30 something miles for 3. 1 miles. He's really, really, really fast. He went to USC and ran track there. He graduated in 1940, enlisted in U. S. Army Air Forces, and earned a commission as a second lieutenant as an aviation cadet in UC All this before World War II. Following the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, the US ended in World War II and he was posted to the Pacific. So this little island for the Hoodie uh uh the intolerance too early. He was on a B-24 and then his B-24 crashed into the ocean. He was on a search mission for another plane that had gone down and his plane crashed Eight of the eleven people killed, he and two other guys survived. And they floated on a little raft for 47 days in shark-infested waters with almost no food in the water. It's the longest recorded raft, open raft uh thing ever. Uh that somebody had survived 47 days just in a raft with no food and water and everything, no other supplies. One of the guys died on day 33. At the end of all that, he was captured by the Japanese Navy. And then he spent the next two years in the PW various POW camps in Japan. under appalling conditions. Some of the conditions are described in in the book and in the movie if you saw it. Just awful conditions and torture for two years. And the primary guy that the book and the movie talk about is this guy the bird, Sergeant Museu Latanabe. Um the the prisoner, the other prisoner he and the other prisoners called him the bird because of his eyes. And so this guy tortured him, and I'm not going to go into the details of the torture Um but uh and so finally the war ended and he was liberated and he came home. But that was not the end of his torment, the torment of his soul. He couldn't adjust the civilian life. He kept having flashbacks of his time in prison He had outbursts of anger and violence. He started drinking very heavily. He would uh sometimes assault innocent bystanders in public at the slightest provocation Uh he was a a real mess coming back from this two years of being tortured in prison camp. Um and then he decided what what I really need to do is kill this guy. I need to find him and kill him, this bird. Um he had he got married, he had a young wife, and uh as the book says, she became pregnant for him and then by him Uh and so one night he had a dream that he was he was choking the bird and he woke up and he was choking his wife. Um and then his wife came home and saw him choking the baby, uh their brand new giant baby uh uh baby tiny baby, and uh and so she left it and and intended to file for divorce. But at the end of the story, what you'll see is as that was going on towards the very end, she had left him was getting ready to file for divorce. It was 1949 and the very first Billy Graham Crusade was going on in Los Angeles, which is where they lived. And she went to a Billy Graham Crusade and was saved And she dropped the divorce and dragged him to the Billy Brown for save. And he was saved. And he immediately dumped all his alcohol down the road. sink and and never had another dream of the bird. And there's the the story goes on and on and on. We won't get into the details about how he I mean he flew over to Japan so that he could face to face tell the Japanese war criminals that he forgave them and give them the gospel presentation. He was a remarkable man of service to Christ after that. Okay. We're going to drop Louis Zapparini's story for a while. But that's an example of extreme suffering due to evil. evil perpetrated by somebody else. And that that evil being perpetrated by somebody else then having cascading effects. not only on Zap Rain, but on everybody around him, the people that he assaulted, his wife, his kid, uh everybody that there were ripples of this evil going out. Uh yes, Pop. Yeah, I know this was way before it was diagnosed. Uh Um popularly, but is that a classy example of PTSC? I would say it is. Okay. Thank you. Yep. There are two categories of evil. The book brings these out. There's moral evil, and that's the case that we're talking about here with Luis Zampolini. The unrighteous thoughts, words, and actions of all morally responsible creatures, angelic and human, in violation of the Holy God's moral commands and principles, to whom all stand accountable So God has moral principles. Every morally responsible creature is accountable to those principles. that God has put forward. And so violation of those moral principles is moral evil. That's the definition of moral evil. However, there's another kind of ego. There's also natural ego. Adverse conditions in the world that also cause pain and suffering. Examples of this are natural disasters, earthquakes, tornadoes, wildfires, tsunamis, these things that happen from nature. There's also accidents Car crashes, drownings, falls, uh people can be injured and suffer pain in all kinds of different accidents. There's also sickness and disease. There's cancer, there's genetic disorders, disabilities of all kinds, there's COVID-19 pandemics. So there's all kinds of evils in the natural world that are not due to the bad behavior of some person. See that? And we see those two different categories. And as as Christians, we need to be on the account for all of it. Where did it all come? Where did all of that come from? And of course, since the fall of Adam and Eve, described in Genesis chapter 3, all human beings have been in moral rebellion against God. Adam and Eve rebelled against God. And all of us since then, all descendants of Adam and Eve, everybody in this room is a descendant of Adam and Eve. Uh we inherit a sin nature from our original parents. And we are, so we are sinful by nature, and we also all commit our own sins. So we're sinners and we sin. Um and so we're more rebelling against God every one of us. But the fall also were about a perpetual curse on the creation. The creation was cursed. The Bible says the creation groans. Because it was cursed because of Adam's rebellion against God. And that introduced natural evil into God's previously very good creation. Uh so the Paul is responsible for all of it, the moral side and the natural side. The history of the world is full of examples of the massive weight of overwhelming moral evil. The pages of history are just full of not just small examples. Not just little white laws, but mass atrocities by one person committed against another, or groups of people committed The Atlantic slave trade captured and sold fifty million men, women, and children in the fifteenth to the nineteenth century. Adolf Hitler's final solution led to the murder of six million Jews, a huge percentage of the Jews that lived in Europe prior to World War II, an enormous percentage. Under London and Stahl, the Soviet Union executed millions and sent millions more to the gulags. Ma Zenia and China starved in prison and executed over 60 million people. From 1975 to 79, the Cambodia's Khmer Rouge exterminated over two million souls, more than one quarter of the entire population of the country. These are unbelievable. It's hard to wrap our minds around the scale of the moral evil that we see in the world around us. that one person is willing to uh to to to impart this this grotesque evil in another person It just ways you raise our things. And quite frankly, of course, it also has a tendency to make us numb. Right? We see this moral evil after moral after moral evil, and no matter how sensitive you are, it begins to make us know. Okay. And of course we're constantly bombarded on the news with natural evil in the form of fires, floods, earthquakes, accidents, and diseases. It's always good news when something like that happens and we always see it. And um it it's always um It's another thing that we become kind of numbed to. Oh, there's another hurricane and another hundred people are dead, or another tsunami. And uh the one in Japan killed 18,000 Uh that's built eighteen thousand in in moments, in just a few minutes. Um including an entire elementary school full of kids. That tsunami came in and killed 18,000 people in this little town, including an entire elementary school kids. Just in a blink of an eye. So these things are they they weigh on us and and uh and the unbeliever will throw them at us. Well Look at what we see, look at the moral evil, look at the natural disasters. How can you say that you worship a good God with all of these things happening? So that's the question of theodicy. Such appalling incidents of moral wickedness and natural forces of annihilation are unrelenting and even mind-melling once the number of atrocities piles up past counting. Something is not right with the world. This is not the way it's supposed to be. Consequently, these collective ills raise the most troubling quantity that we distraught creatures can possibly face. Something's wrong. It's not the way it's supposed to be Um how can a good and almighty God allow evil to coexist in the created order he crafted with such singular beauty? Um what has become of his good creation? Why is he allowed evil to corrupt uh the landscape and the planet and its innovation? So this is this is the question of theodicy. This is what we're here to talk about for these 13 weeks. Why, why, why, why do we see all of this evil around us? Okay. So just a little aside here, this is actually from the big thick tone that the uh the seminary textbook And the author says this, unfortunately we live in a time when anemic views of God within the church persist, and unrealistic views of reality expose A saccharine weakness to our Christian outlook. And then he quotes John Piper. And so this is a quote from John Piper. And he says this about the modern church. Our vision of God in relation to evil and suffering has been shown to be frivolous. The Church has not been spending its energy to go deep with the unfathomable God of the Bible This is one of the things that we're trying to do with the men's and women's breakfast this uh this season is to do this, go deep with the unfathomable God of the Bible. Uh we did it in the men's breakfast. We're going to be doing the same thing in the in the women's breakfast as well. Against the overwhelming weight and seriousness of the Bible, much of the church is choosing at this very moment to become more light and shallow and entertainment oriented, and therefore successful in its irrelevance to massive suffering and evil. The popular god of Fun Church is simply too small and too affable to hold a hurricane in his hand. So John Piper's a kind of a scathing um criticism of church that is entertainment oriented and more like fun church and God is more like a cosmic Santa that you pray and He gives you stuff. Um and his point is the God of the Bible is not like that. And so we need to really drill down and see what is the God of the Bible really like? Um and to to be able to form a proper view of God and therefore a proper answer to those who ask about the hope that is in us in light of all the evils that we see in the world. So uh the the author of the book goes on to say this, this benign religion and its illusory notion of God obscures a living problem. We've been programmed by our culture and by our own self-centered and self-deceived nature to put all our focus on the evil that lies outside. Those things that Hitler did, the things that Mao Sedan did, the things that Joseph Stalin did, we we tend to focus on those because that's something that somebody else did and I'm not responsible for it. for that. So thinking that we are basically good, however we define good, compared to Hitler and Stalin and all those guys, well I'm not so bad. But alas, the true God who has revealed himself in his word does not allow us such a truncated and distorted perspective. We are not merely victims of evil, we are also perpetrators of evil, all of us, every one of us. As perpetrators of evil. We are violators of true good, good that is defined and exemplified by God Himself, not by us and not by the culture. God and His Word define what is good. And we not one of us lives up to that standard. We always violate, we're in rebellion against, and therefore we are perpetrators of evil. We can always point to somebody that's worse, but that's not really the point. So what does the Bible say? Romans 3, none is righteous, no not one, no one seeks for God, no one does good, not even war. Romans 3. We are selfish glory seekers, liars, deceivers, lovers of wanting pleasure, 2 Timothy 3. We are willing to kill and steal to go away, James 4. And so this does not reboard well for us. Uh the fact that the Bible goes out of its way to explain that the the the the heart of man is is wicked um and is desperately wicked. Um and it says so in the Old Testament, it says so in the New Testament, it says so throughout the pages of scripture. So at this point, so we talked about the the that moral evil and the natural evil and the fact that it's not just out there, but it's in here. The moral evil is inside my heart. But I want to take a moment to address the existential problem of evil. So the existential problem of evil is Suffering in the moment. The existential problem of evil refers to the personal and emotional struggle individuals face when confronted with suffering and evil in the world that directly impacts them right now. And it uh it it will often lead to uh questioning how a good and powerful God can allow such pain. Um and so I I've got a picture up on the screen. Does anybody know who that is? So that's Charlie Kirk up there along with his wife and his two kids, his uh a three year old daughter and a one year old son. Um he was murdered in cold blood on national TV on a Wednesday. Shot in the head. Right in front of this wife. So his wife is suffering because of a moral evil, a newer person, premeditated, planned it all out, knew when the guy was going to do it a certain place staced himself there and shot him in the head. And so the wife is suffering. The kids are suffering. She mentioned that the three-year-old came up to her later that evening and said, hey mom, where's dad? Uh what do you say to a two-year-old when that's just been shot in the head? Um the issue often leads to feelings of distance from God and challenges one's faith as it emphasizes the practical implications of evil rather than just the theoretical arguments. Evil is real, visual right there in a person's life, and it's not just a philosophical argument at that point. So if you have a friend who is suffering, do not engage in an intellectual or philosophical discussion of theodicy. Comfort your friend. That's your existential problem of evil. It's an issue, please. I beg you, if you have a friend that's suffering, don't launch into a philosophical discussion, let's be honest. Comforts your friend. Um and so um this the the wife uh actually He 'cause he's a public figure very famous and was recorded on national T V. Um she uh actually stood up and and spoke on on Friday. He was murdered on Wednesday, she spoke on Friday. And I'll just give you a few things that she said. So this is the wife of the man that was just murdered on Wednesday, speaking on Friday Two days ago, my husband Charlie went to see the face of his Savior and his God. Charlie always said that when he was gone, he wanted to be remembered for his courage and for his faith. And one of the final conversations that he had on this earth, my husband witnessed for his Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Now for all eternity he will stand at his Savior's side wearing the glorious crown of a martyr. Everybody that knew him personally um said that he was a devout follower of Christ and he always put Christ first. Charlie loved life, he loved his life, he loved America, he loved nature, which helped him always bring him closer to God. But most of all, Charlie loved his children, and he loved me with all his heart, and I knew that. Every day I knew that. He made sure I knew that every day. Every day he would ask me, how can I serve you better? How can I be a better husband? How can I be a better father? So this is the wife testifying about her husband who'd just been murdered. Charlie always believed that God's design for marriage in the family was absolutely amazing, and it is. It is and it was the greatest joy of his life. One of Charlie's favorite Bible verses was Ephesians 5. 25. Husbands love your wives, as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her. My husband laid down his life for me, for our nation, for our children. He showed the ultimate and truly covenantal love. I will never ever have the words to describe the loss that I feel in my heart. I honestly have no idea what any of this means. I know that God does, but I don't And our world is filled with evil. But our God, you guys, our God is so good. He's so incredibly good. And we know that for those who love God, all things work together for good for those who are called according to his purpose. So this is Her talking Two days, forty-eight hours after her husband was murdered, uh, right in front of her eyes. But most important of all, if you are a member of a church, I beg you to join one, a Bible-believing church. Our battle is not simply a political one. Above all, it is spiritual. It is spiritual. The spiritual work there is palpable. Charlie loved his Savior with all his heart, and he wanted every one of you to know him too He wanted everyone to know that if they confess, if they confess the Lord Jesus Christ, he rose from the dead, then they will be saved. Hear me when I say this, nobody is ever too young to know the gospel. Nobody So that was the grieving widow, and these are the words that she chose to say to the entire nation about her husband and about what kind of a man he was. I think it shows a a a depth of spiritual maturity. Um but What this this woman does not need to hear a philosophical discussion of the problem of either. She's feeling uh she says I will never ever have a way to describe the loss that I feel in my heart. Right? This is like Job right after he he finds out all of his kids uh are dead See he doesn't he doesn't have any words to say, he just sits down in the ducks. Uh this is the existential problem either. Um and so I want to make sure that we all have um that we have a good perspective. a good biblical perspective of this, that there's a time to discuss philosophy, and there's a time to put your arm around a grieving friend. And we need to have the wisdom to know the difference between those two things. Okay. So does everybody understand the existential problem of evil, what that means Okay, good. So how about a solution to the problem? So on page 15 to 17 in chapter 1, he goes through the solutions. Now In the big book, he goes through six different possible solutions to the problem of evil that Christians have had throughout history. But in this book he talks about the two primary ones. Almost everybody calls into one of these two categories. The first and most common theodicy is often called the free will defense. This solution says that evil unfortunately arises as a risk God takes when he grants free will to his moral creatures. Um I I think and we'll discuss uh that there are serious problems with this solution. And most of chapter two is about the problems with Quite a bit of chapter two is about the problems with the free will defense. So we'll get into those next week. The second basic approach is to the problem of evil is often called the greater good defense This the Odyssey solution says that God allows evil only in cases in which that evil is necessary for the emergence of some greater good. Thus the greater good defense. A good that could not otherwise emerge unless the evil connected to that good existed. And we'll talk about examples of that. And so this is the author speaking. The theodicity I present in this book is a species of the greater good defense. It takes the ideas that are crucial to this solution and advances them in a very specific and far-reaching way. So if uh if we're gonna have a theodicy, if we're gonna have a defense of why God allows Ewan's creation The theodicy that the Bible implicitly unfolds is one of which the incomprehensible magnificence of our God is on full display. So God has to be glorified in whatever defense that we make. Many Christians suppose that God's purpose in creating human beings is max is to maximize their happiness. That's I think a cultural, a leakover from secular culture into the church. Uh evil disrupts these plans, and so the solution to the problem of evil is to figure out why God hasn't restored human naturals. But if maximizing human happiness is God's purpose, then let's be honest, He has not done a very good job. Right? There's suffering all around us. We've we've seen it through history, both more and natural evil. He's falling down on the job if if his if his purpose really is to maximize human happiness. Furthermore, this solution is credenceworthy because it places humanity at the center of God's purposes. And that's not right. Uh as though human happiness were the supreme good of all reality. And that's simply not true. God is the center of all reality God's purpose in creating humans and the rest of the created order is to put his own glory on display and to do so supremely. In fact, it could be no other way. If God is truly God, then he must of necessity be at the center, not us. So God has to be the center of our theodicy as well, not us. Likewise, we can never imagine a world where God does not occupy the place of singular majesty and glory. Everything that takes place for the good or the evil Must not detract from that glory. Rather, every last message of good and evil was purposely designed by God to magnify his glory and to do so supremely. The Westminster Sugar Catechism, the very first question is, what is the chief end of man? And the answer is, man's chief end is to glorify God and to enjoy it forever. So that's the purpose for which man was created, is to glorify God and enjoy him forever. So our joy as human beings is found in glorifying God. And so that's um that's our purpose, uh the true purpose of of peace. Uh thus whatever theodicy the Bible supports must be one in which God is supremely glorified And for that reason, the author says the Odyssey I propose is called the greater glory of the Odyssey. The fact that everything in history, whether good or evil, works together to magnify God's glory. uh to maximize God's glory. Um and we'll get into how that works because at first plus that seems, well that doesn't really work. How can how can something bad magnify God's glory? But there are many examples in the scripture of course and we'll talk about many of those. And what's the ultimate example of that? Something evil maximizing God's glory. The cross. Right? The the the God man who uh who lived a perfect sinless life is murdered, tortured and murdered on a cross You can make the argument that that's the single most evil event that has ever happened in history. And how did that turn out? It turned out to God's glory and our good And that's the heart of this greater glory defense, that God uses the evil that people do to magnify his own glory. Okay. So that's the grid of Lurity Odyssey. We're gonna we're really gonna talk in great detail about that as we go through uh this course However, the rest of our time we're going to do uh we're going to go through the discussion questions. Does anybody have any questions about anything that I've got. Well this is handing on chapter two, I was linking for you when you're going to solicit questions So I kind of take issue with the I'll accept that the uh author uses the name natural evil to represent anything other than moral evil But really from a biblical standpoint there is no such thing as natural evil. It's God, his nature. He may have called plagues on Egypt, but nowhere does it describe it as evil. It's God doing what God does And from a a secular point of view, there can be no such thing as natural evil. It's just nature. Because The only thing they could call it evil would be the God in their the secularist heart who thinks they can be the judge of what is good and evil So that's where it's like Yeah, we talked a little bit last time about uh the fact that for uh worldviews other than the biblical worldview, uh there's a real struggle to define anything as evil. But by what standard do you, the strength believers, say anything is evil? Um and uh I'll tell you I'll give you one example from history where this this cropped up. Uh it came up at the Nuremberg trials where uh Nazi guards at concentration camps, for example, stood in front of the judge and said, Well I was just following orders. the the country elected through free and fair elections, the Nazi Party, they made laws, and there were laws that said you killed the Jews. And so I was just following the law and following the numbers And so by what definition is what I did evil? And so Christians, of course, the judges who were Christians knew the answer to that. That there was an absolute standard of moral, right, and wrong, and no matter what the law said, you violated the absolute standard of right and wrong But secular judges at Nornberg struggled with that quite a bit more to figure out what they knew that it was wrong, right? They they knew that what the guard that that the defense of the guard was ridiculous And that that his he was wrong. But they had they really struggled to to um to say why. Why it was why it was wrong. Um by what standard had had the had the camp guard who was just following orders, by what by what standard could could they define that what he did was evil? without reference to some absolute standard of good that they didn't believe in. Yeah. Well and it's even gone further now because Atheists now who are who are genuinely adhering to atheist beliefs will say out loud, No, the Holocaust was inherently wrong. It wasn't for the best, but it wasn't wrong. Yeah, so it's a kind of a slippery slope. If if you toss God out and the standard out, uh where where is the where's the bottom of that of that cesspool. If there's no standard of good. Well eventually eventually, usually it devolves to might makes right. Whoever has the the physical power to impose his will and do something, well that's what's right. Light makes right. That's usually how it ends up playing out Uh and the Nazis had the might, and they said it was right to burn all the Jews, and so they did it. Might made it right. Um until they lost and then the mightier was on the other end. That's right. Until somebody stronger came along and s and and and and smash them down. But then the at the Nuremberg trials there there was some awkward um interactions with secular judges trying to uh to explain why the the Nazi camp guard who just followed orders was was guilty. They knew he was guilty. They knew in his heart that he was guilty. Why Because because God everybody has a conscience and everybody has impressed on them uh some level of knowledge of right and wrong that God has put in there uh along with our conscience um so that people know that something's wrong. They maybe that can't explain why, but they know it's wrong thought. So uh as a compliment to question one of the sort of characters in the pratiquant and then glorious by God, it's also considered the end of God. Yes. Yep. That's a good way to put it. Okay, yes. Here's um a um here's uh I was reading or listening to John DeGarf And is our God just by His mercy in in the midst of all this? We'd be looked at up. God has a decreed sin slash evil and his plan of salvation could be though never author, never the author of it, in order that he might save sinners to put on display attribute that otherwise never would be would have been manifest, how is God going to show grace if there aren't any sinners? How is God going to show mercy if there aren't any sin and its sinners. That was part of God's nature that God wanted this place for his own glory throughout all eternity. God provided means by which he called uh could demonstrate grace, demonstrate mercy, and also wanted to show love, how is he going to show that that he Yeah, so we're gonna talk about that. There's gonna be quite a bit of discussion in the in the preceding weeks about this idea that there are certain characteristics of God That could never be on display unless there was a fall. Grace and mercy, MacArthur mentioned those. We'll talk quite a bit about those in the coming chapters God can can there's no way for him to display his grace and mercy if there wasn't a fall. If there weren't sinners to show grace and mercy to, there are attributes of God that could never be displayed. And so um the fall was part of his play. Yes. So converse to that from 52. And what if God wanted to demonstrate his wrath So they are now touching stuff to graph. So we can do after the point started great. also about showing his practice, but indeed. All all of his attributes is practical. Yes. But he's uh he's also that clearly in Romans eleven when he said that God consigned both the Jews and the Gentiles to disobedience so he could show mercy to us. Yep. Yes indeed. So yeah, we're gonna expand on that, but yes, that's the foundation. One of the foundations of this greater glory theodicy is that God maximizes his glory and in order to do that it required uh him to um in order to maximize his his mercy his perfect plan included things like the fall Okay. Um so and there's some tough questions in there that that we need to wrap our minds around. Does that mean he he forced Adam and Eve to fall? Did he did he force him to sin? And the answer is no. He's not the author of evil, but he uses the things that evil people do So he's not the author of the evil that the Romans and the Jewish leaders did in crucifying Christ, but he uses the evil things that they did for good and to glorify himself. Same thing with uh ill a great illustration in the life of Joseph that we'll get into as well. Um before Eve and Adam's sin, there was the serpent who was an evil creature that God created So of course God created Satan and Satan fell, he rebelled against God as well. But notice that the creation was not cursed when Satan fell. Notice that. Why is that? Why why was the creation still very good even after Satan fell? Perfect. Because God gave man dominion over the earth and not Satan. Right? So Satan falls before Adam and Eve, but the creation is still very good. The creation is only cursed after Adam and Eve fell because God gave Adam and Eve dominion over the creation, and he didn't give Satan dominion over the creation. creation. But it was by choice. Right. So yes, he gave he gave Adam and Eve a choice, uh they he gave them the command, command to live up to don't eat of that tree over there. He gave them all the trees and all the fruit and a magnificent place to live and everything, just one little can, don't eat of that tree over there. And of course they ate of the tree over there. They rebelled against God Uh and they brought moral evil, of course, w with the not only them, but every everybody that's descending from them, all of us. But it also brought the curse on creation Which did not come in the fall of Satan or the fall of that. Yes. But the scriptures say Eve was deceived. Yes. And she was deceived by the God created Satan, he didn't create the evil. Satan St. Rebell his choice, Adam and E Rebell, yes. How do we define evil biblically to encompass both moral and natural Yeah, so uh so good question. So um we're we're there's a little bit of a a difference between and this is what Ron I think was was getting at here. Um The evil that the Bible talks about is is moral evil. There's also pain and suffering that comes from the curse on nature. And it's of a different category, and that's why that's why we separate them out, moral evil, and we call it natural evil, but it's not in the same category, thus the separate category, as moral evil. But nature is not re uh uh it's not in rebellion against God, it's cursed by God, essentially So it is a different category, and maybe it's unfortunate that the word evil is tacked to that uh maybe we should call it natural suffering. Suffering because of natural disasters or something, but uh the the lingo is natural evil, but I I just want to make sure that it's a it's a completely separate category for moral evil, which is rebellion against God. It's not that. It's completely separate. It's natural occurrences that happen not because of uh a particular person's sin to rebel against God. Although, of course it all traces back to Adam's rebellion against God, it is a consequence of one man's rebellion against God and that's it. Yes. That's what I was going to say. So it falls under as a result of the moral evil. The big umbrella. It does fall under the big umbrella of moral evil in the sense that it is a direct uh consequence of Adam's rebellion against God. So yeah, I mean, in a certain sense, yes, it's all under the umbrella of moral evil because it's a particular consequence, one of the consequences of Adams rebellion. Yeah. Uh Bob. Yeah, well um could this could the flooding Noah survived with the animals be classified classified under both both evils, moral and natural, or how would you so um yeah so i that's a good question. So that was a a direct act of God Um so in that sense of course it can be evil as a direct act of God. Um So uh subsequent floodings uh are natural disasters that are the result of the original flooding. But the flood of Noah was a direct action of God. Like the uh the whatever whatever it was that destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah. That was a direct action of God. When he created the most beautiful angel, Lucifer. Um did he have foreknowledge that Lucifer Of course he did, yeah. Designed for the Flory, right? You knew it and Yeah, and so he didn't force him to to rebel, but he knew he would rebel and he used the the rebellion to demonstrate war. Right, as and and as in the park in the his Satan's part of the fall. All of it. All the way to the end of Revelation when we get Satan thrown into the lake of fire. All of it is him using Satan's rebellion to glorify himself. Thank you Mm-hmm. So God being perfect is in it is impossible for him to create something that's imperfect. Well he he so i no nothing that he creates is God. It's a creature. So he and he alone is perfectly holy. And so Yeah, he says the things that he created are not him. Right? They're not God. And he said they were good, not perfect. It it's kinda tough though we talk about natural because really God is sovereign though is a Yes, absolutely. Yeah. In fact he directly caused it, uh, in the sense that he's the one that cursed Right. It was because of it was a consequence of man's sin, it was a punishment for man's sin. can equate it with evil. It's a curse, yes, so we can equate it with evil, yes. Um it's a judgment. Uh it's it's part of God's judgment and punishment for Adam's rebellion is the cursing of the Okay. Uh yes, and um that's uh I had a very similar question what Carrie was mentioning. That's what you're taking in your mind that the curse then when I think of oh that's because of the curse when you deal with something or sin, but I didn't they put more things in the Maybe the curse is more specific that you know Adam will have this trouble, Evil have this trouble, etc. But the result of our sin is that sin is So uh we we talk about these two categories, mor moral evil and natural evil. Moral evil is the things that people do And the consequences, the direct consequences of those people, things that people do. And the curse in a certain respect is one of those consequences of this rebellion that Adam had Uh because he was given dominion, um, he rebelled and the thing that he was given uh dominion over was also affected. And we see that in um in moral evils in our own experience. If uh you know if a if a husband gambles away to rent money, the wife and the children suffer. Right? They didn't do anything necessarily, but his sin affects others and causes suffering in others. Um and one of the consequences of having this thing was this uh cursing of the creation. Yes. Well manage the thing What condemnation moral and actually part of God's judgment? Yes. Yep. That's that's correct. Part of his judgment. But what is the purpose? So from the whole arc of scripture, from Genesis to Revelation, God has a purpose for that. And so that's the point we're trying to get at in this class, is that there's actually a good purpose for all of that. There's a little illustration of that in the license of Joseph, and Joseph gives a little glimpse of it in Genesis chapter 50, when he's confronting his brothers. His brothers have uh thrown them into a pit, sold them into slavery, and Joseph says to his brothers, you meant it for evil already, but God meant it for good. In other words, God meant that evil that you did for good. And that's the that's the heart of what we're we're getting at here. Yes. I was just thinking of the fact that um Romans two twenty three for all ex sin and fall short of the glory of God. That provides a bit of a definition for the curse and fall, because anything short of the glory of God is a consequence Of sin. Yes. And so the issue is that sin as a principle or a propensity in the heart of man to rebel against God has its effect effect on the whole creation. So it is amazing to go back and to think that because of Adam's sin as a representative of the whole human race That because of his one sin, we not only have moral evil, we have natural evil because of this. Yeah, and and so and we have the great comparison of one man's sin causes all these problems and one man's obedience unto death on the cross provides salvation. Yes. I would I I think that some people are having a h uh maybe have a hard time they uh um distinguishing God's judgment and evil. Because you know, some of God's judgments created a lot of depth, like the flood, uh and other judgments like um on Egypt and things like that, the the plagues and stuff. Those were judgments. You know, evil people died, things happen, people, um, but God's judgment and God is not the author of evil Right. And so God's judgments are always just. Right. And so his judgments, we see examples of what we would think in our human nature as very harsh. Somewhere heavenly Old Testament. Um you know, sending the angel to death to to slaughter twenty thousand uh uh Is Israelites um when they were the ground opened up and followed a bunch of them too though. Right. So those sort of things are are not evil, they're judgments for evil behavior. Yes. Yep. Okay. Uh yes. So don't friends had the view that Aquileagal was because of someone's sin. Yes. And and And also that's not right. Right. And Jesus' disciples also struggled with that also. In Luke thirteen, they they come and ask him and and this says, Do you think that the Galileans were worse sinners than And then he says in verse 4, of those or those eighteen on whom the tower of Saloon fell and killed them, do you think that they were worse off genders than all the others who lived in Jerusalem? No, I tell But unless you repent you will likewise perish. So, you know, it's it's not that um that the important question is what is your spiritual condition? There are natural things that happen, and it's also within God's offer and providence and his his will. But the question really, the the bottom line is your spiritual condition. Are you ready to be death in eternity. Exactly. Now let me go one further. Uh you remember the story of the man born blind. That Jesus healed. So here's a man who was born blind, lived the whole life up to adulthood in blindness. And what was the question that Jesus was asked? Who sinned this man or his parents that he was born blind? And what was Jesus' response? For God's glory. For God's glory. So the reason this guy was blind for a whole lifetime was for God's glory, so that he could be healed by Jesus and bring glory on God. That's the biblical perspective That a person can be born blind, live a whole life blind, and the reason for it is so that he could be healed then in adulthood and it could bring glory to God That's the biblical perspective. And that's the greater glory of theodicy. So blindness, I think we would count as a natural evil. people being born a a child being born blind. That's a that's a consequence of the curse. Right? Without the curse, without the fall, nobody would have ever been born blind. In heaven the lead will be blind. But people are born blind now because of the curse. And this one particular man was born blind and lived a whole lifetime blind to glorify God. So that he k that his life when he was when he was His eyes were opened by Christ could bring glory to God and demonstrate God's glory. Yes. Yep. And that's that's really the purpose and focus of this whole book and this whole class. Is that the real focus of everything is God's glory, including the evil that he allows uh in into the world. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. And so uh so the bottom line is um uh a glorious life in heaven is even better than a life in the Garden of Eden. better. Not just just as good, but better. Okay. And without uh without the fall and sin and redemption, you don't have that whole arc from Genesis to Revelation. Yes, last question. This is the last one. The Bible says get out from them so who do evil so that you don't get their punishment. also say those who love the Lord should hate evil. And so evil is where we are. And you are the Christian, you are there, you are not saved, you are not doing anything anything about that uh evil. The evil is like a cop. Some of the corpses on you, you will catch it. And jump punishment also you will get it. And so I I think once we are at the bed in the house, any of where we are, and there is things going on, other people must tell that person. Yes, so yeah, so m uh mortifying sin is important in a Christian life. Uh our sanctification is important. Becoming conform to the likeness of Christ is important. Uh stamping out sin in our own life is is important. Yeah. Very good. Alright, so we're gonna have to leave it at that because our time is done. Please, if if you get a chance, read chapter two before we come to the next class. I hope it'll be helpful. Alright, let me pray. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you that you are sovereign over all things, from the beginning of history all the way to the end, and that your plans and purposes are perfect. And that you are perfectly good. And that in spite of all the wickedness that we see around us, your purposes are always good. We thank you, Lord, for uh this great plan that you have for redemption uh of people. that you call people to yourself through Christ, and that you adopt us into your family, that you group us together into local churches so that we can be true brothers and sisters. that we can encourage one another and pray for one another, lift one another up and spur one another on to love and good deeds. What a wonderful thing it is to be part of your family. We thank you, Lord, for the opportunity that we're about to have to worship you together in corporate worship. We just earnestly pray that your name would be glorified in all that we do today. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.