All right, let's start with a word of prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for this rainy day. We thank you for the rain that causes things to grow We thank you for the beauty of your creation. We thank you for revealing yourself and your word and the opportunity we have right now to gather around your word and learn from it. We pray, Lord, that you would pour out your Holy Spirit on each and every one of us so that we could truly understand what you're trying to teach us from your word today. We thank you, Lord, for your sovereignty over all things. We thank you that you use all circumstances for your glory, for our good and your glory. We thank you for the opportunities you give us to show the light of Christ in a dark world. We thank you most especially for your loving kindness and your mercy and your grace. in Christ Jesus, in redemption for lost sinners, in Christ's atoning sacrifice on the cross. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, so uh we're on the thirteenth and final part of our study of theodicy, the problem of evil. And that means it's time to register for next quarter. So if you haven't already registered, um there's a List of classes in your Life at Hope newsletter. You can also go to the website and register. There's links in the Life at Hope newsletter. I'm gonna be teaching Genesis starting next quarter. Uh and that'll be going for four quarters for a whole year. Okay, so today, 13th part, transforming grace, amazing glory. So this is what we're going to talk about today. We're going to talk about from justice to mercy. We're going to talk about reacting to evil with mercy. And we're going to talk about from glace from grace to glory. So that's what we're going to talk about this time. So first let's take a look back at what we did last time. So last time we talked about the things that Christ accomplishes for us, that Christ takes away our evil. um that uh the human soul can see the untold glory of God because He or she has experienced the grace of God in repairing his or her soul But always, the endgame of God's salvation of sinners is the maximization of his own glory. We also saw that Christ takes on our sorrows. Isaiah 53 talks about Christ as a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. that he bears not only our sins, but also our sorrows. When he took on flesh, he assumed the sorrows and griefs of those he came to save. It says, surely he has borne our griefs and our sorrows. So he he had, of course, in his human life his own griefs and sorrows, but he also bore our griefs and our sorrows, according to Scripture. And then because of all that, we have the hope of future glory. And that hope, of course, is a reality. We have the reality of future glory. Uh and we talked about the fact that when we experience Christ's redemption, uh simultaneously with the fact that the outer man is daily getting worse. So the the fact of human biological life is that we are all dying. From the day you're born, you're moving one step closer to the grave, each and every one of us. Um and so that outer man is decaying and getting older and running down But the scripture tells us that the inner man, the new self, in accordance with Ephesians 4 and Colossians 3, which is a new creation in Christ, according to 2 Corinthians 5 Empowered by the Holy Spirit is being renewed day by day. We saw that in 2 Corinthians 4, 16 last time. And of course, we're supposed to be, as we live the Christian life, uh being conformed to the image of Christ, Romans 8. 29. And so there's this uh dichotomy always uh in human existence as a follower of Christ at the Outer physical man is decaying and moving towards death. The inner spiritual man is getting better, stronger, more mature, more sound, more faithful every day. And of course there is some good news on the physical front as well. Once our material bodies die, they too will experience a new birth. And we get new bodies suited for heaven. So and then of course an even greater mystery that we saw last time is that affliction participates in a cause-effect relationship to produce greater good and future glory. Um that our light and momentary affliction is producing an eternal weight of glory. And so suffering in the life of a Christian is not an accident. Nothing in the life of a believer is wasted No event that might otherwise be a source of your ruin that God does not use to produce future glory. And According to the scriptures, when affliction in this life is are more severe for believers, future glory will be exponentially greater. The light in momentary affliction is producing a an eternal weight of glory. And the greater God's glory, the greater our future joy. So, and we also talked about the fact that this can spur us to worship the triune God. The glory of God's redemptive grace fuels our worship. The pardon for sin flowing freely and undeservedly from his grace, this produces the highest worship that humans can offer. praise to God for his redemptive grace. So, um I wanted to use this. I've had it in my back pocket for a while. This is uh uh this is a few um A few bullets from a sermon that Pastor Gabe preached um a couple months ago as we were starting the course Uh he went through five purposes for suffering in 1 Peter. God uses suffering to reveal the genuineness of our faith and increase our heavenly reward. 1 Peter 1, 6 and 7. God uses suffering to extend grace to us and give us the privilege of imitating our Savior, 1 Peter 2, 20 and 21. God uses suffering to give us a platform to proclaim Christ, 1 Peter 3, 14 and 15. God uses suffering to remove sin from us, 1 Peter 4, 1 and 2. God uses suffering to give us the opportunity to pro prove to the devil and his angels that God is worthy of worship no matter what happens in our lives. 1 Peter 5, 8 and 10. So just in Peter's First epistle, we have all these purposes that God has for suffering in the life of a believer. And so we've been talking about these things Um especially last week about how what does suffering produce and why go through suffering and what's the purpose? And first Peter actually gives us a whole bunch of reasons why God uses suffering in the life of a believer. Okay. That's what he did, yeah. That's what uh the gay did and and I think yeah there's they're in there and if you want to look up those scriptures please do. But it's very instructive that Christ promised his followers that in this world you will have Trouble. You will have suffering. If they per persecuted me, they will persecute you. But there's a purpose for it. God has a purpose for it. Okay. Any questions about what we've done before before we launch into today's lesson. Alright, today's lesson transforming grace and amazing glory. Uh of all the practical implications of having a biblical-based theodicy, this Greater Glory theodicy The power of forgiveness is the most remarkable. And so that's what we're going to focus on. Forgiveness and mercy today, really, uh as it's uh balanced against justice. So uh grace that gives sinners Grace that forgives sinners enables those pardoned and cleansed to embody that same forgiveness. In other words, we we are forgiven and therefore we forgive. That's the idea. And so this unexpected response to evil proves to be one of the greatest apologetics for the Christian truth of the Christian faith. So when we see stories, and we'll go through some uh some real life examples today. And what I think when you see these examples, you'll say, yes, that is a great apologetic, a great proof of the truth of Christianity when you see the lives and the uh see the responses of some of these Christians to evil around them and in their lives. So it's often those who are most crushed and stained by evil who experience the grand reversal of grace most profoundly, who are most able to forgive. And so what does the Bible say? The Bible says where evil abounds, grace abounds. Romans chapter 5 And when this happens, there's thanksgiving that abounds to the glory of God, 2 Corinthians 4, that we talked about last time. So, uh human beings uh have reacted to people in many different ways throughout history. Uh first and foremost probably is fear and self uh uh and uh and uh instinct for self-preservation when we're in the face of evil that's coming towards us And sometimes an acute sense of helplessness in the face of evil. Sometimes silence inaction and hiding in the face of evil. In other cases, cowardice. I think uh this was something that really struck me uh not too long ago, a few months ago. Uh there was a young woman, I don't know if you saw this in the news, her name was Irina, she was uh from Ukraine. Anyway, she was in North Carolina, she was on a um uh on a train, uh a a subway train car. And a guy came up from behind her and stabbed her in the neck and killed her. Um and there are videos and pictures of it um on the internet and all the rest of the people in that train car are looking at their phones And they this guy walks up and stabs the squirrel to death and they just keep looking at their phones. Nobody does anything. Nobody tries to help her. She just bleeds to death there in the seat. And so that's a a response to evil, is to just ignore it, pretend it's not there. and do nothing. Don't try to help the victim of of a senseless act of violent evil. Uh just pay attention. I'm in my own world. I'm looking at my phone. I'm not gonna do anything. I'll just pretend it's not happening. Um and and even worse sometimes is people will get out their cell phone and videotape something bad that's happening and not do anything about it. So outrageous we say. But would any of us act any differently? Are you sure that you would help if somebody was being attacked and you were right there On the other end of the spectrum, we have Vigilante Justice, going out for vengeance on your own. So these are some normal human reactions to evil. However, the appropriate pursuit of justice is often far more difficult and complex. For example, William Wilberforce, he lived 1759 to 1833. Um and he sought to abolish the slave trade in Britain. And he did it because of his Christian faith. He said that's not right to do that to an image bearer of God. And so because of his Christian faith and because of his position, he was a Member of Parliament in Britain at the age of twenty-eight So he started this crusade at the age of 28 as a member of parliament. He sought to abolish the slave trade in Britain It took 20 years. He introduced bill after bill. He fought and worked and worked and worked for 20 years, from the age of 28 to 48. to finally eliminate the slave trade in Britain. And then he fought another 26 years to abolish slavery altogether in Britain So a total of 46 years from the age of 28 to the age of 74. He worked and worked and worked and worked and worked to eliminate first the slave trade and then slavery. The Slavery Abolition Act of 1833 was passed three days before he died. Three days. So from age 28 to age 74, this is what he did. decade of his twenties, thirties, forties, fifties, sixties, seventies, all the way up to his death. He worked to eradicate this evil from his society. And he was in a position where he had he was a member of parliament, so he was able to use the platform he had to try to bring about Justice. Civil justice seeks to establish peaceful, moral, orderly, and benevolent conditions so that people can flourish. Genuine justice is rooted in the sovereignty, righteousness, and love of God. So first, the Creator's rightful lordship over our lives means that we as humans owe our allegiance to him. We're his creature, he's uh our creator. Uh he owns us, and we owe him his allegiance. Second, his holy character establishes the foundation for universal and variant laws of good and evil. So he establishes the standard for what is good and what is evil, what is right, and what is wrong He is our judge and has implanted his moral law in every human heart. Romans 2 And then third, his unwavering love for what is good establishes our obligation as his representatives on earth. Remember, we were given the mandate to subdue creation and rule over it. And that mandate was never rescinded or revoked. In fact, he um he gave it again to Noah when he came off the ark just to make sure he knew for certain that that mandate was still there So as his representatives on earth were um were obliged to establish his righteousness and goodness, to uphold all that is good and righteous and to punish evil. Uh the but that's the purpose of civil government is to punish evil and reward good. Romans chapter 13. So we must defend the innocent and charge the guilty, protect the defenseless and pursue evildoers, Proverbs 31 and Jeremiah 22. All people are to be treated equally, otherwise justice is not served. And so this is the biblical idea, the biblical definition of justice. Now, there have been some recent human attempts to redefine what justice means. And I don't have time to do a whole course on this, I wish I did. Maybe I will. These two books I would highly recommend. The first one is called Why Social Justice Is Not Biblical Justice by Scott David Allen. I did a whole small group 12-part curriculum on this book. Excellent, excellent book. The second one is Fault Lines, the Social Justice Movement and Evangelicalism's Looming Catastrophe by the late great Vodi Bakham recently passed away. I also did a 12-part small group curriculum on that book. Highly recommend. Excellent book Um so w whenever the the secular world tries to um tries to establish a standard Uh it almost always deviates from the biblical standard, um, and it many times it's can be subtle and difficult to to see what they're really up to and what the how how it deviates from the biblical uh standard, in this case justice, the biblical standard of justice compared to the secular standard of social justice, how do they differ and what are the consequences of that difference? Uh it can be difficult and subtle and so when somebody gets up on TV and says, How can you be against justice Um and you say, well, you know, I c I'm I'm not against justice. I'm I'm a Christian and I believe the Bible and the Bible talks about justice and so justice is good and uh but you have to pay a very close attention to the definition. of what the Bible means by justice as opposed to what secular humanists mean by the word justice. It does not mean the same thing And it's worth d diving down into those details to make sure that we we understand what the Bible says about justice and apply the Bible standard of justice to uh every area of of human life. Okay. So there's some good resources for that. Um and it's a that's a small tangent but uh and I don't have time to do it to get any further into it here But it's worth looking at these books. These books are worth investing some time into so that you understand it. Okay. Now going back to some examples. Here's an example from uh World War II. So uh there was a decision that had to be made. It had to be ultimately made by Harry Truman. about whether to drop atomic bombs on Japanese cities, which would inevitably kill tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of civilians. The decision to drop the bombs was not without moral conundrums. War is indeed hell. There's a cruel logic to waging a just war. Even a war that's right to wage. Casualties to the innocent are impossibly painful to accept, and yet almost always impossible to avoid. Regrettable consequences even when every measure is taken to prevent collateral damage. So uh when it comes down to it, in a in a war, overwhelming lethal force to extinguish intractable forces of evil are sometimes necessary to stem the tide of greater evil And so in the book it talks about the example of World War II. We felt World War II because w our political leaders judged that the the evil that would come from just allowing the Nazis to take over the world um was worse than the evil of war. Um that's a hard decision to make. And there were um there were good a lot of good people that had lived through the First World War. lived through the horrors of the First World War that were willing to do almost anything to avoid another one. Um I mean w uh history is very unkind to Neville Chamberlain Neville Chamberlain was doing everything he could to, and and the word that was attached to his uh policy was appeasement. Appeasement to appease the Germans. Well, what was he doing that for? Why was he doing that? To to so that there would not be another world war like the First World War Uh he was he was more afraid of the carnage of a war than he was the uh the carnage of war that everybody had seen with their eyes. than the carnage of a potential catastrophe of what the Nazis would do. Now it turns out that, and history has strongly judged, that he was wrong about that But there's a I I wouldn't say that his thinking was totally illogical. Um he he was just wrong in his judgment, I think. Uh yes. He said because the media stopped announcing any way we could And yet they didn't bomb the Nazis. Well they did Well no, well they did bomb the Nazis Well yes, not with the atomic bombs and there's a bunch of reasons for that Uh the first reasons is we had 'em and nobody else in the world did. Um the United States, Britain didn't have 'em. If if Britain had developed them first Um I'm 90% confident they would have fallen on German cities instead of Japanese cities. Uh but uh but we we had it and they didn't And we were the ones fighting the Japanese. Um and the other thing was they weren't ready until pretty late in 1945 By the time they were actually ready to be used, the Germans were just about finished. Really were just about finished. And so there wasn't really a compelling reason to use them in Germany. Now, in our estimation, the Japanese were not finished. Especially the home islands. Um anyway, so um I mean we could go on to a very long discussion about how that decision played out, the the casualties in the Battle of Okinawa The uh President Truman was briefed by his top admirals and generals about what their estimation of the casualties would be for an amphibious landing in the main islands of Japan. And those estimates were frightful. Um it was like one point five million American casualties and three million Japanese casualties. Something like that for the invasion And and so Truman was given those numbers and then said, or you can drop these bombs that will kill a hundred thousand at once and save these four point five million And that's the the calculation that fell on the head of President Truman. Uh w how would you like to make that decision? To to kill, deliberately kill a hundred thousand To hypothetically save four point five million. That's a that's a gruesome decision to make. And he had to make it. And he and he did make it. Um anyway, so that's that's what war brings about. It brings about these kinds of decisions to use this overwhelming lethal force To extinguish an intractable force of evil that's sometimes necessary to stem the tide of greater evil Uh so justice is not an easy concept when it when it comes into contact with real-world events. So one more aspect of a fallen world that should cause us to long for the perfect justice that Christ will meet out at his return. All this messiness will be done when Christ returns. Okay. So this ends in a deeper, more poignant response to evil injustice. It's called mercy. True justice and mercy are rooted in a biblical worldview, reflecting the character and purposes of God. God designed all humans to long for justice. All humans want that's not fair. Have you ever heard anybody saying, hey, that's not fair Right? So that's that starts in childhood. Right? That's not fair. Right? So human beings from the cradle have this innate sense of justice. And and we're very quick to say that's not fair when we haven't gotten what we think we deserve. That's not fair. So God designed all human beings to long for justice, and mercy is a virtue that we all appreciate. Even the secular world appreciates mercy, the idea of mercy. Something about some displays of mercy, however, are uniquely Christian and highlight the grace wrapped up in the gospel. It should be noticed that uh noted that justice and mercy are not mutually exclusive concepts in Christianity. When God extends saving mercy, he does not brush the demands of his justice under some cosmic rug. Divine justice is diverted from the pardoned sinner to Christ. His wrath is still poured out on that sin when he has mercy on us for it. He just poured it out on Christ instead of us. So justice is still there even in the midst of mercy. So we naturally assume that the destruction of six million Jews could have never come from the hand of God However, God is sovereign over all things. So the Holocaust happened, so God was sovereign over that. God's sovereign will ordained what his moral will despises. In other words He didn't make the Holocaust, but the Holocaust happened because in his sovereign will he allowed it to happen, uh in order to bring about countless greater goods that we may never fully comprehend. So we don't know all those purposes for allowing the Holocaust. But we do have some we can look at some of them. Um one way in which mercy was displayed during the Holocaust was in the opportunity it provided for many to show acts of mercy to its victims. So um there's a group of French Protestants, Huguenots, I don't know if I'm pronouncing that right. Who speaks French? Huguenot, Huguenot. Uh anyway, the the French pro Protestants, there's been a a small minority of Protestants in France for many centuries, going back to the 1500s. John Calvin was one and he but he ran away. He went to Switzerland. Uh but some stayed, some Protestants stayed in France France was overwhelmingly Roman Catholic, and the Roman Catholic government of France uh persecuted these Protestant Christians. And one event, the St. Bartholomew's Day Massacre in 1572, the Roman Catholic authorities uh slaughtered thirty thousand uh French Protestants. um Huguenotes. Thirty thousand in one day um massacred because they were Protestants and not Roman Catholics. So uh this group uh still existed at the time of World War II, this group of French Protestants, and there was a village, um, this village called um La Chambon in the south of France was a village of French Protestant Christians. And when the Nazis took over, um this group, this identity as a kind of an outcast uh minority group, uh these Protestants gave them a unique motive to help those who were similarly mistreated. So under the guidance of the village pastor André Tokme Uh the citizens of this French Protestant little village hid thousands of Jews, eluding the watchful eyes of the local Nazi authorities. Where could such risky compassion come from? From those who took seriously a God who is merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abounding and steadfast Love and faithfulness. Exodus 34. Such a God calls his people to a religion that is pure and undefiled to visit orphans and widows in their affliction. James 127, and to rescue those who were being taken away to death, Proverbs 24. They took seriously the parts of the Bible about how they were to live their Christian life when others were being persecuted because they had this centuries long understanding of what it meant to be persecuted Everybody see that? Any questions or comments so far? Yes, Harlan. Yeah, so uh it's good that um I think there are a number of places in the Bible that talk about the fact that these characteristics coexist. So Um and I one of the things that it teaches us is that God has all of these many characteristics. Uh justice and righteousness are two of them But there are more. And the idea, this that scripture gives us this firm foundation for the fact that God is all of these all of these attributes at once. He's both just and righteous in all those Old Testament passages. He's both just and merciful in what we're studying now. And so he's all of and so the ultimate example of justice and mercy together is the cross. So the cross is God's justice for all the sins of all mankind, for all of time. The punishment for that being poured out on Christ, that's justice And the mercy is that it's not being poured out on me. And so both of those things you see at the same time, justice and mercy on the cross. And so that's two attributes of God that may seem to be in contradiction if we don't look carefully. But in fact, we get these demonstrations in Scripture that they are in fact both operating at the same time. Justice and mercy. And justice and righteousness in all those passages in the Old Testament as well. Any other comments or questions? Yes. Um Rob, how how do we organize how do they justify killing the capital? He's saving the Jews. Wha what do you mean? Well and didn't he say that the the organos The Huguenots? The Huguenots, didn't they Didn't they persecute and kill all the Catholics? Uh not that I know of, because they never had any power. Maybe they would have if they did have power, but they didn't have it the the Huguenots have never been in charge in France Now, we did see the uh the opposite in England on a number of occasions where the um the monarch went back and forth between a Catholic monarch and a Protestant monarch and a Catholic monarch and a Protestant monarch. And then we saw massacres go both directions. When the Protestants were in charge, they massacred Catholics. When the Catholics were in charge, they massacred Protestants. Yes, we saw that in England. We do we did not see that in France because the Protestants were never in charge in France. Yeah. So the Huguenots no, they didn't massacre Catholics because They were never they never had the power to massacre Catholics. I'm not saying they wouldn't have if they had power. No. The Catholics massacred the Huguenots. Oh, oh I backwards that guy. Yeah. Yeah. So but i i i it it is instructive what happened in England though. Ireland and forever I'm guessing. Yeah, it has it has been going on in uh Northern Ireland, uh Catholics versus Protestants, uh yes. Okay. Um okay. Uh a second way in which mercy was displayed in the Holocaust was when God provided a special, even a supernatural grace that enabled Christian victims of evil to bear up under it with joy found nowhere else in the world. And so we're going to spend a good bit of time going through this example. How many have heard of Corey Tenboom? And how many have read her book, The Hiding Place? All right, so um i the the rest of this chapter quotes very liberally from that book. There are many, many quotes from the book The Hiding Place. And so, um Cory Tenboom was from a a Dutch family and we'll get into her story here, but uh so God penetrates the black fog of adversity with his presence and then a mysterious joy is the result. And we saw that in a terrible thing like Nazi concentration camps in World War Two. God doesn't God does not always remove us from the storms, but he does infuse his children with an inscrutable calm. A piece that passes understanding, as the scripture tells us in Philippians chapter 4. The story of Cory Tenboom is a sterling example. Um just like the villagers of La Chambon, the Tenboon family of Harlem, Netherlands, the same did the same kind of rescuing mercy to Jews during the Nazi occupation. So In Corey's bedroom there was a kind of a false wall. There was a uh uh uh there was a wall, but behind that wall was a space where they hid Jews in in Corey's bedroom. Um and then um And and they were compelled to do so by their strong desire to honor Christ. This was a Christian family that said, Hey, it's not right to exterminate these Jews um and so we're gonna hide them. It was explicitly because they were followers of Christ that they did that. But then they were caught The the Nazis caught them hiding these Jews. And the family, the mother, father, her and Corey and her sister, were sent to various concentration camps. Most of the family members died. Corey survived and wrote this book about it, but other family members died. The story is well told by Corey's memoir, The Hiding Place. So Corey and her sister Betsy were interned at Robinsbrook, which was a concentration camp for women. They were regularly beaten, overworked, many women died from sub-freezing temperatures. In her book, she says the inhuman screams of those tortured were the sounds of hell itself. Corey managed to smuggle a Bible without detection into the barracks. This and she says, she puts it this way, this was the first of God's mercies. Having the Bible meant that we were not poor, but rich. in this new evidence of the care of him who was God even of Robinsbrook So imagine that attitude. David says, where shall I go to escape your presence? If I go down to Sheol, you are there. And Cooley understood that even when she went down to Robinsbrook, God was there. He was there. And that's what she wrote in her book. Uh Robinsbruck was there. Uh this is a map of Germany and all their um the the Nazi concentration camps. Robinsbruck was in the northern part of Germany. You can see on there some you may have heard of, Bergen Belsen is on there, Dachau is on there, Auschwitz Birkenau is on there, Treblinka is on there. Um all these camps, one of which was Robbinsbruck, where uh Corey and her sister Betsy were interned during World War II. Here are some pictures. I could have chosen much more gruesome pictures and I I refrain from putting gruesome pictures on there. But you can almost see the cold jump off the page when you look at that picture. Look at that woman sitting there freezing. Uh they lived in these tiny little boxes and notice that it's not one person per box, it's two people per box that they lived in. Those see these those little boxes there in that picture? There's there's two people to a box that they lived in. Um and of course there's no heating, you know, it's in the northern part of Germany, um in the wintertime, absolutely freezing freezing in there and you can just see that woman freezing there on the bench. On the right hand side is the crematoria at Robinsbrook the ovens where they cooked bodies. And you can see the device that they use. They put a body on that device there and there's the two handles and they shoved the body into the oven, burned it up and pulled it out and put another body on there and po put it in there Right next to that was a gas chamber next to this uh oven for for baking human corpses. Uh so brutal, just absolutely unspeakable evil uh that she and her sister were subjected to there at Robinsbrook. Yeah. It says that Corey and that were both unmarried and had lived very short time. Yep. And yes, when they first came to these times. They were forced to just navigate a parade in front of the Nazi guards. Yep. Yeah. That's that I mean torture, mental torture. Yeah. Yeah, it was it was horrific evil that they were subjected to um at this camp. Um So, uh, and this is what Betsy writes, uh this is what Corey writes in Hiding Place, from morning until lights out, whenever we were not in ranks for roll call, our Bible was the center of an ever-widening circle of help and hope. We gathered about it, holding out our hearts to warmth and light. So they're shivering, frozen in this concentration camp And they described the Bible as like a blazing fire where we gathered about it, holding out our hearts to its warmth and light The blacker the night around us grew, the brighter and truer and more beautiful burned the Word of God Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or peril or sword Nay, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him that loved us. What an attitude to have when you're being tortured in a concentration camp. Yes. I don't think we're going to mention this, but remember reading the book. that that he said that um or decore in it that because they had flea there in the bear the soldiers would not come in. So this gave them more opportunities to witness and have their prayer meetings or their Bible study. And sh and Corey said, so we realized that that was really God's plan and He was gracious and merciful in allowing us to share his words. Yeah, so we will get to that. Um yeah. But no, that's a good uh it's a great illustration. Um And so going back to 2 Corinthians 4. 16 that we talked about last time, the truth of those words came alive to these women. We do not lose heart. Though our outer self is wasting away, our inner self is being renewed day by day. That was their reality in this concentration camp. Uh and Corey says it this way. Life at Robinsbrook took place on two separate levels. One, the observable external life grew every day more horrible. That's the outer life. The other life we live with God grew daily better, truth upon truth, glory upon glory. That's her words in her description of the these days living in that concentration. The outer man is day by day subject to more and more horrible evil, and at the same time the life we lived with God grew daily better, truth upon truth, glory upon glory Later they moved into more dreadful living quarters where the biting fleas made life unbearable. And Corey fell into despair, but not Betsy. Corey was complaining to her sister. And that same day the scripture reading was 1 Thessalonians 5. 18, give thanks in all circumstances. Now how many have had a self-pity party and then right after that A s the in your scripture reading for that day is a slap in the face from the Lord. Right? Right? So this is the case here with Betsy. She's whining and complaining to her sister. And then the scripture reading for that day is give thanks in all circumstances. So Betsy began giving thanks for the fleas. Couri was flabbergasted. That is until it became clear that the fleas kept the guards out of the barracks. The fleas were so bad that the guards wouldn't come in. And this meant that they could read the Bible freely. All circumstances took on new meaning. Soon Betsy was too weak to do anything. So they laid her on a stretcher. They took her to the infirmary, and she lay freezing, barely able to speak. She whispered to Corey, must tell people what we have learned here. We must tell them that there is no pit so deep that he is not deeper still They will listen to us, Corey, because we have been here. Within minutes, her spirit finally gave up and departed from her emaciated body. And then Corey writes this, there lay Betsy, her eyes closed as if in sleep, her face full and young. The grief lines, the deep hollows of hunger and disease were simply gone. In front of me was the Betsy of Harlem, happy and at peace, the Betsy of Heaven, bursting with joy and health. So, um, here's a question. Why did God take the spiritually more mature Betsy and allow the spiritually less mature Corey to live? Because Corey still had more to learn. Corey still had more l more to learn and more to do. Betsy had done and accomplished all the Lord's purposes. And Betsy was ready for heaven. Corey still had work to do and was not ready yet for heaven. So God took home, called home his servant Betsy But let his servant Corey go on to tell the story. Look at the attitude that she has. Look at the attitude that Betsy has. We must tell them there is no pit so deep that he is not deeper still. They will listen to us, Corey, because we have been here. Right? They have a story to tell because they have been there. They have been through this. Keep that in the back of your mind when you see what comes next. Let's take uh let me take a one little one little detour before we get to the rest of that story. Um open your Bibles to 2 Corinthians chapter 6 We'll get back to Corey's story in a minute. Um, But um yeah, let's take a look first at 1 Corinthians chapter 6, the first 10 verses. And so Paul's talking about this idea of serving Christ in in these difficult circumstances and how we're supposed to behave. And he's writing this to the to the Corinthians. So 2 Corinthians chapter 6, starting with verse 1, and working together with him We also urge you not to receive the grace of God in vain. For he says, at the acceptable time I listened to you, and on the day of salvation I helped you. Behold, now is the acceptable time. Behold, now is the day of salvation, giving no cause for offense in anything, so that the ministry will not be discredited, but in everything commending ourselves as servants of God in much endurance. in inf afflictions, in hardships, in distresses, in beatings, in imprisonments, in tumults, in labors, in sleeplessness, in hunger. Now what does that sound like? Concentration camp. So Paul had been through all these difficulties in uh proclaiming Christ. But these kinds of difficulties were ramped up to 11 out of 10 for Corey and Betsy Tenboom. Um and then uh Paul goes on to say in purity and knowledge and patience and kindness in the Holy Spirit and genuine love in the word of truth in the power of God by the weapons of righteousness for the right hand and the left. By glory and dishonor, by evil report and good report, regarded as deceivers and yet true, as unknown yet well known, as dying yet behold we live As punished, yet not put to death, as sorrowful yet always rejoicing, as poor yet making many rich, as having nothing, yet possessing all things. This attitude that that Paul is telling the Corinthian church to have is the attitude that, especially Betsy, Betsy and Corey Tenboom had. They they took this to heart, what Paul is saying, that should be the attitude of of followers of Christ when when everything is crushing down on us. This should be our attitude, and this was the attitude of these two young ladies Okay, so let's look at the rest of the story. So an additional mode of mercy as a response to evil points to the uniqueness of the Christian faith. uh the mercy of forgiveness filling the forgiven person and then being extended to their victimizers So to be a Christian is to be forgiven and to be a forgiver of others. Uh this grace to forgive came to Corey Tenboom shortly after the war. So she survived the war. 1945 the Robinsbrook concentration camp is liberated and she is free And then in 1947, she was giving her testimony at a church service in Munich, Germany. So she's back in Germany from she lives in Holland, she's back in Germany, and she's giving her testimony about how she survived this concentration camp And afterward, a vaguely familiar man approached her. He was exuberant because he had recently become a believer. He told her that Christ had washed away my sins. Then he introduced himself as one of the vile SS guards who had worked at Robinsbrook So imagine, imagine this. And it's impossible really for us to imagine because we've never been tortured in a concentration camp. But imagine that you have lived these years in being beaten and worked almost to death and frozen almost to death uh uh by these SS Nazi concentration guards and your beloved sister Betsy was literally beaten and worked and frozen to death. by them. And then here's one of them standing in front of you saying, Hey, I'm a believer now. Great joy. Here's what Betsy here's what Corey said. He reached out to shake her hand and she froze. What should she do? So here's this. horrific Nazi that tortured her and killed her sister. Here's what she says. Vengeful thoughts boiled through me Lord Jesus, I prayed, forgive me and help me to forgive him. But nothing changed. There was awkward silence. I tried to smile. I struggled to raise my hand. I could not. Now here's this guy in front of her with his hand out. And she's standing there. Awkward silence. I tried, I struggled to raise my hand, I could not. I felt nothing, not the slightest spark of warmth or charity Notice that she's writing this, and she could have written about how she was a super Christian that forgave this Nazi camp guard. Right? She didn't have to put this in this in the book that she wrote, but she is honest with herself that this was her initial reaction. Um I breathed again a silent prayer, Jesus, I cannot forgive him. Give your forgiveness. It was a half-hearted prayer with little faith. But it was enough to facilitate a miraculous movement of God's grace. As I took his hand, the most incredible thing happened. From my shoulder along my arm and through my hand, a current seemed to pass from me to him, while into my heart sprang a love for this stranger that almost overwhelmed me They tightly clasped hands for a long time. The former victimizer joined to one of his victims, sealed together by the unbreakable bonds of Christ-centered unity. Now, this is a powerful story. It's hard to even read it without tears. But you can't have this story of forgiveness of a Nazi SS guard without Nazi SS guards Right? You don't get this story without the fact that there were Nazi SS guards. Um God uses even horrific evil to show uh mercy and good Corey knew that this was unnatural. Most victims of the Holocaust have never been able to forgive their tormentors. This was a move of the Holy Spirit of grace-drenched power. And this is what she wrote. Corey wrote this. So I discovered that it is not in it is not on our forgiveness any more than on our goodness that the world's healing hinges, but on his. That was that was what she took from the story, that she couldn't forgive him. She prayed that God would forgive him and then his forgiveness spilled out. over her and and led to her forgiving him. When he tells us to love our enemies, he gives along with the command the love itself. That's what Corey wrote Gory Ten Boom became a living analogy of the gospel of grace. Forgiving one's enemies is one of the most tangible and remarkable apologetics for the Christian faith. But no such opportunity arises without the emergence of grave injustices in the world. Divine grace begetting gems that bedazzle us with divine glory. So without the fact that you had this terrible evil, you don't get this Awesome example of forgiveness. And what is this really an analogy for? This is analogy for God's forgiveness and mercy on us. So in the same way that there's no story of Corey Tenboom forgiving a Nazi SS guard without Nazi SS cards. There's no story of Christ's merciful forgiveness, uh God's merciful forgiveness because of Christ's death on the cross without sinners to forgive. See see how that works? This is the same, this is just an illustration. This is another illustration of life working out uh God working out things in life as a echo of what he did on the cross. Also uh an analogy to Greater glory, the Odyssey, because the greater the evil, the greater the glory comes. That's right. This story is so overwhelming because the evil in the first place was so overwhelming. Um stories of people forgiving other people because you know, forgiving your husband because he ate the last Chocolate bar. Uh may well maybe you can't do that either. But um that's one thing, right But nobody's gonna be uh nobody's gonna work up tears over your forgiveness over somebody else ate the last candy bar The the the the thing that brings an emotional reaction from people is when there's a story of forgiveness of overwhelming evil. That's that's what really grips our heart strings And why does it do that? It does that because it's an echo of the overwhelming Forgiveness, the the forgiveness be be from overwhelming evil that God gave to us. So think about it this way Our offense against God is much greater than the SS Guard's offense against Kord Tenbu. Your offense against God is greater than the SS Guard's offense against Corey Tedboom, and yet God forgave it. And so that's what this this is all about here. Okay. And then we go from grace to glory. An unfallen, not needing redemption world did not serve his purposes. Only a fallen but being redeemed world serves God's remarkable purpose of maximizing his glory Much greater glory for um a world where that you have redeemed sinners than a world where there was never sinners to begin with. A uh the much better world where uh Christ has uh died on the cross, buried, resurrected, risen to heaven, than uh a world where Christ never had to come By piercing the blackness with the light of his incarnate Son is how he does that, how he maximizes his glory. Uh John introduces Christ in his gospel. So in John chapter 1, he introduces he he introduces Christ in a number of ways. First he's the word, but then later on he's the light who shines in the darkness and the darkness has not overcome it. John 1 5. We would not know the glory of the light unless God had intentionally purposed A good world to descend into the abyss of darkness. No need for that light to come into the world if the world wasn't first dark in order to need the light. Darkness that he designed to be penetrated by that brilliant light in order to maximize his glory. So, um God's greater glory uh has shown forth in his Son. That glory will only grow brighter until one day Its brightness will fill the whole earth and our entire souls in the consummation of the Son's kingdom at his imminent return. So that's the future. Um glor greater and greater and greater glory for Christ the King And so at the end, at the end of the scriptures in Revelation chapter 20, John says, Amen. Come, Lord Jesus. That's Revelation 22, 20. The glorious inspired word of God ends with this. The grace of the Lord Jesus be with all. Amen. Indeed. Amen. Alright, so that is the Greater Glory of Theodicy. That is going from justice to mercy And reacting to evil with mercy, which is what God did for us, and when we see an example of it on a big scale It affects us. And then from grace to glory, and we'll see the ultimate manifestation of that glory when Christ comes again. All right. Any questions about anything that we've discussed in these thirteen weeks of theodicy? Yes, Ross. more recent example of Eric Kirk. Yes. Absolutely. That's a great example. It's a a much more recent example from just a few months ago. Um is everybody familiar with that story? So uh Charlie Kirk was a uh kind of a public uh political figure who would go to college campuses and debate with people. Um and somebody shot him. Um a guy shot him because he didn't like the things that he said, didn't like his politics. Um But his widow, Erica Kirk, at the funeral service a few days later, publicly forgave the killer of her husband Um and it was a powerful thing for her to do that, to be able to do that just a few days later with emotions very raw. Somebody has just murdered your husband and she's got two s Two small children. Um left with small children and her husband's been murdered and and she is able to publicly forgive her husband's murderer. Uh yes, very very powerful. Yes. God uses that uh stuff in the other. So I was also a seat of that as well that and also has to be drawn to uh don't talk as uh uh serving how God used suffering. Please go to 2 Corinthians 12, 78. He said, God used suffering to rebuild our spiritual conditions, our spiritual character. You really not know truth about someone spiritually when everything is going well. Right? It doesn't do a surface control. Basically appear to be at peace and happy until measures of joy with measures of joy and satisfaction fulfillment in life. And that is so true. You know, when you suffer, you really see the true character. Right. And this is that something. Yeah. And not only that, but he also uses it to refine our character and to grow our faith. Um yeah, so he can reveal to us the fact that maybe we we had a higher opinion of our spiritual condition than Uh and gives us a true picture, but then it also then gives us the opportunity to grow. Yes. Well I I think it was all tied up with the condition of the nation of Israel and that he was called to be the prophet that would um that would take a certain message to Israel about their condition. And the not mourning for the wife, I think, was part of the kind of message that he was delivering to Israel. I I think that's why he did it. Yeah, probably probably was, yep. Yep. Any other Questions, comments? All right, let me uh let me close this with prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for uh these examples that we have from history of people uh giving extreme forgiveness in extreme circumstances. And we thank you, Lord, that it points us to you. to your great mercy for us uh when we had so grievously offended you with our sin and you had the the mercy to forgive us in Christ Jesus uh that that your justice was still there as you poured out your wrath on him, but your mercy was there for us in spite of all that we had done. Um to offend you. Uh the cosmic treason that we committed against you um was so so great And yet you were still willing to mercifully forgive us. And we pray, Lord, that we would take this to heart as we engage with others. and show the same kind of mercy and forgiveness for others that you showed for us. Help us to learn that lesson, Lord. We thank you for all the opportunities that you give us, whether it's in uh in suffering or in any other circumstance in life, we thank you for the opportunities that we have to proclaim the love of Christ, to show the light of Christ, and to share the gospel in a dark and dying world. We thank you, Lord, for the opportunity that we have right now to worship you in corporate worship. We pray that that worship would be acceptable in your sight, that all the things that we do, the songs and The sermon and the prayer and the worship would all be to your glory and bring great glory to your name. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.