Well, we've come today to the end of Titus. Enjoy being here for a few months. Go back to uh Gospel of John next Lord's Day, Lord willing. We kind of end the letter where we began it with uh Paul very concerned that Titus will fill all the things that he Put him on that island to do to finish up everything that needed to be done. Thinking about the importance of leadership training Now Paul used a lot of leaders and even in the process of using those leaders, we're training them. We're a church that puts a lot of emphasis and energy into leadership training I some like that a lot because they learn how to lead. Others feel it's uh too difficult, too many hoops to jump through, and Um but we're we're not going to change on that because we believe the future of the church depends on its leadership. And I think to a large degree you can see that emphasis here in this pastoral epistle of Titus that shows that what would happen there on that island depended on what the leadership would be like, how well they would be trained, how well they would know what they're doing, to be able to handle a number of difficult situations. So today we get a personal and a practical picture of all of the activity that was going on there between Paul and Titus and the men that were transferred and the difficulty of the folks inside the church. We get a real active picture of that so we know what was going on. In the midst of that, we're going to learn some principles, pull it out on leadership to understand the activity of pastors and leaders in general. Please open, if you haven't already, the Titus III and we'll read the Ending section from verse 8, which is really a transition verse, all the way down to verse 15. Titus 3, verse 8. Please follow along. This is a trustworthy statement, and concerning these things I want you to speak confidently, so that those who have believed God will be careful to engage in good deeds. These things are good and profitable for men. But avoid foolish controversies and genealogies and strife and disputes about the law, for they are unprofitable and worthless. Reject a factious man after a first and second warning, knowing that such a man is perverted and is sinning, being self-condemned. When I send Artemis or Tychicus to you, make every effort to come to me at Nicopolis, for I have decided to spend the winter there. diligently help Zenus the lawyer and Apollos on their way, so that nothing is lacking for them. Our people must also learn to engage in good deeds, to meet pressing needs, so that they will not be unfruitful All who are with me greet you. Greet those who love us in the faith. Grace be with you. It's interesting. Paul always ends, begins and ends his thirteen epistles with grace. Well, this is a powerful and a practical section. It kind of flows right out of that. I think highlight section in verses three through seven on salvation, that great declaration of salvation that we got to really focus on last Sunday Paul's mind, as I said, is returning to the need for these people on Crete, knowing about these churches and their reputation, they need to learn to do good deeds. And so that's where he comes back to. He comes back to Titus, I put you on there, you're the lead pastor there, and you need to set in order the things that are there, you need to appoint the other elders, the other pastors, and they really need it. And there's a lot of false teaching on the island. And my mind has come right back to that at the end of the letter. So that's what you see him. him hitting there. Paul well understood that the health and direction of the church, all the churches, depended on what Titus and the other leaders would do and what they would teach. So he's closing the letter this way. Titus was a pastor. He it's true he was uh a man who worked alongside the Apostle Paul, but when he was in the church he served and functioned as a pastor. He also was an example to the developing pastors, to those who would be brand new pastors as he appointed them on the island as well. I'm going to glean five general activities that pastors do that can be seen in this passage. There's really more, but I'm going to go through a little more quickly than usual, and we'll just glean some of these uh I'm going to present them to you as we go along. The first one is in verse eight. Look at it. It's that pastors must teach authoritatively. Pastors must teach authoritatively. You don't see or hear this as much in our generation. People uh like to crack jokes and tell stories and share their opinions, but not speak and teach authoritatively. So when That is done, it can be it can be misunderstood, and so I want you to see that this is in the Word of God. Verse 8, this is a trustworthy statement, and concerning these things, the things he just wrote, I want you to speak confidently, so that those who believe God will be careful to engage in good deeds. These things are good and profitable for men. Well, it is a trustworthy statement, and that refers back to the statement about salvation in verses four through seven. Trustworthy is the common word pistos, uh, and and uh uh the Statement, the word statement is actually the word lagos, which sometimes is translated word or message. So it's literally this is a faithful message, a faithful word That everything that was taught there in that compact section on salvation, Paul said, I endorse that. That's good doctrinal truth. It's well accepted by the churches. It is a faithful statement. And because the doctrinal truth is trustworthy, Paul then turns to Titus again, remembering that all the churches are eavesdropping in on this personal letter, because it's going to be read to them. He's like turning to Titus and he's saying, I want you to speak confidently. I want, how personal he gets here. You'll find Paul sometimes saying, I want. That doesn't mean he's setting his desire against God's. He is an apostle of Jesus Christ. So what he wants is in line with what Christ wants. I want this. Bulamai, a strong expression of desire there in Paul's part. And I want you to speak confidently. That comes from a word that means to speak strongly or to insist on it In other words, give these things your special and intense interests and make sure no one disregards it. That's the idea. By the way, you may remember back at the end of chapter two, Paul followed up his last description of salvation in chapter two, that wonderful description, with another strong encouragement. Speak ye things with authority. Don't let anyone disregard you. Well he does it again to Titus, reminding him That's what pastors have to do. That's what is part of the job description, an important part of the job description. False teachers They speak confidently. They speak confidently about things they don't know anything about. That drives me nuts, by the way, when people speak confidently about something They don't know a lot of it. If you're in a situation, if someone asks you something, you really don't know, don't speak confidently. Say, well, I'm not sure, but here's what I think. But false teachers, they take a little bit of knowledge, a little bit of Bible, and they just write books and start movements and speak confidently about these things. And because of that, pastors have to speak confidently with truth. By the way, that comes from 1 Timothy 1 7, that says these false teachers make confident assertions. about things they do not understand. Titus, you must equal their confidence or go beyond it. That's what he's saying. If you are a teacher, a Bible teacher, you teach it to kids, I don't Care where it is, you need to speak the Word of God with confidence. Do you believe it? Do you believe it? Is it something that is in your soul that you know is true? Well then teach it the way that your heart feels Pastors must not be hesitant to speak the truth, even truths which what? Offend folks, right? If it offends you, we're not trying to offend anybody. We're trying to straighten out thinking because there's a plethora of lies out there, and it seems the devil is always casting up something and stirring something up and so truth is needed. Truth is not always popular, people. You have to stand with the truth. Truth sometimes stings. Truth sometimes convicts. That's what it's supposed to do. Don't put a guard up and say, I'm not going to let him bother me in the pulpit. I'm not going to let him make me feel guilty. Don't do that. Maybe God wants you to feel guilty for a little while, and then he wants you to bring your guilt where? To the cross, right? And to learn the joy of grace all over again. Well, the elders in the church must tackle issues. And they're they're the issues that keep people from developing spiritually. The excuses that you and I sometimes use in our own minds to try to say, well, I don't need that. I don't need to come out for that. It's okay if I'm not dedicated to that. And we have to get in your head with the Word of God and we have to make sure you're not comfortable there and you don't use those excuses. We have to speak the gospel confidently, but more than that, all that the gospel means. What does the gospel mean? The gospel means you now belong to God. You're now his, you're his people, so live for him. You need to think of your life as a lifetime of growing obedience towards God. That's what it's all about. Pastors who are lacked As their people are turning their back on the Word of God and they don't see that as a big deal, when they should be screaming at the top of their lungs, that's a lie, don't believe that, that'll destroy you Unfortunately, if they're not doing that, they're hurting their church and they need to remember what Paul told Timothy. God has not given us a spirit of what? Timidity and fear, right? But a spirit of power and love and discipline So, what does love do? Love speaks up. That's what it does. Love speaks up. This is just another reason why we believe in expository preaching. To ring forth truth with clarity and with authority, not our own authority, but an authority you can see in the text of the scripture for yourself. It comes directly out of God's infallible mouth. And we hear it. Have you ever thought about what happens to a local church when the pastors stop speaking the Bible truth consonant? You ever thought about what would happen over the years in a congregation like that? how that would just disintegrate all the spirituality and obedience in the church. I know we get criticized for having an authoritative tone. I knew that before I went to the Master's Seminary, by the way, because I remember everyone criticizing doctor MacArthur for such an authoritative tone. It sounds so arrogant I was he think he knows everything and all of this and all he was doing was speaking from the Bible. You ever ask yourself which part of the Bible doesn't speak with an authoritative tone? Have you ever gone to it and said, is there a part of it where it's just a bunch of wish lists and this is a good idea? Hey, I got a good idea. Why don't you believe in God? You ever hear the postmodern kind of tone in the Bible? You never do. You pick up the book of James and it's like, consider all joy, my brother-in-law. And you put that thing down. And then you go over to 1 John and it says, We know the truth, and we speak of the truth, and everyone who is of the truth listens to us. And you're like, wow, he's he's too calm. Then you go to Revelation and it says, These are the things that shortly must take place and you're like, Wow And you go to the Old Testament prophets and they thunder it forth, John the Baptist, Jesus. It doesn't matter where you turn, the Book of Acts, Leviticus, it doesn't matter. It's all confident. You can't speak from this book without sounding confident. Well you're not really speaking from the book. You're using the book incorrectly. Well I feel that criticism but I have to disregard that criticism. People don't like authority, and we live in a society which increasingly is postmodern. What does that mean? That means that they're not comfortable with certainty. They don't want anyone to say they know. Because they know that no one can know. How do they know that? Mm-hmm. Took you a while, didn't it? Here we are picking up the Bible each week and we're speaking confidently from it. What kind of arrogant people are we? No. It's what the Bible is. We're a voice piece. In fact, I think not to speak constantly from it is arrogant, because now you're putting your opinions above the Bible and not letting it say somehow what you think is true is more true than what the Bible says is true. And that's arrogance. Listen to what uh just a little review of the letter as we're reminiscing, looking back, Titus 2. 15, these things speak and exhort and reprove with all authority Let no one disregard you. Are people going to try to disregard Titus? Yep. No, that guy was associated with Paul. How could they disregard Titus? What nerve those people would have? Yep, they were going to try to disregard Titus Yeah, but Titus was sent to Crete by the great apostle Paul. Hey, listen, they tried to disregard the great apostle Paul. Yeah, but Paul was chosen by Jesus. A lot of people tried to ignore Jesus, remember? Titus 2, verse 1, you might want to look back. But as for you, speak the things which are fitting for sound doctrine. Go all the way back to chapter 1, verse 10. For there are many rebellious men, empty talkers and deceivers, especially those of the circumcision Jewish believers. or Jewish so called believers, who must be what? Silenced. You gotta you gotta close their mouths. You gotta know what you're talking about. Close their mouths So the dogmatism that is shown here comes with an express purpose. What's the purpose that people believe? And in fact, there's a purpose clause here, if you look back to verse 8, it says, speak confidently, so that those who have believed God Is that you? Have you believed God? Those who have believed God will be careful to engage in what? Good deeds. Same thing in your Bible. These things are good and profitable for men. Those who believed God, that's you, that's in a perfect tense, by the way. It shows that they believed that sometime in the past and their belief continues on to today They believe God, they continue to believe. Belief in the gospel is what leads to doing the good deeds. That's what we talked about last Lord's Day And that's why the gospel needs to be stressed, and why when we understand the gospel, it transforms our lives and we get busy doing good deeds It says even to be careful to do good deeds. What does that word careful mean? To think about it, be intense on it. I am going to do good deeds this week I am going to try to figure out what I can do this week to be a blessing to somebody else. I'm going to look for it. I'm going to think about needs. I'm going to read a bulletin. I'm going to read hope book. I'm going to read prayer lists. I'm going to talk to people, and I'm going to figure out what do I need to do. I'm going to come up to a deacon and say, Deacon, I How can I help you out? I don't come up to this woman leading and say, How can I help you out? I'm going to be careful to do good deeds. You better make some time. Christ died to purify for himself, this is back to chapter 2, a people zealous for good deeds. Leaders are to be an example in good deeds. People are to be adorned with the sound doctrine. What does that look like? Good deeds in every station of life, workplace, home, church, out of society, helping someone stuck because their their car froze up or whatever. Just good deeds. Doing that with care of course We pastors were asked a question at the men's retreat, what if there are those in the church who don't want to do good deeds because they would just feel like a hypocrite if they did it? This verse says that believers are supposed to do good deeds. That's what we said. That's the answer. If you're a believer And you claim to be a believer, it's not right for you not to do good deeds. It's hypocritical for you to carry the name of Jesus with you and not do good deeds. Do you hear it? The hypocrisy is not in stepping forward and doing the deeds. The hypocrisy is in not doing the deeds. It is the business, put another way, of believers to be engaged in Good deeds, work, things that bless other people, the work of the church, love for people, care for the poor, in the name of Christ By the way, just because things have not gone well with some of your efforts in ministry in the past does not now give you a little card to carry around and saying, I'm excused from doing good deeds because I was injured and hurt. Because some of you feel that way. And that was one of those things that pastors have to say that sting the conscience right there. No, no, no, no, no, you don't understand I had a bad church experience. I don't have to do anything now. No, I just I I keep it right there in my wallet and I just want anyone that comes up and says, get busy in church, say, no, not me I I have that card that says I don't have to do anything, you see. I don't have to do a thing. See, we get all wrapped up in our own emotions, our own trials, our own little world, our own castle at home Sue and I were trying to fix this faucet yesterday. Got leaks trying to fix the faucet. That's a funny thing, I tell ya. And I was I thought for sure we wouldn't be able to do it You know, Ross told me it's easy. I said, that means it's gonna take me five hours, okay? Two and a half hours. Two and a half hours. We got it fixed. I couldn't believe it But you can spend so much time on your home and your cars and your estate and your castle and your world that you forget there's the house of God and it needs repairs. And I mean that both physically and spiritually Few are the men and women that we need to tell, go back home and do your responsibilities at home, you're spending too much time at church. There are some. But many are the members we have to implore, please get more active. The good deeds, notice, are good and profitable for men. What does that mean? They're useful, they're beneficial, they're constructive, they're valuable. Have you ever had someone do a good deed for you? Didn't it just bless you? And have you ever heard of someone else who was in need, and then you saw someone else jump in there before you did, did the good deed, and you thought to yourself, that just lifts my spirit too. I didn't even get a chance to do it, but it just encourages me. These are profitable things When people care for someone in crisis, that helps everyone in the whole community. Wow, their needs were met, what love is shown. Love does not fold the little hands in the seat and go. I just love people with my words. There's another little verse on that in 1 John 3, right? Little children, let us not love with word or in tongue, but in deed and in truth. We will know by this that we are of the truth. How do I gain more assurance that I really belong to God and that I'm saved? By the Holy Spirit working in you, producing acts of love. That's part of it. True worshippers who come to church should arise and serve their God. Care for the brethren does not walk away from church saying. I can't find anything to do, or I can't find a friend, so I'm not coming back to this church anymore. It's all wrapped up in self. So, anyways, the point is that confidence in the pulpit, confidence from your elders in their teaching classes and venues, leads to good deeds. And that is what we hope to see and I think are seeing to some degree here at Hope Bible Church. Now the second thing to glean from this in verse nine, if you look at it, is that pastors must stay focused on what's profitable Verse 9. Pastors must stay focused on what's profitable, but avoid foolish controversies and genealogies and strife and disputes about the law, for they are unprofitable and worthless. We saw earlier in the letter that there were those in and around the church there in Crete trying to influence those churches wrongly. They were advancing Jewish myths, not sound doctrine The Jews on this island had a lot of influence. They'd been there for many, many, many years. They had some very well-educated men, evidently, and they had a grip on the minds of the people on the island. These men were troubling these new pledgling churches with their brand of truth, mixing some Christian teaching in with some of their Jewish speculation and then deceiving the people This was one of the reasons Titus was sent to create in the first place to appoint elders in every city so that the false teachers were not able to dig up all the spiritual seeds that were planted there by the apostle and by the others Their lives, these lives of these uh ungodly men, along with their ungodly doctrine, were spreading ungodliness. So Paul says To avoid participating in all of these. He doesn't want the people participating in them. He doesn't want Titus participating in these discussions. He says, avoid them, don't go near these things. Turn the word literally means turn yourself around and walk away. Shun it. Here there are four things to avoid. First, avoid foolish controversies. Foolish comes from the word moros. Sound like anything you know? Moron, we get our word from that. Things that are moronic and lead nowhere. Yes, we should debate truth. There's nothing wrong with debate. There are good arguments to make. Jesus was a debater and a teacher But Paul here speaks of foolish debates. They're unneeded controversies. They make they make small things appear to be this big, and everyone gets bent out of shape over this. That's not wise. That doesn't go anywhere Today there are all kinds of arguments from theology and philosophy which just lead nowhere. Trace them down. Where are you going to go with that? Where does that end up? Does it end up in good deeds? No. Some disputes just cause more disputes. That's it. They just split and they just kind of go out, and there's more disputes. They don't construct anything worthwhile in the church. Unfortunately, there's some today that like to spout off their knowledge, like 1 Timothy 6. 34. It says this person is conceited And understands nothing. That's a bad combination, isn't it? Conceited and understands nothing. But he has a morbid interest in controversial questions and disputes about words, out of which arise envy, strife, abuse of language, evil suspicions, and constant friction between men of depraved mind and deprived of the truth, who supposed that godness is a means of gain, financial gain. That's all, that's the only place that elite I like Dr. MacArthur's quote here. False teachers in the church invariably distort and contradict Scripture, replacing it with novel insights, ideas, and notions that confuse and mislead God's people and undercut their trust in God's revealed truth. The danger of false doctrine is made all the worse because appealing to the natural man, it finds ready acceptance among unbelievers and even among worldly self-centered Christians. who are poorly grounded in the Word. Once a false teacher is exposed, he is to be rejected by the Church and given no platform to spread his spiritually cancerous and destructive falsehoods. He is not to be debated, but denounced and expelled. Dot dot dot he goes off. That's a great great summary of what to do. In other words, God's people and God's pastors must not waste time Standing around a water cooler, so to say, debating every small little thing that leads nowhere. Hey, there is a lot of work to be done for the kingdom of God. We have to preach sound doctrine that leads to that. Also, we need to avoid genealogies. That's not something we probably need to avoid, but it was something that he needed to avoid. The point again isn't that the genealogies that are written in Scripture have no value. Of course they do. They trace the lineage of the Lord Jesus, they established rights to the kings and all of that. But some of the Jews of Jesus' and Paul's day found pride in their genealogies. And there's speculation as to what that meant, even in allegorical interpretations with inside genealogies It sounded very knowledgeable to those that didn't know scripture all that well, but it led to no true knowledge and no good deeds. You can almost picture what was going on there on the island of Crete. All these people with too much time sitting around drinking their booze. Right? I can't say smoking pot, I don't know if they did that or not. Drinking their booze, and then just having too much extra time, yakking and talking with one another, going on and on about unprofitable things, gluttonous and drunkenness And just talk, talk, talk, talk that led nowhere. Just groups of them. Old men, old women, younger ones joining in, just a tremendous waste of time. 2 Timothy 4 says, For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine, but wanting to have their ears tickled. Someone entertain me, please. It's far too hard to listen to all of that expository preaching. Oh my goodness, they went on for 48 and a half minutes. I can't listen that long. Give me something fun up there, some story, some delight, something to tickle my ear. Let me go home and just chit chat about that. And they get nothing out of it for their life. They will accumulate themselves teachers in accordance to their own desires. Some people are being paid very well to tickle ears. Very, very well. Some on TV, some that I think you know already. First Timothy one verse three As I urged you upon my departure from Macedonia, remain on at Ephesus so that you may instruct certain men not to teach strange doctrines Don't pay attention to myths and endless genealogies, which give rise to mere speculation rather than furthering the administration of God which is by faith. Dr. Kitchen has this. The Jewish people meticulously investigated and documented their family lines Since their inheritances and holdings of land were thus determined, it rather than the gospel became the defining element of whether a person was in or out. It was gonna make a big deal about their genealogy. Well you know where my genealogy comes from. They wanted some status in the church. Do you get it? Well, you guys are Gentiles, but what you need to understand is my family's been Jewish for a long time. And I'm Hebrew of Hebrews. I'm from the tribe of Yeah, and you look at back there, there he is. There's a great man of God in my lineage. And you know what that means here in this local church, don't you? I don't know how they were saying it, I'm just trying to imagine it Because that's the details we asked, you have to fill it in a little bit. They had the Jewish scriptures, but they didn't know how to use them And so it didn't benefit anybody. Third thing to avoid is disputes about the law that kind of goes along with that. The word disputes just means strife A lot of fighting and strife surrounded the the right way to use the law of Moses. We got people today still know how to use the law of Moses. They're off trying to go put themselves back under the old covenant, you know, and try to keep all the laws of the old covenant or as many as they can, dietary laws, whatever it is, and then say we are more spiritual, we're more godly, because we keep more of the law than you You don't even rest on the Sabbath day. You know what? Well, we've got news for you. The Sabbath day was on Saturday. Rest meant total rest. That means you don't do any of it. And by the way, that was the sign of the Old Covenant. We're not under the Old Covenant. How about that? Huh? You know You don't keep those laws in the same way. There's truth to learn from the law of Moses. Of course there is. There's a lot of truth from that, but we are not under the 600 and some odd laws that are there. That's not part of the system. We are New Testament believers So they had a lot of disputes about the law back then. By the way, people fight about the smallest things. We had a member once who's long gone, so I think I could say this. And uh her her thing was if she actually said if that pastor, meaning me interprets that verse in in any other way than this, I'm gonna leave the church. I'm thinking, wow, that's a lot of pressure, huh? It was a verse on angels, for goodness sake. You know, at least I thought it was angels. She didn't think it was angels. But she left the church over that reason, or that was one of the reasons that was behind her thinking. Imagine saying that. Unless that verse is interpreted this way, I am going to leave. I mean, it better be a pretty important verse It was a minor point, and that's not worthwhile or mature. Well, there's two characteristics. They speak for themselves. They are unprofitable. What does that mean? It means it's a rabbit trail, it leads nowhere. It's a faux trail. Staircase, it's worthless, doesn't do anything. Is worthless and unprofitable. No one benefits by it. That's the whole point. So pastors shouldn't focus on that. Focus on the things that are worthwhile. Stay on Jesus Christ his doctrine and make sure the people are there. Third, verses ten and eleven, pastors must remove ungodly influences. Pastors must remove ungodly influences. That's verses 10 and 11. Reject a fastio man after a first and second warning, knowing that such a man is perverted and is sinning. being self-condemned. Interesting. Just as believers should shun foolish disputes, we should also, that is pastors and really the whole congregation behind them, reject Factious men. What is a factio man? A factio man is a man who causes divisions in the church. The Greek word is the origin of our word heretic or heresy. A heretic is one who needlessly divides God's church with his words. Cognate of this word is listed in Galatians chapter 5 as a deed of the sinful flesh. This is not a good thing. A heretic, in other words, chooses his own ideas and his own path and then tries to infiltrate that into the church or force it upon the church Romans chapter 16 is a good verse as to what to do here. Verses 17 and 18. Romans 16, 17, and 18. Now I urge you, brethren, keep your eye on those who cause dissensions and hindrances contrary to the teaching which you learned, and turn away from them, for such men are slaves not of our Lord Christ, but of their own appetites. And by their smooth and flattering speech, they deceive the hearts of the unsuspecting. Wow Fascist men will not submit to the Word of God or to the leaders in their church. They go their own way. They refuse to conform. They refuse to fit in, to cooperate They act like they are submissive until they're put to the test. And then you find that they're not. They all the time wanted in their own heart to have things go a certain way. And sometimes they may have tried to cause dissension. If that doesn't work, they just leave. What are they motivated by? They're motivated by their own pride. They're lifted up by their own vanity. They will never admit that's their problem, but that's the core of it. You need to understand that many heretics think that they're right. They think in their own mind that they're right, and they speak confidently, but they're wrong, and they need to be told that. Love, by the way, is the opposite of what a factious man does in a church. Rather than pulling people apart unnecessarily Love does what? Colossians chapter 3, verse 16. Love is a perfect bond of what? Unity, right? Brings people together. It is a pretend love which argues brothers apart for unnecessary reasons. It usually is done by someone trying to start a following of their own. That's one reason why pastors must choose carefully who's going to be in the pulpit, who's going to teach in the Sunday schools or lead small groups or be disciplers or counselors or anything like that. We have to make sure we're of the same mind, that we're all on the same page with that. We have to make sure that there's not division and disagreement that's comes out of some quarter of the church. Heretics also like to drum up false charges against the leaders of the church to gain an advantage within the church. Well I'm only saying this because the pastors are sinning because what they're doing is and then that draws people to their side When men insist on their own opinions and it's void of true scriptural support, or they go out on the limb and choosing some very questionable handling of a text of scripture to prove a point, it leads to nothing in a congregation but division. Those divisions can start to shape party lines as people say, which side are you on? Well I think this, well I think that. And now something very unnecessary, the church can be divided into more than two pieces Listen, the only way for a local church to have unity is to have unity around its pastors. There's no other way for that to happen. And the pastors need to be dedicated to the doctrines of Christ, the sound doctrine that is there. What is the procedure that Paul demands for a divisive man, a factious First, give him a warning. There's love that's shown to everybody. The warning is nuthacyon. It's an admonishment or a correction. It's a loving confrontation with truth That confrontation must be direct and clear and personal. It can't beat around the bush. It needs to say what you're teaching is hurtful. You need to change it. What you're doing, you shouldn't do anymore. It's a bad example. It's going to lead people astray. It needs to be clear. If that's not heated, what do you do next? A second warning. There's a little bit of patience that's shown here, right? It's given by the elders. It's to be repeated. It's not stated here, but it would make sense that it's stronger. It's more dire. Look, we already warned you. Here's your warning: don't do this anymore. You're upsetting people in the church. Only two warnings, though. Why? Shouldn't we be more patient? No. This is one time not to be patient. He is a factious man. Did you hear that? He is a divisive man. What do you do with divisive men? Well what I should ask, what do divisive men do? They divide. If you're patient with someone trying to cause division, what will that do to the church? It'll allow more division. No patience. The unity of the church is too important to wait for his talk to do all of its damage. Who knows how many people the person has already gone around and talked to and sown more seeds of discontent and division? Pastors have to move quickly here. There's a red warning siren that is going off. Patience is not advised here. So the third thing is to what? To reject him. He doesn't get a third warning. He got two. The word for reject means to refuse him, to have nothing to do with him anymore He is, in other words, put out of the church. He's not allowed any more association with the fellowship of the people of God. And that has to be done publicly. There's no other way it can be done Everyone has to know he's been put out. Everyone has to know he's a danger. Everyone has to know he's no longer allowed in church. This is the classic three strikes, and you are out. You don't get a fourth strike. Show him the door and ask him not to return. This is Severe, and this is what pastors are to do. If there is a church member or even a guest who comes in here and they will not abandon their divisive words, he or she must be put out of the church If each local church in all of the United States of America would practice just this one rule alone, the condition of the evangelical churches would be vastly improved today. The reason you are to do this, and the pastor is to do this, is in verse eleven, knowing that such a man is perverted and is sinning being self-condemned. Perverted means twisted, twisted away, or turned inside out, or outside in. It it just means that it's not straight the way it ought to be. The perfect tense of the verb shows that he's already been twisted. He departed from the truth in the past. His mind is warped. His thinking is wrong. You can't fix them and put him out. He is sinning. And his sin is causing divisions in the church. So send him out. Reject him. You n you may think that uh if none of us would have the right to be in judgment over anyone else in the church, if you think that you're wrong. Judgment begins with a household of God, and elders are to carry out this judgment and to remove him. He is himself self-condemned doctor Kitchen says any verdict that Titus or the local church leader makes of such a person is only secondary to the one he has already pronounced over himself by his actions Your actions themselves have condemned you, and you are self-condemned in what you do. Our verdict is secondary, but you must go. Pastors actually cause more problems for the church if they're too soft in dealing with a problem that needs a firm hand. Being too gentle causes the problem to get worse. The number of fires began to increase The wiser thing is not to go about having a meeting with everyone that was hurt by the heretic, but to find the heretic and grab them by the neck and say, Stop it Waste time running around trying to put out all the fires, go to the source of the problem and deal with it. And it has to be dealt with with a holy boldness on behalf of the church. Otherwise the problem's just Become more and more, the meetings become more, the damage becomes more, and that's just not a wise way to deal with it. And so now we move on to the fourth thing that pastors must do. They must direct the ministry. This is a little more personal here in verses 12 through 14. Pastors must direct, be overall directors. Or guiders of the ministry in the church. That's in verses twelve through fourteen. When I send Artemis or Tychicus to you, make every effort to come to me at Necopolis, for I have decided to spend the winter There, to elegantly help Zenus the lawyer and Apollos on their way so that nothing is lacking for them. Our people must also learn to engage in good deeds to meet pressing needs, so that they will not be un You see all the little managing that's going on here? It's just a brief insight into how many times did the Apostle Paul do this, or how many instructions would Titus have to do following this? How many conversations and directions would need to be given? It it probably is is hundreds. But this is a little glimpse into what he wanted to write. They didn't write a lot in papers, you know, get so much written, and so he made the most important directives, and he sent that letter to them to know what to do. In a sense, Paul is is the leader directing his missionary team or functioning like pastors in these various churches all around the Mediterranean. uh world. And so he's he's moving them and using them. Titus obviously is a very important part of that team. He's on Crete and he needs to receive certain men, he needs to do certain things on the island, then he needs to come somewhere. Other people are going to do different things and all of that is being directed by the Apostle Paul in a pastoral leadership kind of a role. He's a good delegator by the way, don't you see that, Paul? Use a lot of use a lot of men. We need to do that too. We need to use a lot of the men and women, get them involved in leadership training, give them something to do. In their communities, find some ministry for them. We all need to be working together hard and be good delegators. All of our elders and deacons need to keep working hard and being very good delegators and working hard as a team There's much that there is to do. There's much that can be given to do. Notice that there were many different people involved in the ministry helping and working. Uh this is kind of a a a picture of the ministry right in the midst of a lot of movement and complexities. This needed to happen and that needed to happen and this is gonna go over here, and like I said, I'm sure he had more to do. He's organizing, he's prioritizing, he's delegating, he's shifting people around. The four men he mentions are Artemis. This is the only place in Scripture that he's mentioned, so all we know is that uh he's mentioned here. He was a great helper to Paul. He was a faithful man. He was sent to Titus to relieve him of his post, and so uh Paul could use Titus in other things. So he was a trustworthy man, and there's Tychicus. He's mentioned a little bit more in the New Testament. You can jot these references down if you want. In Acts 20, verse 4, he is one of the men listed carrying the important collection of money back to the needy brethren in the land of Israel. So he was entrusted with a huge amount of money. There's a trustworthy man. In Ephesians chapter six and verse twenty one it says about it says this about him but that you also may know about my circumstances, how I am doing, Tychicus The beloved brother and faithful minister in the Lord will make everything known to you. Paul trusted him with money and trusted him with information. Again, Colossians 4:7, it says, As to all my affairs, Tychicus, our beloved brother and faithful servant, and fellow bondservant in the Lord, will bring you information. He he went over a lot of territory and he was very trustworthy. I think uh it'd be great for you to ha strive to be someone like a Tychicus. He was active in Paul's ministry, by the way, all the way to the end of Paul's life. He's mentioned in 2 Timothy chapter 4, verse 12, our scripture reading. He was there Right at the time where Paul was about to have his head chopped off, he was a faithful guy all the way to the end. Paul saw value in using men like that for the kingdom of God. And then there's Zenus. He's only mentioned here also. All we know about him is that he was a lawyer, they debate does that mean he was a Roman lawyer or a Jewish lawyer and he has a Roman name, but it doesn't matter because many of the Jews had Roman names, so they debate that Uh that's not really uh decisive one way or the other. What we do know is that Paul had confidence in this man. I would say maybe you are a man who's not as well known in the church and you're thinking, you know, I might be like this Zenus guy, we don't know too much about him, but I can get in there and I can be faithful and I could do Some work as well, you know. And uh by the way, he and Apollos, who is listed next, may have been the ones who were trusted in bearing this very letter uh to Titus. They may have been the carriers of this. In fact, most people think so. And then there's Apollos, he's the best known of the bunch, especially for his work at Corinth. He's described in Acts 18:24 as a Jew named Apollos, an Alexandrian by birth. An eloquent man who came to Ephesus and he was mighty in the scriptures. What a combination. He really knew how to speak and he knew the scriptures well. He had to be corrected on some things though. And then in Acts 19 it mentions Apollos and his ministry at at Corinth. He was even one of the pastors in Corinth. He was one of the major teachers there in Corinth and had a great influence on the people in Corinth. Titus was to help these last two men pass through on their way to other works that are not mentioned. They were to be valued as workers, they would come in. The churches were to be ready to value uh and to to take care of these workers, to open up homes, to feed them, to encourage them. uh to make sure they were cared for and they got rest and then they were sent on their way for the rest of their work. And that's how what a local church can be as well, that we get our people ready to help with missionaries, help with Christian workers, be helpful to their pastors, just get behind the scenes and push along ministry and be part of the people that find a way to be able to make ministry work better. And so Titus was to, I'm sure, utilize all these people that he had to say, here's one of the ways you can be involved in good deeds, get behind these good men and support them Letter of third John has a little something to say about that too. It mentions men who went out, evangelism who went out for the sake of the name. They took nothing with them, and that they went out for the sake of Christ's name. And John writes there and he says, we ought to support men like this, you know. I'd like to just say to you that Paul's ministries, you can see here, were multiple. He had many different churches, many different ministries to worry about. Like I said, he's sending one here and he's then concerned about that because he gets a report back here and he moves this guy there and that guy over here and he's trying to manage all of the churches and care for them. It's a complex situation, but it shows a heart for ministry. And I hope that is you're picking up a little bit of that from your own heart. Wow, this man lives for God's kingdom and he lived for Christ. And I need to be more like that. I need to orient my life to be like the Apostle Paul. There's so much that can be done here. I know you read the bullets and some of them are in there and and maybe some of them you're ignoring and then you hear from time to time different needs. We know that Hope Academy needs needs workers and leaders and some step forward to help with that this year and and praise God for them. It's been an encouragement to see that And if you talk to Bill Waller, who inherited a whole bunch of work from Brian Kim, we know there's a lot of help with the building men that needs to be done, building hosts, but other things as well. And some of you have already stepped up for that. We're grateful for that There are outreach coordinators. Sometimes you come up with great ideas for outreach and I disappoint you because I say I already had that idea and then you wonder why is it not happening? The answer is we don't have a leader yet for it. We don't have a coordinator for it. willing to put in the time to organize an outreach. I dream sometimes and that gets me into trouble. Because I I start salivating at the mouth. And I'm dreaming, and that's the way God has made me. I'm just a visionary and I think about wow the Lord has put us in such a strategic area and we could have a a greater outreach to the Hispanic community We used to have some translation for uh Spanish on Sunday morning. We don't have that anymore. I'd love to see us have a determined and careful thought about how we can minister greater to the Hispanic community. to the Filipino community or to the Chinese community, which are in abundance in the area as well. There are visitor pals that we need help with, uh Brother Roger. Deacon Roger is trying to think through the whole how do we outreach to our visitors in a better better way as well. Please talk with him and offer your services there There's uh hard workers that are needed in the area of missions to to get more things done in our area of missions. The care ministry and so many have responded well to that, but there are ways that you can jump in with that as well Soon we're going to be offering a ministry, Lord, willing, to box some food and send it to children in need, to actually take it with our own hands and feet and come to their homes and deliver it in the name of Christ and to be able to witness to the the parents or the children and we're trying to get that going. It takes a lot of administrative work to do that and someone's working on that and maybe you'll be called on to help with those good deeds as well this year. Pray about that. I want you to notice too that the church members should be helping all of these men on their way. Our people must also learn to engage in good deeds. Do you hear his heart there? Our people must also learn. And so we have to say it again and again and again. Learn to do, to engage in good deeds. It says to meet pressing needs. There are needs, brothers and sisters There are needs, and when you meet needs, you won't be unfruitful. And that's what the text says. Do you want fruit when you go to heaven? Make sure your faith is active. Be praying, that's a good deed. That'll bear fruit. Offer your services behind the scenes, that's a good deed. Care for somebody in need. Start with this church. Always your devotion to your local church first, but not just the local church. Let it spill over to other believers and even unbelievers. Be active in doing good in the workplace and everywhere You know, our communities that we started back last fall were set up so that we'd have one pastor, but not just one leader. There would be a multitude of leaders around them, the small group leaders, the deacons the elder candidates, the um the deacon candidates, and we're urging all of those leaders to to rally around their pastor and to make sure all the needs within a community are met That people are are not lonely, that people are being cared for, that that kind of appropriate ministry for our communities is is going on. We encourage you to do that as well Come alongside your pastor, come alongside the deacons, come alongside even the small group leader and ask, what can I do to help out And then think for yourself what you can do to clear your schedule more to make service and ministry a greater priority in your own life. Well, the fifth thing that pastors must do, and last, and we close with this And it may seem so obvious, but it needs to be stated. Pastors must keep good relations with other churches. Pastors must keep good relationships with other churches. Churches. Look at verse 15. There's always truth in every part of God's word. All who are with me greet you. Do you hear that? All who are with me greet you. What does that tell you about their heart? That they cared about the island of Crete and the believers there, right? And then it says, Greet those who love us in the faith. Do you hear something personal there? Isn't that wonderful? And then he says, what he always says, the Apostle of Grace, Grace be with you all. Well, greetings are all over the New Testament letters. Why? Because they didn't have cell phones. They didn't have texting. They didn't have modern communication, right? So if you were going to communicate, you had to get it in that you could almost see Paul's writing a letter And one of the believers said, Paul, what are you doing? I'm writing a letter to uh Titus on Crete. Would you send them my greeting too? And then he gets this long line, 25 people, my greeting too. Send them my greeting also. And he's like All who are with me greet you. I don't know what happened that way, obviously. But they wanted to be greeted. Sometimes you'll find the names in there. Just some examples. Colossians 4. 14. Luke, the beloved physician, sends you his greeting. Reading and also demons. They stuck their head inside Paul's tent and said, Put my name in there, put my name. I I I want to greet them as well. They didn't know their name would be for two thousand years recorded in Scripture, did they Romans 16 3, Greek Prisca and Achilah, my fellow workers in Christ Jesus. 1 Corinthians 16, 19, the churches of Asia greet you. 2 Corinthians 13, 12. Greet one another with a holy kiss. Don't get uh fixed on the kiss part there. Remember the holy part there, okay? Holy kiss. All the saints Greet you. All the saints greet you. Philippians 4 21. Greet every saint in Christ Jesus. The brethren who are with me greet you. All the saints greet you. Especially those of Caesar's household. And on and on and on, that's the sampling. What does that mean? That means they wanted to know what was going on in the other churches. They cared about it, they were interested. They greeted one another, it was warm, they had relationships, and the pastors as they were writing their letters, these are obviously inspired letters As church history went on, there would continue to be letters that were written from from uh different church leaders to one another. Some of those are are uh preserved For us in the early Church Father letters. They're not inspired, but they show that this continued, that people would continue to greet one another, know what was going on, and to care for one another. By the way, uh All who are with me greet you. That word you is in the plural, which shows again that this letter was not just for Titus, but for all of the churches. It's a plural word there. And um I'd like to say that we have an opportunity. Uh we have an opportunity today. A little little extra as we're talking about good deeds and since we're ending uh Titus right here, I wanted to give an opportunity for you here, and that is that out in the foyer right after the service, as you're going out there, uh we're going to have some letters. I think it might be even in the the the the manner of a school card like thing to send out to our fellow churches here in the Gamma area. And if you'd like to sign your name or write an encouraging note to the the the saints In those other uh churches, then you do that as well. I know there's something at the missions table, there'll also be something at the gamma table. Go out there, get your pen And uh have a warm send a warm greeting to uh the churches there as well. Tony Jolly will be out there by the table that's near the coat rack, and then you can put in your warm greeting there as well. Greet one another warmly Also, when we see each other on a Sunday morning, greet one another warmly, care for one another, be encouraged and interested in the lives of what's going on with other people who had a hard week this week What kind of prayer do they need? What can you do to be a friend to them? What can you do to outreach to them? Be busy. Get involved in each other's lives, both here and in other churches, and maybe even other churches beyond our gamma region as well. This is God's heart for us and hope we can learn. uh from that as well. Father, we thank you for the encouragement of this letter, Titus, its exhortation about pastors in particular, but about all of the work that goes on in the local church Particularly the impact of the gospel to transform our lives and help us adorn your doctrine in our lives and to be Pleasing to Christ as people set apart as his possession, to be those who are transformed by the new man and the renewing of our own hearts and by your Holy Spirit And to learn, Lord, that we have a witness in the world and we are to do good deeds before them and to honor your word before men. Help us to excel in good deeds. Convict hearts, change hearts, encourage those who have been laboring before and maybe have gotten a little bit tired. Encourage them to be busy and to be excited about being fruitful as they enter into your heavenly kingdom. We pray it in Christ's name. Amen.