If you're like a lot of people these days, like me too, you really don't like conflict. In fact You do your best to avoid it. You try to run from it anytime you can. It's not fun, is it? You really don't want to deal with it. You wish in life it would just pass you on by, leave you alone, let you have a peaceful life. Do you like that? Many folks, when they smell an argument about to start, they live by one simple rule. Get out of there as fast as they can. They flee. Want anything to do with it at all. There is an Italian proverb I came by this past week that says, the best armor is to keep out of range. We don't want to get hit. But try as we may, we can't always keep out of range, can we? Just can't do that. There are too many landmines that are strewn across our pathway in life, and you try to avoid one, you back up into another, and you step into it, and you didn't think that would happen to you. Grievances and wrongs, fences, problems, problem people, that's just part of life's journey, wouldn't you say? I think we have here in this church some of the kindest people that I have met in my life, some of the most thoughtful people, most of the time, usually. You are very much a joy to be around. And I praise God for you. I'll take you over folks in the world any day. You're a delight to be around. This church has pleasant people. But the truth is, even here in our church, conflict is inevitable. Why is that? Well, because sin still lingers here. We know that. Sin is being selfish, proud, unbelieving, inconsiderate, impatient, unkind, proud, self-occupied I'll bet there's somebody here this morning right now who in their heart has conflict with somebody else in this church You know, if I was one of those phony prophets on TV, I might say something like this The Spirit of God is telling me right now, one of you out there is angry with another one Oh of course. That's an easy one to predict. That's how they get away with that. Someone has back pain. You've heard it before, right? If you are not offended right now, you will be. One day. One day you may be sitting in church and notice so-and-so over in that other row Worshiping God, singing glory to the Lord, the nerve of that guy, you think, because last month he sold me a lemon for a car. Didn't seem to bother him any Or one day you spot Mrs. So-and-so across the hallway there talking with the church ladies. Her kids were over at your house the previous week and they trashed the place and didn't clean up. What was she doing as a parent? That's why I often remind people when they come here to this church for membership and they sit down for the membership interview that Someday, somewhere, somehow, when you least expect it, someone is going to offend you. Yes, even right here. You didn't think you waltzed into Wonderland with Alice when you came here to this church, did you? There's a book called Life in the Body of Christ, written by Curtis Thomas, and I recommend that book And here's a quote. It says, It would be ideal if all the members were genuine Christians, who never allowed a sinful problem to arise to create a disruption within the body But until the Lord returns, we will never live in an ideal world, nor serve in an ideal church. There's never been and will never be a perfect church on this earth True, some churches are more problem-free than others, yet because of our sinful natures, problems arise. True? This is just true, yes? Speak to me. Isn't this true? This is the way it is. This is who we are. You look to your left, you look to your right, you have incompletely sanctified human beings there And they're going to sometimes express that, and some of those times it's going to be to you. Yeah, but Pastor, we are a word-driven church. We have expository preaching. We have a systematic doctrinal teaching in our church, biblical counseling. I mean, we have a doctrinal statement that's like 5,000 pages long here at our church. We have the word. But James tells us that it's not the hearers of the word who are blessed, but who? The doers of the word. We have to practice what we preach. We have to put into action the wisdom and the love that come from this book page after page as we exposite it. Love and wisdom. That's what the Bible talks a lot about. Even when we're wronged, especially when we're wronged, we need love and wisdom. That's what today's scripture is all about. Open to 1 Corinthians chapter 6. And verses 1 through 8, we're going to read it, interpret it, and apply this text as we do every week. 1 Corinthians 6, verses 1 through 8. The Apostle Paul continues writing and he says, Does any one of you, when he has a case against his neighbor, dare to go to law before the unrighteous and not before the saints? Or do you not know that the saints will judge the world? If the world is judged by you, are you not competent to constitute the smallest law courts? Do you not know that we will judge angels? How much more matters of this life? So if you have law courts dealing with matters of this life, do you appoint them as judges who are of no account in the church? I say this to your shame. Is it so that there is not among you one wise man who will be able to decide between his brethren? But brother goes to law with brother, and that before unbelievers. Actually, then, it is already a defeat for you that you have lawsuits with one another. Why not rather be wronged? Why not rather be defrauded On the contrary, you yourselves wrong and defraud, you do this even to your brethren. Now Paul sounds rather indignant here, does he not? And that's an understatement. Paul, I think, is shocked at the Corinthians' behavior here, just as he was shocked back in chapter 5 over sexual immorality in the church. But here he's so shocked, he barely can even engage in teaching anything. He just starts giving one convicting question after another after another and letting it land on their ears and listen to that and bring them. To shame. The theme of 1 Corinthians, the entire letter of 1 Corinthians, is corrections in the church. Again, you can see clearly why here in chapter 6. I think Paul has two main corrections for the Corinthians in their church here. The first is he wants to stop brother suing brother in a law court. That's a problem for the church there But the second is even worse. The brothers were turning to unbelievers to judge and decide the case. In other words Though when a brother wrongs a brother, that's bad. Paul is not actually correcting the one who's doing the wrong here. I mean he could have. He could have been correcting them for wronging one another. He does that in other places. That's not what he's doing in chapter 6. Paul is correcting how people respond to the wrong when it is done to them, and also how the church handles the wrong when a brother sins against a brother or a sister against the sister as it would be applied. And we haven't had that problem here at Hope Bible Church, not yet in this specific case, but there's a lot to learn from here. I think for our application, we can consider this teaching in this chapter like preventative spiritual health care. And we would carefully understand it and realize that things like this can arise in our hearts. It can arise in our congregation. Show us how to deal with this in a godly way, a wise way, a loving way. Now you all have heard of the strategy the military uses shock and awe. You've heard that before, right? Well here in this passage we have a strategy, shock and shame, because that is exactly what he's doing to the Corinthians. He's shocked, and then he's showing them their shame, but fortunately he also brings a solution. So that's our outline. We first have the shock, and that's in verses 1 through 4. And then the shame, which is most of verses 5-8, and then we're going to go back into some of those verses and look at Paul's solution, which he is interwoven into the passage there as well. Okay, hang your thoughts on those three rungs the shock, the shame, and the solution. Look back at verse one with me if you would, the shock. It really expresses The Apostle's shock right here. He says, Does any one of you when he has a case against his neighbor dare to go to law before the unrighteous and not before the saints. That little phrase there, having a case against his neighbor, refers to civil litigation. In other words, Christian brother was actually suing Christian brother. That was going on. And that brought a deep emotional response out of Paul as he's writing this letter. By the way, in the Greek, the first word of the sentence, the very first word of this chapter is the verb dare, Talma'o, dare. Dare any of you to go to law against another is how he says it. He's really emphasizing. How dare you ever do anything like that. Now don't misunderstand, Paul's not naive. He knows that the church can sin. He knows believers enter into sin. He's aware of that. He knows it can be pretty bad. I mean he wrote 1 Corinthians, so he knows how Christians can act, right? But this is just expressing his feeling about it. You want to know how I feel about it? When I hear that you're suing one another, how dare you do that? How dare you take your brother to court And even worse, to go to a court and stand before unbelievers and let unbelievers decide the case. Are you nuts? Have you lost your Christian mind? What was going through your head when you did that? Now we don't really know whether this was just one case, as was the situation in chapter five with sexual immorality. Or was there something more? It appears the way he words this that this was happening somewhat regularly in Corinth. Not everyone, but some were doing this. This specific scenario would have gone something like this in Corinth. Some Christian would wrong another Christian, probably in a business practice of some kind, or a property dispute, a dispute about inheritance, something like that. The offended Christian brother would then take his case to the Bhima seat. There was a raised platform that was right there in the middle of the city in the agora, the marketplace. It was at the end of uh the agora. And they would approach the seat and the judge would sit on it and they would present their case to the judge on this raised platform and he would hear both sides And then he would render a decision, and the dispute would be settled. That's how it was done in Corinth. That's how the city operated. That was part of the Roman judicial system in their world Actually, the Apostle Paul had a number of run-ins with the law in his missionary journeys. He was actually dragged unjustly before the Demas' feet right there in Corinth that he's talking about when he first came to Corinth and was founding the church as he was preaching. Just listen to Acts chapter 18 and verses 12 through 16. It says there, but while Galileo was pro-council of Achaia, the Jews, with one accord, rose up against Paul and brought him before the judgment seat. That's the Bima seat, saying This man persuades men to worship God contrary to the law. That's what the Jews were saying. But when Paul was about to open his mouth, that was to give his defense. Galio said to the Jews, If it were a matter of wrong or of vicious crime, O Jews, it would be reasonable for me to put up with you. But if there are questions about words and names and of your own law, look after it yourselves. Don't bring this to me He goes on to say, I am unwilling to be a judge of these matters. And he drove them away from the judgment seat Looked over at the centurion and whoever was in charge and said, get these guys with their religious squabble out of here. I don't want to even hear the case. And so that's how Galileo, the proconsul, dealt with that situation. So these Corinthians, growing up in Corinth, before they had heard about Jesus, before they had been converted to the Christian faith, when they had a dispute in business, This is what they were used to doing. They would go to the Bima seat, they would present their case, and the verdict would be given. But that is not how things were to be once they became Christians Paul reminds them that the judges that they were going before now were the, what's the way he describes them there? The unrighteous. Do you see that? Go before the unrighteous, he says in verse 1. That does not mean that every single judge in the Roman world was corrupt or unjust. Much of the justice in Rome was actually balanced and equitable. This is really another way of saying they're in the category of those who are unrighteous. They're unbelievers. They're unsaved. They're apart from God. They are unrighteous in that sense. But of course, because unbelievers don't have their hearts squared with God, they live their whole lives breaking God's law, obviously that would reflect generally on their character as well. And so the unrighteous label is an appropriate designation All non-Christians are corrupt in their thinking, at the very base of their understanding of what is right and wrong. And that is why God demands every unbeliever to repent Their entire life has been an offense to God. They have to turn away from their old life and embrace a new life given to them by one who truly pleased God, the Lord Jesus Christ. If one refuses to repent from sin, God refuses to grant salvation from sin. So some judges back then did abuse their position, and their unrighteousness came out in the way they decided things. But even if they were going to render justly, they were still the unrighteous. That's his point. Now Paul himself had experienced a little bit about the unjust Roman courts when they didn't do things well. For example, in Acts chapter 16, there's the story of him coming to Philippi, and he was accused falsely of something, and he was beaten with rods along with Silas, and he was thrown in the prison. And that was unlawful. Judges also sometimes would take bribes, and the poor often had things stacked against them in the court because they didn't have any money to bribe with. In the letter of James, it picks up on this in chapter 2, verse 6, it says, You have dishonored the poor man. Is it not the rich who oppress you and personally drag you into court? So they would use the court system to oppress the poor and they were able to do that because they had more money and so they could influence justice. I remember growing up having an unfeigned trust in everything that was American. Whether it was the policeman or whether it was the court system, if it was American it was great and it was good. That's kind of how I thought growing up. I've learned a lot more now Obviously, there's a lot of false teaching even on the part of our American judges. Some sadly are more immoral than those that are standing before them, that they're going to render a verdict You know, we forget that once people take off the the uniform and they take off the garb, they're just a sinner like anybody else. They're just someone who has to deal with their own sin nature. They have their pride, their prejudices, their blind spots Their way of looking at things, they're just another human being. But remember, the issue is not whether the Corinthian Christians could get justice from the Roman courts or not. That's not what Paul is talking about Even unrighteous believers can decide fairly on some things. He was concerned about what that act communicated about the church And about Christianity, and about the truth, and about the wisdom the church was supposed to have. Notice in verse 2 next the shock or amazement at their ignorance. He goes on and he says, Or do you not know that the saints will judge the world? Now you know what the saints refers to, right? We've already seen that before. Back in chapter 1, verse 1, when he opened up the letter, it refers to every single believer in Jesus Christ. The saints literally means the holy ones. Everyone who's in Christ is a holy one, not because of his own behavior, but because of a gift of Christ. Christ is holy for us. The members of God's church are holy, and God's church itself is holy. We are the saved ones. We're set apart for Jesus Christ. We're the saints. And what will the saints do? Paul says. The saints are going to judge the world. Don't you know that? He writes. You say, what? I didn't know that. Is that really true? The saints are going to judge the world? Yeah, that's true. It's true. It's funny that in chapter 5 he wrote that we don't judge the world, the outsiders, now But we do judge those who are believers on the inside of the church now. We judge their actions and if we have to we put them out. But now in chapter six, right after he says that He says, even though we don't judge the world, the outsiders now, we will judge the world in the future. There's coming a time where we will do that You ask, how can that be? Well, because you and I, according to Christ's promise and according to the Bible's teaching, are going to reign one day with Jesus Christ in his kingdom. We will reign with him And as rulers with Christ, we will also be judges, because the king was all three branches of government in one. Remember in uh Romans chapter 3 and verse 6 and many other passages in the Psalms in Isaiah and Genesis, it talks about God as being the judge of all the earth. But then you come to The Gospel of John chapter 5 and verse 22, and you read that God the Father has taken all the judgment of the entire world and he's given it over to one man. Who's that? Jesus, He's handed over the entire judgment of every man, woman, and child on this planet to Jesus Christ, who can render the perfect judgment Christ promised that we would reign with him, and so he's going to share that judgment with us. That means our minds are sanctified and Christian minds will be in the process of rendering judgment on every single unbeliever in some way. That's just astounding, isn't it? In Matthew nineteen twenty eight, Jesus promised the twelve apostles that they will judge the twelve tribes of Israel in the millennial kingdom. In 2 Timothy 2 and verse 12, we're promised, if we endure, that is, endure in the Christian faith, we will also reign with him. There's some that start out in the Christian faith, they don't endure, they prove themselves not to be believers, and so they'll never reign with Christ. But if we endure, we'll reign with them. 2 Timothy 2. 12. Romans 8 and verse 17 teaches that all believers are joint heirs with Christ. What is Christ inheriting? What is Jesus Christ going to inherit? The answer? The entire planet. It's all his. All of the land, everything, it's his. It's been given to him by God the Father. He's going to come back to the planet, put his feet on the On the Mount of Olives, and he's coming back not just to claim Israel, but the whole world. It's all his. And he's going to share that with everyone. This promise comes out in the book of Revelation as Christ is Reminding the churches of the promises. In Revelation 2, verses 26 and 27 we read this. He who overcomes And he who keeps my deeds until the end, to him I will give authority over the nations. That's astounding And he, that is the person who overcomes in the church, shall rule them with a rod of iron. Well, that sounds exactly like what's going to happen to Christ. As the vessels of the potter are broken to pieces, as I also have received authority from my Father. He got authority from God the Father. He says if Your faith is the kind that is genuine and overcomes the world and persists and endures to the end, and you keep my will, I will grant you to rule with me, and you will have authority over the nation. It's amazing. You know, even in the Old Testament, in one of Daniel's visions, there was a glimpse of this in Daniel 7. 22 where it says, The ancient of days, that's God the Father, came, and judgment was passed in favor of the saints of the highest one. And the time arrived when the saints took possession of the kingdom. And there it is. So the amazement that Paul has here, why he's shocked Is that though God has placed believers as judge over all the world, all unbelievers, they were going to the unbelievers to have them judge them As if the unbelievers had the truth, and as if the unbelievers were righteous before God, and as if the unbelievers knew what God's will was in the first place to be able to render a correct decision Do you see a problem with that? The Apostle Paul did. Obviously the Corinthians did. They're like, what's the big deal? We just want justice. And now he presses it. Look at verse 2 again. If the world is judged by you, are you not competent to constitute the smallest law court? Oh my! The if, by the way, carries the sense of since. Since the church will judge the world, and you Corinthians, by the way, are part of the church, aren't you competent to judge the smallest things right now? It's an argument from the greater to the lesser. You're going to engage in judging the whole world with Jesus Christ. You can't handle the smallest little grievances in your church. You don't know what to decide. You're not competent for those things. My father actually had a job after he retired from the State Department where they asked him to serve on the Grievance Board. Grievance Board at the State Department was a place where internally the State Department would try to settle grievances and they chose three men to be judges. My father was one of them. It was a very distinguished position for him to have. Their understanding was that if there was a problem inside their organization, they ought to and should and can solve that problem within their own institution. Families do the same thing. Usually there's a squabble. Family gets together. They don't take one another to court. They talk about it. They might yell a little bit. They work things out. They forgive each other. They find out what will work and then they move on. Well that's at least how it's supposed to go, right? What would happen if a family had brothers that sue brothers? Wouldn't that be a meltdown of entire communication within a family? They can't take care of their internal issues. So the second thing that Paul is amazed at here is that he's just amazed that they can't take care of their own problems. And so he says next in verse three Do you and he's just ratcheting up his argument again here. He's saying, Do you not know that we will judge angels? Okay, we've got to judge all the people on the earth And now the spiritual beings, you haven't even seen them, you don't even know that much about them because they're invisible, but do you not know you're going to judge angels? That's incredible. Not only the world of humans, but spiritual beings as well. Wow. I mean that's amazing Now, what does he mean by this? Well, some take this to mean that we will judge all of the angels of some capacity. Others say no, he's talking about judging the evil angels, which are also called evil spirits or demons in the Bible. We're really not altogether sure exactly what he means here because he doesn't give much of an explanation. Just that one day we're going to be exalted to a position, and that position is going to be so high in God's universe that we will be above the angel. And be able to give judgment concerning those that are below us. Certainly we know the evil angels will be condemned. The Word of God says that. In Jude verse six it says God has kept evil spirits in eternal bonds. under darkness for the judgment of the great day. There you have it. Matthew twenty five, forty one, Jesus taught that hell was created or prepared for the devil and his angels. That's why it was made in the first place. The devil and his angels. They're called angels there. But as intriguing as this statement is about judging angels, and we'd like to explore that more, Paul's purpose is really not here to tell us all about how that judgment of angels is going to be, just to point out that God has destined the church. The people you see around and here, other believers in Christ, Christians, for something great. So our actions today have to be in accord with what our future will be, see? You as a Christian, if you're truly saved, have been promised a magnificent future, exclusive only to believers in Christ. No one outside of Christ has been promised this. Notice next he writes, how much more matters of this life. There it is again. When you think about judging angels and judging the world, the petty squabbles in your church ought to be nothing. They ought to be a piece of cake. Christian, you're going to be granted a status way above the heavenly creatures. And you can't figure out who should get the land inheritance. You can't figure out whose money that should be. What is going on? In verse 4, he expresses the shock all over again, but he brings the whole argument back together. In verse 4, he says, so if you have law courts dealing with matters of this life. Do you appoint them as judges who are of no account in the church? That's a complicated verse syntactically in the Greek, but the point that Paul is making, I think, is very clear from the context. To go to the unrighteous is to contradict who you are. It's as if you don't even know who you are. You're the church. They're not part of the church. They don't inherit any of the promises. The church will judge the whole world and angels. How can you let them decide your cases? And that leads to his second point here, and that's the shame. Verse 5. I say this to your shame. Well, that's obvious. That's obvious. Corinthian shame has lasted through the centuries. People think of the Corinthian church, they immediately think of all their sins. They got it, they got shame. In fact, later in the letter, 1 Corinthians 15, 35, he writes this, become sober-minded as you ought, and stop sinning, for some have no knowledge of God. I speak this to your shame. Shame! Shame! Shame! Shame! What else could he do? They were acting shamefully. You know, back in chapter 4 and verse 14, he said he did not write that part to their shame, but here he's saying, I am writing this to your shame And you deserve it. Verse 6. But brother goes to law with brother, and that before unbelievers. I think verse 6, you can just underline that. I think that's the heart of this passage. That really is expressing what his concern is. Brother goes to law with brother, and that before the unbelievers. You can just see the apostle shaking his head as he's writing this. Just pausing, looking up at whoever else was in the room and just shaking his head. Can you believe that? First, they go to law against themselves. Second, they do it before unbelievers. You've elevated the unbeliever, and you've lowered the church. You wrong your brother. What a tragic scenario. You put your dirty linen out for all others to see. You drag the name of Christ through the legal mud. Who are you living for anyway? You try to shake a few extra dollars out of your brother's pocket and then use someone who's rejected the Lord Jesus Christ to help you do that. That's why he says in verse 7, actually then it is already a defeat for you that you have lawsuits with one another And then skip to verse 8, because these go together. On the contrary, you yourselves wrong and defraud. You do this even to your brethren. Brother hurts brother. Brother against brother. How stupid. How shameful. Just the fact that you do this is your defeat. Don't you get it? As soon as you two stand in front of the Bima C, you've already lost It doesn't matter who wins. You're both losers. And the whole church behind you is a loser too. Go ahead, grab your coins, and go home. Grab your inheritance. You think you won. You let your whole team down. Congratulations. You scored a goal for the winning opposite team. Now all the city of Corinth knows there's not one single wise man in all the Church of Jesus Christ to decide the simplest cases. Congratulations. Very good. That's what you've done. See, when we have disputes left unresolved among ourselves on the one-on-one level or on the family level, whatever it may be. That also affects the reputation of the entire church. Do you see that? Because we're a body. And I'm connected to you, and you're connected to him, and he's connected to her. And she's connected to me. And that's the way a body is. And that's the way we are. That's our identity. We have to operate together. We have to witness together, worship together, our reputation goes together. Your life is a concern to me because you, in a sense, are an extension of me. We're all an extension of Christ is the better way of putting it. He's the head and we're his body The body's weak, the head isn't honored. Listen, Paul's not denying us the use of any of the courts in disputes with unbelievers, by the way. That's not his point in here. Sometimes going to a court is unavoidable. Sometimes we don't even want to, and the law requires that we do. Romans 12 says we are to live at peace with all men, do everything we can to live at peace with all men. Sometimes that's not possible. Also, I believe that sometimes it would actually be wise to use the courts if it was to defend our rights and our freedoms as Christians, so the gospel would go forth unhindered. The Apostle Paul did this in the city of Philippi. When he was beaten and thrown into jail, as I mentioned earlier They came the next morning after the Philippian jailer had been saved. You remember that? In Acts 1637, Paul responded when they were going to let him go the next morning. They have beaten us in public Without trial, men who are Romans, he was a Roman citizen, and have thrown us into prison, and now they are sending us away secretly No indeed. But let them come themselves and bring us out. In other words, they're going to have to publicly apologize for this injustice. He demanded it and he used the court system and his citizenship for that. Why? Not because he was proud, not because he was selfish, not because he was trying to grab some inheritance for himself. But because he recognized as the founding apostle of the Church in Philippi, that was going to bear on the reputation of the entire church And so, because of the reputation of the church, he said he used the court system in order to reflect positively upon the church. It's kind of the opposite scenario of what's happening here in 1 Corinthians, where they're just selfishly going after what they want, and it's bringing shame to the church. But I think Paul's principle here in 1 Corinthians 6 still applies to us today. We should never choose to go to court against a Christian brother. Let me say that again. We should never choose to go to court against our Christian brother or sister. Especially when you know the church is there to decide. You should never sue your brother or sister in Christ. Now I know some claim these days to be a Christian and they may have some kind of a knowledge of Christ, but they've not truly born again. You know they're not truly saved, and that complicates things as well. Many that claim to be Christians are not even members of a church, a thing that was completely unheard of in the local church when this instruction was given And so they're wandering out there, and if you had a case against them, you'd have no earthly idea which church to take them to in order to help you solve the problem. And you'll be like, what do I do now? And it gets complicated. It gets messy But you need to do your very best to find a church and elders that will help in that situation, particularly if you know they have a genuine faith in Christ Unfortunately, too many leaders are too busy trying to be liked and just get people into their church for any reason that they're not serving their sheep properly in that regard. But whenever the church, here's the rule, whenever the church can decide, is allowed to decide by the government and is there to decide, let them decide. Well, let's turn now to the solution. We're sort of already getting into it. Third, the solution. I think there are two solutions that Paul gives to this situation. I want us to look at it. One is back at the end of verse five and the other is at the end of verse seven. And we're I said it was interwoven here in the passage and I want to go back to that. Look back at the end of verse five. His first solution is this Is it so that there is not among you one wise man who will be able to decide between his brethren? In other words, look around in your church now. Take some time, he writes. Can you not find one wise older man, one wise elder, not one person who could make a credible decision among you Listen, even in Moses' day, with that generation that was so stubborn of art and came out of Egypt, and Jethro is Father-in-law gave Moses the advice. Remember that? You can't decide all the cases all day long. Moses, pick out some men to help you with the judging. And Moses did that. And even they were able to have some of those decisions taken care of. Paul's saying, look around you. You're the church of Jesus Christ. You can't find one person to decide these cases? Not one? I mean he knew sometimes it takes time to hear a case, to listen carefully, to think about both sides that are being presented, to listen to all of the issues that are going on, not rush a judgment. Sometimes the interests are hard to maintain. Sometimes the attitudes of people are hard to discern. But there still is wisdom in the church, and it takes wisdom, wisdom to make equitable decisions. And kind decisions. It's wisdom that's able to look at a situation carefully, with balance, without prejudice, and listen to all sides of the story, not prejudging anything, not jumping to conclusions It is wisdom which is able to make proper distinctions. It's wisdom which is able to weigh evidence. It is wisdom which hands down verdicts which are balanced and not biased. And where does a man in a church get wisdom from? Well, he didn't get it from secular school. He didn't get it from the university. Not God's wisdom. He didn't get it from instructors who don't know God. He didn't get it from life experiences either. He doesn't even get it from carefully observing people as some do. Where does a man get wisdom? Proverbs 2 and verse 6 says, For the Lord gives wisdom. There it is. Where does the Lord give wisdom? Where does he give it? He gives it in his word, right? From his mouth come knowledge and understanding. Proverbs 2. 6 The Word of God gives us wisdom. The Word of God fills our mind with a proper way of understanding so we can make proper decisions The Bible makes men wiser than all other men. Rather than being ashamed of this book, this is the book that gives you more insight about the world and life and humanity and God and everything else in it than any other book. By far. Psalm 119 says this so well. Listen to this. Oh, how I love your law, the psalmist writes. It is my meditation all the day. Your commandments make me wiser than my enemies, for they are ever mine. I have more insight than all my teachers, for your testimonies are my meditation. I understand more than the aged, because I have observed your precepts. I have restrained my feet from every evil way that I might keep your word I have not turned aside from your ordinances, for you yourself have taught me. How sweet are your words to my taste, yes, sweeter than honey to my mouth From your precepts I get understanding. Therefore I hate every false way. Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path. Do you hear it? I'm wiser than my teachers, he says. I'm wiser than the aged. I'm wiser than my enemies. Why? Because I have your word and I meditate on it day and night. He's just saying, find a wise person who has meditated on the Word of God, studied it, knows it, and knows God, and take your cases to Him. And that's where wisdom resides. That's his first solution. The second solution is at the end of verse 7, if you jump down and look at that. And this is so radical. So radical indeed. He asks as one of his many convicting questions there at the end of verse 7, why not rather what be wronged? Well, because I don't want to be wrong, that's why. The very simple answer to that. Why not rather be wrong? I'll lose the money. I'll lose the land. That's why. And then he asks, why not rather be for what? Defrauded. Because that hurts. Because I don't like that. Well, the question challenges our hearts, does it not? Church people, do you love each other? Church people, do you love each other? We don't say it with an amen. Glad to hear the amen. But we don't say it with that. We say it with our Ds. Right? You know, uh we make a big deal about the love chapter in 1 Corinthians chapter 13. Oh, the whole love chapter, the whole chapter written on love, so beautiful, read it at weddings and everything. You know why Paul had to write that chapter to the Corinthians, don't you? Listen to what he said to the Thessalonian church in 1 Thessalonians 4 now 4. 9. Now, as to the love of the brethren, you have no need for anyone to write to you For you yourselves are taught by God to love one another. Not the Corinthians. He had to spell it out for them. The ABCs, the kindergarten of love. Love is patience. Love is kind. Love is not jealous. You didn't know that? We exalt that as a beautiful passage. He had to spell it out for him. They didn't know anything about love. 1 Corinthians 13, 5. Love does not take into account a wrong suffered. Why not rather be wronged? Take into account there in 1 Corinthians 13, 15 is a bookkeeping term, meaning to calculate or reckon. In business you need to keep records, in relationships you must not. If wrongs done in the past keep coming back up in your relationships, forgiveness has not yet happened in your heart. If you bring back up the hurts that you have felt in the past, the wrongs you've suffered, then you have not forgiven. And to that extent, you do not love. True forgiveness wipes the ledger clean. It does not repay the other with a silent treatment or avoidance or gossip. Gossip is nothing more than a verbal backstab, getting even. So Paul says, even if you could not find a wise man in the church, Why not just absorb the loss and be wronged? Why not? David Garrett in his two thousand and five book called Been Wronged Lately, great title, writes this. This is a great quote. Just listen to this. The biblical solution for resolving a dispute may include the concept of justice or fairness, but it is much more. Christian dispute resolution is really about achieving perspective. That is gaining a godly perspective about our relationships with each other. It's not merely about getting justice It's not even about getting justice using biblical principles. Christian dispute resolution is really about discovering the incredible value God puts in our blood-bot relationships and the testimony of our reconciliation to the world. The unity of the saints beckons. That's why Paul asked Christians who were litigating their disputes In secular courts in the first century, with more than a little exasperation in his voice, why not rather be wronged? His rhetorical question demanded a personal assessment of their hearts and ours. Do we really want to sacrifice a relationship with a brother or a sister for a few dollars? More importantly, do we really want to sacrifice the story of Christ's reconciliation work on the altar of hypocrisy with a lawsuit? Paul took the emphasis off winning the case and put it on winning back relationships and even unbelievers. Through our attitudes toward conflict. He challenged the Corinthians to set aside earthy rancor for reunion. He changed the focus from the here and now to eternity. He encouraged the disputants to see their conflict not as a personal battle, but as a spiritual one. Do you get it? I couldn't improve on those words. That just nails it on the head. Isn't this what the Apostle Paul practiced? Do you remember chapter 4, verses 12 and 13? We just did this. He said, when we, the apostles, when we are reviled, we what? We bless. When we are persecuted, we endure. When we are slandered, we try to conciliate Remember that account between Peter and Jesus about forgiveness? Lord, how many times should I forgive my brother? Seven? No, seventy times seven, Peter. You're just beginning to learn. You're just beginning to learn. What's the solution? Love is the solution. Love is the solution. Love one another. It's not just a command. It's how we live. It's how we operate. Love reigns in the Church of Jesus Christ We're about to celebrate the Lord's Supper. We remember when we do that, Jesus didn't did not ever commit even one sin. So why should he have to suffer such an incredible shame by being thrown naked upon a cross, spat at, laughed at, mocked, and then take your sins and mine and have them dumped on him? So that God the Father would turn his back on him, pour out his wrath against him when he had never, ever disobeyed. And the answer is love. He absorbed the loss to forgive us. He took your help upon himself, if you believe. He absorbed the loss for you, for me. That's what he did. That's the gospel. That's the cross. That's how he treated you. And he did it for us when we were his enemies, breaking his law and his commands. We can't do it for one another when we're brothers and friends. We can't. So often we think of ourselves as loving until we're put to the test. And we realize, oh, we have so much more to learn about loving our brethren and caring for each other. You know, we have our 10-year anniversary service next week as I already said Ten years, I think, of some of the members who have come and gone. I think about our membership covenant, which affirms this: that we will be kind and courteous in speech. To be quick to forgive, and slow to take offense, to be active in seeking reconciliation. Those are the words of our covenant. But over the ten years I've seen many come and go, and they were very quick to take offense. They were very quick to point the finger Very quick to justify their lack of love. Very quick to point out the speck in their brother's eye. Very slow to reconcile. Very slow to demonstrate love. Very slow to repent of the beam of hypocrisy in their own eye. And they ended up leaving. I say, how sad. How sad. Because in my mind, nothing was learned. Nothing was learned about the Christian faith. Nothing. See, because if you don't love, it says in 1 John 4, you don't even know God. You don't even know God. Brothers and sisters, let us love as Christ loved. And that is the solution for our disputes. For the wrongs that have been done against us, for when we are offended. So let us not run from the room when we're about to be offended. Let us learn how to care, how to forgive, how to reconcile.