Mind they reject holy scripture, right? They reject it. They don't believe in it. They uh consider themselves usually a cut above. They they're more scientifically minded. They're they're enlightened as they see themselves. Moral absolutes are untenable for today. These are the kind of people who tirelessly work to tear down things that God values in Scripture to tear down the God-given family structure as an example. Almost seems like a religious-like zeal to promote homosexuality now. To celebrate celebrities who play the game week in and week out, who can be the most shocking and immoral this week? From their twerks to their calculated wardrobe malfunctions, who laugh at all of us who oppose sexual perversion Who decide to make up rules for their own life to suit their own pursuit of happiness. That's who I'm talking about. I'm amazed that these Same people, when some injustice happens out in society, something wrong occurs. And it becomes splattered all over the media. You know what I'm talking about. It runs through the social media There's a sports figure who does something wrong. Everybody's talking. A CEO or a Wall Street kind of person who's caught cheating. Oh, it's terrible. It's terrible. Some religious figure that's been embellishing funds, a politician who's caught cheating on his wife, some hunter who shoots an endangered species, whatever they consider to be, that's just terrible. At that point in time, they have the audacity to lift up their voices in unison and demand justice. Justice be done All of a sudden, these incessant lawbreakers of God's moral laws, they find some degree of righteousness and they scream for what is right. Whence cometh this hypocritical judgment? My how the unrighteous become hell-bent on seeing righteousness executed with a fury. Ah, but beware all of you who cry out for justice. For the sword of justice swings both ways, right? And he who demands righteousness by righteousness himself one day will be judged. This was the kind of hypocrisy that God was correcting through the prophet Malachi when the Jews were complaining: look at all that's going wrong. Look at the promises that we ought to be able to have fulfilled. Where is all of this, God? Where is the God of justice? Why is he not working in some way we can perceive in our generation? Where is he? And so Malachi addressed this. Join me now for the second time as we hear God's word on this very modern subject We'll start at the end of chapter 2 again in Malachi, the last book of the Old Testament, right before Matthew. Just turn back one and find the Gospels. And we'll read all the way to verse 6 of chapter 3 because it goes together. You have wearied the Lord with your words, yet you say, How have we wearied him? In that you say, Everyone who does evil is good in the sight of the Lord, and he delights in them. Or Where is the God of justice? Behold, I am going to send my messenger, and he will clear the way before me, and the Lord whom you seek will suddenly come to his temple. And the messenger of the covenant in whom you delight, behold, he is coming, says the Lord of hosts. But who can endure the day of his coming? And who can stand when he appears? For he is like a refiner's fire and like fuller's soap. He will sit as a smelter and purifier of silver, and he will purify the sons of Levi and refine them like gold and silver so that they may present to the Lord offerings in righteousness. Then the offering of Judah and Jerusalem will be pleasing to the Lord, as in the days of old, as in the former years. Then I will draw near to you for judgment And I will be a swift witness against the sorcerers and against the adulterers and against those who swear falsely and against those who oppress the wage earner in his wages the widow and the orphan and those who turn aside the alien and do not fear me, says the Lord of hosts. For I, the Lord, do not change. Therefore you O sons of Jacob are not consumed. We mentioned last time that this is the fourth disputation or argument that the Lord God is having with the Jews. of the 5th century BC. And it is started in chapter 2, verse 17, as we noted, with the fact that the Lord is just wearied with the words of the people. They're constant words of unbelief. It's draining on God. From man's perspective, it sometimes seems as if God has just disappeared. Where has he gone? What is he doing? Evil is slipping by him, terrible things are happening. And he's not doing anything to stop it. Where is his management of the world and the universe? It just seems that way sometimes, doesn't it And we said last time that that is exactly when our faith is needed. That is exactly when you prove yourself a believer. That is exactly when faith has to have some endurance through the hard times. We focused on that one main thought last time. Our faith requires that we wait on God, that we understand because He's an all-powerful God And because he's an all-good God, just because evil is not defeated now doesn't mean that it won't be. Obviously, he knows the right time. He's also an all-wise God and an all-knowing God, and he knows exactly when and how to do that. Our faith requires we wait on God's good timing. And in the meantime, what do we do? In the meantime, our faith requires that we don't become apathetic, but we work hard at doing what is right. Now, along with that comes a sub-thought for today. It's something we're going to focus on, and that is this. Justice is coming. It is coming. There is all the justice in the world that you ever want to have, every wrong that you ever wanted to see corrected, justice is coming. It's coming as a flood. But when justice comes, here's the question, are we going to be ready for it? We divided the passage into two actions last time. The first action we covered last time, it's in verse 17. of chapter two, and that is man's complaining. Man's complaining about this predicament that he's in about the lack of justice. And so that's their action. Man is complaining, it's wearying on God, but that is what man is doing God gives the charge in verse 17, you've wearied the Lord with your words, and then the people's objection comes. How have we wearied God? And then the proof comes because you keep saying everyone who does evil is good in the sight of the Lord. Obviously that's blasphemy God doesn't delight in them as they said. Or where is the God of justice? He's working his plan. That's the answer. And I think it's good to see how God deals with this generation. Because this was a very skeptical and cynical crowd that Malachi was facing. You think because they were Jews, they had all the faith in the world. No, they were skeptical. And that's just like people went today, right? People are skeptical today. They complained incessantly against God's management of their nation, God's management of the fulfillment of prophecy, God's management of the world. Hey, that sounds just like people today. They concluded, hey, it doesn't pay to be good. It doesn't pay to do the right thing. Hey, that sounds just like people today, doesn't it? God rewards the unrighteous. Nice guys fit us last. Remember, we called this the anti-Psalm 1. Blessed are those who listen to the unrighteous and do as they do. Well, today we're going to turn our attention to the second action, and it's longer. It takes the bulk of this passage, and that is simply this. God is coming. God's coming. God is coming to answer man's complaint. And that's in verses one through six. The whole section really is about his Verses 1 through 6 is the response that God gave to the complaint of man in verse 17. Where is the God of justice? Why is God letting evil prosper? Why is oppression gone unchecked? Why do the righteous suffer? God has an answer. God promises decisive action. Action that the people will get to see with their own eyes, then they'll know. God is going to send somebody to take care of the problem of evil. We have a problem of evil. God notes it and he says he doesn't have a problem with evil. He's got a plan. And he's going to send somebody to deal with that problem. And so we have here from Malachi's day a major prophecy of the Old Testament. A prophetic look at the future and what God says he's going to do. Now listen guys, there's a sense in which we can never know what's going to happen in the future. But there's a sense in which we know exactly what's going to happen in the future. That is the neat thing about studying prophecy. You are getting a look into your own future right now, and you can't do that with any other book This is amazing, this prophecy here. It's amazing and it's scary. Here in the prophecy we read about three persons. Each person plays a crucial part in the answer that God is giving. The first person is the simplest to talk about. The first person is God Notice how verse 1 starts. I will send. So God is the initiator of this whole thing. It's his answer to the complaint. It's how he's going to take care of the problem of evil. Later, if you just kind of cheat, a little go down to verse six, you'll see that he says, He is the same God who never changes. So whatever he said in in the long distant past, whatever he was in ancient days, that doesn't change today. If for some reason we we're all here 2,000 years from now, it's not going to change then. God stays the same. This is God. He's the initiator. He is the first person to talk about in this section. The second person is someone that God is going to send. Again, look at verse 1. Behold, I am going to send my messenger. What's he going to do? He will clear the way before me. My messenger. Now you may remember when we started Malachi, that actually is the very name for Malachi. Malachi means my messenger, but he's not speaking of this prophet named Malachi. He's speaking of the future, some prophet who would come. That word, behold, is one of those words that says, lift up your head and notice something very important and interesting is about to happen. That's why it's there. Stand up and take notice. Something amazing is going to happen. God wants you to know about it. Behold, a messenger is going to be sent. Where's the messenger going to be sent? The messenger is going to be sent to the nation of Israel. And that messenger, when he comes to the nation of Israel, he's going to prepare the way for God. Now here's where a little knowledge of the ancient world helps out because You and I don't really know a lot about this, but in those days, if you had a king who was going to come to a town, it's not like you could pick up your cell phone and say, hey, get ready, a king is coming to your town You guys better polish up your act over there a little bit. What they would do in the ancient days is they would send the guy running way, way out in front of the royal entourage. The king was coming, coming to visit the town, the city Somebody had to come there and get the way ready for that. And so he would run in the town and he'd tell the people the king is coming, and they would make sure literally that the road was free of impediments and that it was leveled if necessary for the whole entourage to make itself in there. That city and the people needed to be prepped for the king's arrival They knew about this kind of thing. It didn't happen every day to a small town, but it was something that they were familiar with. It's very interesting to me that the prophet Malachi and the Prophet Isaiah are the only two prophets of the Old Testament Who tell us that when the Messiah finally came to Israel, the Messiah would be preceded by a forerunner. A forerunner, someone who would run ahead of the king and prep the place for his arrival. Now many of the other prophets talked about the Messiah, but it's Isaiah and Malachi that said There's going to be a forerunner. Just look again ahead in Malachi the chapter four. Look at verses five and six, and you'll see it again This is how the entire Old Testament closes, by the way. Look at this. This is fascinating. Behold, I am going to send you sort of the same language, isn't it? I'm going to send you. And now we get a name. Who? I'm going to send you Elijah, the prophet, before the coming of the great and terrible day of the Lord. He will restore the hearts of the fathers to the children. And he goes on So the forerunner is uh Elijah, so says Malachi chapter 4. Elijah, we know who he is. Of course, he's the great prophet of the Old Testament, along with Moses. When you think of the two greatest prophets of the Old Testament, there's Moses and there's Elijah. Moses the law comes through Moses, and Elijah's the guy who's caught up into the heavens and never saw death, and he was a very powerful, powerful prophet. It appears that God saved Elijah to have him return at some time in the future to do this special work. Isaiah chapter 40, verses 3 through 5 adds details to this forerunner and his job. It says there, a voice is calling Clear, notice how it says this, clear the way for the Lord in the wilderness. Make smooth in the desert a highway for our God. God's coming. Get the road ready Let every valley be lifted up, and every mountain and hill be made low. In other words, let's level the place and make it easy for travel. And let the rough ground become a plain and the rugged terrains a broad valley. Then When you do this, the glory of the Lord will be revealed, and all flesh, all human flesh, will see it together, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken. That's Isaiah. Now the New Testament is very clear about this. The New Testament decisively applies these two prophecies from Isaiah and from Malachi to the life and ministry of no, not Elijah, who? John the Baptist. But John the Baptist was not Elijah. Ah, I guess confusing, huh? In Luke chapter 1, verse 17, the angel Gabriel told John's father while he was ministering in the temple, Your son John, will go, listen, as a forerunner before Him in the spirit and power of Elijah. So John the Baptist was this forerunner that God promised to send. In Matthew chapter 3, verses 1 through 3 makes it even clearer. It says now in those days John the Baptist came preaching in the wilderness of Judea, saying, Repent. Notice it's in the wilderness. Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Then we get a little commentary in the Gospel of Matthew in verse 3. It says, For this is the one referred to by Isaiah the prophet when he said, the voice of one crying in the wilderness: Make ready the way of the Lord, make his path straight. Again, you can see how certain this is. Going on to Matthew chapter 11 and verse 10 it says, John, and Jesus was speaking now. John is the one about whom it is written, Behold I send my messenger ahead of you who will prepare your way before you. So there's no doubt the forerunner was John the Baptist. You can also look up Luke 7, 27, and Mark 1, verse 2. John the Baptist, then, is the second person being prophesied about in our passage. John the Baptist. John the Baptist was so significant. In the unfolding work of God and His plan of redemption, that out of all of the human beings who have ever lived, who have ever been born in any family, in any country, anywhere It is John the Baptist and John the Baptist alone who was chosen by God to be that one running ahead and announcing the coming of the King of Kings. Pretty amazing. What a privileged man John was. Jesus said of John the Baptist in Matthew 11:11: Truly I say to you, among those born of women, there has not arisen anyone greater than John the Baptist. This is a great man. In God's estimation, John the Baptist was a great man. And his task was so important that God actually had him filled with the Holy Spirit while he was still inside his mommy. To make sure when he got out, he didn't botch the job. He was that important. We don't know anyone else who was full of the Holy Spirit in their mother's womb. Now, adding to the height of all the hype surrounding John the Baptist, his entrance was quite dramatic Why is that? Because the time of Malachi is somewhere around 430 B. C. We don't know the exact time. Somewhere around 430 BC. So from that time until the time of John the Baptist, how long is that? By the time he starts his ministry, it's about a 450 years. What happened 450 years ago? When is that? That's right when the Reformation took place in Europe. 450 years ago. That's a long time. In between that time, no prophets come. No more prophets. Nada. That's it. They got Malachi chewing of Al. The Malachi ends with this abrupt prophecy at the end of chapter 4 there, and no more prophets, 50 years go by. No prophets, 100 years go by, no prophets, 200, 300, 400 plus years. Then John the Baptist shows up on the scene. No wonder they were pouring down to the Jordan River to listen to this This almost crazed man out there screaming in the wilderness, turn from your sins. God is coming. The Lord is coming. The kingdom of God is at hand Wearing the camel's hair and eating locusts and all that stuff. What a man! It was scared us. It would have scared us. The silence from God wouldn't be broken until John yelled in the wilderness, repent. And John even had them come down in the water, remember? Confess your sins and come down in the water, one by one. That's how we know that infants weren't baptized, even in John's baptism. You come down, you confess your sins. It was individual. You couldn't have anyone else do it for you. And you get dunked. And you get ready by that for the coming of the Lord. So John just burst on the scene. And people from all the regions, the New Testament tells us, came down to see him. Everyone knew about John the Baptist. When you read the book of Acts, you find that there's disciples walking all over Asia and they knew about John the Baptist and they hadn't even heard yet about Jesus. That's how popular John the Baptist was But the role of John the Baptist was not to point to John the Baptist. The role of John the Baptist was to, he was a forerunner. He wasn't saying, I'm here. He was saying, the Lord's coming, right? John knew that. He said in Matthew 3. 11, the one who is coming after me is mightier than I am. I'm not even fit to remove his sandals. That's how much of a difference there is between me and him. Whatever you think of me, I'm nothing. John knew that. They sent out a delegation, uh, the Gospel of John tells us to find out Who is this John? The leaders in Jerusalem had to know. They sent a delegation. Who is this guy? They said, are you the Christ? He said, no. Are you Elijah? He said, no. Are you the prophet? He said no. He said, Well then who are you? You've got to give us an answer because we've got to go back and tell them who you are. And he said this. I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness. Make straight the way of the Lord, as Isaiah the prophet said. I'm that guy. I'm that mouth. So God was going to send a messenger to deal with the wicked. And please notice that God was very careful to tell his people what he was going to do. But God did not tell them, oh, and this is gonna hurt. This is gonna hurt. God did not tell them when he was gonna do it. Isn't that a bummer? Wouldn't eschatology be so much easier if you just would tell us when? You know, like the guys that make predictions on the radio, they know. The Lord is gonna come back in two thousand and just pick the next thing, they'll be wrong. I guess if they pick every year they gotta eventually be right. It really bothers us. That's where faith gets stretched. What if we're all sitting around here and we're 90-some years old? Pardon to those of you that already are. And the Lord still hasn't come. Will our faith be lessened because of that? I thought the whole Israel thing and the conflicts in the Middle East and it was all just about to happen. Well we wait on. How long, O Lord, until you act? And just from a personal perspective, from our own perspective, Lord, I obeyed, expected you to do something And nothing. But like I was good, not like the other people around me. Oh, like obedient. And in terms of success in the world, I Well, it didn't go too well for me. I didn't win in sports. I didn't get that academic accolade. Lord, I stepped out and I did your ministry in the church, and it's like nothing happened. All that work Lord, I spoke up for your name at work, but nobody got saved. I just got laughed at Lord, I've been praying for that person. Yes, I have. You know I have. I've been out there every morning praying for that person. They're still not saved. I don't see anything happening. Lord, I submitted to my husband. I thought if I submitted to my husband, maybe he'd come around. Hasn't happened. Still disobedient. And so you, how long? How long? Oh Lord. The answer to that question is He's not going to tell you. He's not going to tell you. Now I am sure that if the Jews of Malachi's day knew that this wonderful prophecy Malachi was making, that was meant to solve their problems, the problem of eel, would not be fulfilled for another 450 years. They would have blown a gasket. Justice is coming. Just you wait 450 years from now. Now, what about that third person? We said there were three. Oh, this is very interesting. This third person is not John, but the Lord Jesus. Notice it says in verse 1: yes, we're still in verse 1. And the Lord whom you seek will suddenly come to his temple. So you might think that this Lord that's being talked about, this third person is God again. The first person, well, it is Sort of. After all, he's called the Lord. The Lord whom you seek, that refers to their seeking the God of justice. Where is the God of justice? The Lord whom you seek will come. Verse 17. By the way, the Lord, the Lord, in chapter 3, verse 1 there in Hebrew, Haadan, is a very certain designation that is always used in the Old Testament to mean the Lord God. It's used in the singular, it's preceded by the definite article. And so whether it's in Exodus, Exodus 23, 17, Exodus 34, 23, Deuteronomy 10, 17, Or the prophets, Isaiah 124, Isaiah 3. 1. It always refers to God. In fact, the next phrase even says, the Lord is coming to notice his temple. Did you see that? That means he owns the temple. Well who but God can own the temple, right? Nobody owns the temple except God. It's his temple. But this divine Lord who owns the temple is also distinct from the first speaker who sent John. It says, God, the Lord of hosts, speaks of this Lord as if this Lord is in the third person. The Lord of hosts, God, says, the messenger of the covenant, who is the Lord God, is coming. God is then speaking, and God says, this other Lord is coming, and he is the messenger of the covenant. So here we have God speaking in the third person about another divine Lord, whom John the Baptist must prepare the way for. So we have two persons of the divine Godhead spelled out in this very passage. The two persons are distinguished logically, and yet each one is truly God. Brothers, this is a clear Old Testament example of the deity of the Son of God, the deity of the Messiah, one who is coming. to the temple. His deity and yet his oneness with God are both affirmed by this passage. Very similar to Psalm 110 verse 1 where it says, The Lord Yahweh says to my Lord, Adonai, sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. Jesus used a very psalm, Psalm 110, in his debates with the Pharisees. Remember, the Pharisees were trying to outdo Jesus and they were trying to match scriptural wits with Christ. Shouldn't do that Matthew 2241 said Jesus asked them a question. Oh now they're in trouble. What do you think about the Messiah? Whose son is the Messiah? And they said to him, Oh, that's an easy one, he's the son of David. Good, they got that one right. Then Jesus said to them, Then how does David, in the Spirit, by the way, when he says in the Spirit, he's affirming the inspiration, the verbal inspiration of the Old Testament? How does David say, in the spirit The Lord said to my Lord, sit in my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. If David then calls his son Lord, How is he his son? They were not able to answer. Jesus is the divine Lord spoken of right here. And guess what? Jesus himself knew that. Jesus is also declared this very Lord by Peter on the day of Pentecost when he stood up and he announced to the Jews in that great first Christian sermon in chapter two. Therefore, let all the house of Israel know for certain that God has made Jesus both Lord and Messiah, this Jesus whom he crucified. Paul writes the same thing in Philippians 2:11. Every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is what? There it is again: Lord. He's Lord. And that will give glory to God the Father. Alright, rewinding back to our main point, God is saying, Do you want to know the action that I am going to take? Well, my divine son, the Lord, is coming to his temple. The one that you minister at, you Levites. And he's going to come. And he's going to come suddenly. And when he comes suddenly, he's going to act. Behold, that's something to take note of. This uh second temple built by Zerubabel Really disappointed them. Didn't look as nice as Solomon's temple. But he's saying it's to that temple that this Lord is going to come and it will be glorified. Now this prophecy was partially fulfilled at Jesus' first coming, but it will be even more dramatically fulfilled at Jesus' second coming. You know, the Old Testament prophets often would mix together events that would occur and happen and be fulfilled at the Messiah's first coming with events that would occur and happen at Messiah's second coming. At Jesus' first coming, he came to the temple for the very first time when he was only eight days old. Do you remember that? He was uh circumcised, he was presented. He also we note that he came at twelve years of age. It looks like his parents went up there every year. But we read about him when he was twelve years of age. In his own ministry as an adult, much of the gospel narrative points to Jesus' climactic entrance right to the temple in Jerusalem, particularly on that Palm Sunday. Remember it? He rides into Jerusalem. He's hailed as the son of David, the Messiah. He goes right on up into the temple. He grabs the cord. He cleanses the temple. He says, Quit making my father's house, a robber's den. And then he sits down and he teaches in the temple, and they're all gathered to him. He even makes prophecy about the future of the temple. But this verse here says that the Messiah will come suddenly to his temple. Suddenly, that word does not mean immediately. It doesn't mean tomorrow. It doesn't mean in the time of Malachi necessarily What it means is when the Messiah comes, he will come surprisingly. He will come without warning. He will come unexpectedly. And usually do you know what that would spell out? Judgment. Judgment. This wasn't going to be a happy thing. Second Chronicles 29 and 36 and Isaiah 47, 11 Other passages like Jeremiah 4. 20, when they use that term suddenly and it refers to something God is doing, it carries with it that that ominous note of judgment. Even the New Testament speaks of this future coming of Jesus in the same way. 2 Peter 3 and verse 10, for example, says he will come just like a thief in the night, suddenly, unexpectedly. You don't necessarily know it's going to be tomorrow or next week or the next month, but when he comes, it's going to be unpredictable. That's the whole idea And notice what follows is all about judgment, right? It says, who can endure the day of his coming? A sudden coming, that's not a good thing for the people of Israel. It's an ominous thing. And the messenger of the covenant in whom you delight, behold, he is coming, says the Lord of hosts. So he's the messenger of the covenant. He's the messenger of the covenant. What covenant? This refers to the new covenant This does not refer to the old covenant. Jesus is the messenger and the mediator of the new covenant. Who is the messenger and the mediator of the old covenant? Moses. Moses was. Exodus 24. 8. So Moses took the blood and sprinkled it on the people and said, Behold, the blood of the covenant, which the Lord has made with you, in accordance with all these words. Exodus 34, 27 Then the Lord said to Moses, Write down these words, for in accordance with these words, I have made a covenant with you and with Israel. Moses delivered the covenant. Moses was the mediator of the covenant. You can also see Deuteronomy 29, 12. Or 291 and 2 Kings 18, 12. Jesus is the messenger of the new covenant Jesus is the mediator of the new covenant. What's the new covenant? Well, the new covenant is talked about in the old covenant. It's anticipated in the Old Testament. When we say Old Testament, we're talking about a covenant. So the Old Testament is the Old Covenant. And in that Old Testament, we read in Jeremiah 31, 31: Behold, days are coming declares the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah, not like the covenant which I made with their fathers in the day I took them by hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt. My covenant which they broke. And he goes on. This new covenant is also predicted from the prophet Ezekiel in chapter 37, verse 26. When we come to the New Testament. The new covenant, we read in Luke chapter 22, verse 20, at the Lord's Supper, Jesus said, He took the cup, and in the same way, he said, This cup Which is poured out for you is the new covenant in my blood. The Lord's Supper is the symbol of the new covenant, and the new covenant was ratified in the actual blood of Jesus Christ on the cross. What is this new covenant? This new covenant's a better covenant. You're living today, we say, in New Testament times You're living in New Covenant times. The New Testament, in one sense, did not end with Acts chapter 28 or Revelation chapter 22. We are part of the time which is the New Covenant. It's a better covenant. Hebrews 7. 22 says Jesus has become the guarantee of a better covenant. There it is. Which one's better? This one's better. The new one Hebrews 8, verse 6, Jesus has obtained a more excellent ministry by as much he is also the mediator of a better covenant, which has been enacted on better promises. Well, it's a blessing. We have a better covenant. We believe in Jesus. We are believers in Jesus. And we are connected to God through this covenant, this new covenant. It's a better covenant. How do I know God is going to receive me? And the answer is God made a covenant, and it's a covenant in the blood of Jesus, and you don't have to just be a Jew, you can be a Gentile, because now we are Abraham's children by faith In Jesus Christ, right? And we become connected to God through the blood of Jesus Christ. There is one mediator of the new covenant, one and only one. And beloved, it's not Mary. She didn't participate in this. She didn't shed any blood. It's not the saints. It's not the church. The one mediator is who? It's the Lord Jesus Christ. That's it. He's the one way you get to God. How do I get to God? You get to God through Christ. This is the new covenant. This is the promise. For there is one God and one mediator between God and men, the man, Christ Jesus. Jesus is both God and he's both man, so he can be the mediator between men and God. Had to be that way And they, it says, they delighted in the messenger of the covenant. What a great covenant this would be. I don't know if the word delighted there is a bit sarcastic. Yeah, they weren't really delighting in him at that point, but they did want the Messiah to come and deliver them. Notice again, he says, behold, again, to emphasize how important this is. Behold, he is coming. God wanted them to be certain of this. God wanted them to be certain of his coming. It may have taken over 400 years. But let me just ask you a question. Did God keep his promise? Yes, he did. 400 years, but he kept his promise. Let me ask you a second question: How do you know he kept his promise? The answer is because the words of God here in the Old Testament were literally fulfilled. The prophecy was fulfilled literally. If prophecy was supposed to be spiritualized to understand what it meant, we wouldn't even know whether or not this was fulfilled or not. Everyone would have their different idea and interpretation about what it meant that it was fulfilled, the people would debate it, and nobody would have any certainty But because Jesus actually arrived to the temple and did the things that he was supposed to do because it was literally fulfilled. We know this promise was kept. True again, God did not tell them when, but God did tell them who. God did tell them what and why and where. Isn't this a parallel to our own situation right now? Think of your situation. Think of our situation. We are also told Jesus is coming. We're waiting for him right now, just like them. We've been waiting 2,000 years, not 450 years. We also don't know when. We also do know who Christ What? His powerful coming in glory in person. Why? To judge the world and bring in his kingdom. And we know where is Jesus going to return. And do not say Columbia, Maryland. Not in the Americas at all. We know exactly where he in his human body will land. It's on the Mount of Olives right outside of Jerusalem, and he will come into his temple in Jerusalem. Revelation chapter 22, the last chapter of the Bible, underscores all this waiting. Verse 20. The second to last verse in all the Bible. He who testifies to these things says, Yes, I am coming quickly. And then it says, Amen. Come, Lord Jesus. Jesus is coming back. And he's coming quickly. He said it. And that is just as guaranteed as the Old Testament prophecy. We too look for literal fulfillment of the prophecies We too have to wait for justice to be given. We too have to wait for the reward for obeying God and living a righteous life in the midst of all of those who could care less about the laws of God. We too have to wait for everything to be put right. We cannot rely on the government of the United States of America for justice. We cannot rely on the kingdoms of this world for justice. We're going to have to wait for Jesus. The church has been waiting. The church will continue to wait. We've been waiting for 2,000 years. We read in church history they were active and alive for the gospel of the kingdom back then. And beloved, we have to be now also Many have turned away from the promise. Through the centuries, we've seen denomination after denomination turn away from believing in the literal promises, turn away from believing in a literal Bible. They no longer believe. They did not have the kind of faith it endures. They no longer take any of this literally. They even mock those of us who believe in it. We're just so simple-minded. Then let it be said that we're simple-minded But you and I, we believe, yes, it's gonna happen. I believe that. Woe to them when Jesus Christ comes back. Woe to them. 1 Thessalonians 5, 3, while they are saying, peace and safety. Oh, that's the arrogance of man. They think that they have peace and safety. When they say that, it says, Then destruction will come upon them suddenly, like labor pains upon a woman with child, and they will not escape. Pray for them So now look at verse 2. Yes, we're finally to verse 2. The danger of his coming is there. When he comes, verse 2: who can endure the day of his coming? Who can stand when he finally appears? That is a rhetorical question, beloved. The answer is none. Nobody. Please understand that the mere wrath of a human being would scare very few people. If Jesus were merely human, this would be an empty threat on the part of God. If Jesus was just a human, why worry about the day of his coming? Who cares? But Jesus is not just the human, he is the divine Son of God. The book of Revelation says that he will give what's called the wrath of the Lamb. Psalm 2 says, Do homage to the Son, bow before him, kiss his hand, fear him with reverence, lest his wrath be aroused and you perish in his way. It'll be Jesus Christ who brings the fury of God. He is to be feared. He is to be obeyed. His name is to be treasured. And so while the Jews were crying, why isn't God doing something about all of this? God's question is, are you sure you want me to? Are you really ready for me to come and execute the justice that you are now screaming for? The coming of the Lord would only comfort repentant, humbled believers. That's it. Those prepared by the ministry of John the Baptist or others, those now today who beg Jesus Christ, please save me. I know I'm a sinner, I know I've broken your laws I don't have anything to present to you. I have no merits of my own. I'm begging you, save me from this fury. Are you like that? If you ignore the appeal to turn your life from a life of independence and sin, living your life any way that you want to, if you ignore this You do it to your own peril. But if you put confidence in Jesus Christ, he promises to save you from that fury. You will find in him a Savior. There comes a wrath you and I cannot understand. There comes one before whom nobody can stand. He's invincible. And his wrath is unquenchable. You sure you want to play chicken with him and wait and wait until you're ready to receive Christ? Who can endure? Literally who can stand? They actually had military connotations, sometimes even religious connotations. Who would be able to stand with them? and be among his company. There's the king. Who's he going to let stand there within his company? And the answer is none on their own merits. When this messenger of the covenant finally comes, no one will be able to stop him. No one will be able to stand with him. His force and power will be unequal. It will be terrifying to be in his presence. The Bible says when Jesus comes back, you know what his eyes are going to look like? We're told, his eyes will be a flame of fire. His foes have no chance. The game's over before it begins. People cry, I want justice. They blame God for not bringing justice. They can't handle justice The day of his coming is the day of the Lord, the day of the wrath of the Lamb of God, the second coming of Jesus Christ. I looked when he broke the sixth seal, and there was a great earthquake, and the sun became black as sackcloth made of hair, and the whole moon became like blood, and the stars of the sky fell to the earth as a fig tree cast its unripe figs when shaken by a great wind. The sky was split apart like a scroll when it is rolled up, and every mountain and island was moved out of their places. Then the kings of the earth and the great men, and the commanders, and the rich and the strong And every slave and free man hid themselves in the caves and among the rocks of the mountains. And they said to the mountains and to the rocks, Fall on us and hide us from the presence of him who sits on the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb. For the great day of their wrath has come, and who is able to stand? Nobody Amos 5. Alas, you who are longing for the day of the Lord, for what purpose will the day of the Lord be to you? It will be darkness and not light. As when a man flees from a lion and a bear meets him, or goes home and leans his hand against the wall and a snake bites him Will not the day of the Lord be darkness instead of light, even gloom, with no brightness in it at all? There's no hope for them. Joel 2, the day of the Lord is indeed great and very awesome, and who can endure it? Zephaniah 1:7, be silent before the Lord God, for the day of the Lord is near. Malachi 4. 5. It is the great and the terrible day of the Lord. Jesus' words in Matthew, for then there will be a great tribulation such as has not occurred since the beginning of the world until now, nor ever will. You got the picture? This judgment of Jesus is the necessary prelude to the blissful and glorious millennial kingdom to come. And we'll see that in verses 3 and following. This day would be for unbelievers a nightmare. It would not be for their prosperity, it would not have things set right for them. The sword of justice will cut clean and true on that day. Oh unbelievers, be careful what you wish for, you will get it. Unbelievers today cry for God if He's even there. Make things right. Stop the madness of this world, the beheadings, the rampant deadly diseases, the crime, the perjuries, the poverty, the rapes, the oppression, the murders. And yet their own sins, as they cry for justice, are piled up to the heavens. Their sinful anger and jealousy, their gossip and backbiting, their sexual unfaithfulness, the lusts of their hearts Their broken promises at the altar, their thankless hearts to God, their proud boasts of their self-accomplishments. Apathy towards the Bible, absent from church, lying mouths, dirty thoughts, unclean hands. Do they think the Lord of heaven is blind? Yes, judgment is designed to exonerate the righteous and condemn the wicked. But Romans 310 There is none righteous. No, not even one Indeed, there is not a righteous man on earth who continually does good and who never sins, Ecclesiastes 7:20 James 2. 10, whoever keeps the entire law of God and yet stumbles at one little point, he's now guilty of breaking the whole thing. So I say again, you better beg for mercy rather than cry for justice. The only question is, have you turned from your sin? Thrust yourself upon Christ. Who's willing now to forgive all your sins? What are you waiting for? What are you waiting for? The day of the Lord? Father, assist us in faith. Help believers to have strong, abiding faith. Help those who are disputing in their mind to understand this is their invitation. This is their call to come to you this day in believing faith. Father, draw them into your kingdom. Grant them eyes to see. Humble their hearts that they may not be proud against you. Thank you, Heavenly Father, that we continue to worship you and the reception of new members and how you're building Hope Bible Church. We leave the future of this church in your hands. Continue to bless us now, Lord, as we continue in worship. Amen.