And covering with these we shall be content For the love of money is the root of all sorts of evil. First Timothy six. We know God is the creator of all things. Everything belongs to Him. So looking at the uh principles for giving that we put on the little giving The little tithe cards, you know, where you stick your your money in there. Whatever that's called. And it has really what I've been saying in this two part sermon series all on it anyways. They're very simple and basic principles, but they need to sink a little deeper into a materialistic culture. And yes you and I have been influenced by materialistic culture So my prayer is we're listening in our hearts about what God's really saying about giving. He owns everything. That means everything I have is uh borrowed from him, is to be used as a steward and a portion the way God wants it, and when I die and I take none of it with me and go back into his presence if I haven't stored something there in heaven. I won't be a very rich person in terms of his rewards. Whatever I invested here, if it was for me, it's lost and it's gone. Same with you Really, the it's been this way since the inception of man on the planet. God wanted Man to understand that garden he lived in, the world he had, God made it. God supplied it. So man should bring a sacrifice. Man should bring Something back to God. God gives all these things and puts them in our hands, and we ought to take something back to God. It's really that simple. He provides our giving back to him acknowledges. He provided it. I didn't provide it for myself. Self-made man, no such thing. He gave everything, everything We have. He gave. So, how do I acknowledge that I really believe that? I bring something back to God. It's been that way from the beginning. Abel brings something costly to himself. They had to be costly to himself, or the worship was cheap. The idea of God was cheap. The thanksgiving to God was weak. Not just Abel. Noah gets off the boat. How many animals are left in the world? Just the animals on the boat. Takes a bunch of them. Starts sacrificing them to God. Costly. Abraham, what did he have to offer on the altar? His promised son. Except God stopped him. All the way through history, if you're worshiping right, if you're a godly person, you're giving to God. Just that simple. If you're holding back, there's something deficient about you, your faith, your understanding of God, your understanding of the world. The world is like that. Unbelievers are like that. They're deficient in their understanding. Ah, we can even call them blind, right? All this stuff they breathe God's air with the lungs that God gave them, eat the food that God caused, and do they come to church and give thanks? No. They hit the golf course for themselves It's not just that that's wrong, it's irrational. They don't even understand the world in which they live. You understand the world in which you live, do you not? This world made by God, it all belongs to Him. So now you're gonna live you're gonna live in such a way that shows you understand it. You're a wise person and a godly person All things come from God. I give back to him. If I don't give back to him, I'm a fool. Because I don't understand the arrangement. The arrangement is life. He gives Blessings come from him. That's the fact. That's the reality. My giving of my money, my giving of myself back acknowledges the truth, the arrangement, the way the world actually is. So we're learning these really basic principles from Malachi. You want to turn there again? Chapter 3, we're going through reasons we should be giving to God. I don't really plan on giving, as I said last time, any anything really profound. I just want to take what you know already and drive it a little deeper. Let's look at verse 6 in Malachi 3 and forward. We'll hopefully finish the passage here this day. For I, the Lord, do not change. Therefore, you, O sons of Jacob, the Israelites there, are not consumed. From the days of your fathers you have turned aside from my statutes and have not kept them. Return to me, and I will return to you. That solves all problems, says the Lord of hosts. But you say, How shall we return? Will a man rob God? Yet you are robbing me. But you say, How have we robbed you? And the answer comes rather bluntly in tithes and offerings. You are cursed with a curse, for you are robbing me, the whole nation of you. Bring the whole tithe into the storehouse so that there may be food in my house And test me now in this, says the Lord of hosts, if I will not open for you the windows of heaven and pour out for you a blessing until it overflows. Then I will rebuke the devourer for you, so that it will not destroy the fruits of the ground, nor will your vine in the field cast its grapes, says the Lord of hosts. All the nations will call you blessed. For you shall be a delightful land, says the Lord of hosts. You keep hearing that Lord of hosts thing, don't you It's to emphasize that it's true. So God reminds us of his unchanging character back in verse 6, right? And then he gives a plea for his people, return to me in repentance, I will return to you, verse 7. It's a censure from the Lord to the Israelites. You are robbing God by not paying your tithes, and that's how you need to return to me. Pay your tithes, pay your offerings. God, of course, knows what's going on. He understood the skimpy sacrifices that they brought to him were wrong. And actually, I think God takes it rather personally here. He's being robbed. This is what's due me. If things don't change, they'll be cursed. They already are cursed, and the curse will remain. It's very blunt. It's a very dramatic portion of God's word. It's not delicate. It's just personal and blunt. This is what's happening. It's like you know you've been talking and trying to tell somebody something that they're doing wrong and they're not getting the hints. And so you finally sit down with them and say, look, here's the problem. You're robbing me. You're just robbing me. Okay? That's the problem here in the relationship. And now hopefully they're gonna get it. Now hopefully it's just a jolt to their eye because they didn't get it Now, typical of God, he doesn't want to leave man without hope, and so he reminds them of the blessing for the land that would await them with obedience And so we see as we lead into this and think about this, they're Old Testament believers. They're under the Old Testament law, and we're trying to figure out how do we apply that, and we are careful to talk about the various uh taxes that were really given to the Israelites in the Old Testament so that we can make proper application for us. The main thought, if you want to write this down, go ahead. It's the main thought I want you to focus on. Giving forms a personal and vital connection between us and God Giving's not a side issue in the Christian life. It's really right there. It forms a vital connection that we have in our relationship with God So if that's true, then we need to understand the reasons to give money. And so that's what we're working on, these reasons. There are four rather basic reasons here. The first two we covered last time. The first reason was Giving shows that we have faith in God. Giving shows our faith in God. That's in verses 6 and 7. God doesn't change. God calls us back to repentance. And though giving can be frightening because we wonder what will happen to our long term savings if I give this money up and it goes away, it's out of the house, it's out of my bank account, it's out of my wallet, now it's gone Who's going to take care of me? Who's going to take care of my children? Who's going to pay for their education? That can be a frightening thing. God says, give it. Even if your spirit is disquieted, pray, trust in me, and give. Put your faith in me A mind filled with apprehension doesn't give. But our faith in God is able to overcome that. We overcome anxiety and trepidation. Faith can triumphantly declare, I am giving this money to God because I know my future is sure and certain because it's in the hands of God. And God has already been generous to me, and I know He'll continue to be that. The Lord doesn't change I will return to him. He will return to me. Giving shows our faith in God. The second reason we also covered last time is giving honors God. He deserves honor. This is all in verse 8. And uh robbing God is dishonoring God, it's not worshiping him properly. The Israelites were doing that, they were not bringing their required tithe, probably referring to the tithe that was commanded to be given to the Levites, who were not given an inheritance in the land. They had to be paid for, and that was also used for the poor. And this was required of them when they didn't bring it into the temple, they were robbing God of what was due him. The law required it. Now we looked at this in detail, and I won't go over all of that, but the law of Moses really required, by the time you add it all up, somewhere around twenty-five percent of giving that worked really and acted like taxes For their theocracy. God is their king, and this is what was required of them. He would protect them, he would bless their crops, bless their livestock, their nation would rise above others. They would You know, it was a material blessing. It was a blessing so the other nations would notice that they were being blessed. On top of that was voluntary giving, free will offerings. They would bring of their own heart. That becomes the model for our New Testament giving, not the required tithe, giving from the heart. That's what we read in 2 Corinthians 9 Our giving should be bountiful. A 10% mark is a good target mark. It's not required. But if you're wondering, am I being bountiful and generous in my giving? Look at the percentage and think about your heart. Are you giving cheerfully? Are you giving out of faith? These are the principles we're talking about. We talk about percentages because God wants the giving to be proportionate. Not everybody give a hundred dollars, but everybody give a good percentage, and if everyone does that, then if someone is very rich, they're giving a lot out of that, and maybe even their percentage can increase If someone is poor, they still give and they trust God. I know in my life as a Christian school teacher years ago, seems a long time ago, my first year of teaching. I think we made like $14,000 a year full time. And uh we just decided we were gonna give ten percent. We didn't feel we were under the law of Moses because we're gonna give ten percent This might sound crazy, but we just trust God for the future. He'll take care of us. And that was that was a long time ago. Twenty-five years, something like that. And God's taking care of our family all the way through that. That's what God does. He takes care of you. You put your faith and say, you know, the future is only uncertain if you don't give it to God. It's certain if you give it to God. He takes care of you. It's the best way, it's the best investment that you can make, is to trust them with your money. Take a man's word. God returns the blessing. Alright, today we enter into the third reason. And that is giving to God invites God's blessing. That's in verses 9 through 11. This is this is so simple, so clear You might want to check out and not even listen to this. This is this the old familiar. If you obey and give, I'll bless you and I will be bountiful upon your head. And really it's what he's saying here. It's it's kind of hard to miss it. It's very simple. I hope that you listen to it and don't listen for something necessarily new. Listen for the condition of your heart. Verse 9 Now we see this really in two ways. It's stated negatively and positively. The negative is verse, verse 9. You are cursed with a curse, for you are robbing me, the whole nation of you. Let's stop there So withholding the gift precludes blessing and initiates the curse for the Israelite. And this is written emphatically: you are cursed with a curse. Not just cursed, because that you're cursed. No, you're cursed with a curse. Someone asked me recently, do you really believe in curses? I said yes. God cursed them with a curse, this kind at least. That curse was upon them, and it was bad. Not like the mummy curse and you know Halloween curse and all that stuff so I'll talk about that. But they but it's a divine curse. The reason for the curse comes next. For you are robbing me. Listen, it's right for robbers of God to be cursed. Wouldn't you agree? Please notice it's not just the priests. God has lambasted them in this prophecy, but it's the whole nation, he says, who's cursed. This was endemic of their attitude. The whole generation was struggling. You know, God isn't making us materially blessed. We're back in the land, we're in Jerusalem, things aren't good for us. But they weren't giving. They couldn't invite the blessing of God. It's still under the curse. They weren't obeying, or they were being selective in their obedience. By the way, if you want a little glimpse into the boldness of Malachi, here if he says the whole nation is robbing God, how we standing in front of the whole nation, pretty unpopular thing. And telling the whole nation, all the leaders, whoever was gathered, you are robbing God, the whole nation of you. You don't have a lot of people on its side here, except the Lord He's a bold man stating it like it is, talking about that hard topic of money, and here's Malachi doing that. Now, what curse is he talking about? Well, the curse of the covenant. Keep your finger in Malachi. Turn back to Deuteronomy. After the second giving of the law, towards the end here, Moses is about to die. They're about to enter into the land, go to Deuteronomy chapter 28, and we read of we read of the covenant. Israel as a nation was in covenant with God. This is not an individual covenant where God is making an individual covenant with a family or a person. We're not talking about salvation by works. If you obey my law, I will save you. This was a covenant God made with a nation, and it has national blessings and national curses with it. So turn back to Deuteronomy twenty-eight, about verse fifteen, we get into the uh the curse. The first part's the happy part. Let's read the unhappy part, the curse. So you're in this relationship with God. You're in the old, this is the old covenant. They're in covenant with God. And God tells them straight up. Verse 15, but it shall come about if you do not obey the Lord your God. Remember, one of the commandments was to bring the tithe. To observe to do all his commandments and his statutes which I charge you today, that all these curses will come upon you and overtake you. Like here's the land, and they'll come sweeping over the land and overtake you. That's the picture. And then he starts the curses. Cursed shall you be in the city, and cursed shall you be in the country. See, country folks aren't going to be any better off than city folks or vice versa. Cursed shall be your basket and your kneading bowl. Cursed shall be the offspring of your body and the produce of your ground, the increase of your herd and the young of your flock Cursed shall you be when you come in, and cursed shall you be when you go out. The Lord will send upon you curses, confusion, and rebuke. In all you undertake to do until you are destroyed, and until you perish quickly on account of the evil of your deeds, because you have forsaken me. See, to leave the law, to disobey, was to forsake God. He takes it personally Verse 21. The Lord will make the pestilence cling to you until he has consumed you from the land where you are entering to possess it. He's telling you, you're going to get this land. You're going to get cities that you didn't build. You're going to be eating grapes from grapevines you didn't plant. I'm going to give all of it to you and I'm going to bless you like crazy. I'm going to bless you. But you better keep to my law. The Lord will smite you with consumption and with fever and with inflammation and with fiery heat and with the sword and with blight and with mildew and They will pursue you until you perish. The heaven which is over your head shall be bronze. That means it's going to be hot and won't be any rain there. And the earth which is under you, iron It's like hardened up because there's no water on the ground. The Lord will make the rain of your land powder and dust. From heaven it shall come down on your on you until you are destroyed. And then it goes on. I mean it's just it's sad to keep reading, so I'm going to stop. Okay? You got the idea, right? Cursed They were not obeying in Malachi's generation. They weren't bringing the money. God cursed the nation, the land. And they were poor, and they were whining about being poor and saying, Where's the God of justice? And God's like, um, don't you remember you're my chosen nation. You're in covenant with me. So there's righteous judgment for the violators of the covenant. You mean to tell me that because people were not bringing their proper worship with financial gifts that God cursed them? Yes, you got it. That's right. Money mattered to God. Yeah, but money isn't a very spiritual topic, Pastor Leek. Then why does the Bible talk so much about money? Money really reveals the heart. Jesus said that. And this was their arrangement with God, the old covenant, not again I say a covenant to individual people. This is not obey God and I will save you from your sins. We cannot be saved from our sins by doing good works. That's salvation by works and it's false religion. We sang today already, if I want to be saved And have my sins forgiven and enter into heaven and have Jesus as my Savior, I need to just humbly admit I have nothing to offer to God, that I'm a sinner and I'm in need of a Savior and believe and the grace of God will cover me. What a wonderful blessing. But this is a covenant to the nation as an entity elect by God. I will bless the nation if you obey. I will curse the nation if you disobey. The Lord had the right to his pay. He was their protector. He was the one who formed them. He caused them to be birthed. They were his, his chosen nation. He provided them with the good weather. With the good crops, the good livestock, good health, nice life, protection from enemies and plagues, grasshoppers, you name it. The blessings would be in abundance if they obeyed, and the cursings would be devastating if they did not pay. And at this time they were not paying. They were holding back from God. Think about that. Holding back from God. Holding back from God. Just think about that. We know the world is not in covenant with God. The United States of America is not in covenant with God, but there's still principles that seem to apply at times the way the Lord deals with people. And people around us today, as far as I can tell, are breathing the air that God made, right? As I said, with the lungs that God formed. They're enjoying the food that God gave them out of the ground that's his. Under the starlight, that's his. You know what I'm saying. Sunshine. Did you see the moon last night? It's beautiful. They sang God bless America at the uh seventh inning stretch of the Nation's game last night. No, I didn't stay up for the eighteenth inning. Those of you that watched it, I gave up about the tenth inning. God bless America. God bless America. God's not going to bless disobedience. That's a nice sentiment. I like the song personally. I pray for my country, but the blessing will come with the return to the things that God has told peoples to do. Generally speaking, God blesses obedience. The abundance of the unbelievers in our land will not last forever. He's being He's giving them what they don't deserve. He's giving them common grace. There's much that we have in the nation that they think is because of their technology and their education. And God could take it all away. They buy their stocks, they play their golf, they book their cruises Go to their events, shop for their twelfth pair of shoes, and God gets nothing. Maybe dribblings. I'm pretty sure that God sees that. Godly people center all of their life on God. We talked about this. If God is a corner of your life, if religion in church is a little section of your life, you haven't learned yet the Christian life. Christ has to be in the center. That means all of your education, all of your recreation, all of your finances, all of whatever it is, your children, your home, all of it centered on how do I worship and advance the cause of Christ. That's what a godly person is. They're all about God. Ungodly people don't want to talk about God. You go up to an ungodly person, you start talking about God, they want to change the topic, right? They want to push God out of their thinking. That's what the Enlightenment was, by the way, supposedly, pushing God out of their thinking. And now we have the effects of that on our society. They don't want to think about 'em, they don't want to talk about 'em. If they do, they want it to be a different kind of a god than the god that's actually there. False worship, false religion They're willing to take from God, but then say, We made this. This is what we gave ourselves, you see. They don't give their money back because they don't understand and they don't want to understand Came from God. You owe him. They only give money and time to their own causes. Then they're generous and they get on there and they talk about being generous to mankind and all the rest. But they don't give to God because they're not godly. They're selfie. Godly people understand Romans 11. 35. For from him, through him, and back to him are all things. To him be the glory forever and ever. Amen. That's reality. That's what makes a person godly. Now let's come back to Malachi. Next, we see the positive side. Verse 10: Bring the whole tithe into the storehouse so that there may be food in my house. See, there's food in your house. Put food in my house, God said. And put it in my house first before you put it in your house. Bring the whole tithe into the storehouse. so that there may be food in my house. And then he says these provocative words, and test me now in this. Says the Lord of hosts, if I will not open for you the windows of heaven and pour out for you a blessing until it overflow. Then I will rebuke the devourer for you, so that it will not destroy the fruits of the ground, nor will your vine in the field cast its grapes, says the Lord of hosts. The Lord of the armies of heaven. He says it. So give Not just because you want to avoid the curse, but because I've got all these blessings stored up in heaven. I'm ready to pour out on you. I'm going to rain them down upon you If you give to me. This is a widespread and amazing promise. It's not for everyone, it was for the Israelites who gave to God. In fact It is nothing more than what we just read in Deuteronomy chapter 28, the original promise of blessing in the covenant. But amazingly, here in verse 10, God invites them to test him. Test me if I will keep my word or not. This is strange. Test me in this. In other words, by this way, by doing this. It's a phrase that indicates that. In other words, give and watch and see what happens. I'm inviting you to test me in this, God said The word test in verse 10 in Hebrew is Bachan. Usually refers to God testing men, testing the hearts, testing the minds. Jeremiah 17, 10. I the Lord search the heart, I test the mind, even to give to each man according to his ways, according to the result of his deeds Psalm 26, 2, another example. The psalmist asks, God, Examine me, O Lord, and try me, test my mind and my heart. See what's there. See if I'm not being genuine or not, Lord, and then give, fill my hands. That's a great prayer. That's a prayer from a man with a clean conscience. Do you have a clean conscience? You could pray that way In the New Testament, the concept of testing is also used. I like Mark 8. 11. The Pharisees came out, they see Jesus, they began to argue with him. And they said they were seeking a sign from Jesus, a sign from heaven to test him. Okay, we've come out here as the religious leaders, and we're going to give Jesus a little test, little pop quiz here for you. You think you're the Son of God. Give us a real you know something dazzling. We want to see something. Give us something that really lights up the skies, you know Then, if you do that, you pass the test and we'll endorse you with the guys we have back in the back rooms here in Jerusalem. Make an extraordinary kind of miracle I guess healing the blind and sick didn't cut it for them. But here Now that that wasn't a good kind of testing. They shouldn't have been testing Jesus that way, right? So why is God inviting man to to do what normally he doesn't allow them to do To test. Elsewhere scripture warns against testing God. Deuteronomy 6. 16. You shall not put the Lord your God to the test. Who quoted that when he was tempted by the devil? Jesus, right? Even look at chapter 3, verse 15, just a little later. It says, So now we call the arrogant blessed. Not only are the doers of wickedness built up, but they also test God and escape. That's not something good, testing God. They're like they tested God. They should have been bam. They escaped. The arrogant test God. Do you remember Peter warning Ananias and Sapphire that came in, they put the Holy Spirit to the test, early part of the church? And they left the church service dead. They dragged them out, buried them. Ananias and Sapphira. Wow. Don't test God. Don't test the Holy Spirit. Okay, but when God tells his people here, as implausible as it may seem, to test him, it's time to test them, right? Because God invited it. The Lord is being gracious. Remember the promise that was made to the king. Ask a sign as high as heaven above and below and the The uh hypocritically so-called pious king said, I will not put the Lord to the test. Well he didn't really believe. This was the time to test him. This was the time to step forward. God invited the bl in fact, really, the whole covenant was arranged that way. I'm telling you before you get into the land, if you'll obey me, I'm going to take care of everything, you're going to be the best nation in the world. I know you're kind of small and you've been slaves and all, you're not used to all these riches, and you've been wandering around in the wilderness for forty years because you didn't believe me the first time. But when you get into the nation It's going to be incredible. I mean, forget about Egypt and all those other nations. They're going to be rinky-dink. I'm going to bless you. It was really an invitation to believe God, step forward, and put it into action, right? So now he's telling them, test me, how are they going to test them? What did they need to do? And the answer is, bring the whole tithe. That's the test. Bring the whole thing in. That's right. Your crops, your herds, yeah all the trees, whatever you got out there, chop off the tenth. right up front and bring it on in here to the temple. I've got rooms in there. That's my house. Fill 'em up. And they would have to do that before it would start to rain and before the crops would get better and before everything else was seen, right? It wasn't, well, I'll tell you what, God, here's how we'd like to do the arrangement, okay? We got together down here on earth, and this is how we'd like to do it. You bless us first Then when we got it, we'll cut your slice and we'll turn it in. And then you'll know we're believers. Oh no, this is not your world. You didn't make all this stuff. You don't get to make up the rules. Doesn't work that way. You bring it before you have the money. You bring it before you see it. And if you don't, it's not faith. And it doesn't honor God. Because if you don't do it that way You're just saying God's a liar. You're just saying God God won't keep his end of the bar. God's unhonored by that. God can't be honored by that. Don't bring five percent. Don't bring nine point two percent I'll know. Bring the ten. I didn't see anything in here about the Lord caring too much about what their living situation was. I was looking to see if he cut the poor some slack. And I didn't see it. You know? You poor, you bring the tithe. You rich, you bring the tithe. Bring it. And the result is the food in his house. That's the temple Again, I have to say this probably refers to the tithe that was given to the Levite, even though there were other kinds of tithe. That's probably what it's referring to. Numbers 18, 21. To the sons of Levi, behold, I have given all the tithe in Israel for an inheritance, in return for their service which they performed, the service of the tent of meeting, the tabernacle which later would be built up into the temple. John MacArthur writes When tithes were unpaid, the priests were deprived, and had to give up their ministry and began farming. The nation's religious life was hindered, and the poor and the strangers suffered But the real iniquity was that such disobedience was robbing God, who was the true king of Israel's theocracy. See if they had an earthly king and he had his armies down there He would warn the people with an iron fist and he'd go out there and say, This town hasn't paid their tithe. Pay it, or my soldiers are going to ransack your place. Right? I mean it brings up images of medieval times, you know, Robin Hood or something like that. And an earthly king would demand Where's the gold? Bring it. I got the armies here. You listen to me, I'm the authority here. God was the king, but he's a benevolent and very gracious and very patient king. But his house was the temple. Bring it in, and I'll be gracious to you Nehemiah dealt with this similar abuse of not giving a generation or so before and maybe also around that time. Some of the timing is a little difficult to determine, but in Nehemiah 13, 10-12, he wrote, I also discovered that the portions of the Levites had not been given them. so that the Levites and the singers who performed the service had gone away, each to his own field. So I reprimanded the officials and said, Why is the house of God forsaken? And then I gathered them together and restored them to their posts. All Judah then brought the tithe of the grain, wine, and oil into the storehouses. See, some were bringing a little part, some were bringing none. God wants everyone to bring it all. Put it in the storehouse There were various rooms that sorted out the crops. This one was for this crop and this one for that crop and etc. Second Chronicles, if you want to read more, in the 2 Chronicles 31 and 11 and 12 speaks of Solomon's temple and The rooms there, Nehemiah 10, 38-39 speaks of this second temple here, Nehemiah 13, 12 also It has these happy words there. All Judah then brought the tithe of the grain, the wine, and the oil into the storehouses. That was good. That was obedient. And God promised to bless that if they were obedient. You can't help but be impressed with how abundantly God has promised the blessing if they are obedient. I will open for you the windows of heaven. Maybe a reference to abundant rainfall, such as in Genesis 7:11, but the image could refer to more than rain. 2 Kings 7 and verse 2 talks about all the blessings of heaven Being opened up for them. Either way, the point is that God will pour out copious blessings until it overflows excessive generosity from the Lord of heaven. This is a king who loves to give to his people. He's a generous king. A profusion of blessings from God's storehouses in heaven. Bring the food into my storehouse and watch me open up the storehouses of heaven and what I will do for you. Test me in this. The nation Israel would experience rarefied riches. They would become the envy of the world if they would simply trust God and give. Merrillunger says, When God's people open their treasury to him, he will open his to them. Even the devourer, the uh Akal, would be rebuked The devourer would be unable to destroy the fruit of their ground. Probably that talking about locusts and grasshoppers that would come s coming through and just eat up everything and it would be just devastation to the farmers and really to the whole land. They were all dependent on it in an agrarian society. Just a devastating situation. God would halt them and rebuke them. The devourer may have been insects. The devourer may also have been fire in some situations. The same word is used for fire in Hosea 8. 14 It's used for human armies in Jeremiah 30, verse 16. Whatever would destroy their prosperity, God would rebuke it. When God rebukes something, it stops Beyond that, even their vines in the field would not cast out their grapes, pointing to a rich harvest where it's not being dropped and And hurting. Their tables would be a cornucopia of blessing, as we all dream of. All this for what? Trusting God as a nation. God loves that. They were not to turn to magic to try to fix it, to try to make it rain, do a rain dance. They were not to do s turn to sorcery. Other gods to get their riches, they were to understand the reason why it is the way it is, is we turned our back on God. We didn't bring it now, we're returning to God by bringing it. And God would bless. For us, under the new covenant, the principle of giving is similar. It is again the principle of reaping and sowing. You'd like to reap something, you'd like to have something, you'd like to have an abundance. You get that by sowing. You can't just say, give me a crop, Lord, you've got to go out and you've got to sow. You gotta do the work. You've got to put the seed in the ground if you want the harvest. You put a few seeds in the ground, you get a little harvest. You put a lot of seeds in the ground, you get a lot of harvest. Simple principle. We read it. 2 Corinthians 9, 6. This I say, he who sows sparingly is talking to the church Will also reap sparingly, and he who sows bountifully will also reap bountifully. Each one must do. He's talking about physical money giving, tangible giving. Each one must do, each one must give just as he has purposed in his heart, not grudgingly or under compulsion, for God loves a cheerful giver. And then to reassure our faith comes verse 8, and God is able to make all grace abound to you so that always having all sufficiency in everything, you may have an abundance for every good deed. Why do we give? We give because we're convinced we cannot outgive God. Some of you are not convinced of that. If I give them that, I don't think I'm going to get much back Scoop some back for yourself. But if you're convinced you cannot outgive God, it's a win-win situation, isn't it? Wow, God is so generous. He gives and gives and gives. We just don't believe him. Warren Wersby, I like this. He says, whenever we rob God, we always rob ourselves. Not too smart. What's the best investment you can make for your money? Don't talk to the guy in Wall Street. You must determine to put your monies towards God's work, his kingdom, his church agenda, the spreading of his gospel, the paying for missionaries. The building up of his local churches, full-time workers, missionary places to meet and worship, discipleship ministries, local evangelism ministries. That's what the giving is for Only if we give as a church will we experience the joy of God's blessing. Blessing in a variety of ways. I want you to turn quickly to Philippians chapter 4. In the New Testament, just see another example of a promise to a giving group of people. Many people memorize this and quote this, but it's not for them. It's for givers. If you give, it's for you. Philippians four, let's start with uh verse fifteen. So he's writing to the Philippian church and A lot of what Paul did in going around the world depended on their giving, and they would give in a New Testament sense. And so he says to them, you yourselves also know Philippians that at the first preaching of the gospel after I left Macedonia, no church shared with me in the matter of giving and receiving, but you alone. Boy, he liked this church. This church was giving For even in Thessalica you sent a gift more than once for my needs. Wow. So how did Paul get around? You know, even the Lord Jesus, who could make money if he wanted to, chose not to. We hear of people, you know, a money bag being carried around. It was in Judas' hands for a while. Women were contributing to that. The the traveling band needed money and people had to give to that to keep the thing going Same thing with the whole missionary enterprise, same thing with what happened in the churches. If they wanted their their pastors to be full-time, if they wanted to extend their ministries, if they want to take care of the poor, they gave. And so there it is. And he goes on. Not that I seek the gift itself, but I s and that's that shows you the motive of a good church leader. Not that I seek the gift itself, but I seek for the profit which increases to your account. Verse eighteen, but I have received everything in full and have an abundance. I am amply supplied, having received from a paphroditus what you have sent, a fragrant aroma an acceptable sacrifice, well pleasing to God. He puts it in an Old Testament kind of imagery, but he's saying your gift to keep the missionary enterprises going is that's what I'm talking about. That's an offering to God And then verse 19 comes, and this is the promise everyone wants to memorize. And my God will supply all your need. Who's he saying that to? The Philippian church. Why? Because they gave. So the promise comes to them, not to those that don't give. My God will supply all your needs according to his riches and glory in Christ Jesus. And he goes on to a benediction and a blessing. Because it all brings glory to God. Supplying all your need is a promise for those who give like the Philippian church. Christ put it this way in Luke 6. Give, and it will be given to you. That's simple. I like simple. Give and it will be given you. Are you sure? The Lord Jesus said that. Oh, he added this. They will pour into your lap a good measure, pressed down, shaken together, and running over, like the container with grain in it. Pressed down, shaking together all the air out of it, and then spilling over. That's how God gives For by your standard of measure it'll be measured to you in return. Does God keep track of all that stuff? Yeah, he's a very good accountant. Listen, if you are in a tight financial situation, the best thing you can do first is give generously to God. It's counterintuitive, isn't it? Come on. You gotta be kidding me. No, everything in you is gonna want to think, you know, well I have to stop giving the church, I gotta pay these bills. God says, you want my blessing, put me first. See what I will do. What, you don't think you can? He's not active? You don't think he cares? It works for other people, but not for you We give because we have confidence that God will give to us and bless us. The fourth reason, real quickly in verse 12, all the nations will call you blessed. For you shall be a delightful land, says the Lord of hosts. The fourth reason we give is giving increases ministry. Now here for the Israelites, it's interesting how this would be. All the nations are all the nations that surround Israel. It's true even today. That means all the Gentile nations. All of them besides Israel will call Israel blessed. They're not doing that right now, are they? They're not saying Israel is blessed. In fact, the nations surrounding Israel kind of want to stomp on them right now But this is a time when all the nations surrounding Israel will call them blessed. A delightful land. God still had a purpose for the nation of Israel, and he still does now. That purpose was to be a blessing above all the other nations so that it would bring blessings to those very nations. Blessed means, of course, they're under direct blessing from God. It calls to mind the promise made to Abraham. In you all the families of the earth will be blessed. Genesis 12. And of course, the blessing of the land of Israel is in contrast to what we saw earlier in Malachi, the curse of the land of wickedness called Edom, back in chapter 1, verse 4, a place always under the wrath of God. Israel had not fulfilled its destiny. When driven into exile prior to this time, Amalachi, Israel was loathed by the other nations. In fact, in Lamentations 2, verse 15, it recounts this. All who pass along the way clap their hands in derision at you. They hiss and shake their heads at the daughter of Jerusalem. Is this The city of which they said the perfection of beauty, a joy to all the earth, they mocked it But Israel was promised that would not continue. The future would change. They would see the fulfillment of God's plan for them as a nation. Ezekiel thirty-six, verse fifteen, among many verses, says I will not let you hear insults from the nations anymore, nor will you bear disgrace from the peoples any longer, nor will you cause your nation to stumble any longer, declares the Lord God. He was going to end that I have to say that the nation of Israel is not blessed right now. It wasn't blessed during the time of Christ. It hasn't been blessed since then. So obviously, this has a future fulfillment. The land would be blessed, the eretz, the actual land itself, God said, I'll bless that. This has the premillennial scheme as the backdrop, a blessing for Israel in the future. Isaiah 62, 4, just for sampling, it will no longer be said to you, forsaken, nor to your land will any longer be said, desolate, but you will be called, my delight is in her. Again, it goes back to the covenant, Deuteronomy chapter 28, verse 13. In that blessing section that I skipped earlier, it said, the Lord will make you the head and not the tail. That's nice. Or the prophet Isaiah chapter 35 verse 1 and following. The wilderness and the desert will be glad, and the Arabah will rejoice and blossom like the crocus. It will blossom profusely and rejoice with rejoicing and shout of joy. The glory of Lebanon will be given to it, the majesty of Carmel and Sharon They will see the glory of the Lord, the majesty of our God. All of that is being specified where it will happen geographically in the land. But only when they give to God would they see the blessing on the nation. Again, Warren Wearsby has an interesting insight here. He says the remnant that returned to Judah, that's this group of people here. after the exile had a great opportunity to trust God and bear witness to the other nations that their God was the true and the living God. Had the Jews just trusted the Lord, he would have done greater things for them and they would have been a testimony to others The Gentiles would have come to Jerusalem to learn about this great and wonderful God who could take a group of refugees and turn them into a blessed nation. That's what he would have done. Sadly, the nation Really didn't give their neighbors that opinion. Their trust in God was not all that great. Again, focusing on us and our reason for giving, principles for us. God blesses givers so they can give more. That's what he does. That's how it works. God finds a giver, loves the fact that they're cheerful. And because they give, God gives even more to them so they can keep what? Finding more people to give. Because their hearts are right. Their hearts aren't hoarding, their hearts are giving. When is a hoarder no longer a hoarder? When he starts giving. When is a thief? No longer a thief. When he works hard with his hands and has something so that he can give to others, right? God wants the heart giving. So it works that way with us, our families, but collectively as a church. If the church is a giving church, God will give more to the church, so the church can then Give out more to others because that church now has a right heart, or that family has a right perspective, and God can give more to them because now they're going to be a channel of blessing to others. They're going to be a distribution center of the blessings of God. That's what it's all about. That's what God's looking for. But do we as a local church have a financial testimony to our community around us? Do we give in such a way that our giving is noticeable and it invites the blessing of God. Is that the testimony other people outside of Hope Bible Church can give of Hope Bible Church? Does our giving represent the faith we want others around us to know that we have Do we give like that? Break it down. Some of you have a generous percentage that you give. Some of you uphold the church by your giving. Unfortunately, a number of you do not If it were not for the obedience of those who do give, our church wouldn't even be here. And you wouldn't be here We would not have a meeting place. We would not have missionaries to pray for and support and send teams out to. We would not have a staff to meet needs. We would scale back our ministries and on and on. I say if you're a believer in the Lord Jesus, you are also in covenant with God. It's a better covenant. It's the new covenant. Do you want the ministry from this new covenant church to trumpet forth? Is that why you give? Do you want us collectively to have that kind of a reputation? A church ministering to our community, a church functioning fully as the New Testament desires. Listen, what this church Will be is directly connected to what you give. It's just directly connected to that. I'm not talking to those of you who are already giving. I'm talking to those of you that are holding back. And you know in your conscience, that's in your conscience, you're holding back. You're relying on the generosity of other people, not yourself. Your giving will set the agenda for the future of O Bible Church. There, was that blunt enough? Your giving will set the agenda for who we hire, what we do at the Leadership Training Center, how we can help the poor in the area. What ministries start, what staff will be here, what missionaries we support, what local evangelism? Your giving will determine that. The others who are already giving generously, you've got to join them. Add to them Sue and I had the old timers over at our house last Sunday. I I don't mean uh old and age. I mean those that were been in the church like from the first five years, who gave sacrificially of everything, money, time, you name it. There was no way of hiding back in those days. You weren't giving everybody do it. And um it was such a blessing to just you know look in their eyes, we were sharing the joy, just thinking of the things that God has done. God has increased their harvest. Including BBC now. But all of you and everything else that's happening here. And it's because they made those sacrifices back then. Beloved, let me say that those of you who are newer to the church, and I don't I don't go through the scroll this family gives us about. I ask The people don't don't tell me so that when I stand and preach, I don't know. I just know there's about a third of you that don't give all that much. I don't know how that relates to the percentage that you can give I know that it's not regular, so it doesn't look like it's a percentage. It doesn't look like it's something that comes from faith. It doesn't look like you've learned the lesson yet But that's between you and the Lord. But know that the Lord will bless this church based upon your giving from a cheerful heart and understanding these principles. And when you do, God willing, will add to the ministry as God leads us and sees You know, to do that as he desires. It's just a wonderful thing to give and then to realize that you sacrificed. I'm sure there are many things that folks back then and some of you even now Don't get to do because your money's gone. You gave it. But there's a blessing no one can ever steal from you. That's an investment that will never be taken away from you. Even a little cup of water that's given in the name of Christ Jesus said would be blessed with a reward in heaven, right? Your money matters to God. God wants to do something with the local church. No matter what local church you go to, you go to another local church, that'll be true of that local church too. Give The local church is the primary place that God is working. He's spreading the gospel through the local church. It's not the only place you give your money. It's the primary place you give your money. Do that And decide in your heart that you will trust God in this and give and see what He does The Lord doesn't care so much if it's ten dollars, a hundred dollars, ten thousand dollars. He cares of what sacrifice it took for you to put that in there. Remember the widow bringing her a little bit of money And God sees that. He sees the faith. He sees the heart. And then he pours out the blessings on people like that. I believe that. I believe that. And I hope that you believe that. I hope that you will you will join in with the giving that has already been done by by many in this church and you will understand that the blessings come because we really love God and want to put our money there. I want to close with a challenge from Dr. Ellsworth. He says, God does not bless disobedience, and disobedience is rampant among Christians Failure to contribute financially is one act of disobedience that deprives us of God's good hand of blessing with all of its evangelistic potential. He also writes, if we look at our bank accounts, we might very well find reason not to give. But if we look as we should at the cross of Christ We cannot help but give. Father, help our hearts to be prepared now as we look at the cross of your Son. And remember your generosity toward us in granting eternal salvation. Bless us as we come to your table and help our hearts to be generous. Amen.