Please open your Bibles to John chapter five. We'll be reading John five, verses nineteen through thirty. John five verses nineteen through thirty. Therefore Jesus answered and was saying to them. Truly, truly, I say to you, the Son can do nothing of himself unless it is something he sees the Father doing. For whatever the Father does, these things the Son also does in like manner. For the Father loves the Son and shows him all things that he himself is doing. And the Father will show him greater works than these, so that you will marvel. For just as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, even so the Son also gives life to whom he wishes. For not even the Father judges anyone, but he has given all judgment to the Son, so that all will honor the Son, even as they honor the Father. He who does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent him. Truly, truly, I say to you, he who hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life, and does not come into judgment, but has passed out of death into life. Truly, truly I say to you, an hour is coming, and now is when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear will live. For just as the Father has life in himself, even so he gave to the Son also to have life in himself. And he gave him authority to execute judgment because he is the Son of Man. Do not marvel at this, for an hour is coming in which all who are in the tombs will hear his voice, and will come forth, those who did the good deeds to a resurrection of life, those who committed the evil deeds to a resurrection of judgment. I can do nothing on my own initiative as I hear I judge, and my judgment is just, because I do not seek my own will, but the will of him who sent me. Well, last time, a couple of weeks ago, we began looking at the two main reasons we can never let Jesus become a side issue. Why Jesus has to be the issue that we make first with ourselves, obviously in our church But thinking more broadly as we're out in society and people talk about God and faith and all of that, we must make Jesus the issue because God does. The first reason was that Jesus is the only begotten Son of God. That has to say something. If Jesus is unique, and he is, if he is the only begotten Son of God, then obviously God sent him into this world not to be a side issue. But to be the issue. Never let Jesus become a side issue. The Son of God stands in a unique relationship to the Father. No one else has that relationship. And the Father loves the Son in a special way. And the Father does his works through the Son. Indeed, the Son imitates all that the Father does. He imitates the work of the Father and he only does what he sees the Father doing, and the Father shows him everything that he is doing, and so the Son imitates To bypass Jesus the Son is to make Jesus a non-issue, and that is to totally miss it with God. Anyone who wants to know God and have a relationship with God that bypasses Jesus ends up with no relationship to God at all. The true God of heaven will not allow the world to make Jesus a non-issue. Often we hear people praying. You might be watching television or you might be out in society, someone prays, and how often do they really pray in the name of Jesus, and even when they use Jesus' name, do they make it clear we're talking about him as the Son of God So often society wants to elevate some kind of common faith, but Jesus is divisive, and God wants Jesus to be divisive. He is the issue. This making Jesus the issue is everything to us. Why do we exist as a church? Why are we even here? Is it something to do on Sundays? Do you not have anything else to do? We are here because Jesus is the Son of God and we have faith in him. Jesus is the head of our church Do you have life from God? Where did you get that life? You got it from Jesus, the Son of God. That's where you got it from. Only in Christ is the life given. What message does our church have for this community? If we have a program to give to the community, a ministry, a service, what is the message? It is the message that Jesus is Lord and Savior. He is the Son of God. It doesn't matter whatever else we teach them. A few tips for life, how to live life, how to get past anxiety. None of that stuff matters. What matters is Jesus the Son of God. Once you get that issue straight, then the other things can come. All of our discipleship ministries, the preaching, the counseling, the teaching, the classes, the women's ministries, the men's ministries, none of that matters if we don't hold to and define carefully that message. Jesus The Son of God, the only begotten Son of God, the only way to the Father. He defines who we are. Well, that was the first reason. Today we get to the second reason. Reason number two. Not to make Jesus a side issue. And we'll spend the whole time on this reason. And that is this, and it's going to be reason enough, I think you'll agree. Who is it who determines people's eternal destiny? Answer. Not God the Father, Jesus Christ the Son. It is the Son of God who will determine the eternal destiny of every human being who ever lived on this planet. Wow. Now you know why you can't make Jesus decide issue. I could quit now, but I'm not going to. This is in verses 21 through 30. Verses 21 through 30 speak of the two options for every person's future. There's the option of life, or if you don't like that, there's a second option, but there's only a second option. It's the option of judgment. Either you possess everlasting life now, and so you can look forward to everlasting life then, or you don't have everlasting life now, and so you can look forward to judgment and destruction. That's the choice. It's the only choice God has given man. And the point is that both of these are in the hands not just of God, but he has given it all to Jesus Christ. Again, that is why Jesus can't be treated as a secondary issue. God sent Jesus into the world, He put Jesus front and center, He put all of the authority and power in Jesus' hands, and He tells the world: listen to him. He's not just a prophet. He's not a good moral man. He's not just a teacher that taught us how to pray. He is the infinite God of the universe who created us and will judge every man, woman, and child. And since Jesus determines people's eternal destinies, let's take a look at these two options. What are the two options? Here's a sub A substructure underneath our outline here. Option number one. We can receive life from Jesus. This is nice. Please look again at verse 21. For just as the Father raises the dead And gives them life, even so, those are important words, the Son also gives life to whomever he wishes That transition word four again provides the explanation for verse 20. Greater works than these will the Father show the Son, so that you may marvel. Those greater works involve The Son of God providing life. But first, we're told that the Father raises the dead and the Father gives people life. You know, this is one of the great acts of God. When you ask yourself, what does God do? One answer should be: God gives life. God raises the dead. You think about what God can do, and is uniquely God's work, not someone else's work, but this is a work of God. And you're asked that, you should say, God is the one who gives life. God is the one who raises from the dead. The Old Testament made that clear. Listen to Deuteronomy 32, 39. See now that I, I am He, and there is no God beside me. It is I who put to death And give life. Some people think God doesn't kill. He does. He said it right there. It is I who put to death and I give life. I have wounded, and it is I who heal. And there is no one who can deliver from my hand. I decide everything, God says. It's my prerogative. I do it. It's uniquely my work. That's God's work. That defines God in his work at least. You guys have heard of the dry bones prophecy from Ezekiel for the end times, where God speaks to dead bones and they live. Here it is from Ezekiel 37, verses 12 and following. Just listen. Therefore, prophesy and say to them, to the bones, Thus says the Lord God, Behold, I will open your graves and cause you to come up out of your graves, my people. And I will bring you into the land of Israel. Then you will know that I am the Lord, when I have opened your graves and caused you to come up out of your graves, my people. How will you know it's me? How will you know it's my work? Answer when I speak to the graves and the bones come alive and they come back into the land of Israel. That's the work of God. Opening graves, bringing people back to life is not something we do, it's something God does. Only God raises the dead. Yes? In the book of Genesis, it tells us that God created all life, and he created all life at the beginning. But here we also are learning in many other places that God can bring life back again after it dies. He makes it out of nothing, and then when it dies, he can bring it back to life as well. Both of these are works of God. Creating life out of non-life and then bringing what's dead back to life, God does that. They are impossible by any process of science. They are impossible by any human manipulation of the physical planet. That can't happen. Only God does that. Only the infinite, uncaused, maker of all things brings into existence life out of nothing. All life has to come from other life. We say that's a Christian belief. That's not a Christian belief. All life comes from other life. That's not a Christian belief. That's a fact of science. There's no scientific data anywhere in any laboratory in any country in this world that proves that life comes from non life. All life as a fact of science comes from other life. God has given us that fact. There's never an exception to that. It's always that way. And everyone who understands that about biology understands and should understand that that is a law that God has established. Life comes from life. Once in a while in the past people have thought that life sprung up out of non-life, but it was proven through tests that that was not true. All life comes from life Every piece of scientific data we have on this planet indicates that there's no possible or conceivable way living things can arise out of non-living things. It's impossible Spontaneous generation, as we were taught, some of us in public school, is a myth. It's a myth. It's a myth that's been fed our generation. It's a creative idea. Non-living things give rise to life. That's a creative idea. But it's fanciful. It's like Tinkerbell. It doesn't happen. It's not really true. It's an idea, they say it's true. They talk about it in science class. But it never, ever, ever happens. It's a myth. Spontaneous generation, that is life naturally arising out of non-life, has never happened, will never happen, is not happening now. No one has ever shown that it would happen. That's not a Christian faith. That's a fact. No one has ever seen it happen. No one can describe how it would happen. And the further you press them to explain it, the more they look like they don't know what they're talking about. Yet the theory of evolution depends on that myth. Because if you don't have life arising out of non-life, you have no evolution. If you don't have the first step, brothers, why are we even talking about the second, third, fourth, or hundredth step beyond that? There cannot be, and science has already proven, light that comes from non-light. So atheistic evolution is only a belief. It is a faith. We have a faith. They have a faith. Our faith harmonizes with science because our faith says life comes from life. Their faith says life comes from non-life. Their faith contradicts scientific fact. It's an irrational faith. For atheistic evolution requires life and intelligence and order to have arisen apart from life and intelligence and order. Think about that. And they mock us for our faith. When there is no life, no intelligence, and no order, there's no cause great enough to produce life and intelligence and order. Chance and time don't do that. Chance can't even be proven it exists. That's really all you need to know to reject evolutionist fans. Get that out of your mind. Why am I taking time with that? Because this is a work of God. Life comes from God. There is no other explanation. There's no explanation anyone has ever offered. This is the explanation. Life comes from another intelligent life. And in the original case, it comes from one who is the life-giver. He is himself light. God can be described as light, and he can be described as light. The Bible says God is everlasting light. And the Bible also says in John 17, 3, when you come to know God, knowing God is everlasting life. And then giving everlasting life is the prerogative only of God. Beloved, this is fundamental, foundational truth you have to have clear in your mind. God gives life. God raises the dead. Think about that for a minute. God raises the dead. So life expires. The heart stops pumping. The lungs stop breathing. No more consciousness, the brain waves are done with, body starts to decay. And there it is. There's no natural process to bring that back to life again We're not talking about the ambulance rushing up and doing the little boop thing on them and getting the heart pumping again. We're talking corruption has set in, they're dead, they're gone Life has expired out of the body. But then God, the life-giver, speaks. And in his infinite, omnipotent, life-giving power, he easily, without breaking a sweat, we could talk about God that way. Causes that which is dead and decaying to come back to life. Heart pumping, brain working, conscious active, running around playing and praying and enjoying life again. God does that. Great illustration we've looked at before is Lazarus. I want you to turn to that again. We'll probably do this a few times, John chapter 11, and look at this marvelous bringing back to life. This resurrection. Go to John 11, start at verse 38. I want to read the section for you again. So Jesus again, being deeply moved within, came to the tomb. Now it was a cave, and a stone was lying against it. Jesus said, Remove the stone. And Martha, the sister of the deceased Said to him, Lord, by this time there will be a stench. For he has been dead four days. Okay, four days, and he's already stinking. Jesus said to her, Did I not say to you that if you believe you will see the glory of God? So they removed the stone. Then Jesus raised his eyes and said, Father, I thank you that you have heard me. I knew that you always hear me. But because of those people standing around I said it, so that they may believe that you sent me. When he had said these things he cried out with a loud voice, a picture this here is a 30-year-old Jewish man standing in front of a grave where a guy's been buried four days ago, and he's going to say this, Lazarus, come forth. If you were there, you'd be like, What kind of an idiot is this? He's talking to the tomb and he's telling a dead man to come out of there. We're so used to these stories we forget how incredible they are. The man who had died Just to underscore that. The man who had died came forth bound hand and foot with wrappings, and his face was right. Mummy comes walking out of the tomb. And Jesus says, unwrap and give him something to eat. God raises the dead. There it is. It happened. Well the skeptics jeer. That doesn't happen. You Christians live in la la land. Paul encountered that kind of skepticism when he was preaching the resurrection in Acts 26:8. He's giving his testimony and he said, Why is it considered incredible among you people if God does raise the dead? Why is that incredible? God, omnipotence, all the power in the universe, provided all of the life that you see on the planet, all the little flowers and the little bumblebees. He did all of that. Why is that incredible to me to raise him from the dead? Does that seem difficult to understand? So Paul asks that question. The fair-minded person notes that this is the work of God. God does this. If God brings life into being in the first place, bringing life back into being after expires, no problem. It's expected. It's what he does. That's God's job description. It's what he does. Besides that, resurrections have actually happened in human history. Here's one of them, with hundreds of witnesses, carefully documented, with no hype surrounding it all, just writing what happened, and there it is. You're going to call all of them liars? Well, I guess they will Now I want you to go back to chapter 5. I want that image in your mind. Go back to the last part of verse 21 of chapter 5. Just as the Father raises the dead and gives him life, here it is. Even so, and here's the point, because we're talking about Jesus, even so, the Son also gives life. God gives life, God raises from the dead, Jesus does that also, even so. Now that would have been absolutely shocking. Again, here's A human being, a 30-year-old man standing in front of these religious leaders, and he is saying this man, the son of man, standing before you the son of God, he also gives life, just like God does. That would have seemed like blasphemy to them. Yeah, Jesus is claiming to give exactly the same kind of life and to have exactly the same kind of life-giving power as the infinite God of the universe. He's standing there and claiming that. And people say Jesus didn't claim to be God, please. Listen, angels are pretty mighty and powerful, you know. One angel in the Old Testament killed was 180,000 soldiers, something like that. The Assyrians. One angel sits on top of the uh stone at Jesus' resurrection, and all those strong Roman soldiers tremble and run. One angel, he's just filing his nails or something. He's doing nothing. He's just sitting there on top of the rock. And they're scared to death of him. They're trembling. They can't speak. Every time an angel appears somewhere, he has to first say, Don't be afraid. Because he knows we're going to be afraid when we see angels Angels, with all their might and power and brilliance, never resurrect people. They can't do it. Man, with all of his brilliant manipulation and all of the computers we have, all the biological manipulation, can't do it You can take what's already there, manipulate it, and change it, can't produce it. Only God does that. Nature, with all of its forces on display, never does this. It's never been observed. They just have a faith that it happened sometime in the past Didn't see it. Can't show how it happened. Science cannot even invent a way to do it. Only supernatural. Why do we call it supernatural? Because it's beyond the powers of nature. Supernatural, life-giving, creative divinity does this. This is the work of God. And please don't miss the point, Jesus, the Son of God. God of God, He does this also. Did you know that when the other resurrections of people in the Bible happened, such as Elijah, do you remember him praying? For the widow's son who had died in the upper room and he stretched himself over this poor kid three times and he's praying to God, Raise Raise this boy from the dead, and God raises him from the dead. Or fast forward to Paul In the uh New Testament, he was preaching a little bit too long, maybe, and that guy in the window fell out of the window. You remember that story in Acts 20? He falls down dead. Right there, I mean he died. Don't fall asleep in church. You could die. I think it's the more you're supposed to get from that. He falls out of the window, he's dead. And uh Paul comes down, prays for him, and he lives. He's raised from the dead. Did you know that when that boy and that man were raised from the dead, it was not Elijah or not Paul that was raising him from the dead? Did you know that? They had to pray, God, you raise them from the dead. And God did. But when Jesus rose people from the dead, it was his power. That raised that little gyrus girl had died. Imagine the father crying. He says, Everyone, get on out of here. Little girl's not dead, she's only sleeping. They laughed at me. She's dead. He's this guy sleeping. What an idiot. And then he talks to the girl. Little girl, she's dead. He's talking to the girl. Little girl, I say, arise. And she hears his voice. And she gets up. And she returns him to Her parents. What an emotional story. What a powerful story. What about Lazarus? First he prays to the Father and says, I know that you hear me. I'm doing this for the sake of those so that they will know that you sent me. But then he talks to Lazarus. Lazarus was dead four days ago. He's gone. He's feared somewhere else. He says, Lazarus. He doesn't say Father raised Lazarus. He says, Lazarus, come forth. And the life-giving power within the Son of God penetrates deep down in wherever the area of the dead is and draws the life of this man back into his body, puts life in the body, and he comes out. It's pretty good. He's out of the tomb. He's alive. That's the power of Jesus. Jesus' divine voice penetrated the realm of the dead. Do you understand that? There's a huge difference between us praying to God for Him to do something and Jesus in His unique power having the authority to give a life. Now we have to jump down to verse 26 because I think it adds to the explanation here. Look down at verse 26. For just as the Father, listen how this is described. has life in himself. Now please understand that's saying a lot more than the father is alive. You might look at the leaf and say, I think that leaf is alive. It falls to the ground, it shrivels up and say, I think that leaf is dead It's not just saying there is life in it. It's saying he has the principle of life in himself. And then it says, even so. The father gave to the son also for the son to have life in himself. So the father has life in himself, the son has life in himself. Zoein, Eken, and how to life To have in himself. He has it. He gave to the Son to have life in himself. That's why Jesus is able to speak to the dead and impart life. Now all life is derived. You have a life, right? You're alive, right? Let's just test that a bit. Just go ahead and check if your heart is beating there. You all are living, right? I hope you're all living. I hope no one died out there yet. Someone fell asleep, maybe they're dead, but I want to make sure you're all alive You have a heart, go ahead and check it. Okay, it's beady. Your life is the most precious thing you have, yes? And God gave that to you. But do you know that's derived? You didn't give life to yourself. You don't sustain your you say, I eat, right? I exercise. You're trying to maintain a life that God gave, but really you can't maintain it. He'll take it when he wants to take it You didn't give yourself life, you can't sustain the life, you don't have the principle of life in you. When it's ready to go, the principle of life is going to depart from you, and you can't bring it back. In that sense, we're just like the leaves of the tree. So we're living, but our life is not controlled by us. God controls life. God has life in himself. He creates, we don't. God doesn't. The Son is different from us. The Son has life in Himself. Remember the statement that no one takes away Jesus' life, but he lays it down willingly in John 10? It was impossible for death to keep Jesus down, it says in Acts two, why cause life is in himself? He's the life giver He had to be raised from the dead. When we started this whole gospel back in chapter one, if you want to glance back, just to remind yourself, in chapter one, verses one through four, it says, In the beginning was the word, the word was with God. The word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things came into being through him. Who's the him? The Son of God, the Word of God. And then in verse 4 it says, In him, in Jesus, in the Son of God, in the eternal word was life. There it is. And the life was the light of men. This is what we were told in the preamble. In Jesus is light. That's why he could say, I am the way, the truth, and you finish it. The light. John fourteen six. No one comes to the Father except through me. This is not some temporary power that the Father and the Son have, or some power that they had to get outside of themselves. They didn't win this power from another God or from nature. Giving life is in the very nature of the creative God and the Son of God. If you are going to understand God, you must understand that God is life-giving in nature. If you're going to understand the Son of God, you must understand that though Through his vital connection to the Father, he has life in himself. Jesus, the Son of God gives life. The next question should naturally be, to whom does Jesus give it? Did you have that question? To whom does Jesus give life? We'll go back up to verse 21 in the last part of it. He gives it to who? Womever he wishes. Whomever he wishes. Oh, brothers and sisters, you need to listen to this. Jesus gives life to anyone he wants to. That's what it says. Now that's not a Calvinistic doctrine. That's uh what it says right here in the Bible. He gives life to whomever he wants to. He has the power to do it, he can give life to anyone he wants to. That means if someone doesn't get life, then Jesus what? Didn't want to. There's no way you can avoid that. He wishes comes from the Greek verb fellow. It's a very common verb in the New Testament. It just means to wish, to desire, to will something to be. It expresses his volition. In John 3. 8, the same verb was used. The wind blows where it wishes. Just going around doing whatever it wants to do. There's the wind. Same word. Romans 9:18. So then God has mercy on whom he desires, wishes, same exact verb. And he hardens whom he Wishes, desires. In other words, if Jesus desires to grant life to someone, if Jesus desires to show mercy to them, Then he can and he will. Jesus grants life to whomever he wishes. He can do it, he does do it. No one can stop him from doing it when he wants to do it. It only depends on one thing, what he desires to do. We just had an illustration of that, if you can remember a few weeks back. Sorry about some of this stuff gets spread out. But if you go back to the healing of the layman in the earlier part of this chapter, it showed us Jesus' sovereign choice in the passage. Now this wasn't granting life, but it was healing. Jesus chose one man out of all of those poor sick people. by the pool of Bethesda there in Jerusalem during that feast time to heal him. Remember that? Look back at verses eight and nine. It says that he chose one. He only chose one. It was Jesus' choice to heal that man, and it was Jesus' choice to heal only that man, at least that day. He passed over the others, walked right past them. He could see them. He did not choose to heal them. He could have. You don't think like he used up all of his miraculous power on one person. Whew! That was a hard one. I'll get to the rest of you all next time. He walks right past them. He doesn't heal any of them. They're all sick. They're all poor. He doesn't heal them. Why not? That's unfair, you say. I thought Jesus wants to heal everyone. Well, obviously not. Obviously not. Does that shock you? The why here is because Jesus was under no obligation to heal anybody by the pool that day He didn't have to go to the pool and he didn't have to heal anybody. Could have stayed away from the pool and enjoyed a meal with his disciples somewhere. He was under no obligation to heal. Beloved, healing is an act of mercy. Do you know that? It's an act of mercy. And mercy does not have to be offered to anybody. If mercy has to be offered to everybody, then mercy no longer is mercy. It's something expected, it's something required of God. God, you have to provide mercy. No, he doesn't. The very definition of mercy is you don't deserve it, and if he chooses to give it, you'll give it. And if he chooses not to give it, you get what you deserve. Mercy by definition is not earned, it's not deserved, it cannot be expected. No one may presume upon Jesus' mercy. It is offered, if it is offered. Then that's special. That's precious. If right about now you're starting to feel very thankful for your salvation, that is a very good response to what's being preached. Jesus will offer it to whomever he desires. Why did he desire? To offer it to me. The foggiest idea. The foggiest idea. It wasn't about me. I know that. There's something about him. It wasn't about me. This so clearly illustrates Jesus' sovereignty in granting life as well. Jesus is under no obligation to grant life. spiritual life, resurrection life, to anybody. But he does. He does it to whomever he wishes. Arthur Pink in his commentary accentuates this truth. Some of this is repeated, but I want to read it. Jesus lays claim to divine sovereignty. The healing of the impotent man was an object lesson. It not only demonstrated Jesus' power, but it illustrated his absolute sovereignty. He had not healed the entire company of impotent folk who lay around the pool. Instead, he had singled out just one and had made him whole. So he works and so he acts in the spiritual realm. He does not quicken, that is, make alive spiritually all men. But those whom he will. He does not quicken the worthy, for there are none. He does not quicken those who seek quickening, for being dead in sin, none began to seek until they are quickened. The Son quickeneth whom he will. He says so, that ends the matter. It is not to be reasoned about, but believed To quicken is to impart life, and to impart life is a divine prerogative. Divine prerogative. Brothers and sisters, we have to let God be God. Let him be who he is in your mind. Now. I don't want to leave this life issue just yet. I can tell we're going to part three already. Because this really needs to be further subdivided. There are two kinds of life Jesus provides. Two kinds, and they're related. Don't try to think of them too differently. He imparts life, but I want you to see the two kinds that he has. They're tied together. There's one he provides now, and I want everyone in here to know that. And then there's one he provides in the future, and I want everyone in here to know that too. Both the imparting of spiritual life now And the raising of our dead bodies in the future, both of them may be described as imparting life, even everlasting life Jesus, when he wants to, gives everlasting life. He gives it in one form now. He gives it in a more complete form in the future. Indeed, the present spiritual life that we have is really nothing more than the future resurrection life tasted now in the presence in our souls. And the future resurrection life is dependent on the receiving of the spiritual life now, so they're connected to the same kind of life. This is further described below. Skip down all the way to verse 24. Present spiritual life. Verse 24. Here he says: Truly, truly, I say to you, he who hears my word and believes. Him who sent me has what? Eternal life, and does not come into judgment, but has passed out of death. into life. Here again we see, as we've seen in the other parts of the passage, the unity of the Father and the Son in providing life. Salvation is a work of God, and it is a work of God's Son, and they do it together. The son imitates the father. How does someone get spiritual life? Now I won't ask, is there someone here today that wants to know the answer to that question, maybe for yourself? You don't have to raise your hand Is there someone that wants to know how can I be sure I get spiritual life, everlasting life? Well, this verse, as clearly as any I know, describes how, so pay attention. You want to know how to get everlasting life from Jesus, the kind he gives? Here it is. Listen up. This is laid out so simply. I think you're going to love this. It is again punctuated with those words at the beginning, truly, truly. Do you see that? Jesus is underscoring this truth in the verse. Now listen, every verse in the Bible Every word in the Bible is inspired by God. Yes, there's not some that are inspired and others that are not inspired. But sometimes Jesus underscores or highlights certain truths. This is one of them You know, if he had a highlighter, I think he'd be putting yellow all over this one. Truly, truly, listen up to this. This is important If you want life, there are two things that must be happening in your life to have Jesus' life. First, you must hear God's word. Truly, truly, I say to you, he who hears my word. Jesus is talking, so it's Jesus' word. He who hears my word. That's the first step. That's the first thing that must happen to you. No one ever gets life from God who doesn't hear the word of Jesus People can be doing religious things, they can be off doing yoga in some position, meditating on how beautiful the sky is or something like that. You can't get light that way. You might get a good stretch. But you don't get life that way. If you want life, you have to hear the words of Jesus. It has to come to you. The words of Jesus give life. But what does it mean to hear the words of Jesus? You know, Greek, just like English, had two senses to the word here. You could say, and parents do that sometimes, you know, their kids sitting there and they're giving them rules. And they're hearing something like, you know, the Charlie Brown wah wah wah wah wah wah wah wah. And they're hearing the sound, but they're not really comprehending anything. Did you hear me? And the answer obviously is no Child didn't hear you. So you have to repeat it so that they get it, and then it goes in, it sinks in, not in one ear and out the other, as we say, but they get it, they understand, and they accept it. The same two senses are in Greek as well. When Jesus says here, hearing God's word, he's not just talking about sitting and listening to a message preached from the Bible about Jesus' word. That's not what it's referring to. How do I know that? Because that is the hearing that is described even in this passage and in the rest of the Gospel of John shows that it's a hearing with understanding and acceptance. They understand it and they accept it. That's the hearing. Look at John 5:25, the next verse. Truly, truly, there he says it again, I say to you, an hour is coming, and now is when the dead will what Hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear will live. It's a hearing with understanding because it's a hearing that responds to the voice. It obeys the voice. Look down at verse 28, same passage. Do not marvel at this, for an hour is coming in which all who are in the tombs will there it is again, same word, a kuo. Hear his voice. Hear it and respond to it because they understand it and they obey it. Jesus' voice penetrated into Lazarus. He heard it and he responded and he obeyed. That's the kind of hearing he's talking about. By the way, this is the way it is throughout the rest of the gospel of John. I want you to see this because I think it's important. Keep your finger there in chapter 5 and turn to chapter 8 a second. Chapter 8 and verse 47. Jesus is having a debate with the Jews, and they're not listening to him, and so he says something very profound. Very profound. Verse 47: He who is of God hears the words of God. For this reason you do not hear them because you are not of God. Now he's talking to unbelievers, he's talking to those who are resisting his his ministry. And so he's saying to them, you aren't hearing the words of God. Well of course they were. He just finished preaching all kinds of stuff. They heard a lot of words of God. No, they never heard it. Because those who are of God will hear the words of God. They will hear it. I go to chapter 10 and verse 27. Chapter 10 and verse 27. This is the Good Shepherd passage. He calls himself the Good Shepherd. In verse 27, he says, My sheep And here it is again, same verb. Verb. Hear my voice. Just like a shepherd calls to the sheep, like, ah, that's the voice of my shepherd. I recognize that voice. That's the voice of the one I follow. When I follow him, I get food, I get water. That's good, I'm following. That's what it's all about. My sheep hear my voice and I know them and they what? Follow me. They hear and they obey. It's the kind of hearing that results in trusting and obeying. I want to show you just a couple more. Since you're in chapter 10, look back at verse 8. Because here they didn't hear. Here he's talking about the false teachers. All who came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not hear them. Well, they heard them in one sense, they heard their false doctrine, but they didn't hear them so as to follow them. That's how the sense is. One more, I want you to turn to John eighteen, when Jesus was speaking to Pilate. And verse 37. Just so you can see, this is how John uses this in his gospel. John 18, verse 37. Therefore, Pilate said to him, So you are a king. Jesus answered, You say correctly that I am a king. For this I have been born, and for this I have come into the world to testify to the truth. Everyone is the truth. Who is of the truth hears my voice. Everyone, no exceptions. Everyone who is of the truth will hear the voice of the Son of God. Everyone. By the way, we don't have time for this, that's why when you get to Revelation and you have Jesus talking to the churches, you have this repeated phrase over and over. It sounds kind of weird, almost sounds silly, and he says after he gives us a little warning to the church. He says, he who has an ear to hear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. I mean there's some people in the church, and they don't have an ear to hear. Not physical ear, of course. They don't have the spiritual capacity to hear. They're deaf. And they can't hear. But everyone who can hear are those whom God has given the capacity to, and so they hear. Now I want you to turn back to chapter 5. This is the kind of hearing that always accompanies getting spiritual life. So the one to whom Jesus desires to impart light to is also the one who has ears to hear, and who actually does hear the voice of the Son of God. And the hearing naturally leads to the second step. I told you there were two. Look at verse 24 again. This is so simple. Verse 24: Truly, truly I say to you, he who hears my word. And, so here's the second, believes him who sent me. Believes him who sent me. Christ's word must be heard and it must be heard with acceptance and God who sent Jesus must be believed. Proper hearing of the words of Christ results in believing not only Christ and his words. But also the Father who sent Christ to speak those words. One who does not end up believing and obeying does not actually hear. One who hears is one who ends up believing and obeying. So again, you see the work of the Father and the work of the Son going together for in believing one is believing the other. All those who really believe the Father will believe the Son. All those who believe the words of the Son believe in the Father. They go hand in hand. Now, belief is our responsibility. That's a command to believe in the name of Jesus Christ. That's a responsibility God has put on man. Man is responsible to hear and to believe. And God has to grant the ability because of our sin and our evil desire. We don't want that. But the responsibility is always on mankind, not on God. So the question is: do you want to have life? If you want life today from God, then hear the words of God. God's speaking to your heart. Hear Him. He's trying to draw you to have everlasting life. Don't be stubborn. Don't resist. Hear the words of God and believe him who's set Jesus Christ. That's it. You say that's all there is to it That's all that I have to do? I mean that's how I get life? Are you telling me it's that simple that I can hear the words of Christ and believe and I will have everlasting life? Isn't that what it says? What does it say? What does it say in verse 24? Truly, truly, I say to you, he who hears my word and believes him who sent me has a decent chance of getting into heaven. Is that what it says? It's 50-50 now. It's 75%. You've just earned a little bit of merit with God. No, it's not what it says. What does it say? He what has eternal life. Now, if you have a translation of the Bible that doesn't have a present tense in there, throw away your translation of the Bible. It's no good. That is a present tense command in Greek. I'm not a command, a verb, I mean, has eternal life. Not will have, not hopes to have, not might have You know, there are Christian religions that say it's presumptuous for people to say now that they're sure that they have everlasting life. No, it's not presumptuous, it's called faith. It's what it says right there has eternal life. Do you read that? It is a present possession. It's treasured. And we have it now. Why? Because we heard the voice of the Son of God and That's it. There's nothing else. There's no work for you to do. Jesus did it all where? On the cross. He was crucified for our sins. He was buried the third day. He rose, right? He did all the work. He took away the sin. He's opened the gateways to heaven. You must believe. That's your responsibility. And if you believe you have everlasting life, you're instantly given the life of God, that means the seed of God is in you, you've been born again, you've been born from above, you've been born from the Spirit of God, you're now a child of God's because you have a seed in you. You have the everlasting life, it is yours, and it goes on to say not only do you have life, but you pass out of death into life You were in the realm of spiritual death, but now you've already been transferred out of death and into life. It's already happened, it's past tense. I want to illustrate this for you in reverse. Let's go back to Adam and Eve. And I'll end with this. Adam and Eve, there they are in a garden, right? Happy. Got everything just the way it ought to be. You know, everything that you wish your life was they had it. They did. They had it. No decay. Everything they wanted. They had paradise. There they are. They're enjoying paradise. And they're told, all of this is yours, just don't eat from the tree in the middle. Don't eat from the tree in the knowledge of good and evil. Because you eat of that, then you will surely what? Die. Life's precious. Don't disobey the command of God. So the serpent comes, tricks Eve. Eve eats. She did not die when she ate. She gave to her husband when her husband ate. They both died, showing that the husband is the head of the wife. The eyes of both of them were open when Adam ate. They instantly died. Now, not physically, their bodies were still there. In fact, they were quite aware of their bodies. They felt naked for the first time. A lot of shame. They ran, got the fig leaf thing, and did all that. Pathetic. But they died instantly spiritually. They went from life instantly into spiritual death, just as God said it would happen. Satan lied to them. Now, to get life, a promise and a command is given: believe on the Son, and you will pass from death. In the life. Instantly. Just like it happened in Reverse Adam. Instantly granted everlasting life That's what happens in your soul. Beloved, if you will believe God, and you'll take this message, those of you who believe it, take this simple message to others, pass it on. Believe God who sent Jesus. Hear the promises of Jesus Christ. Accept them, treasure them, believe Him. And he grants you everlasting life. Because of the work he did, not because of the work we do. It's all a gift from God. It's all of his grace. Amen. I didn't even get to the second kind of life, the resurrection life. We'll get to that next time in the judgment as well. Let's pray. Our Father, we pray. That you would have mercy on some who are here and may who may hear through the CD. We know that you give life to whomever you wish. And we also know that you tell us to pray for those who are lost and dead in their trespasses and sins. And then when we pray for the lost, the faith that we have to pray for them is given from you so that you can impart to them life. Help our people to pray for the lost. We pray for any here today that are lost, they're dead, and their trespasses and sins. We pray for them, Lord, because they don't know any better. And they don't have any capacity in themselves. We pray you'd open their eyes, open their ears, and grant them life. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.