We're in America. The church in America is heading into new territory these days, is it not? Overt hostility against biblical Christianity Coming from what people call the far left, but also from Hollywood doing their immoral thing. chunk of that mocking and ill feeling comes from the media. Now unbelievably our own government. Who would have thought The Church in America finds herself at odds with the very country that she gave birth to through her preaching. The people of faith. You were with us this uh last Lord's Day. We began a series and we began to note then that Now is not a time for Christians to be afraid. Remember what Paul said we've been not not been given a spirit of timidity, but of power and love and discipline. Would we just read all who Desire to live godly in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. Now is the time to shine a light. And you are that light. The Word of God is a light It says in Ephesians 5, do not participate in the unfruitful deeds of darkness, boy, there's a lot of darkness around. But rather even expose it. Shine the light. The light is always brighter in the darkness. Do you agree? And so your little bit of witness and stand for righteousness is going to go a long way Long way. Long way now. I think really what an opportunity that our sovereign Lord Jesus, who's in control of all these things, has given to the church here in America at this time. Think about it, the supernatural fulfillment of biblical prophecy going on in the Middle East, coupled with brash immorality being demonstrated here, leading to crazy kind of confusion throughout our culture The opportunity to reach the aimless lost now may be greater than at any other time since you and I have been alive here in America. Wow, what opportunity we have right now. Rather than shaking our head, we ought to grab this opportunity and do something with it. Don't you think? That's what I'm thinking. Really, I think that God answered our prayers, our former prayers. Lord, would you please bring a revival? Lord, would you open the door for the gospel? So he went about answering in kind of a way we probably wouldn't have wanted It has to bring a little more heat upon the church. Well, I think blessed is the church which understands the times in which they live and positions itself to do something about that I want that for Hope Bible Church. I hope that you do too. We're in a little series, a brief series on the church. More specifically, what's the purpose of the church Why are we here as Hope Bible Church? What is a local church in the world supposed to do? What's our mission, our purpose statement, so to say? How do we fulfill our divine calling in times like these What do we do with this? Well, this is uh impassioned doctrine, really, from my heart this morning. This is what I think about. I love this. This is personal truth for me because I love the church and I love the Word of God and I love serving that. Last time we took a look at one of the purposes of the church, that is to build We call that edification. If you were here last Sunday, we looked at 1 Corinthians 12 and the body and how everyone has a different gift, and they're to use that gift to do what? For the common good, it says in 1 Corinthians 12. twelve. And then it says in Ephesians four for what? Building up the body of Christ. What's that? Edification of the body. We have, and a lot of people forget this as a purpose of the church, we have As one of our purposes to strengthen the body, to make the body mature, to build up the body. Because as the body is built up, and I started with that purpose first because it flows into the next two purposes Then a healthy kind of outreach occurs, which is what we're going to look at today. And then, Lord willing, next Sunday, a greater exaltation of God occurs as well. So we have edification Evangelism and exaltation is the three purposes of the church. I think it's even on the bulletin we put each Sunday. It's there. This is what we're to be thinking about It must be your purpose to use your gifts to build up this body, this local church, so that it can fulfill its calling. Part of that calling is just being a healthy church that holds up the head and properly honors Christ in the way that it lives. And it all leads to that second divine Divinely given purpose, evangelism. Make disciples of all the nations, Christ said, right? You'll be my witnesses in Jerusalem, in Judea, and Samaria, even to the ends of the earth. This is what I want you to do This is your mission to the world. Edification of the church leads to more effective evangelism of the lost. Just like you do that with your own body, hopefully. You take care of your own body, right? You eat right. You sleep right. On Saturday nights you get to bed on time, right? You sleep right and um you you re Rest properly, you get the nutrition that you need, you exercise. Why do you do that? So your body is strong, so then you can go out and do work, work that benefits other people. Same thing with the body of Christ. Work that we have to do also can be strong. Write it down. Strong body leads to strong outreach. Edification undergirds evangelism. Plus I would add this When you go into evangelism, what do you do with those that listen? A lot of people don't think about that. We're so used to people not listening, we're like, eh, I know I'm supposed to say this, but nobody What happens when they listen and they believe? Where are you going to bring them? You got to bring them back to a strong body so they can grow, so they can use their spiritual gifts, and it happens all over again Multiplying disciples doesn't happen outside the local church. It happens inside the local church. God's strategy for the world is not disciples floating around and multiplying. His strategy for the world is the local church. Multiplying applying local churches and disciples in that context. So we could say edification and evangelism are symbiotic. That's their relationship Now we could go to the great evangelism texts of the day. We could go to Matthew 28. We could go to Acts 1, many others, Jesus' appeal for the workers to go out into the harvest because it's white for harvest. We could talk about his parable of the lost sheep. Those are great texts. I don't want to go to any of those today. I want to go to a lesser known text of scripture, but one with a beautiful image of the Church's outreach. It's 2 Thessalonians chapter 3, verses 1 through 3. Let me read it and we'll think about the Lord's message here. Would you turn there? 2 Thessalonians It comes right before the Timothy chapter 3, verses 1 through 3. Paul is writing, Finally, brethren, pray for us. That the word of the Lord will spread rapidly and be glorified, just as it did also with you. And that we will be rescued from perverse And evil men. Or not all have to translate that the faith. But the Lord is faithful. And he will Strengthen and protect you from the evil one. Would you please sense the godly impulse from the heart of this evangelistic and caring apart? Apostle the Apostle Paul. What a warm heart he had for the gospel. commitment he had for the gospel. And as you think about that, my prayer is that this will warm your heart. You won't just think, ah, another message on evangelism, okay. But you'll think about This touching your heart. When I had my surgery, it's interesting when you have surgery you wake up, you don't know what you're thinking, but the first thing I thought about is all the people that were working in my body at the same time. People are all around me, a lot of wires. But the first scripture that came to my mind was this text right here. That the Word of God would spread rapidly. It was on my heart, it was in my mind. I just felt The sense of urgency, and so I just would like to bring you to this text. Maybe you'll feel a little bit of that same sense as well. A couple of words of introduction. We're diving into the you know the third chapter of a book, so let me give you a quick background of the concept Paul planted this church at Thessalica. He did it on his second missionary journey. How did he do it? By preaching the word, the gospel to them. Sylvanus and Timothy were on with him on that journey. Uh remember on his first he had Barnabas and Mark and Don Mark and now he had Sylvanus and Timothy. And they came to Thessalica. This was a big city, two hundred and fifty thousand people. It doesn't sound big But back then that was an enormous ancient city. It was a very large city for that time. It was also the capital of the region of Macedonia, and it was a strategic city because it was a seaport and it was on Roman road on a trade route, and that gave it a lot of connection to other cities in the ancient world. Strategic city for the gospel. Paul never shied away from people. He went right to the cities as strategic places As persecution broke out while he was there in Thessalonica, he traveled on to Berea, then to Athens, then to Corinth. You can read about all that historic background in Acts chapter 1 Chapter 17. I won't get into it now. Shortly after arriving at Corinth, he wrote the letter we call 1 Thessalonians. And then a few months later, maybe three or six months later He wrote 2 Thessalonians, two of the earliest books that he wrote, somewhere around fifty or fifty-one AD. And he wrote it because he got a report of the church in Thessalonica that he just started. And part of the report was concerned Turning to him. He clears up confusion about the end time. Some were saying, you know, the day of the Lord has already come, and someone had written a letter, and uh it was a false letter. It wasn't from Paul, and so he writes this one with his own hand. You can see that at the uh end of uh chapter three. And you can read about that other letter in chapter two, verse two. And also he was just urging proper Christian living. Some people were excited about the coming of the Lord. It sounded like they didn't want to And he writes and says, You know what, if they won't work, don't let them eat either And so stay working, set a good example here. And so we have some practical, down-to-earth kind of things to say in the letter as well. And uh but here in chapter three, he really opens up his heart and he connects with the church again and he says, I want you to pray. Now nowadays we have really quick ways of getting connected, you know. We have we have Twitter and we have all kinds of things. I can't even name them. Don't answer them, please, okay? But all these quick things that happen, just ignore all that. Back then, uh it took a long time for a letter to come from here to there, and the connection was hard, so you wanted to take advantage of the connection. So he's writing a letter and he's saying, pray for us. He wants that connection. with this with this church in this city. And this warm evangelistic heart comes out. And I hope it comes from him to us. What a great evangelism lesson we're going to learn here. I'm going to focus homilically today just on three keys to spreading the Word of God. Three keys to evangelism, three keys to spreading the Word of God. These are not the only things the Bible has to be able to The first we learn at the beginning of verse 1, and it's just prayer. And the second is a purpose, and that's implied really in the second part of verse 1. one. And then third, protection. And I think that's a very key thing to talk about these days. Prayer, purpose, and protection. Let's just go through that. First key to evangelism is in verse one, the beginning part, and it is It is prayer. Finally, brethren, pray for us. Pray for us. The team of workers that were with Paul, pray for us. And he starts with finally, that doesn't mean this is the last thing he's gonna say, but it means the letters winding down. Literally it could be translated as for the rest. And then he wants to re be personal with them, so refers to them as the brethren, Adelphoi. This is family stuff. This is a family letter to other people in the family. He connects with them. personally. And he asks them just this one thing, pray for us. By the way, he prayed for them at the end of chapter 2. You can look back there and notice that in 2 Thessalonians chapter 2 verse 16. And so he wants that going both ways. I'm praying for you. I want you to be praying for us. Prayer bonds ministry together, right? It should be mutual. In fact, in the first letter, he asked the same thing, chapter 5, verse 25, and said, Brethren, pray for us. So this was important for him. It wasn't just saying, it's not something to quickly gloss over in God's Word. Prayer for each other is very important in what we're doing here in the world. Prayer connects churches to preachers. Prayer connects churches to evangelists and missionaries. Those people out there, particularly in hard places, they covet your prayers. They're kind of hoping you're not forgetting them. I know you're praying for your kids and you're praying for your church and you are you praying for us too? Do you remember us in your prayer list? They they don't want to be forgotten. You know, oh yeah, every once in a while, once a month you pull out the missionary ship And pray for them. No, they want you remembering them and praying for them. They covet that. You know, have you ever seen a missionary letter without a prayer request? I haven't. They always have a whole list of prayer requests. Why are they giving that to us? Because they want us praying for them Churches must not grow sleepy, you know. We're just like asleep just doing our own little routines and we need to think about what's going on out there and say, you know I'm gonna I'm gonna you know I c I can't always get out and leave my routines, but in my prayer time I can I can travel to Ecuador when I pray. And I can travel to Spain when I pray. What an exciting thing to pray and to believe God for things and watch what he does. Now Paul saw the progress of his ministry and the Word of God dependent on prayer. You ever think about that? Boy, we'd like to have this ministry in show Gee, it would be really wonderful to have this. Wouldn't it be wonderful if someone was raised up and did this for us? And if we had a campus ministry or if we could start another church, well, where do we start with all of that? You tell me Prayer. That's where we start. If you want it to happen, be committed to prayer. And not the prayer presto it happens the next day kind of prayer, but the persevering kind of prayer. The ask and keep asking and it will be given to you. the the seeking and keep seeking and you will find that kind of prayer. So that's what we need to do. And he believed that. He believed in the effects of prayer. Not to pray was to see the ministry stagnate and not progress. And you never want to see that in church. You never want to see the ministry stall. What are we doing there? Last week. You want to see things go forward. You want to see things progress. You want to see advancement in the kingdom of God. Yes? Soldiers don't want to just stand around. They want to go do something We're soldiers of the cross, right? Let's get something done. Where do we start with prayer. Commitment of prayer. I'm so glad this is is here. Thing about prayer is it's an invisible thing. You know, dear God, would you please help so-and-so? You can't see anything after that. What happened? Did anything happen? Well that's where faith has to come in and say, of course something happened But it will happen if I keep believing, keep praying, praying according to the scripture, right? Stay vigilant, keep my own mind clean. When you're ready to to To dive into that sin you've been thinking about this past week. Remember that when you sin, you're going to throw cold water on all the fires the Holy Spirit is trying to generate in your heart to get you to pray more fervently, right? What's one reason to stay away from sin so that you can pray fervently so God's word will go forward? Don't be tripped up. Always know that this is a work of ministry. Now ours is just supernatural work. Earthly tools don't do any good. We can raise money and and we can have credentials, but we're fighting a spiritual battle and we're doing supernatural work and yet We have to do that with divine tools, the word of God and prayer. Second Corinthians ten, three through four. We walk in the flesh. In other words, we have bodies and we're walking down here on the ground in the flesh, but we do not war according to the flesh. How dumb that would be Wrong kind of war. For the weapons of our warfare are not of the flesh, but divinely powerful for the destruction of fortresses. Do you think uh picketing is going to accomplish as much as prayer? It's not. You think writing your senator will accomplish as much as prayer? It's not. I'm not saying don't do those things. You want to change things, pray You want to help the church? Pray. Come to prayer meeting. Pray with other people. Be committed to prayer. As prayer goes, so goes the gospel mission. The Holman commentary succinctly puts it this way, we are foolish if we assume that the work of God can be carried forward without prayer. I've sensed your prayers. I I sense power and strength in my mind in my own my own prayer time, my own study time, standing up When you're praying for me, you're being kind to me. You're praying for my health, and I'm very grateful for that. And Susan is as well, the whole family is. But you're really You're also praying here someone is struggling. You're praying for them. Their body will be strengthened. They learn the lessons that they can while they're sick. And then the word of God that comes out of their mouth will be even stronger. Stronger than it was before. You're really praying for the Word of God. You're praying for the advancement of the Word of God. It's kind of like Joshua and her holding up the arms of Moses. I'm no Moses But I can sense strengthening me through your prayers. I feel that. I know that. And our prayers need to be targeted. They can't just be aimless out there. You know, please God bless the world. It's so bad. Lord, our country's going the wrong way. Start praying for things specifically that you can follow, that you're asking God for so you can see what He's doing. On Sundays when the pastor is up here praying, do you do you go off in the la la land or do you start focusing and saying, What's he praying for? I need to pray for that as well. Well, you are you purposeful about your prayers, see? We should be praying for ministries to spread the word of God. Many of you ladies are in the women's ministry, pray to women's ministry. We'll have a growing outreach. Many of your men are involved in the men's ministry. Pray for activities and things like that and be able to reach lost men. Pray. Pray for avenues, pray for the worship services, pray for the Wednesday evening program, pray for anything that can have legs and move and walk out and begin to minister to other people. better than before. Our time is short. Can't keep waiting for next year and the year after that and the year after that. We need to beseech God for a mighty outflow of the Word of God. Now. Amen? Did you hear that? Pray for that. Pray for us. Pray for the work we're doing. Well, Paul next has two items to pray for. And I kind of already said them. But these will help us to see the next key, and that is spreading the word. So we go to the second key. First was prayer, second is purpose Or you could say resolve or commitment. It's implied in verse 1 in the content. The content, pray for us that the word of the Lord will spread rapidly and be glorified. There's the purpose. Prayer assumes that there's a purpose. What's the purpose? We are here. Why are we here? Brandon asked it this morning. Why are we here? To spread the word of God. That's why we're here. If you're praying seriously for spreading the Word of God, you show that you know what God's purpose is for the church You also show that you're willing to do something about it. You're not coming in here just to listen. You're coming in here to volunteer. You're coming in here to be used. You're coming in here to do something about it. You want to do your part to spread the Word of God. And we're all doing that together. And when we're combined with other churches all throughout the land We're all working together to advance the Word of God. Hey, generations come, generations go. The Word of God stays and continues to march on, right? We're servants of the Word. We're here to promote the Word, and that's what He says to pray And notice how he describes the word. He says it's the word of the Lord. Who's the Lord? Specifically, I believe that's the Lord Jesus Christ. We never preach a generic message. It's no good. Generic message won't save anybody, won't help anybody, won't change any life. Seems like there are a lot of churches out there. To have a generic message. God loves you and has a wonderful plan for your life. Was that? Which God? What's the plan? What about the judgment of God? That's not the message. Peace on earth. God is great. Which God? Allah? No. It's a generic message. It's not specific. This is the word of the Lord. This is the word of the Lord Jesus. This is the message he preached, the message about him, the message that honors him. It's his message. Had a conversation with someone this past week and ever you talk to someone that's not really into Christianity, they want to know, well, so what's so special about Christianity? that Jesus rose from the dead. Nobody else did that. Just start right there. Jesus Christ literally, bodily, historically, rose from the dead. Can you beat that? You know someone else that did that Just start right there. This is the message. We have the message. We have the good news, right? It's powerful. No message beats that. What are we talking about? The word of the Lord, the gospel, and all the implications of the gospel. Sometimes we separate the message that we give to the lost and the message that we are here, you know, doctrinal truth. The New Testament doesn't do that. The one is the kernel of the other that outflows into more and more teaching. What is it all about? It's that Jesus was conceived miraculously, lived sinlessly, died substitutionally, rose victoriously. Returning triumphantly, reigning eternally, all of that, and all the teaching that goes with that. That's what eschatology is about. That's what ecclesiology is about. That's what Theology proper and God is about. That's what our Hamardiology and understanding our sin is about. And soteriology, our study of salvation, all those doctrines and all the books of Scripture that we teach are really just explicating that gospel message. And of course it's the word about the Lord Himself. The term word is lagos, it means not just a message, but a message that has a a rational arrangement to it. It's logical. It's logos. It's it's true. It's something that can be understood. When we preach the word, the word has to then be explained, and then the word has to be received into the mind. And people need to know the word and understand the word, and as they understand it, they come to faith and they they believe and they grow in faith. Jesus, of course, himself is the embodiment of the Word of God, right? John tells us that in his writings. He is the Lagos made flesh In Revelation 13, when everyone's been trying to suppress the Word of God on earth, when Jesus appears on the great white horse and we get the vision of him in Revelation 19, he comes back with a name written on him, and it's the Word of God. That's his name. He is the Word of God. He's coming back. He's the message himself. Listen, we are down here to work for the Lord and his word. And you can't work for the Lord Jesus if you don't work for His Word. What kind of a Lord Jesus is it out there that's not connected to His Word? Former president of Jimmy Carter wrote or said recently that, you know, I think if Jesus were in the world today he'd support gay marriage. This is the guy who's a pr uh former president of the United States of America and teaches Sunday school Let me tell you something. That's one Sunday school you shouldn't go to. The word of the Lord is the word that Jesus would teach, and he upheld all the Old Testament. And he sent the apostles to the New Testament to preach in They clearly teach righteousness in the area of sexual morality, which is obvious to anyone who's read scripture or knows biology. The word of the Lord. It's the word of the Lord. And that's what we serve. Interesting the the the image I want you to get here, this is very exciting for me because I know that the translations try to make this work in English, but It says, pray that the word will spread rapidly. It's really a little more graphic than that. If you have your little study Bible, look at the little footnote and look over there, and you'll see that it literally is the word run Treco, I kinda like that. I like to run. I'm still trying to get back to my running. Running is great. Running, you go somewhere. Just keep running and pass something. Just keep going. And just keep going and going. I love to run for miles. And we're supposed to pray that the Word of God will run. I love that image. Just let it out. Branna talk about the lion going about being released. Let it out and let it. Just start running and pray for that. Go and go and go. What are we talking about? The word, the message, the gospel, all the doctrines that go along with that gospel, the advancement of the word. Let's pray that it goes running. I just love that image. And it it's in the present tense, so it means it's not going to run and quit, you know, and be all over with, but it's going to run and just keep running and never stop. You know, not even a marathon, twenty-six miles. Just keep going. The the beauty of the word of God. Now some people think that Paul had in mind here the Olympic Games, maybe it might also be Psalm 147, verse 55 fifteen that he had in mind where it says he sends forth his command to the earth, his word runs very swiftly. Could be that. But whatever it means, it means pray the word will get out and go and spread. What a graphic picture. Picture that when you pray. You're praying for missionary. I just picture that the word will get out. It'll go different places. Pray for that here. Then more people will hear the word that when you're out there in all the context. That you have for people all throughout one week. If we wrote down every single person that we get in contact with all 300 of us, and those that are on vacation out there somewhere Everybody that you come into contact with, if we would just pray a little more, just even a little more, God open our mouths. Think how much more the Word of God would run and be out there. Think about that That's our purpose. That's supposed to be our resolve. To have more people hear the word so they might some of them what? Receive it. Right? More churches, too. This is about churches, preaching the word of God, not stifling it, not putting something on top of it, not muffling it like that. Making sure it gets out there and they hear it clearly. One of the goals of my preaching message is Is that the Word of God will be clear, that it will not be muffled. More teachers explaining the Word. We are to pray against any forces that would want to impede the Word of God. Any anybody that was hold back the Word of God, try to blockade the Word of God. Now here we get into the spiritual warfare again, do we not? Satan is going to try to thwart the word of God. How is it that people come to be saved and honor God? The answer is they have to hear the word, right? So what is Satan's number one strategy going to be? Stop the word. They can't stop it, twist it. They can't twist it, add something to it that eclipses it. So no one thinks about that. They just think about the church. Or the other book that some cult writes. It's always going to be a strategy, right? Question God's word, deny God's word, stop God's word. Because from God's word comes Faith, and from faith comes people that worship God, and Satan doesn't want any of that. He wants people to worship him. Remember what he told Christ? Fall down and worship me, I'll give you all the kingdoms. He says, Begone Satan, and you shall worship the Lord your God and serve him only. Stop the Word of God. That's what Satan is always trying to do. So he puts false teachers out there to contradict it. Well, you know, that's not really what the Bible says. Only naive people take the Bible literally And you hear this message, and people are like they're not hearing the word. And some of them are reading the word, and they got bad study Bibles. They go down there and they read the notes and it contradicts what's right there Anything that he can do to not hear the word, to stop the word of God, even governments sometimes try to stop it. No converting to Christianity in this nation. Why? Stifle the Word of God. We pray for a Muslim country that's 99. 2% Muslim, or whatever the stats are. You know what I'm talking about. You're praying that the word will penetrate in that People, internet, radio, whatever, that the word of God will keep keep going. The PC police try to shut us down too, right? Well you're not allowed to talk about sin. You're not allowed to call them sinners. You're not allowed to say they're going to hell. Quiet with that. What are they trying to do? Shut up the Word of God So pray, it spills over everywhere. Because when it gets out there, nobody can contain it. The authorities that be can't do anything to stop it. And I love that. I love the fact that they can't control it. Something comes out of your mouth and they can do something to you, but they can't do anything to stop the Word of God. It's gone, it's flowing, the milk is already spilled. There's nothing they can do about it You're in a party and the last thing in the world anyone wants you to do is say anything about Jesus. Still say it. Now it's out there and everyone's talking about it here and there and they don't like you and no one's going to share a cocktail with you that night. Shouldn't we have one of those anyway? No one will have an old verb with you. But they will be talking about the Word of God and they will be gossiping about you and they will not be liking you, but someone will listen and get saved because it's A seed and it has power. Paul was in prison, then he wrote in 2 Timothy 2:2: the word of God is not in prison. I'm locked up, but the word of God is not locked up. And he could rejoice with that Why? Because he was a servant of the word. He was a servant of the word. Can't be stopped. What a wonderful commodity Jesus gave to the church. A lot of the secret churches trying to sell a commodity and the commodity is sort of a feel-good kind of message from Christianity. We pack out churches with lots and lots of people and they do very well at selling that product, but it's not Christ's product Christ's product is a message, it's a very offensive message, it's a strong message, it's a message of damnation, it's a message of hell, it's a m Are unacceptable to the Lord. But it's also a message that comes with amazing forgiveness. It's an amazing message we have. It's the only message of hope. It's the only light in the world. All the other lights are not lights. This is the light. This is the spotlight. And so we oughta we ought to be like we deliver coke all over the city, right? You you take it all over the city, right? It should be like that. Everywhere we go, we want the word of God to go Like UPS is delivering it to every house. We want the word to get out. That's how we should be treating it. This is not a place for the church to go skimpy. Dead it out There should be something inside of every believer who sits in a Bible church like this as you're hearing God's word taught in a class first hour. Hope you all came first hour now. Make sure you come in the first hour, getting that good teaching. And coming in here and hearing the word of God, there should be something in the heart of every believer that says, I want this message to get out of these four walls or however many walls we have in here. And I want it to spill out out there. Are you like that? I want it to get out there. Somehow I wanted to get beyond this. I want other people to hear this. Why should you hear this and others not? Why should we have a little cloister where we hear this and they don't? Why should they not know what the message is that we proclaim? There's so many bad teachers out there. You know they say the authorities say that ISIS is doing a really good job of getting their message out through uh uh social media. Venomous, hateful, terroristic message. And they're doing a good job of getting that message out. And the authorities, the FBI, they're trying to figure out a way to stop it, to counteract it. They have an evil message. We got a great message. We have the best message. Our message puts people back together again. Our message Puts families back together. Our message grants people everlasting life. Our message opens minds. Our message transforms hearts Our message is a message that glorifies the creator of this planet, and Pluto, by the way, of all the planets. I'm asking you, be a part of the unleashing of that message. Be a part of that. You may not have the gift of evangelism. I don't care. I don't. Pastors are told in 2 Timothy 4, do the work of an evangelist. I'm going to work. Are you going to work? Work hard at it And then it says the word is to be glorified too. Let's take a moment to look at that. Glorification obviously means the word is going to be highly honored. Daksadza, to honor, to magnify, to praise, to give it the honor Honor that it deserves. It's the Word of God. Listen, we're told that the heavens were created by the Word of God. The earth was created by the Word of God. Not by accident, not by evolutionary process, but by the Word of God. The Word of God should be glorified. The Word of God came and gave the Israelites the Ten Commandments and all the other laws. The Word of God came to John the Baptist out in the wilderness and he brought A nation to its knees. The word of God came down and became flesh and lived among us, and we beheld as glory, glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. The word of God should be honored. So the Apostle Paul is not talking about one isolated victory for the Word of God. Great, I got to share the Word today. That's wonderful. That's this much. We're talking about the Word to triumph throughout the whole world. Acts 13, and we're going to get to the book of Acts, speaks of glorifying the Word of the Lord. We should have a commitment to see the Word of God glorified as it spread. I want to say it again, those who do not honor the Bible do not honor Jesus Christ. When I ask somebody if they believe in Jesus Christ and they are submitted to Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior, I ask them, are you submitted to Scripture to obey Scripture? Because if they don't say yes to that, then they can't say yes to the other. And all those that are advancing a Jesus out there that's not the Jesus of the Bible is a false Jesus. It's not even an historical Jesus. These were the eyewitnesses of His Majesty. Men honor the Word of God as they see its beauty, its truthfulness, and believe in it and follow it. It's fools who despise Bible teaching. We're committed to the word here because we know when people believe Scripture and sing Scripture and love Scripture, it goes back to Christ, right? When your life is transformed for the better by the Bible And the gospel that's contained in that Bible, you honor the Word of God. Preaching. Preaching is to honor the Word of God. That's why we put this pulpit here in the center and take the Bible and put it on its throne. And the guy standing behind it is nothing. And it's up high, and you all are down low. Why? So the word will be magnified, glorified. Understand, this is God Almighty talking to us. He's to be honored. We don't worship the Bible, but we understand that the Bible leads us to the one whom we do worship. We are committed to the Word. You know, when churches say that they they don't preach much, they don't magnify sermons. You know, we don't do sermons We just share some thoughts. Oh, it makes me sick. Not a sermon, just a thought. I just I just I don't know. Just cringe. Cut it back to twenty minutes. Someone told me recently, you're not supposed to preach longer in twenty minutes. That's what we had in the Methodist church. I didn't learn anything. Or they won't preach portions of its message. You know? Let's just find the nice things. The nice things. This will bless your heart today. I just get a warm feeling when I come to this text But there's a lot there's a lot of there's a lot in there. You know, sometimes evangelicals say they believe all the Bible's inspired, but they treat it like only certain parts are. John 3. 16. What about John 3. 18? You know, if you don't believe in the sun, you've been judged already. I'd like to see that at a Redskins game You've been judged already. You're already under the judgment of God if you don't believe. Now understand the love of God in that context. It's an amazing love, not a cheap love. People dishonor the word all the time. And when they do that, they honor foolish men who despise the word. Paul was so zealous for the word of God When he finished telling a group of people and they repudiated the word, the man just dusted the dust off the bottom of his shoes. And walked out. Your blood is on your own, your own head. I preach the word to you. You're under the judgment of God. The model for all of this is what happened to the Thessalonian church. I want you to just notice, let's go back to 1 Thessalonians if you will. And you'll see exactly what happened in this church. He's praying, because the the what what he's asking the Thessalonians to pray for happened at the Thessalonian church. Chapter 2, verse 13. He says, For this reason we also constantly thank God that when you receive the Word of God, which you heard from us, you accepted it not as the Word of men, but for what it really is, the Word of God, which also performs its work in you who believe. So they received the Word. That's where the word ran to them, and they accepted it. Now go back to verse eight of the same chapter. He says, Having so fond an affection for you, we were well pleased to impart to you not only the gospel of God but also our own lives Because you had become very dear to us. You could see he he just imparted his own heart and the word to them as well And then it also goes on to say the word of the Lord has sounded forth from you, not only in Macedonia, but also in Achaia. And also in every place your faith toward God has gone forth. So in other words, the word came into that church, and then it says now the word of the Lord has sounded forth from your church in all the region where your city is the capital of Macedonia and beyond that to the next region, to Achaia, where Corinth was, and people are hearing about your faith there as well in the Word of God. That's what happened in the city of Thessalica. An amazing spread and glorification of the Word of God. Now, this spread of the Word of God is all throughout the book of Acts, and I'm going to take you on a whirlwind tour through the book of Acts. I want you to, I know this is going to be hard. Go to Acts chapter 1, and I'm going to talk very fast here and give you some references and you can jot them down. A lot of people think the Acts is the Acts of the Apostles, and yes, it is And a lot of people say, you know what, you know what the book of Acts is really about? It's about church history. Yes, it is. It's about the birth and the growth of the church. And then some people say, well, you know what the book of Acts is really about is the Acts of the Holy Spirit using the Apostles. To birth the church and do all of that. And all of that is accurate. I'm not disputing any of that. But one thing that is often overlooked is the theme of the constant progress and spreading and running. of the Word of God. Whether it's called the Word of the Lord, the Word of God, the Gospel, the Testimony, Preaching, whatever it is, it's a theme that runs throughout the book of Acts. I'm going to give you a whirlwind tour of that right now Chapter 1, verse 8. Jesus told them, You will receive power, and the Holy Spirit has come upon you. You will be my witnesses, right? What does that involve? Speaking, giving the testimony about what they saw about Jesus Christ. There were the apostles. And then you go right to the very first sermon in the church in Acts chapter 2. And you see, after the Holy Spirit has come, Peter begins preaching in verse 14 of chapter 2. And you go all the way through that sermon, don't read it, we don't have time. You go all the way through that wonderful sermon and you come to verse 41 and it says So then those who had received Peter's word were baptized, and that day they were added about three thousand souls. Explosion of the Word of God. Look at it running right from the very beginning. It starts out boom, really, really big, and the church is built up and and it's healthy. And then you'll notice uh in the rest of chapter two, it's a very healthy church, and evangelism occurs. Now we go through chapter 3. There's witnessing in there. We go to chapter 4. And in chapter 4 and verse 4, it says, But many of those who had heard the message believed, and The number of them came to be about 5,000. So you've got this boom, you've got this 3,000, and you've got boom, this 5,000, and the word is just exploding with people who are hearing it. By the way, do not fear a crowd of people. If God brings a crowd here, don't say, what are we going to do with all of them? Where are we going to see them? How are we going to handle their counseling needs? Don't do that. Don't ever put a lid on what the Spirit of God is doing. If he chooses to have a crowd here, don't be afraid of a crowd. I'd rather have a crowd in here than in other churches Adult preach the word of God. You ought to be ready for that. You ought to yearn for that. It ought to be the biblical churches that most want folks to be pouring into them, right? Let God work. Let God Spread the word. Now we go also in chapter 4, verse 31. It says in 431, when they had prayed, that's the apostles, they had been the persecuted already for preaching the word It says when they prayed, the place that they gathered together was shaken, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to what? Speak the word of God with boldness. There you go. Persecution led to led to their prayers, led to to boldness and evangelism, and the word is spreading out. They're speaking. So they tried to stop the word and it's just spread even more is the point. Go to Acts chapter 5 and verse 20. The apostles again, they're arrested, they're thrown in the prison. An angel comes and digs them out. And uh in verse 20 of chapter 5 it says, Go stand and speak To the people in the temple the whole message of this life. I love that statement. So the angel delivers them out of prison for what reason? Go back out there and tell the people the whole message of this life. Let the word of God spread. You see it? Chapter five, verse forty two, just keeping with this theme here. Every day in the temple and from house to house they kept right on teaching And preaching Jesus as the Christ. The authorities couldn't stop them. It was against the law there in Jerusalem, and they couldn't stop them. And they went from house to house and they kept teaching and preaching. The gospel was going out, teaching was going out. There's no dichotomy between an evangelistic message and a and the church being taught. They go together. One is just a greater explanation of the other. And then we go to we go to uh Where was I? We go to uh chapter 6, verse 2. A problem arises in the church. The twelve are summoned summon the congregation together. And it says it's not desirable for us to neglect the Word of God in order to serve tables. So they appoint the seven. Now the leaders, the apostles, they don't want to neglect the ministry of the Word of God. They don't want a problem in the church to take them away from this priority. So they could keep ministering the Word of God. Then he jumped down to verse 7 of chapter 6. It says, The Word of God kept on spreading, and the number of the disciples continued to increase. There it is. The Word of God is running, it's running all over the place. It's going all over Jerusalem, and it says a great many of the priests who are becoming obedient to the faith. That's what we want. That's what we want We want to keep on speaking. And the number of disciples increasing, you see. Chapter 8. 7 is a great preaching of the Word of God. The whole chapter 7 is getting the Word of God out. They killed the messenger there. Go to chapter 8, verse 4. Therefore, those who had been scattered went about preaching the word. Why were they scattered? Because of the persecution that broke out with Stephen in chapter 7. So what are they doing? That's not the apostles, by the way. It's all the other people were scattered. What were they doing? Preaching the word. So persecution hits the church and they get scattered. They can't all be together in the Jerusalem church anymore. Now they're all scattered all over. No problem for the Word of God Why? Because now you've got ten thousand preachers that are out there going all over the place preaching the Word of God and it can't be stopped. They just keep trying to contain it. And they can't. It just gets worse and worse like a forest fire they can't put out Just wonderful. Chapter 8 and verse 25, I'll do this quickly for you. It mentions all the Samaritan villages getting the Word of God Chapter 8 and verse 40 mentions Philip, one of the seven that was appointed back in chapter six. He's spreading the word of God. You jump to chapter 10 And verse 22, and it's talking about now the spreading of the Word of God to the Gentiles. Peter even got a vision to go to Cornelius' house, to open his mouth and speak, and now the Word of God begins to spread among the Gentiles, to jump out of the box of Jew and Samaritan. And it's going on and on and on. By the way, from there on out, the rest of the book of Acts focuses really on the spread of the Word of God to the Gentiles. And it goes on and on. Chapter 11, verse 19 mentions more spreading. Go to chapter 12 now and verse 24. Chapter twelve I told you this would be whirlwind. Chapter 12, verse 24. What does it say there again? These little punctuated marks that the writer to Acts, Luke, wants to make sure everyone is understanding what's happening here. It's not just the history of the church. It is a an acknowledgement and it A record of the spreading of the Word of God. Verse 24. But the Word of the Lord, same terminology we have in 2 Thessalonians, the word of the Lord continued to grow and be what? Multiplied. There it is, it's going, no one can stop it. You do realize, by the way, that all of the people throughout the entire world who come to the Lord Jesus Christ, even today, including you and me, and all of church history depended upon what happened And so we ought to think proactively for the future. What can we do to spread the Word of God? When is Jesus coming back? I don't think he's coming back in September, by the way. I know the date pickers are saying that now. But let's let's let's figure if someone picks a date, it's probably wrong, right? How much time do we have left? How much opportunity do we have? We don't know. We should take advantage of every single moment, right? Every single moment. Leave who comes to Christ in the hands of God. Don't ever be afraid of a crowd. Let's do our best to get the Word of God out there. Let's not try to Well when you get to chapter 13, Paul's on his first missionary journey and have to do this fast. One of the rulers wants to hear it. So he gets called before rulers. And that's one of the strategies you see in the book of Acts is that many of the kings and governors and rulers, they strategically have the gospel preached to them because it would open up the hearts within a region and allow the gospel to spread within that region as well. In Acts chapter 13 and 46 if you want to jump forward to that 1346 it says Paul and Barnabas spoke out boldly. Please notice the theme of boldness, Holy Spirit, and Word always going together also. What is the result? Look at look at Acts 13, 49. And the word of the Lord was being spread through the whole region. Oh, again, just like a lion that roams where it wants to roam. No one's going to touch it, no one can stop it. By the way, I also want to say that the apostles and the Lord Jesus themselves, as aggressive as they were in evangelism, always chose methods and locations that were acceptable in the culture in which they preached to spread the gospel. They didn't let their method and their manner be offensive. They let the message be offensive. So they went to places where it would be expected that a message would be given, to a synagogue first to the Jews. We see Paul in Acts 17 going to the marketplace. You say, Oh, does that mean we should go to the mall and preach? You'll be kicked out of the mall if you go to the mall and preach, okay? But in Acts 17 in the marketplace in Athens, that was an acceptable place to give the Word of God. And so wise people Choose the methods within their culture where the culture says, Go ahead, give it give whatever message you want. And we should be we have so many of those methods we should not be trying to use the methods that the culture is saying that's inflight, please don't do that. And sometimes in some places, house-to-house is impolite, and you need to be aware of that. Sometimes in some places, street preaching is not acceptable There's so many places we have so many avenues for sharing the Word of God. We should not feel that boldness alone is the method that the apostles used. They used boldness with wisdom. They knew their culture well and they spoke within their culture. We have radio, we have internet, we have booklets, we have podcasts, we have media, we have speeches, we have sermons, sometimes testimonies can be given, emails, cards, friendships, Bible studies in workplaces Dinners where you invite friends over and talk to them, campus outreach, backyard Bible clubs, playground evangelism for those of you ladies that are out there and just striking up a conversation with other moms on the playground Women's events, men's events, all kinds of church events, youth events, as you heard the youth ministry up here, hospital visits, jail visits, mentoring youth, sponsoring children, short-term missions You can go on and on and on with the avenues we have to get the word out. We ought never, never to say that we don't have a way of doing that. We ought to use them. Let the message be offensive. I gotta just summarize the rest here. It's more of the same throughout Acts. In Acts 14, 3 they spoke out boldly relying on the Lord. In Acts 14 7 it says they continue In Acts 14, 21 it says they preached the gospel. They made disciples and put them back in the churches in Galatia. In Acts 15, 35, it talked about teaching and preaching. There was not just evangelism, and that is it. They would preach and then they would teach as much as the people would listen to as well. By the way, there are plenty of people that are in the church at large that think that they're saved and they're not. And so part of our strategy is not just to get out a bare gospel with a four-point outline, but to give them sermons, to give them classes, to give them courses. There's a lot of things that have to be undone and unpackaged And as we teach them, as we get that doctrine out, as they listen to that, they begin to understand. Lives of believers and unbelievers as well. Well, I don't have enough time to go through the rest, but you'll see the same theme if you keep plodding through Acts. You'll see the devotion to the Word, the examining of the Word, the preaching of the Word And that same punctuation over and over and over again. Paul staying in some places eighteen months, two years to just promote the word of God so it would grow Mighty and would prevail. Acts nineteen ten is another great uh Acts nineteen verse twenty is another great verse. The word of the Lord was growing mightily and prevailing. Do you think God can do that here? Sometimes we read history and say, you know, God does those things there, but you don't know the people that we have here. They just won't listen. Our God is a mighty God. And I'll tell you what, Maryland is nowhere near as bad as Corinth and Thessalica. was in those days. And there there are plenty of pluralistic false messages in churches, not in churches, but in those religions back then. God can do a mighty work here today. We need to pray For it and believe the Word of God can run and spread. We have so many opportunities, so many ways in which we can do outreach here. And it ought to be our mission. 1 Timothy 3. 15 says, the church is the household of God, and then it says, it is the pillar and the support of the truth. The pillar and the support of the truth. Well, heaven knows it's not the schools out there that are going to support the truth. It's not Universities, it's not the biased media, it's us. If we don't get the truth out, if we don't spread the teaching, If churches like ours don't do that, how are they ever going to get it? One lie on top of another, on top of another. How are they ever going to get the truth if we're not committed to getting it out in all avenues, in all directions? That's our mission. We have to get the truth out in this location. That's what God wants us to do. We need to do a better job of that. We need to pray that God will raise some of us up in here that have a burden about that. That will say, don't sit there and look who you think is going to respond to the gospel. Just step out by faith and trust the mighty word of God will spread and prevail. We need people like that in this congregation. I pray for people like that. Our elders are praying for people like that. That's what we are to do. That's what our pulpit is about, our classrooms are about, our educational facilities would love to see a resource center that undergirds this with with audio and written things to get the teachings out in every form that we can. That's you people that's me that's That's what we do. The last point I'll have to summarize in verses two and three, and that is obviously as we do this we're going to be resisted and we're going to need the third key. to spreading the word. And I wanted to put the word faith there, but it didn't start with the letter P, so I put the word protection. We need protection. And pray that we will be rescued from perverse and evil men, for not all have the fate. Perverse men, evil men. Well, we have plenty of those in our society Paul saw enough of that. He was persecuted just about everywhere he went. So we need to pray for protection For our missionaries, for our preachers, for our evangelists, yes. But when someone sticks their neck out and says, I want my testimony to count for Christ in this society, I want to give the word of the Lord, I want to stand for righteousness and give the gospel. We need to pray for them and for their protection. We need to pray for our churches and protection. We cannot take a step back and be afraid. We have to instead we need to take two steps forward and say, if the battle rages here, I'm a faithful soldier, I'm going to be here, but then we pray for our soldiers on the battlefield. Do we not? And brothers and sisters, some of you are those soldiers out there. You may gulp in your throat with fear, but after you do that, you go to God, you pray for one another. And you ask for other people to pray for you. I'm going to speak up and work this week and I'm going to say something. Pray for that guy. Pray for his protection. Yes, for the missionaries and church leaders, but more for all of us. Pray, we will have boldness. The word has to go out. Satan's trying to act like the lion, roaring to intimidate us, to keep our mouths quiet. Don't let that happen. Be strong. Be bold for God. Offer yourself a living sacrifice acceptable to God, which is your service of worship. See what God can do through your mouth. The word that comes out of your mouth is no different than coming out of anybody else's mouth. We need it to spread. We need it to spread in every way that we can. And we have to trust Many are gonna hate the Christian faith because they're evil men, they're perverted men, they love their sin and they hate righteousness. They reject the word of God. They're enemies of God. They glory in their shame, as Paul writes in Philippians. Their mind is bound to earthly things. We have to pray for God's protection. And look at verse 3, because it comes, doesn't it? The Lord is faithful And he will strengthen and protect you from the evil one. I've got to ask you this too. Do you believe that? Do you believe that God will strengthen you, fortify you? And then when you go out to speak, he will protect you? You say, wait a minute, wait a minute now, Pastor Leek, you're teaching us about the Apostle Paul. He got killed for the gospel What you talking about protection? He got his head chopped off in Rome. Yes, he did. Yes, he did. But he said in 2 Timothy 4 6, I am already being poured out as a drink offering and the time of my departure has come. He knew. He knew he would not die until he fulfilled his ministry. He even says that in 2 Timothy 4. 16 He was accused. He had to stand in a court trial for preaching the Word of God. And he writes Please just listen to these words because if you have fear, these are tremendous words. 2 Timothy 4:16: At my first defense, no one supported me. What a lonely thing for this apostle to say, but all deserted me. And then he writes, May it not be counted against them. And then he writes this: listen, but the Lord stood with me and strengthened me, so that through me the proclamation might be fully accomplished and that all the Gentiles might hear. And I was rescued out of the lion's mouth. Time and again he was rescued. How many dangerous situations he was in. He just submitted to be a servant of the word and God used him mightily. But he knew he was about to die. So he adds this The Lord will rescue me from every evil deed and will bring me safely, safely to his heavenly. Kingdom. To Him be the glory forever and ever. Amen. All they can do to me is be the instrument of God's protection in my life to put an end to my work and bring me safely Through the portals of death into the heavenly kingdom. That's God's protection. You rely on the protective care of God Almighty and Jesus Christ, the head of the church, and you carry this dynamic message. The gospel which is the power of God to salvation and you don't take a step back, you take a step forward, and you pray for one another God will protect you in amazing ways and you will have stories that will embolden other people. But if for some chance he chooses not to, and he withholds his hand from you and allows that persecution to fall on you, Jesus Christ said, You are blessed. And your reward in heaven is great. Jesus Christ said if they take your life, you'll just be like the souls of those under the altar in Revelation that had their heads removed for the testimony of Jesus and for the Word of God. Wouldn't that be a wonderful way to end your life? I say again, Luke 1:2, we are servants of the Word of God. And therefore, 2 Timothy 4:2, we are to preach the word. And because we love the Word of God and we love the Lord Jesus Christ. Father, we do love you and we love your Son and we love this message. We pray that our church And our other local churches in the area will be emboldened in evangelism now more than ever before. That you will shake this place, Heavenly Father, with a holy boldness. That you will arouse your people out of slumber and help them to want to witness in a way they never have before. That you will strengthen the needs of every single believer here. That you'll give them courage. Give us as leaders courage That we trust you, Father, that you're in charge and that you're going to let the Word of God run and prevail. For so we've asked it. The blessed name of Christ. Amen.