You can open your Bible to John 11 if you haven't already. John 11, if you're using a blue Bible, that's on page 897 Many have asked the age-old question, how can a loving God allow bad things to happen to good people We know it's that's an age-old question because a version of that is asked actually in our own passage today, or at least in this chapter. Won't be in our passage directly, but in this chapter. Now, one right answer to that question, especially for those who need to hear the good news of Jesus Christ, is that there's only been one time when a bad thing happened to a good person. And that man volunteered for it. Because among mankind there is no one good, not even one. We all deserve death, and so anything less than death is grace from God. But Jesus alone is good because he is sinless. And he is sinless because he is God, and he alone did not deserve to die, and yet he was unjustly put to death. But his death was a voluntary act by which he redeemed a people for himself by taking their place on the cross. So skeptics and mockers ask the question that way, how can a loving God allow bad things to happen to good people? But believers ask the same question in other ways. Does my suffering mean that God doesn't love me? A form of that question is also found in our chapter. Well, we're about to read and study now for the next few weeks is the most detailed and extended account of a miracle that Jesus performed in his life. In almost every other account that we read of the miracles Jesus performed, they either just give us a quick telling that this is what he did, or they tell us what he did and And then we're given the ripple effects, especially in the Gospel of John, there's extended sections of John or rather of Jesus' teaching and interaction with people and specifically the Pharisees after his miracles. But here in John eleven We are introduced to a man who is sick in verse 1. He dies by verse 11, and he is not raised to life until verse 43. We are told about the response to the miracle, but John's primary focus and emphasis is everything that leads up to the miracle And what leads up to the miracle are several life-transforming realities that keep us steady and strong in the face of the trials of life. So that's what we're going to spend some number of weeks looking at. Life transforming realities. And the life-transforming reality we will see today. Is how can a loving God not allow bad things to happen to his people when those bad things lead to glorious things Follow along as I read. I'm going to read verses 1 to 44 and then we'll focus in on verses 1 to 6. Now a certain man was ill, Lazarus of Bethany, the village of Mary, or rather, yeah, Mary and her sister Martha. It was Martha who anointed the Lord with ointment and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was ill. So the sister sent to him, saying, Lord, he whom you love is ill But when Jesus heard it, he said, This illness does not lead to death. It is for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified through it. Now Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus. So when he saw, or rather heard, that Lazarus was ill, he stayed two days longer in the place where he was. Then after this, he said to the disciples, Let us go to Judea again. The disciples said to him, Rabbi, the Jews were just now seeking to stone you, and are you going there again? Jesus answered, Are there not twelve hours in the day? If any one walks in the day, he does not stumble, because he sees the light of this world. But if any one walks in the night, he stumbles, because the light is not in him. After saying these things, he said to them, Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep, but I go to awaken him. The disciples said to him, Lord, if he has fallen asleep, he will recover Now Jesus had spoken of his death, but they thought that he meant taking rest in sleep. Then Jesus told them plainly, Lazarus has died. And for your sake I am glad that I was not there, so that you may believe. But let us go to him. So Thomas, called the twin, said to his fellow disciples, Let us also go that we may die with him Now when Jesus came, he found that Lazarus had already been in the tomb four days. Bethany was near Jerusalem, about two miles off, and many of the Jews had come to Martha and Mary to console them concerning their brother. So when Martha heard that Jesus was cr coming, she went and met him, but Mary stayed seated at in the house. Martha said to Jesus, If you had been here, my brother would not have died. But even now I know that whatever you ask from God, God will give you Jesus said to her, Your brother will rise again. Martha said to him, I know that he will rise again in the resurrection on the last day. Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live And everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this She said to him, Yes, Lord, I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, who is coming into the world. When she had said this, she went and called her sister Mary, saying in private, the teacher is here and is calling for you. And when she heard it, she rose quickly and went to him. Now Jesus had not yet come into the village, but was still in the place where Martha had met him When the Jews who were with her, that is Mary, in the house, consoling her, saw Mary rise quickly and go out, they followed her, supposing that she was going to the tomb to weep there Now, when Mary came to where Jesus was and saw him, she fell at his feet, saying to him, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. When Jesus saw her weeping, and the Jews who had come with her also weeping, he was deeply moved in his spirit and greatly troubled. And he said, Where have you laid him? They said to him, Lord, come and see. Jesus wept So the Jews said, See how you loved him. But some of them said, Could not he who opened the eyes of the blind man also have kept this man from dying Then Jesus, deeply moved again, came to the tomb. It was a cave, and a stone lay against it. Jesus said, Take away the stone. Martha, the sister of the dead man, said to him, Lord, by this time there will be an odor, for he has been dead four days. Jesus said to her, Did I not tell you that if you believed you would see the glory of God? So they took away the stone, and Jesus lifted up his eyes and said, Father, I thank you that you have heard me. I knew that you always hear me, but I said this on account of the people standing around that they may believe that you sent me. When he said these things, he cried out with a loud voice, Lazarus, come out! The man who died came out, his hands and feet bound with linen strips, and his face wrapped with a cloth. Jesus said to them, Unbind him and let him go. What a remarkable account. When we ended our study of John 10, Jesus had left Jerusalem because the Jews were seeking to kill him, as we heard the disciples say. Chapter 10, verse 40 says that he went across the Jordan to the place where John the Baptist began his ministry And it's in John 1, verse 28, that tells us about the ministry of John the Baptist, and it tells us that he was ministering in Bethany across the Jordan So there's a Bethany across the Jordan, and then in chapter 11, verse 1, there's a Bethany near Jerusalem. We know precisely where Bethany near Jerusalem is. It's on the east side of the Mount of Olives, uh across from the Kidron Valley from the Temple, over the ridge, on the road to Jericho. We don't know where Bethany across the Jordan was. In fact, given the details of this passage, wherever it was, it was either about a day away from Jerusalem or four days away. In fact, two of the most likely options are straight due east from Jerusalem, just across from the Jordan River on the north side of the Dead Sea. That's where Jesus was baptized. Or possibly it was on further north on the south side of the Sea of Galilee, which is about four days away of in terms of a walking journey. The day away option springs from evidence of John's ministry, the baptism of Jesus, and fits a certain timeline of the events here in John 11. Whereas the four-day away option springs from another timeline presentation of the events that take place here. We'll look at that in more detail next week, Lord willing. But Jesus was ministering there at Bethany across the Jordan, and chapter 10, verse 41 says that many came to him. Even though he was beyond the grasp of the Jewish leaders in Jerusalem, his location was not a secret. In fact, in those final months before He died. He continued to teach and to perform healing. And verse 42 says that many were believing in him Jesus is effectively biding his time as he waits for that hour to come when he will give his life on the cross. But as he bides his time, he continues to minister to people. And that's where chapter 10 ends. Now, up to this point in the gospel, the Apostle John has presented to us six signs that demonstrate that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. First, he turned water into wine. Then he healed the man, or rather, the child of the official's son. Then he healed the paralytic, the man in Jerusalem. He then fed five thousand men, plus women and children. He walked on water, and finally he healed the man born blind, as we saw in chapter nine. In addition to those signs along the way, John has presented to us the declarations that Jesus made about himself, where he took passages in the Old Testament that spoke about the coming Messiah, and where God revealed himself, and Jesus said, This is who I am. In fact, you can think of the Gospel of John like the manuscript of a court proceeding. John has called witnesses to the stand, the various signs. And he has presented evidence to make his case that in fact Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God And so here in John chapter 11, John is going to give us one final sign from the pre-resurrection ministry of Jesus as evidence. And this is not just the final sign, this is the grand finale. This is not just any sign, this is the greatest sign. And it would be the greatest sign simply on the basis of the power that Jesus displays in raising Lazarus from the dead, which is unique from raising others from the dead, as we'll see in coming weeks. But it's also the greatest sign because of what we learn about Jesus in the process. John begins this chapter by introducing us to A few of Jesus' friends. Look again at verses one and two. Now a certain man was ill, Lazarus of Bethany, the village of Mary, and his sister Martha. her sister Martha, and it was Mary who anointed the Lord with ointment and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was ill. Now there is much of Jesus' life that is a mystery to us. If you put together all of the information from the four gospels of Jesus' life and relationships and ministry We are told some of the miracles were performed. He performed. We're told some of the teachings that he gave. We're told relatively little details of the life of Jesus apart from those things. In the context of a person's whole life, we have very little given to us. And in fact, you would almost think if you only limited yourself to the gospels, which is what we're forced to do. You would almost think that Jesus had no relationships apart from his family and the twelve disciples and maybe a handful of others. But here we're introduced to a family who were close personal friends of Jesus. They weren't among the twelve disciples. As far as we know, they didn't travel with Jesus. In fact, Luke first introduced us to Mary and Martha in Luke chapter 10. You may remember The account when they hosted Jesus in their house, and Martha was stressed out, trying to be a good host, and Mary was sitting at the feet of Jesus. But Luke doesn't tell us about Lazarus, nor does he indicate that there was any special relationship between Jesus and this family. In fact, it may have been that very situation that began to bond their uh friendship with one another. In fact, the only other information we have about this family outside of Luke 10 is what we learn here in John 11, as well as John chapter 12, where Jesus is with them once again at the beginning of the week before he is crucified. But there are there are indications, even though we don't know how their relationship was defined, what it involved, there are indications that this was a wealthy family, and it may be that Jesus spent much time with them whenever he was in and around Jerusalem, and perhaps they supported and provided for his ministry. The first indication for the idea, the fact that they were wealthy, comes there from Luke chapter ten, and it's simply the fact that they hosted Jesus with a number of other people sufficiently sized to stress Martha out uh in the act of hosting. If you've ever been to Israel or seen images of houses or homes, the ruins uh in Israel and and especially around Jerusalem, uh you can see that those homes were modestly sized and adequate for a single family, you know, along with extended family members to live in, but they did not exactly have large spaces for people to gather in. And so any time somebody had a large space, it was because they were wealthy enough to afford it. We understand that even today. The second indication is that is what verse 2 here tells us about Mary, that she is the one who anointed Jesus his feet and wiped his feet with their hair. Now, as it turns out, there are actually two women in the Bible who do this very thing to Jesus. The first is in Luke chapter 7. You can just listen as I read this brief account. It says one of the Pharisees asked him to eat with him, and he went into the Pharisees' house and reclined at table. And behold, a woman of the city who was a sinner, when she learned that he was reclining at table in the Pharisee's house, brought an alabaster blask of uh flask of ointment, and standing behind him at his feet Weeping, she began to wet his feet with her tears, and wiped them with the hair of her head, and kissed his feet, and anointed them with ointment. Now, when the Pharisee who had invited him saw this, he said to himself, If this man were a prophet, he would have known what s uh who and what sort of woman this is who is touching him, because he uh she is a sinner. Now it's tempting to connect that woman with Mary here. But the only connecting point is the act of anointing him with oil and wiping his feet with her hair. And if you're like me, you're thinking That's a pretty strong connection point. Now, as shocking and unique as that action was, or at least would be to us, it apparently wasn't all that unique to them because as you heard, what What set the Pharisee off in his thoughts was not what she was doing, but who she was. Specifically, what kind of sinner she was. Now the other Mary who the other woman who did this to Jesus is Mary. And John describes what Mary did in John 12. But I want to take you to the same account of Mary doing this to Jesus, which is found in Matthew chapter 26. So put your finger here in John 11. and turn back to Matthew chapter 26. And I I want to take you here because there is a particular detail that Matthew offers us, which John does not, which explains why John himself is bringing this up here in chapter 11, verse 2. We find this account in Matthew 26, starting in verse 6. It says, Now when Jesus was at Bethany in the house of Simon the Leper, A woman came up to him with an alabasker alabaster flask of very expensive ointment, and she poured it on his head and as he reclined at the table. And when the disciples saw it, they were indignant, saying, Why this waste? For this could have been sold for a large sum, and given to the poor But Jesus, aware of this, said to them, Why do you trouble this woman? For she has done a beautiful thing to me For you always have the poor with you, but you will not always have me. In pouring this ointment on my body, she has done it to prepare me for burial. And this is the key. Truly I say to you, wherever this gospel is proclaimed in the whole world, what she has done will also be told in memory of her Now there's a couple of different details that Matthew gives us other than uh different than John. Uh Matthew tells us that uh this woman He doesn't even name her, but it's Mary, that he poured that she poured the the ointment on his head. John tells us that he she poured it on his feet. and wiped his feet with her hair. That's not a contradiction. They're just describing different aspects of what Mary did to Jesus. And again, as bizarre as we would think of this action if someone came into our house and started wiping our feet and using their hair to spread it around, the only concern by the disciples was the cost. of the ointment. Matthew there tells us that it was very expensive. The disciples say a large sum. John, in his gospel, chapter twelve, says that it was three hundred denarii. You might be familiar with that idea that a denarii was a day's wage for a day laborer, and so that's three hundred days wages and if we were to use minimum wage as our gauge that would be a thirty-six thousand dollar flask of ointment probably not something you could even find at Macy's That's the second indication that this is a wealthy family. Well, coming back here to John 11, the reason John identifies Mary as the one who anointed him as is because of what Jesus said that wherever the gospel was proclaimed throughout the world, what she did would be told as well And so the first recipients of John's gospel were not hearing about Jesus for the first time. They had already heard the gospel proclaimed. They were just now reading the specific account that was given by John in writing And so they already knew about who this woman was that had anointed Jesus. And so he's identifying her since Matthew and And uh well Luke doesn't mention it, and neither does Mark, but uh she wasn't named in the other gospels. Now, the there are other c other indications of their wealth, which we'll point out in the coming weeks, but I mention those because Wealth in that day as today usually means influence. And influence, the influence of this family in particular, is an undercurrent that runs throughout this account, kind of behind the scenes, if you will. We'll learn more about Mary and Martha as we work through the rest of the narrative in the coming weeks, but for now, John merely identifies them as the sisters of Lazarus who is ill. The word ill here is a broad term. It can refer to any particular sickness, even non-physical sicknesses. But in that day, any sickness that is physical had the ability to spell death for the person. They had, of course, virtually no medical understanding or treatments. Most of their medical treatments brought more harm than healing. And so Lazarus was in this place where the sisters realized he may not get better. And so how long they waited before they sent off to let Jesus know is not told to us But they clearly did so thinking that Jesus would need to intervene. Notice the wording of their message in verse three So the sister sent to him saying, Lord, he whom you love is ill. The word love there translates phileo, which you may recognize as the Greek word for love that tends to mean a friendship kind of love. You know, in our English we use the word love for everything from possessions to food to family to spouse and anything else we can think of. And while there's a measure of flexibility within the various Greek words translated as love, phileo generally refers to the friendship kind of love eros to the sensual kind of love and agape or agapa'o, depending on the verb or the noun, is a committed, unconditional love. That's the kind of love that God has for his people. And though we have no real revelation about this relationship that Jesus had beyond uh with Lazarus, uh beyond what's written here, it's telling That Martha and Mary didn't appeal to Jesus on the basis of his relationship to them, but rather on his relationship and his love for their brother Lazarus. This means that Jesus' friendship with Lazarus was strong enough for them to know that Jesus would be concerned for him and therefore would do whatever it would take to heal him. Now it's unlikely that the messenger said nothing more than, Lord, he whom you love is ill. There was probably an appeal for Jesus to come back to Bethany and perform the healing. One might even wonder if they remembered or even knew about how Jesus had healed the son of the official that we read about in John chapter 4. Remember that that's when Jesus was in Cana, and this official came from Capernaum about a day's journey away, and instead of going back with that official to heal his son, Jesus simply healed him with a word at a distance. And so if that was in their mind, one would think they might even ask Jesus, can you just heal him right now where you're at? You don't have to come. Well, based on what how Mary and Martha respond when Jesus comes to them in Bethany, their lament implies that they asked him to come. and heal Lazarus in person. Now notice Jesus' reply here When Jesus heard it, it he said, This illness does not lead to death. It is for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified through it. It's not clear if Jesus said this to the messenger as a message to take back to Martha and Mary, or whether he simply said this to the disciples. The fact that just the way it's presented, it seems to be that he said it simply to the disciples. But it wouldn't be surprising if the disciples hear Jesus say this They hear Jesus say, this illness doesn't lead to death, and they respond by saying, so what? What does that have to do with anything? After all, the majority of healings that Jesus performed that we're told about were not life-threatening situations Jesus did not limit his demonstrations of divine power to those life and death situations and illnesses and diseases. So what does this illness not leading to death have to do with it Well, Jesus tells them, it is for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified through it The fear of sickness is that it will lead to death. That fear was then and it is today. That's why people want to be healed. They don't want to die But for Lazarus, Jesus says, his sickness will not ultimately lead to death, as we know. It will ultimately lead to the glory of God. When Jesus says here, it is for the glory of God, the word for there translates the Greek preposition, which means on behalf of, on behalf of. To say that this sickness is on behalf of the glory of God, and this is important for you to understand, is to say that the sickness serves the glory of God. The sickness is a servant that works on behalf of God's glory. Psalm 104 says that wind and fire are messengers and ministers of the Lord. Psalm one hundred and forty eight says the same of fire and hail and snow and mist and stormy wind. And these passages tell us that the created order exists to accomplish God's sovereign will. And that's what Jesus is saying about this sickness God will use this sickness as a servant to accomplish His will Sometimes you hear people talk about sickness, and the way they talk about it makes it sound like sickness is an enemy of God. It's something that God has to either put up with or deal with or find a way around or, of course, heal. But as if it's an interruption, it's it's something that God Himself does not plan. It's an enemy. Now, of course, it's not wrong to talk about God having enemies. The devil is God's enemy. The nations are writ are set in Scripture to be his enemies, the rebellious nations. We who have been saved by Jesus Christ were God's enemy. In fact, if you are here and you have not trusted in Christ for the forgiveness of your sin, Romans 5:10 tells you that you are an enemy of God. Those are true statements. But when we use that language or think of things as God's enemy as being against God, we need to be careful because when we think about enemies, we think largely about mutuality. That people are enemies of one another. And we also think about lack of control. We don't have control over our enemies, and our enemies don't have control over us. As we know, one of the problems with having enemies is you never know what they're doing. Are they raising up an army? Are they planning a scheme of attack? Do they have spies among us? God's enemies are not like that. God is certainly set against evil, but he doesn't think in terms of defeating his enemies because while they might be at war with him He is not at war with them. Why? Because he's already in control. There is nothing for him to defeat. or conquer because he already owns and controls everything. And whether they know it or not, whether they like it or not All creation, all spiritual beings, all people, all sickness and disease, even death itself, are servants of God Isaiah 45, verse 12 says, I made the earth and created men on it. It was my hands that stretched out the heavens, and I commanded all their hosts. Again, creation exists because God created it and everything in it is subject to God's sovereign control. Listen to another portion of Psalm 104. You covered the earth, speaking of God, with the deep as with a garment. The waters stood above the mountains. At your rebuke they fled. At the sound of your thunder, they took flight. The mountains rose, the valley sank down to the place you appointed for them. You set the boundaries that they may not pass, so that they might not again cover the earth The author goes on to describe how it's God's command that is the cause of water springs and rivers. He is the one who provides water for animals. It's because of his command that plants Grow. In fact, in Mark 4, Jesus and his disciples are on a boat in the Sea of Galilee, and they are in the midst of a terrible storm. And Jesus is sleeping while the disciples are terrified for their lives. And so in desperation, they wake Jesus up. Jesus, aren't you worried that we're going to die? Don't you care about us? And it says, and he awoke and rebuked the wind and said to the sea, Peace, be still. And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm. And he said to them, Why are you so afraid? Have you still no faith? They were filled with great fear and said to one another, Who then is this that even the wind and the sea obey him There is nothing in creation outside the sovereign control of God There is no molecule that acts independently of its creator. And that means there is no cell that does not respond when its creator calls. Now, because of science, we understand the many natural processes that God built into creation, but make no mistake The reason natural processes work is because God upholds them by the word of his power All that to say, this sickness of Lazarus will not conclude in death because that is not God's purpose This sickness is a servant in the hand of God, and he will use it for his glory. Friend, when you think about your life, your trials, your suffering, your weaknesses, your sicknesses, troubles of every kind. Do you see them as hindrances to God's best plan for your life? Do you see them as something that God has to somehow figure out and overcome? Have you bought the lie like we all have at times, that suffering is a surprise attack on God's goodness to you? Let us remember that though God's plans and purposes are mysterious to us, we can be certain that all that takes place in our lives is God's good plan. Trials, hardship, disease, even death itself, are servants and instruments in the hand of God. Now, how will this sickness serve the purpose of God? Notice the next phrase that Jesus says: It is for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified through it. The will of God, which is an aspect of God's glory, the will of God is that the Son be glorified This sickness in the life of Lazarus will serve the purpose of revealing the identity and the power and the glory of Jesus Christ so that Martha And Mary and Lazarus and the Jews who were there and billions of people for the last 2,000 years, and you and me would know who Jesus is and believe in him. Therefore, what Jesus does next must be understood as bringing about that result. Whatever else happens, Jesus' mind and motivation are fueled by the manifestation of his glory. This beloved is the most fundamental fundamental principle of life There really is no more basic reality than this. What Jesus says is true of Lazarus' sickness is true of all things. It's true of every situation where God exercises his sovereign control with layer upon layer of purpose, but at its root. is always the demonstration of God's glory. Again, as you think about your life, God is always working out His will in your life, in the lives of those around you, in the lives of others that you don't even realize how he is using you to have an influence and an impact on others? He is working with immediate purposes for today, long-term purposes for later in your life, and even eternal purposes. There is an infinite complexity to the plans and purposes of God, making his wisdom inscrutable, which is to say we cannot peel back the layers and understand all that is in God's mind in any given situation. But we do know this. At the core of his heart is that he be glorified in and through everything Romans 11, 36 puts it most succinctly, for from him and through him and to him are all things. To him be the glory forever. Scripture teaches this so pervasively, this truth that God does everything for the sake of magnifying his name and glory, that there's no question as to his truth. So we can ask the question: what is the chief end of man? What is God's ultimate purpose for our existence? Why did God create mankind and why does God sustain the universe moment by moment? And the answer is so that man can glorify God and enjoy him forever. Now somebody might ask, well, what does it mean to glorify God? To glorify God is to see and acknowledge and affirm and delight in and praise who He is Let me say that again. To glorify God is to see and acknowledge and affirm and delight in and praise who He is. It is the law of nature that the more we behold the glory of God, the more we are transformed into his image, which is what we were created to be. Paul writes in 2 Corinthians 3. 18, and we all with unveiled face, beholding the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from one degree of glory to another. It's true, of course, that we grow in maturity, we grow in godliness when we overcome sin, when we walk by the Spirit, when we submit to the Word of God, and we obey the commands of Christ. Those are necessary attitudes and actions that we must do, but in order for those things to be effective, what really fuels change is a growing and consistent vision of the glory of God. See, unlike all other creatures, we were made to delight in and praise great things. We delight in the beauty of sunsets, mountains, and flowers. We stand in awe of the power of creation. We praise and celebrate those who achieve the heights of human capability and wisdom and skill. And we will spend money and sacrifice time and energy and resources to put ourselves in a position to observe great things. And for things that proved to be as great as we hoped, we will say of our sacrifices, it was worth it. I'd do it again. Just to see that. Just to hear that. Well, as the incomparable majestic and infinitely glorious being, God is worthy of being seen and affirmed and delighted in and praised And the value of knowing him transcends the worth of all things on earth This is why Paul says in Philippians 3. 8, indeed, I count everything as lost, because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. For his sake I have suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish, in order that I may gain Christ. Listen, the glory of Christ is more valuable than our own lives. Do you remember from our study in August, Psalm 73, 25, and 26? Whom have I in heaven but you? I desire nothing on earth besides you My flesh and my heart may fail, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever Lazarus knew that Jesus loved him as a friend. And Lazarus, along with his sisters, knew that Jesus had the power to keep him from dying. Martha, as we read in verse 27, gives a clear declaration that she believes that he is the Christ, the Son of God. And we can be certain that Mary and Lazarus affirm that same truth as well. But you know, they still had a deficient view of Jesus. We can have a genuine and true faith in Jesus. We can believe that which is true about him. but still not know all that He wants us to know about Him. The Apostle John, for example, walked with Jesus for the years of his ministry. He then taught about Jesus for seventy years or so? But at the end of his life, he learned so much more as he received the vision of the revelation of Jesus Christ. And he experienced more than what he even wrote down for us to have. He never learned all that there was to learn about Jesus. And so if that's true of an apostle of Jesus Christ, how much more true is it of us that there's always more of Christ's glory to behold? Now, I don't know what Lazarus was thinking as he suffered in bed. But through his suffering, he was about to experience the glory of God in the person of Jesus Christ that few in history would ever personally experience. He would soon come to know in a life-transforming way that Jesus is the resurrection and the life. But for that to happen, he first had to die When you and I suffer, our focus tends to be on ourselves, what we're supposed to learn. And what we think we're supposed to learn is some kind of moral improvement that uh I guess God wants me to learn how to be a better person, maybe be more patient, more trusting in him. I I need to be more like Christ, a better follower of Christ And we often think that suffering is God's way of producing good fruit in us. And there's truth in that, to be sure. But I submit to you that alongside that, even more important than that, our focus should not be on ourselves, but on Christ. We should be looking for the rays of his glory that shine through the clouds of suffering. We should be remembering that when all seems dark That he is still shining as the everlasting sun above the clouds. We should be remembering that he is our great high priest advocating for us, praying for us. We should recall that He is our shepherd who is keeping us. He is our Savior who has redeemed us from sin and condemnation And he is the coming king who will come and grant us our eternal inheritance You may be suffering a life-threatening illness like Lazarus, and I know some of you are, or you may be suffering something altogether different. But what was true for him is true for you. It's happening to serve the purpose of God in bringing glory to Christ. Now having said that, someone might say, This view of God seems callous Are you really saying that God brings suffering into our life simply to glorify Himself? Doesn't that mean that God doesn't really care about us? And our experience and what's good for us? No, that's not what that means. Look at verse 5. It says, now Jesus loved Martha and her sister in Lazarus. One deficiency that Martha and Mary had in their view of Jesus is that they severely underestimated how much Jesus loved them. They say to Jesus, Lord, he whom you follow is ill. They thought Jesus had an affinity of a a friendship, a warm-hearted affection for them. They thought Jesus cared about their experience of life and wanted good things for them. They thought that the kind of relationship they had with him would cause Jesus to drop whatever he was doing And help them in their time of need. And when Jesus finally comes to Bethany, where both Martha and Mary are, they say to him in their own time, Lord. If you had been here, my brother would not have died. And if they were like us, and they were There's no doubt in my mind that they had been saying to one another for those days, waiting for Jesus, why has why didn't he come? Doesn't he love us? We thought he loved Lazarus If you came here this morning wrestling with God's love because of what you're going through, you're not alone. It's hard to think of a more common question that suffers asks than, if God loved me, why is he allowing these things to happen to me? Martha and Mary sent to Jesus to appeal to him based on what they thought was his Phileo of Lazarus. But verse 5 tells us that Jesus Agapod Martha and her sister and Lazarus. Jesus loved them with an infinite love. His concern for them went beyond what they could ever imagine. His love for them was not superficial. It didn't depend on them returning love for him. His love cared not only for their temporal welfare, but for their everlasting soul. He didn't want them to experience an easy life. He wanted them to experience eternal life, which is the abundant life of knowing God and His Son, Jesus Christ. He loved them, listen, such that he was committed to doing all in his power to ensure their greatest good. Superficial love says, I would never let anything bad happen to you. That's the world's kind of love. The world asks, that's why the world asks, how can a loving God allow bad things to happen? But every parent knows that pain is necessary for a child to grow. Whether it's the pain of stretching bones, or the pain of discipline, or the pain of shock when you put your finger in the socket. Children grow physically and morally in wisdom and in other ways through pain. And the problem is not pain, the problem is meaningless pain, or pain that is destructive to a person without any benefits. But pain aimed at ultimately bringing healing and strength and life, such as surgery or exercise. Or resetting a broken bone, that is what love does. How foolish would it be to ask a surgeon or to ask, how can a loving surgeon cause so much pain? How foolish would it be to ask, how can a loving physical therapist keep making me move in excruciating ways Now the obvious answer is they do it because out of their love, they're causing you pain so that you can grow and heal and have life. Now, this is easy to grasp when we think about such examples, but it's much harder to remember and even grasp when God brings suffering into our lives. So we need to go to the supreme example of God causing pain and death out of infinite love. And that example is the Lord Jesus Christ. Does the Father love the Son? You bet He does. All throughout the Gospel of John, there's example after example where Jesus declares that the Father loves the Son. But I want you to turn over to John chapter 17 with me. And John chapter 17 is the high priestly prayer. It's what Jesus prayed to the Father on behalf of his disciples the night, really minutes or hours before he was betrayed. I want you to look at how Jesus ends his prayer starting in verse 22. The glory that you have given me, I have given to them, that they may be one even as we are one. I in them and you in me, that they may become perfectly one, so that the world may know that you loved me Rather, that you sent me and loved them even as you loved me. Father, I desire that they also whom you have given me may be with me where I am to see my glory that you have given me, because you loved me before the foundation of the world. Oh righteous Father, even though the world does not know you, I know you and these know that you have sent me. I have made known to them your name, and I will continue to make it known, that the love with which you have loved me may be in them, and I in them. Does Jesus know that the Father loves him? You bet he does What kind of love is this? This is a love that began before the foundation of the world, which is to say it is an infinite, eternal love. And though John doesn't record it, it is just minutes from this moment of ending this prayer that Jesus is in the Garden of Gethsemane and he falls on his. face with the weight of the coming betrayal and physical suffering and the wrath of God bearing down on him, and he falls to the ground and says, Abba Father, all things are possible for you. Remove this cup from me. Yet not what I will, but what you will. He says, Father, if you are willing. Remove this cup from me. Nevertheless, not my will, but yours be done. The reason Jesus went to the cross is not because God was powerless to stop it. It's not because God didn't love the Son enough to stop it. The reason Jesus Christ went to the cross to die for our sin is because the Father loved the Son. And it was his will that the Son's sacrifice would serve the glory of God by manifesting the glory of his grace and mercy and forgiveness and justice So that all creation would know what kind of God He is. And it was because Jesus was obedient to the point of death Even to the cross, that Philippians 2 said, God highly exalted him above every name, so that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow. in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. In the words of Psalm 2, the Father would give to Jesus the nations as their heritage In the words of 1 Corinthians 15, because of what Christ did, all things would be subjected under his feet Ephesians 5 says that Jesus gave himself for the purity of his bride. And this was the joy set before him, Hebrews 12 says, for which Jesus endured the cross. despising the shame. Beloved, the love of the Father could not be greater for the Son, and because of his love he allowed the worst possible thing to happen to him. The author of life was put to death. But death was not the end. The result of his suffering Is the eternal glory that Jesus receives with his people The Father loved the Sons so much that he put him through intense suffering because of the everlasting glory that would result. And that glory would infinitely outweigh the suffering he experienced. As Lazarus suffered in bed, and as Mary and Martha ultimately grieved his death, they knew and believed in Jesus, but they didn't know him as much as they thought they did. There was glory to behold, but they would have to walk through the valley of the shadow of death to see it And so, verse 6 of John 11 says, So when he heard that Lazarus was ill, he stayed two days longer in the place where he was. Why did Jesus wait for Lazarus to die and be in the tomb for four days? Why didn't He just come the day that Lazarus died or be before they buried him? We'll unpack that next time. But here's the first life-transforming reality. Suffering is a servant in the hand of God intended to reveal his glory. Because he loves you. Whatever you're going through, know that it is because he loves you that he wants you to know more of him And though you may not see it now, one day you will see all of the glory that will make your suffering worth it. The day will come, perhaps in this life, perhaps in the life eternal, when we will look back and say with confidence, All that I suffered was worth it because my suffering magnifies the glory of Christ more than I could ever have imagined. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for this incredible truth. We confess that there are aspects of it that are hard to fully embrace and comprehend. But we ask, Lord, that for each soul you would empower us by the Holy Spirit To know the love of Christ, to know its breadth, its length, and its width, and its height, and its depth So we might know your love, receive it, and glorify you because of it. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.