Most depictions of Palm Sunday have it as a glorious and a joyful day for the Lord Jesus. But As you heard read already in our scripture reading, it was a day in which he wept bitterly over Jerusalem. For um with all the palms and all the fanfare and the shouts of Hosanna, the Lord knew very well. He was hated, and it would be many among that very crowd, just a few days later, that would cry for his crucifixion. Jesus was a man of sorrows. He was rejected by his own people. The amazing thing about that hatred and that rejection, it was all part of God's plan. That the gospel in uh Israel not getting their kingdom at that time, the good news of the gospel would go out to all of the other nations. That your salvation and my salvation indirectly is a result of their hatred and their rejection of Jesus Christ. It's amazing how God works all of that out. We are in and by God's providence, still in the Gospel of John, chapter fifteen, verses eighteen through twenty-five. It's not a Palm Sunday message. It's a message of God's uh sending his son and people rejecting His son, hating his son, and that hatred spilling over even onto you and me as we witness for his name. I trust God will speak to you from his word this morning. Let's read the entire section again. It's John 15, if you'd open your Bibles there, and it's verses 18 through 25. Christ speaking, still part of the upper room discourse. If the world hates me, or since the world hates, if the world hates you, you know that it has hated me before it hated you. If you were of the world, which he said were not, the world would love its own. But because you are not of the world, he told his disciples. But I chose you out of the world. Because of this, the world hates you. Remember the word that I said to you a slave is not greater than his master. If they persecuted me, they will also persecute you. If they kept my word, they will also keep yours. But all these things they will do to you for my name's sake, because they do not know the one who sent me. If I had not come and spoken to them, they would not have sinned, but now they have no excuse for their sin. He who hates me hates my father also. If I had not done among them the works which no one else did, they would not have sinned. But now they have both seen and hated me and my father as well. But they have done this to fulfill the word That is written in their law, they hated me without a cause. We know that Jesus is giving his disciples perspective as they are departing, as Jesus is departing from the world, he's giving them an understanding of what will happen while they remain in the world. He's communicating this to the disciples, taking maybe some of the bite off of the persecution that they were going to have. He's saying, Don't take it personally. The hatred that they send your way is not really a hatred of you, your personality, uh what you look like. or anything like that. It is a hatred that is directed at the spirit that is inside of you, which is the spirit of Christ, and so the hatred is directed towards Christ. and it is directed towards God the Father ultimately. It might be hard for you to come to that conclusion that all unbelievers have this in their heart, but that is indeed what he is describing here with the world. We were in the midst of learning six reasons for the world's hatred of Christians, and uh we went through four of them last time. I'll survey those now. The first reason they hate us is that they hated Christ first. We see that in verse eighteen. The world is the world of unbelievers, the whole world system with evil spirits that are behind it and introducing various teachings and doctrines into their minds. Jesus refers to the world this way back in chapter 12, verse 31. Now judgment is upon this world. Now the ruler of this world, that's Satan, will be cast out. He won't get to keep his kingdom. We saw that the word hates points mostly to rejection and non-acceptance. You don't need to think of uh clenched fists and gritted teeth and someone screaming at the top of their lungs to know that someone is hating you. Sometimes it comes out with emotional bursts, but its rejection is there constantly and all the time. It just needs opportunity. For it to manifest itself, and the true spirit of what is in an unbeliever comes out, will reject Christ. And when more forced and confronted with Christ, the more they hate it and want to reject it. We will feel that because that's the same hatred that they had for Jesus Christ. The second reason we are hated is that we're not one of them. That was in verse nineteen. He says you're not really part of the world. He's not saying that you're not down here on the planet, we are, but he means the world of uh unbelievers, the world that is controlled by Satan, that that unbelieving system, that arranged cosmos that uh Satan rules over. You're not part of that. If you were and you were part of it, it wouldn't matter. Your skin color, it wouldn't matter, your education, it wouldn't matter, the different religions. They can find their harmony by being part of the world because they're all of one spirit, though it comes out in many different faces Word for love there is phileo, just the love with brotherly affection. In other words, they find that these are people that are like them. They are chums and buddies And they uh accept one another. They relate to one another. They understand one another. Ultimately they're of the same rebellious spirit. The disciples were not part of that. You and I are not part of that. And the reason is we were chosen out of the world God's choosing an election of some out of the world for salvation is the reason why they hate us. We're not like them. Intuitively they know it, though they can't put their finger on it and they don't totally understand us, but they do indeed reject us. God has chosen some to come to faith. If you have faith, it's because God chose you, and that is why you're saved And this puts us out of the world system already, even while we remain in the world. The third reason that they hate us is that we serve Christ. We make it our business to carry his name around with us and to serve him and to do those kinds of things. Look at you, you're here on Sunday morning. Uh what you may do on Wednesday night or at the workplace on Tuesday morning is you might do something to serve Christ. You're busy serving him hopefully in all that you do, whether you eat or drink, you do all to the glory of God, right? And so you're you're some of you are in a job and you're trying to serve God well there, working hard and giving a good testimony to the Lord Jesus Christ Others you're raising children and you're giving glory to God that way, you're witnessing to neighbors, talking to co-workers. Sometimes what you do is seen by a lot of people, sometimes it's not, but you're serving Christ And every time you're given an opportunity and people want to know what's what's up with you, you say, Well, I'm doing this because I'm a Christian, he saved me, and uh I'm going to heaven and I want to say thank you to him, and so I'm busy using my time on earth to serve him. And they don't like that because they're in rebellion against this king and you're busy serving the king. And so that's a problem. You keep the word of Jesus, they reject the word of Jesus. They're in rebellion. They're gonna have a hard time finding agreement. You can find superficial ways of having friendships and superficial ways of having a common bond with unbelievers, but when it really comes down to it What is in your heart and what is in your spirit is so incredibly different from them. And you need to recognize that about yourself so you understand what's going on between you and others. Fourth reason still by way of review is that they don't even know God. They have the ignorance of the Father. This is in verse 21 There's a lot of religion in the world, but there's not a lot of knowledgeable religion in the world. There's a lot of zeal for things of God, but the God they worship is not the true God of heaven. It's another God, a God made in a false image. It's a God with a false title. or many gods which really end up being demons and the worship of demons. They are ignorant of the true God of heaven. God doesn't receive their worship. He rejects it. They don't really know God, and here we are, we're God's children. We are now being conformed in the image of his very son. And so they don't know God, they don't understand God, they think sometimes he's evil in what he does And so they're going to think the same thing of us. They're going to see us doing a good thing and they're going to think it's evil and they're going to persecute us for it. And that may seem very unfair, and it may seem strange, but it's a reality. Notice Jesus says in verse twenty one, it's for my name's sake. When you carry the name of Christ and you make sure you you tell them who this Christ is, not some general Jesus that uh the the world has conjured up who's not Fully God is not the only way to the Father, but the true Jesus of the Bible, the historical Jesus who came down to this planet and taught that Jesus, when you carry his name And you give credit to Him, the more they realize you're speaking in His name and doing it for the sake of His name, and they realize who you're talking about, the more they will not like that. They don't understand God, and that's why they don't understand you. And so the hatred will come towards you. They can't spiritually appraise you. They don't have an internal ability to be able to click something on and go, oh, I get it. I understand what you're doing. They can only do it superficially. They can only understand some of what you're doing. Mostly they think you and I are strange. By the way, that's one reason why you can't really have a meaningful friendship with an unbeliever I know some people have that question, you know, can I have a can I be best friends with an unbeliever? If you're a Christian, y your best friend should be another Christian Now, of course you should be friendly to unbelievers, and they may count you as one of their best friends because of the way you treat them. That's a good testimony. That shows kindness and patience and care and tolerance for some of the things that they get wrong But in your heart should be a burning love for Christ. If that's not coming out of you, you see then what what's really true of your heart, is that bubbles over, they're going to either be drawn into that and receive Christ or they're going to be pushed away from that. You become a fork in the road for them. They have to make a decision. They're not someone that you could just they could just hang around and be comfortable with because you're not a you're not like them. And so you challenge them in your very life And so your very best friends, the ones that understand you, understand the spirit in you, can relate to you, they are going to be believers. And if they're not believers and you don't relate to believers, you're probably not a believer You probably don't have that spirit in you. You're probably still to this day an unsafe person because you relate to unbelievers better. And that's something for you to do to evaluate your own heart to see whether or not Christ really is in you. So now we come to the fifth reason today, and this is down in verses twenty-two through twenty-four, sort of a larger section here, verses twenty-two through twenty-four. The fifth reason that they hate us is that we uh expose their sin. Or to put it another way, they are culpable for their sin. They are guilty for their sin. Look at verses twenty two through twenty-four If I had not come and spoken to them, they would not have sinned, but now they have no excuse for their sin. He who hates me hates my father also. If I had not done among them the works which no one else did, they would not have sinned, but now they have both seen and hated me and my father as well. So I've come, and remember the Father sent me, and so he who hates me hates my father. He ties that together and he says, Because I came and spoke to them the Word of God, they're now all guilty for their sin. He's imagining, though, first, never having come into the world. Never having preached to the Jews. Imagine that. In that case, he's saying the Jews' accountability to God would have been much less. He says they would have they would not have sin. That doesn't mean not have sin in the ultimate sense. We already know that the Jews had the law of God. It was given to them on Mount Sinai. They understood that thou shalt not They knew what they were supposed to do and not do, and they knew that they had broken that as well, so they were conscious of sin. When the when the the Ten Commandments, the tenth of the Ten Commandments says, Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's house They would find coveting in their heart of the neighbor's house, and they would know God said, Don't do it, I'm doing it, I'm guilty. That's what the law does. The law is a mirror to reveal the blemishes in our moral character We should never hold the law of God up and say, oh, I keep that perfectly. That's a misunderstanding of the law of God. That's people reading the law of God superficially. They want to just think in just the most basic way that they obey that, but nothing from the heart. If uh if the law says you shall love your neighbor as yourself, what we find out is we prefer we prefer ourselves, right? And we don't love our neighbor as ourselves, and so we violate that law as well. There's no such thing as a person in this world that's not a lawbreaker of God's law. In fact, if the law of Moses had never come There also was a revelation given before the scriptures were ever written. People ask, does God hold folks accountable who never read the Bible, never heard the gospel? Of course he does, because there's a revelation of himself in creation that's out there. Every single day they wake up, there's the world, there's their own body, there's the humanity, there's the sky and the sun and the moon and the stars and all that he's created, and it gives witness to his power and his wisdom that he is there and he ought to be sought, and they don't seek him. And they turn the objects that they're looking at into the objects of worship. And so it says in Romans 1. 20, since the creation of the world, God's invisible attributes His eternal power and divine nature have been clearly seen, being understood through what has been made. You see, there's the creation. So that they, speaking of the Gentiles, are without excuse. There is a light at creation, and no one is ever going to be able to stand before God and say, I just didn't know. God speaks through the revelation to every man, woman, and child that ever lived on this planet. Revelation is there all the time. What does humankind do with the revelation that comes through creation? It says there in Romans 1 that that they suppress it, that the word there literally means hold it down They stomp on it. It's there, but they work really hard at not acknowledging it. Some have worked so hard at it, they're atheists. And you have to work very hard at being an atheist because it's the most illogical thing in the world. It's the most uneducated thing Instead of moving men to seek God and to find salvation, the revelation of creation only condemns the sinner. So all of that, the creation and the law, prophets who had come before them, that was all in place for the Jewish people. But here Christ is saying, I'm a greater light, and because of the light that came with me, there is greater accountability for sin. They rejected the teaching of Jesus Christ. That's just an historical fact. Yes, there were tens of thousands of Jews that accepted the teaching of Christ, but the nation as a whole rejected it. They said no. And this was the teaching of God the Father to them. And they just said no. You see, God in his judgments, he's even-handed. He doesn't play favorites, right? With God, his judgments really are fair. They give people what they deserve. They're equal. He gives equal justice He doesn't play favorites with anyone. He is the judge of all the earth, and he knows how to judge properly. He judges based on truth and based upon our deeds and based upon what's really on our heart and he when his judgments are always good And he also, listen, judges people based upon how much light has been given to them. If a person's been given less light, God takes that into consideration in his judgments. When someone has been given more light, more truth, More opportunity, more teaching, more Bible, more gospel, and they reject that, God knows their judgment must be more severe. That's how he does it, and that's right. Christ was a brighter light even than the law of Moses. You may remember how this gospel got started with a long prologue back there in chapter one. Which said this, for the law was given through Moses. That's great. Then it says this Grace and truth were realized through Jesus Christ. The fullness of the revelation came with the descent of his Son coming into the world and speaking. There's where the greater, brighter, shining light was. of the prologue it says, no one has seen God at any time. So don't let anyone fool you with the visions they have, right? The only begotten God who is in the bosom of the Father, he that is the Son of God, has explained the invisible God to us. That's why he came If you want to know God, you look at the person of Christ who embodied God. The very last phrase of the prologue is: Jesus has explained God. In fact, that word explained is Ex-egomai, in Greek we get our word exegesis from it. Jesus exegetes the Father. That is, he opens him up and shows him to us. He explains God and he does it so perfectly because he always did the will of the Father. He never sinned. And so now the Jews have God walking around in a body talking to them when they rejected him, they rejected God. Whatever worship of God or whatever law of God that they thought they were doing towards God wasn't God. It was a false understanding of God. They rejected God Himself. The greater the light, the greater the judgment. Why do you think Forty years after the crucifixion of Christ, God let one of the worst things to ever happen on this planet happen to the Jews in Jerusalem. When uh the Roman general Titus came and besieged the city of Jerusalem and in seventy AD it was crushed and not one stone was left upon another. And it got so bad inside of the city they began to be cannibals and commit suicide, and they were starving to death, and God let that happen to the very generation that said no to Christ. This is serious, very serious. Christ, imagine if I had not come, but indeed Christ has come He's already come once to this planet. God has already visited this planet. And he came to Israel. And he did preach to them. He did give them the words of God. And now they have Total accountability for everything that they heard. They rejected the brighter light, as Jesus told us back in John 12, and this was on Palm Sunday. He who rejects me and does not receive my sayings has one who judges him. The word I spoke is what will judge him at the last day. Oh, that ominous last day. That ominous last day that people today in their postmodern kind of way of thinking and moral relativism think it'll never come. There'll never be that last judgment day. But it's coming. And there will be a judgment. And Jesus said, I'm telling you already ahead of time what exactly will happen and how these people will be judged. It'll be the word I spoke that will judge them on that last day. Nothing else will need to be said. Jesus has come. They rejected him. There's accountability for that I want to expand this a little bit by turning to the Gospel of Matthew, if you would, with me, Matthew chapter ten, in the discourse on discipleship, where Jesus was instructing his disciples. This is winding back ways backwards in history a little bit here. And he was sending them out, I think, for the first time, to go out into all the cities and villages of Israel to preach the gospel of the kingdom And he gave them instructions. And in verses eleven through fifteen, I'd like to focus on that. Matthew ten, eleven through fifteen, it says, Whatever city or village You enter, he's telling these twelve disciples this, inquire who is worthy in it, who wants to hear the word of God and respond to it, in other words. And stay at his house until you leave that city. As you enter the house, give it your greeting. If the house is worthy, give it your blessing of peace. But if it is not worthy, take back your blessing of peace Whoever does not receive you, nor heed your words, as you go out of that house or out of that city, shake the dust off your feet. Truly, I say to you, it will be more tolerable for the land of Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment than for that city. Greater light, greater judgment. Now let's turn to the Gospel of Luke. It says essentially the same thing, chapter 10, Gospel of Luke. And starting with verse 13. Here he's sending the 70 out, not the ten, not the twelve. And uh in this chapter he's uh having them do the same thing. preach. He's seeing widespread rejection from many of the cities that should have been receiving his message. And he pronounces woes. Woes are statements of judgment. Look at verse 13. Woe to you, Khorazine. Woe to you, Beth Saida. For if the miracles had been performed in Tyre and Sidon which occurred in you, they would have repented long ago Sitting in sackcloth and ashes. But it will be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon in the judgment than for you. And you, Capernaum. Will not be exalted to heaven. Will you? You will be brought down to Hades. Good words. Good words. True words. There's so many people today think they can play light with Jesus Christ, and when they die, they'll be exalted into heaven. I remember someone telling me once As if they had some special revelation from God. Tom, you'll be very surprised who makes it into heaven. As if they'd been there and back on a bus ride and they could just fill in the names You know, the only one I know that came down out of heaven was Jesus. And here he says, Woe to the cities that rejected my words The cities that were judged in the Old Testament, Tyre and Sidon, it's going to be easier for them than for you. This is a greater light, greater judgment. We also see this in uh Paul's preaching. Let's turn to the book of Acts going forward now. When Paul is in Athens and Mars Hill, preaching the gospel and an amazing opportunity to the most learned men in the world at that time on Mars Hill. All these great Athenian philosophers, well learned, well read, coming to hear what Paul would declare, and he preaches them to them, giving them the concept of God and proper worship, and he comes to the end of his sermon. In verses 30 and 31 of Acts 17, Acts chapter 17, verses 30 and 31, to the very end, and he says this after preaching the gospel, therefore Having overlooked the times of ignorance. In other words, God knows that the world is ignorant of him, but he's willing to overlook it. Having overlooked the times of ignorance, God is now In other words, now during this age, during the apostolic age, but also into the church age, God is now declaring to men that all people everywhere, there's no exception, you see, should repent. You know what repent means, right? It means you have to change your mind. You have to stop worshiping what's false, stop thinking of God incorrectly, stop following your sin, and you need to turn 180 degrees and you need to follow Christ. Believe in Him. trust in him and began following him. They need to repent. Why? Why do they need to repent? Verse thirty one. Because he has fixed the day in which he will judge the world in righteousness. There's a day fixed. We're going to preach on this next uh uh on Easter Sunday. Because he has fixed a day in which he will judge the world in righteousness. How's he going to do that? Through a man, he's talking about Jesus, right? Whom God has appointed Having furnished proof to all men by raising him from the dead. The resurrection of Jesus Christ gives him the right to judge everyone that God did not raise from the dead. We die, stay dead, we deserve our death. You see, he was raised from the dead, he never deserved to die. He got what he earned, the resurrection, and now God has shown this is the man There is no other man, no other prophet, no other religion, no other way. It's him and it's him alone, and he's going to judge everyone. He's the resurrected man That's what the resurrection means. And of course, you see the accountability now. The accountability for everyone. God is now declaring to everyone. Now when they hear about the resurrection of Jesus, if they have the response that these men have, then they are they're rejecting Christ, they're rejecting the only light that there is. Every single person has to respond to the light and to God's demands as it comes. Have you done that As you sit there in your seat, can you say I've repented of my sin and I've believed in Jesus Christ? I've responded to the light that God has brought to my soul. I'm not going to turn away from it. I'm not going to go back in the darkness now that I've heard the truth. I'm not going to accept the lies of what we're told in our society through the so-called educated people that there are many ways to God. How do they know that? When God Himself has said, This is my Son, I raised him from the dead, this is the only way. Believe in him. Have you repented of your sin? Make sure you have today. Make sure you have. See, it's a beautiful light of the Bible and the gospel. It's beautiful when it gets preached, when it gets heralded. The light just shines and shines and shines, and it's beautiful. And as you bask in the Word of God, you're supposed to let it come into you and richly dwell inside of you, right? But you need to understand when the light shines, it simultaneously exposes sin and provides the remedy for sin. When the light shines on you, you can see you're a sinner, and you can immediately see your need for someone to pay for your sins on the cross Or you can be angry that you are exposed, and you can be so shameful that you are exposed that you don't want to run towards the light. And you hate the light. But if the light is rejected, beloved, where is there to run to? If you reject the light when it shines on you, where is there to go? Only to run back into what? Darkness. It doesn't matter whether darkness is called by one name or another, it's still darkness. It doesn't matter if they call their religions light, it's still darkness. It doesn't matter if the one they follow is called the enlightened one, he's still in darkness. There's only light in Christ. Jesus said, John eight, I am the light of the world. The judge The light of the world unworthy of your following is to judge your own soul unworthy of the kingdom of God. To turn your back on the light is purposefully to walk back in the darkness and to revel there. The same sunlight that softens the wax hardens the clay. Do not let the Word of God harden your heart. Love Him and run into the light. Do you think that God sent his son into the world to be born of a virgin and live a perfect life? To preach to the Jews, be crucified on a cross and bear the weight of sin? If there was another way for the people in Australia or another way for the people in Brazil or another way for the people in Iceland, whatever they're called? You think that that's what he would do? Let his son suffer like that if there were other options? Islam is not acceptable to the Lord God Almighty. It is a false expression of God from the mouth of a false prophet and a false book. Following it is not good. God's not pleased when someone follows that religion. Buddhism is not enlightened. You can't get enlightened doing yoga. You can get a good stretch. You're not going to get enlightened unless you're meditating on scripture. Here's the thing. Light is light. And darkness is darkness. And darkness is not light. And light is not darkness. So profound, isn't it? We are in an age where the most basic kind of discernment is out of the minds of people. And they law that which is darkness and call it light. The postmodern mind can't even think logically. And they think a and some people are paying for this kind of an education. And if you're paying for it, I feel bad for you. Because you're paying for that kind of an education. Sad. Darkness, God says, will be severely judged by him. How do I know? For God is light, and in him there is no darkness at all. 1 John 1:5. This is all very similar, and we have to go to John 3 with this. This is all very similar to John chapter 3, so we're going to rewind again. Go back to John 3 if you would. Because I don't know if it's said anywhere better in Scripture than here. Forget John 3. 16 for a moment and John 3. 17. Go down to verse 19. John 3:19. Jesus says, He who believes in him is not judged. This might be the commentary of the apostle here. He who does not believe has been judged already. Anyone ever say, why do you judge me, man? I said, No, you've already been judged. You've already been judged. Why? Because he has not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. There's not another one. Look at verse 20. For everyone who does evil hates the light. Mistaio, same verb, hates the light. And does not come to the light. Why not? For fear that his deeds will be exposed. Of course they'll be exposed. Of course his deeds will be exposed. That's what's supposed to happen. Sometimes people fear joining a church because their evil deeds will be exposed. Of course. That's why you're supposed to confess it. Uh sometimes people are in the church, they start to sin, and they flee from the church because they know what the church will do. They leave the church before the church tells them to leave. They don't they don't want their deeds exposed. They don't want their name read off. So they run. They're cowards. They don't like the light. Everyone that does evil hates the light, does not come to the light for the fear that his deeds will be exposed, but he who practices the truth comes to the light, so that his deeds may be manifested as having been wrought in God. Do you like the light? Do you come to the light? Or do you run from the light? Jesus uncovers sin. So that's a blessing when you have sin in your life and you keep hiding it. And one way we hide it in our society is we call it something different. Well, I'm just struggling with a behavioral disorder. We used to just say your behavior is bad. Now we gotta call it a sickness. And if you think there's science behind that, there's not He has come to expose people, their corruption, their hypocrisy. Often religious people hate Christ most of all. Because they're trying in their own way to be respectable, moral people that can talk about God and be a and be a light to other people. And they're just phony. I hate throny, don't you? Imagine you looking at some bad things on the internet, and all of a sudden you look behind you, and there are ten Christian brothers that caught you red-handed. Would you feel conviction of sin? That's what the light does. It all of a sudden shines on us and shocks us and says, you're in sin. No. How are you going to respond to that? Humbly? Or just find some way to bury it under some excuses and lies and deflection. You can be really good at that. You can be a skilled person at that. I'll just move this way and move that way and hide this way Come into a little bit of church and run out, not really share openly about what's happening in my heart, a small group. I don't want to tell other people. I don't want them to know You don't love the light. Imagine wives, if you were caught in adultery and your husband found out, what would you feel like right at that moment? That's conviction. The light would shine on you. He now sees it. He knows it. Imagine you stole something and you're hoping no one will find out and you're caught red-handed. How do you feel? With that still in your hand. That ring from the jewelry store. There it is. You're cut. Who are you? I go to Hope Bible Church. I was stealing a ring. You feel the conviction? That's the light of Truth and righteousness shining on you. What do sinners do today when Christians come to him and they say, Hey, I got some good news to tell you. Some of them just know already. They're going to start talking about God and I don't want to hear it, right? They've already practiced their way of turning away from the light. They're skilled at it. You have a track, you begin to pull it out, you have a Bible in your hand, they smell you a long way away already, right? They're already maneuvering, they're skilled, they practiced this for years. I would like to tell you a little where do you go? What's your occupation? I'm a Pathfirts. If you start talking to them about them being a sin, often what you hear, if they're not being soft and responding, what you hear from them is something like, Why do you hate me? Why are you so insensitive? I know I thought I was talking gently. I thought I said it with a smile on my face. And then you start thinking about yourself. You're like, no, I think I was nice. But they didn't want to listen. Why not? Because it doesn't matter how you say it. The spinner always wants to blame it on the person who's saying it. They're too loud. They'll find the smallest little blemish in you just to get you to be quiet. And they'll make it sound like this. All he ever does is talk about God. Well, that's not true. And then you start to feel like I'm not going to share. But what's happening is the darkness is trying to put the light out. Don't put the light out. That's what's happening to you, you see. Men love darkness, it says in John 3, right? They love darkness. They don't love God. They love darkness. What's darkness? Lies Let's just listen, okay? Do men love lies? Yes, particularly when it benefits them. Not when it happens to them. What else is darkness? Here's darkness. Darkness is lust. Would you agree? Men love lust. How could there be a pornography industry without men loving lust? Hey, we buy milk because we like milk. Right? How does the pornography industry survive? Lust. Darkness of selfishness, right? And people are lovers of self. Darkness brings shame, right? Darkness is two men pretending to be married and demanding everyone else agree. We not only are married and have a right to be married, we're just like you and can raise kids just like you. No, you're darkness and you're not married. Often wondered when someone comes through here and demands for me to marry them, I'm going to say something like, I don't know how to do that. I don't I I can't change one of you. Maybe there's a surgeon out there that can change one of you. I can't do that. And if we take a stand for common sense now, it's hate language. It's hate. Forget about the fact that they're hating the light. They're hating us. Just brush all that aside, right? Darkness is killing a baby, so a woman has a right to have sex with whomever she wants to have. And then call that women's rights, quality for women. We're in the advanced Society. No, you're killing babies. You're butchering live human beings with brainwaves and blood, and they're screaming as they die. Millions of them. And you're supporting that. You're voting for that. True, true, true. Darkness is boasting about one's abilities. The great man, the great leader, the great woman, and all the things that they can do. Boasting and Proud what they accomplished and all the things they can do. Last time we looked, there's still dust, right? I mean is that just my opinion or are they dust? They're dust. They're returning to dust. Isaiah 64, 6, all of us have become like one who is unclean. And all our righteous deeds are like a filthy garment. I got a pile of filthy garments in my or rags in my garage. I use it to clean this and I use it to clean that and I throw it in a pile. Poor Sue, she has to clean them. You ever picked up a filthy rag or really dirty one and looked at it? That's what God sees when he looks at the best deeds of unbelievers. Not the worst, the best, the righteous deeds. And all of us like a leaf and our iniquities like the wind take us away. All of us wither like a leaf and our iniquities like the wind take us away. Romans 1 28 in the section about homosexuality, just as they did not see fit to acknowledge God any longer. See the justice in that statement? God gave them over to a depraved mind to do those things which are not proper. Does anything else need to be said? These are not proper things to do. Natural light exposes what is in darkness, so spiritual light exposes the sin and darkness. Beloved, there is forgiveness. It doesn't matter what sin has been committed. With God, there is always forgiveness. I want you to turn back to Isaiah and I want to read a passage to you. I hope this gives comfort to you, particularly if you're wondering, is there any hope for me? I've sinned against God. This is the opening chapter to one of the great bu great books of the Bible, certainly one of the greatest in the Old Testament. In Isaiah's vision, I want to start in verse 10, and you'll see the the worship that God has had enough of. If you realize that God doesn't receive certain kinds of worship, here it is in very detail. In verse 10. But then look at God's offer of forgiveness. Isaiah 110. Hear the word of the Lord, you rulers of Sodom. Give ear to the instruction of our God, you people of Gomorrah. What are your multiplied sacrifices to me? says the Lord. I have had enough of burnt offerings of rams and the fat of fed cattle, and I take no pleasure in the blood of bulls, lambs, or goats. When you come to appear before me, who requires of you this trampling of my courts? Bring your worthless offerings no longer. Oh, I just I'm just uh tempted to stop on that. Incense is an abomination to me. New moon and Sabbath, the calling of assemblies. I cannot endure iniquity in the solemn assembly. I hate your new moon festivals and your appointed feasts. They have become a burden to me. I am weary of bearing them. So, when you spread out your hands in prayer, this is how they would pray towards God, I will hide my eyes from from you. Imagine the people coming with their sacrifices and they've come to worship God. They brought their best instruments and they're just coming and they're worshiping God and now all the pious men spread their hands out and God looks down and says, I don't even want to look at that. I will hide my eyes from God. I'm not interested in that worship at all. Such a graphic scene. Yes, even though you multiply prayers, I will not listen. Your hands are covered with blood. Wash yourselves. Make yourselves clean. Remove the evil of your deeds from my sight. Cease to do evil. Learn to do good, seek justice, reprove the ruthless, defend the orphan, plead for the widow. And now look at verse 18. It's so special. Come now, and let us reason together, says the Lord. Though your sins are as scarlet, they will be as white as snow. Though they are red like crimson, they will be like wool If you consent and obey, you will eat the best of the land. But if you refuse and rebel, you will be devoured by the sword. Truly, the mouth of the Lord has spoken. You don't need anything else other than to know God has spoken. God offers pardon. Your sins are so bad they're just covered like with scarlet, you say. But no, you can be washed as clean and As white, as snow, like wool, like white wool. That can happen to you. But you have to turn back to God. You have to turn to Jesus Christ. That's what you have to do. That's God's requirement. This really goes to the inner motives of why people so reject Jesus and so reject you and church. They don't want to be a part of it. They run far away from it Sometimes, yeah, they've had a bad church experience, they've had a pestering parent or a grandparent, and they want to blame everything on them, but no, everything can't be blamed on parents, everything can't be blamed on bad churches Personal responsibility too, right? If you're doing wrong right now, that's the reason you're not coming to the light. You'll be exposed. And of course, exposure is the thing that they want to avoid at any cost. So they love their sin and they're cowards. They're afraid. Fear is upon them. They're afraid. Do you know that we have a conscience? It's fun when you witness to people in a sense because their conscience is on your side. You already have something inside of them to help you every time you talk. They're made in the image of God. They have a conscience. They have a sense of right and wrong. God's already given you that as a tool in evangelism. Use it. And even though they'll deny it, when they go home, they put their head on the pillow. They'll think about it Oh, they'll think about it because they have a conscience. You're a sinner. You're lost. Who's going to forgive your sins? Who's going to save you? Who's going to do that for you? The conscience is like that faint echo of a coming judgment. It's the unbeliever knowing a judgment day is coming. Why else would there be accountability inside their own head? They can't get away from it. It's there. And they try not to They try to psychologize it and they try to excuse it and try to do good works to bury it. And they maybe become they ease their conscience some and they feel good about what they're doing, but but then it comes back up at some point in time. No, you haven't lived right. You're guilty Some people go crazy because of their guilt rather than finding forgiveness. Their minds just go crazy because they can't work with it. They can't work with that guilt. But there's total forgiveness for them if they would just come But they resist. But there is that coming judgment and it's in their conscience. And they get closer to death and they know it's coming. It's like it's like drumbeat that gets louder and louder and louder. You go to talk to them. Why do they say so often? Because they have a conscience inside of them. I'll give you the answer already. You start telling them about the gospel and they say, Don't judge me. Where did that come from? Like a do I have a black robe on here? Do I preside over Howard County or something like that? I don't don't judge me. I don't have any authority to judge you. What are you worried about? They're already smelling and hearing the judgment that's coming. You're a reminder of that. Who are you to judge me? Oh, you just think you're right about everything, you Christian. Oh, you're holier than the rest of us, huh? Only you have the truth, I guess, huh? How arrogant! Paul wrote this in it about his preaching ministry of the gospel in 2 Corinthians 2. He said, We He's talking about himself and the preachers with him. We are a fragrance of Christ to God among those who are being saved and among those who are perishing. To the one an aroma from death to death. To the other an aroma from life to life, and who is adequate for these things? You go out and you talk to people about the Lord, you can be a sweet smelling aroma to God. But to the person, you're either going to be an aroma that brings life to them, and they'll treasure you who led them to Christ for the rest of their lives, or you will be an aroma of death to them. They smell it, they see it, they understand it. You're a reminder, you're a light, you're a mirror. And fear is upon them. Kenneth Gangle in his commentary says the truth of the gospel convicts When people are brought face to face with the ugliness of sin in their lives, they tend to fall back on the solution of killing the messenger In today's world of relative truth, relative ethics, and relative morality, we assume people will try to get away with anything they can and will justify their behavior when they do get caught. And since we are a society of victims None of us is responsible for our own behavior. We must find someone else to blame. Our parents, the repressive culture, poverty, the pushy policemen, perhaps even God. Now that you are in the lives of certain unbelievers, you need to understand that's what you stand for in their life That's what you've taken on. That's who you are. You represent Christ to them. You're bringing conviction of sin. And because, listen, because you are in their life, on the judgment day, they'll never be able to plead. Ignorance. So you are an aroma of life to life or death to death. That's how special you are. It's a tough job But you gotta do it. It's it's our job. You can't keep turning down a little lamp of the light so it burns low so you just try to fit in. Maybe they won't notice the light at all if I keep it just barely alive. No, no, no, no. Crank up the kerosene. Let's go. Let it shine. Now you'll find out. God will guide you. You'll feel some hatred, but you'll be a blessing to some, a few. And to others they're going to hate you, but that's what God wants. That's what Christ was. This this goes even to the family. Remember what Jesus had to say to his own brothers in chapter 7, verse 7? He said to them, The world cannot hate you. Why not? Because they fit in, right? But it hates me, because I testify of it that its deeds are evil. There it is. I mean you're blunt with your brothers, right? The world can't hate you, but it hates me. Why? Because I tell the world its deeds are evil and you just hang out with the world You just buddies the world of the world. You just go to the bar school and pull up there and drink your beer and slap their back and play darts and you just fit right on in. And if you say a word about God or just don't mention Jesus or salvation or sin, just say something funny. Crack a joke about God and get out of there. Phew, at least I sounded a little bit religious. That's not light. So all of this we need to remember, verse 23, is the hatred towards the Father as well. That's the point. You can't separate Jesus from the from the Father. Even looking down at verse twenty four, going back to John fifteen, if you're not there now. Look down at verse twenty-four. He just repeats it, but he adds an extra thing here, an extra element to their culpability. If I had not done among them the works which no one else did, they would not have sinned, but now they have both seen and hated me and my father. as well. In other words, they also saw my miracles. And even says th he even says the miracles that he did, no one else did. Do you know what that is? That's a that's a great statement that there's no one ever in the history of the world that has done the miracles that Jesus Christ did. You check out Joseph Smith, there's no miracles. There's no miracles. Okay. You know, uh Muhammad, no miracles. Buddha, the record of his miracles are 400 years of oral exaggeration before it even gets written down Oh, close to 500 years. And then they're just the very whimsical kind of miracles that are claimed to Buddha's life. There's no historical credibility to that. The eyewitnesses of Christ wrote it down within years after what he had done, with all the eyewitnesses still alive. No one did the miracles that Christ did. Nobody did the miracles that Christ did. Why should I believe in Jesus? Nobody did the miracles that Christ did, and no one rose from the dead. And we could develop that, but we're out of time. You adulteresses, James 4 4 says Do you not know that friendship with the world is hostility toward God? Therefore, whoever wishes to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God. Don't try to fit in, please. Don't try to just make everyone like you. I think that's the sin of Christians of this age is they want to fit in everybody like them. I don't want people to hate me. But if everyone is speaking well of me, what does the scripture say? Something's wrong. Watch out. Because God is hated. There are many scriptures that say God is hated. The Ten Commandments say God is hated You shall not make for yourself an idol or any likeness of what is heaven above or on the earth beneath, or in the water under the earth, you shall not worship them or serve them, for I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity Of the fathers on the children, on the third and fourth generations of those who what hate me Psalm 81:15, those who hate the Lord would pretend obedience to him Romans 1:30, they are slanderers, they are haters of God, they are insolence and arrogance and boastful and inventors of evil. Romans 8:7, the mind set on the flesh is hostile toward God. In that hostile environment, don't you be afraid. You are light, walk as light. Don't participate in the evil deeds of darkness, but expose them. The sixth reason I have to give to you quickly, verse twenty-five. It says, But they have done this to fulfill the word that is written in their law, they hated me without a cause. Law is being used in the loose sense here of the Old Testament scripture. This comes from Psalm sixty nine Verse 4, it's repeated also in Psalm 35-19, but Psalm 69 is a messianic psalm, and it's connected with the sufferings of Jesus In Psalm 69, the people are not tolerating the zeal that David has for his God, and the assumption here is that David as the king of Israel is the type of Christ, and the greater son of David is also going to be hated in the same way that David was hated. And how was he hated? It says he, David, and Jesus also was hated without a cause There was no good reason to hate David at that time. There is no good reason to hate Jesus Christ. Listen, if Jesus had come into the world and used his omnipotence to force everyone into some kind of hard slavery, we would have a reason to hate Jesus. If he came into the world and he was indifferent to our suffering, we'd have a reason to hate Jesus, but he came into the world and he healed and he suffered and he bled and he died for us. What reason is there to hate him? It's mindless. It's mindless. There's never a good cause to hate Jesus Don't let there be a good cause to hate you as you share the gospel. Don't do something wrong to others. Care for them. Let them hate you because they hate Christ if they're going to hate. There's no good reason to hate believers today, but believers get hated all the time. Are you do you pay your taxes? Do you help people cross the street? Do you open doors for people? Are you kind to your neighbor? Do you cut your lawn? Why do they hate you? Do you get to work on time and do your work? You punch the clock? Why do they hate you? Is it your breath? Why do they hate you? You're some of the nicest people there are on the planet. I can't wait to come on Sunday or Wednesday to be with other believers. It's just nice people. What are they doing hating you? Because they hate Christ. There's no reason. There's no good reason. And don't let them get into your head thinking there's nothing wrong with me. Oh, shine your light, people. Be courageous. Whatever suffering that comes your way, God has designed, God will be there with you. He loves you. He will protect you and keep you until the moment that He doesn't want to protect you because He wants to bear a witness of suffering through you And until that point in time, he'll do all kinds of before Christ was on the cross, he avoided death many times. Paul, in his last will and testament in 2 Timothy chapter 4, he said, At my first offense, no one stood with me, but all deserted me. But the Lord stood with me. with me and strengthen me in order that through me the proclamation might be fully accomplished, and all the Gentiles might hear. The Lord will deliver me from every evil deed and bring me safely to his eternal kingdom To him be the glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. What an attitude to have as he's facing judgment. Nothing can happen to me. And when my head is finally chopped off, I'll be safe then too. So be bold, be courageous, shine your light. Even though they hate you, Christ has already walked the pathway for us. Amen? Father, thank you for your goodness and the loving example of Jesus. What a courageous Savior we have. We love you. Please work in the lives of our people here, Lord. If there's anyone here today that is not saved and they know they don't love you, Lord, put it in their heart to talk to one of the other leaders in the church this morning, to talk to them and open up and let the light shine in Lord, let them feel the goodness of your forgiveness and your love and your washing. Christ's name. Amen.