John Tetzel was a Dominican friar, I believe, appointed by Pope Leo in the 16th century Europe. He was appointed to travel from town to town, try to raise funds to build St. Peter's Basilica in Rome. Tetzel was very skilled at what he did. He was very skilled at manipulating the masses and getting them to release their monies. After arriving in these little towns with great popish pomp, he then would play on their emotions by selling them what were called indulgences. Little official pieces of paper which said that the church would bring relief to their deceased loved ones now suffering temporal but very painful punishment in purgatory. And of course, who through Tetzel was begging them to give their money at that time to free them from the intense pain. Indeed, he would say, How could any of you be so cruel as to continue to let your loved ones suffer? And they would flock to the front to give their money and to buy the indulgence. This famous jingle has been translated, when the coin in the coffer rings, the soul from purgatory springs. This extreme abuse of the Christian religion brought the anger and public opposition of a little known monk named Martin Luther. Luther rightly saw this as tantamount to selling forgiveness, something utterly opposed to the gospel of Jesus and condemned in Scripture. This abuse of power fed by ecclesiastical greed was part of what inspired him to nail his 95 theses to the castle church door at Wittenberg, Germany, an act that many credit as launching the Protestant Reformation. Luther called the selling of indulgences a human doctrine, and in his twenty-eighth thesis wrote this It is certain that when money clinks in the money chest, greed and avarice can be increased But when the church intercedes, the result is in the hands of God alone. On a different continent, over 200 years later, One Ben Franklin wrote of the ministry of the great preacher George Whitfield. Whitfield was also a, shall we say, persuasive fundraiser. But his appeal was that to true needs, not one conjured up by a corrupt church. As he preached the gospel, in a way that many said hasn't been preached since the days of the apostles, he would often end with an appeal to the listeners, particularly the richer folks to give to the needy children, particularly the orphans. His effort to collect money for an orphanage in the colony of Georgia came with a much different spirit, and people noticed that. It was a more noble example for the church in fundraising. Then Franklin humorously wrote on one occasion these words I happened soon after to attend one of Whitfield's sermons, in the course of which I perceived he intended to finish with a collection, and I silently resolved he should get nothing from me I had in my pocket a handful of copper money, three or four silver dollars, and five Spanish coins and gold. As he proceeded, I began to soften, and concluded to give the coppers. Another stroke of his oratory made me ashamed of that and determined me to give the silver. And he finished so admirably that I emptied my pocket wholly into the collector's dish, gold and all I hope in that spirit as I stand before you today, uh not in the spirit of Tetzel, and certainly not with the persuasive abilities of George Whitfield. But to talk to you about the difficult subject of money and giving in church. Indeed, the Lord will not let us avoid this topic. The Bible has Quite a bit to say about money and connected with that our faith and our heart, and though this is an oft uh Abused topic, I pray that the Lord will speak to your hearts as he would from our text. The text is Matthew, uh Malachi 3, verses 6 through 12. We'll read it and then launch into a look at it. Malachi, the last book in the Old Testament, chapter 3, verses 6 through 12. For I, the Lord, do not change. Therefore, you, O sons of Jacob, are not consumed. From the days of your fathers, you have turned aside from my statutes and have not kept them. Return to me, and I will return to you, says the Lord of hosts. But you say, How shall we return? Will a man rob God? Yet you are robbing me. But you say, How have we robbed you? In tithes and offerings You are cursed with a curse, for you are robbing me, the whole nation of you. Bring the whole tithe into the storehouse so that there may be food in my house. And test me now in this, says the Lord of hosts, if I will not open for you the windows of heaven and pour out for you a blessing until it overflows Then I will rebuke the devourer for you, so that it will not destroy the fruits of the ground, nor will your vine in the field cast its grapes, says the Lord of hosts. All the nations will call you blessed, for you shall be a delightful land, says the Lord of hosts. Punctuated by that, says the Lord of hosts This scripture follows the usual pattern we've seen in Malachi up till now, if you've been with us. First, there's some kind of a charge God makes rather bluntly to his people It's uh followed by a question from the people challenging that the charge is true. They're oblivious to their sin. And then it's followed by a direct statement of what that is in the proof, and then even more evidence to follow. This time The issue is the sin of robbing God, how in not paying their tithes and in their offerings. That seems pretty clear, doesn't it? The Lord does not let his people evade the issue of money. He forces them to gaze at themselves, take a look, and evaluate their practice Because giving is part of the Christian faith. It's part of what the church is about, giving. Giving is a Vital connection to us and God. God gives to us, and we are to give back to God. Our money and our giving is within the right of God to command, it's within his purview. Since we have seen and followed the textual pattern in our messages before, rather than repeating that as our outline for today, I know that outline undergirds what we're saying, but I would like us to hear the heart of the passage and instead today take the truth of this passage and extract some principles, really very basic principles about giving over this week and probably next as well. I'm going to teach from this passage and give you four basic reasons. For that we should give offerings to God. And you're going to hear these and they're going to be so simple. I doubt you're going to learn anything new, but I pray it will hit all of our hearts in a new way. Because sometimes the best things we can hear are things we've heard before, but we haven't really heard them the way we need to hear them. You know what I mean? So let the Lord speak to you about your giving and about your heart as we consider each of these four reasons. I'm going to give them to you as we go. That way you have to come back next week for all of it. Okay. First reason we should give is giving shows our faith in God. That's really a no-brainer, isn't it? Giving shows our faith in God. I want you to go back to verse 6. And see what it says. And really we were going to include this in our last week's message, but it's a transitional verse, so it swings either way. It writes, therefore, I the Lord do not change, therefore you, O sons of Jacob, are not consumed. That punctuates What was written in verses one through five, namely that God promised to send the Messiah because of their complaints about lack of justice at the end of chapter two there He was going to send the Messiah to judge the world. The result would be something much more severe than they ever thought when they complained that he was not showing his justice. There would be much cleansing of the nation of Israel, a purging of the nation The tribulation time is hinted at there. And there would also be the extermination of sinners themselves, sins that were listed in verse five But the promise for the nation was this, even though the severity is coming on the world, after it's done with, the nation of Israel will still stand. God does not change, so the sons of Israel are not consumed, is a point God's unchanging character preserves the nation. But this verse I say, verse 6, also swings into our topic today in verses 7 through 12. And the issue of Israel's unfaithfulness in giving. God does not change, and because he does not change, God is faithful. Men or not, God is, right? But even when they are unfaithful, even when they don't do what they ought to do, he calls them back to himself because he remains faithful. That's where we learn one reason for our giving to God. We give to God because He is faithful. He is the faithful, unchanging protector and rock in every last one of our lives. No one in here can play the role of God for one another. He alone is that rock. You know, so often people want to lean on someone that they love, lean on their family, lean on someone that they think is just so noble in character. But we all fail one another at some time. But God never fails. He's the rock. He's the solid. He's the constant We use the big word immutability, God's immutability, and thus inspires our worship, inspires our devotion, inspires, yes, our giving, right? We give because he's there. Everything in creation changes. People change. You know that. Countries change. Seems like our country's changing. Angels change. They're not permanently static. Mountains eventually change. Even the solar system changes. We lost a planet. We no longer have Pluto, I hear. It got downgraded. God is not part of creation. He doesn't change. God was never created. No one sat down and said, you know what, we're going to make God. Because if they did, they'd be God. Nothing formed God. He didn't come out of fairy dust. So how did he get there? He didn't get there. He just is there. We call this the assayety of God or the self-existence of God. Listen to Psalm 90, verse 2. Before the mountains were born, or you gave birth to the earth and the world, even from everlasting to everlasting, you are God. So we can't, you know, but I know but when did God begin? Well he didn't begin. I know but how did he get started? He didn't get started. I know but how does that work? I don't know. But he is not even in time, so you can't even talk about time controlling him. Psalm 102. We read it. Of old you founded the earth, and the heavens are the work of your hands Even they will perish, but you endure. All of them will wear out like a garment. Long before the Big Bang Theory, by the way. Like clothing you will change them, and they will be changed, but you are the same You are the same, and your years will not come to an end. Everything about God is the same. God's name remains. God's person remains. God's character does not change. James chapter 1, verse 17. Listen to this. He calls God, James calls God the Father of lights. With whom there's no variation or shifting shadow, not even a little flicker of change from a candle at nighttime on the wall. You know how the candle flickers and the shadows change? Not even that much of a change in God Numbers chapter 23, verse 19, just to add some cross-references. God is not a man that he should lie, nor a son of man that he should repent, has he said, and will he not do it? Or has he spoken and will he not make it good God's word is unchangeable, right? Not only God, but what comes out of his mouth can't change. He says it, and the purpose for which he sent it will be accomplished. It will never fail. That's why we defend the inerrancy of Scripture, the infallibility of Scripture, the trustworthiness of Scripture, the sufficiency and efficacy of Scripture, because it's from his breath, his mouth. That's what Scripture is God's changelessness, God's constancy is a vital tenant of our Christian faith. Contra the openness of God False doctrine, the processed theologians of the day. God is not growing, God is not adapting, God is not learning, the king of heaven is immutable. That is very good news for the nation of Israel. Why is there even a nation of Israel study? Why is it even there? Think about that. For all of you that struggle with reading prophecy literally, why is it even there? It's there because God has made a promise and it came back. God worked through providence and brought that nation back. Are they godly now? No. Is God still good and faithful? Yes So this is very good. That means they will not be consumed. Tried, chastised, severely, scattered through the nations, yes, then brought back. And God has a future surprise for the world. The sons of Jacob, of course, refer to the physical descendants of Jacob. That's what it means. Biological Israel. To interpret that any other way is to just twist words. God will keep his promise to that nation. In fact, God emphatically declares his loyalty to that one country. Deuteronomy chapter 4, verse 31. For the Lord your God is a compassionate God, he will not fail you, nor destroy you, nor forget the covenant with your fathers which he swore to them. Do you hear something there? That's not alterable. Okay? God has undying loyalty to the nation of Israel. And because God is unchanging, the Israelites will not be consumed in God's wrath in the end time. God is not a replacement theologian. He did not create the church to replace Israel. In the present age, of course, he's working through the church more than Israel. He's not going to renege on his promises to Israel, though. Not only is this truth clearly and repeatedly spelled out in the Old Testament, it is reaffirmed in the Gospels by Jesus Himself to the Israelites, and it is clearly taught in Romans chapter 11, where it says the gifts and the callings of God in that context to Israel Are irrevocable. And after a severe time of purging the nation of Israel, it says will be saved The unfaithfulness of Israel does not trump the immutable promises of God. Second Timothy 2, verse 13. If we, talking about the church, are faithless, God remains what? Faithful. Why? For he cannot deny himself. He cannot change. He cannot deny himself. Now let's relate that to us in the church. We too in the church as believers can rejoice that God does not change. What God promised that we would collect, are we going to collect it? I'm looking forward to the collection. You know what I mean? You think about all the things that you would like to have, think about, don't covet though And I don't know if I'm gonna get that and there's rich sinners out there and they seem to be enjoying the good life, the American dream or whatever, and you wonder, Well I get it, listen to this. We have been promised. 1 Peter 1 verse 4, to obtain an inheritance. You have an inheritance coming. And it's not a rich uncle, it's a rich brother in the Lord Jesus Christ who's going to share it with you. And a rich daddy, that's true. We are going to obtain an inheritance which is, I like to know what the inheritance is. Here's the description of it, imperishable. And undefiled and will not fade away, reserved in heaven for you. That's a promise to you if you're a believer. Isn't that wonderful? Ephesians chapter 1 verse 14 even says that the Holy Spirit has been given to us living inside of us as a pledge or a down payment of the future inheritance that is to come. How do I know I'm going to get it? Answer You got a little bit of a smidgen of it when you got the indwelling Holy Spirit, that's the guarantee, the pledge that you're going to get all of the rest. That's God saying, I put my Holy Spirit in your heart so you know I'm not lying to you God so guaranteed our future, not presence, not your best life now, your future inheritance. He gave us the Holy Spirit at that first installment. We will join Israel in the future promises all given through the new covenant, both to Israel and the Church. God does what he says. Do you believe that? God is the constant in your life. Do you believe that? Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today, and what? Forever. Your friends may desert you. That's sad. Your family may neglect you. That's sadder. Your church may fail you. Your country may disappear. The mountains may wash into the sea. The climate may change. I'm personally hoping for a warmer climate. I don't know why that's a bad thing. The sun may burn all of its energy out, but the living God is your light and your salvation forever and ever and ever. What value do you place on this God in your life? I think the answer to that question is in your giving. It's in your giving. Of course, there's more to our relationship with God than the fact that He is unchanging. There's also something that motivates our giving there related to our relationship with Him. Look at verse 7. From the days of your fathers, and I was talking to Israel, you have turned aside from my statutes and have not kept them. Return to me. There's an invitation and a command. Return to me, and I will return to you, says the Lord of hosts. So the Israelites had this bad habit, and we know it because we picked up the Bible and we began reading and we hear about the law in Exodus and then we're in Numbers and we see them rebelling and then we go to Joshua and we see them being somewhat unfaithful and then the judges it really gets bad and in kings it's up and down, but mostly down, right? Then they don't keep the statutes But they were supposed to keep the statutes, right? I mean I could bore you with verses on keeping the statutes. I mean I could I could spend the next hour on verses on keep the statutes. Let me just give you some. Deuteronomy 4. 1. Now, O Israel, listen to the statutes. There's that same word again. And the judgments which I am teaching you to perform, so that you may live and go on and take possession of the land which the Lord the God of your fathers is giving to you. I give you the land, keep the statutes. Simple. Deuteronomy 5, verse 1. Then Moses summoned all of Israel and said to them, Hear, O Israel, the statutes and the ordinances which I'm speaking today in your hearing, that you may learn them and observe them carefully. It's not hard to understand, is it? Chapter 8, verse 11 of Deuteronomy. Beware that you do not forget the Lord your God by not keeping his commandments and his ordinances and his statutes. Which I am commanding you today. You got the idea. Over and over and over again. Keep the statutes, obey the laws, do the commandments. It's not rocket science. Kids were standing there. The kids got it. So when he says they turned aside, what is that? They didn't keep the statutes. They forgot. They didn't listen. They weren't careful. They just, in the assembly, they must have just nodded their head. But they didn't have a determination in their heart. They go back and they just let's just live life the way we want to live That's how sometimes we are in church. Come in, you're like, oh, that's nice, that's fun, crack a joke, entertain me. That's nice, I agree with that. But we go home, we don't we don't have a determination or heart to do something about it. That's not listening to the word of God properly That's disobedience. Not being careful to do what we're supposed to do. It's being heedless. We abandon when someone completely abandons the way of the Lord, we call that apostasy. And they've been doing this for a while, for it says from the days of your fathers. This shows how long suffering God was with Israel. You might think, yes, those lousy, lousy Israelites They sure tried the patience of God. I get really angry reading my Bible sometimes at those Israelites. And still God is there helping them. Can you believe that? Those poor, miserable slimes that they were And look, they're so ungrateful they didn't even bring their tithes and their offerings to the Lord. Ah, but that has a little bit of a boomerang effect to it, does it not? Here's the rub. How often does God tell us to obey, and we disobey? Let me give you an example. 1 Peter 1:14. As obedient children, uh-oh, do not be conformed to the former lusts which were yours in your ignorance. Those of you going back in the former lusts. Or acting as if you never learned anything from God. But like the Holy One who called you, be holy yourselves also in some of your behavior. Some of you are laughing, some of you aren't. Doesn't say some, does it? What does it say? All your behavior. Of course, then we ask for forgiveness, and God is gracious, and God gives us forgiveness. Isn't that wonderful? And still, just like the Israelites, after being forgiven again and again, after being obstinate and being disobedient and not listening to the commandments, we come back in the church and we give our skimpy offerings. Because we're not all that grateful for our forgiveness either. I wish I were talking to you today about your giving of time. Because some of you do just fine in giving your money. Ah, but your time is more precious to you than your money. And you don't give your time to serve the Lord. But that's for another day. Today is about the money. You know, I know that uh hope book is a great tool for the fellowship of the church. Notice we use it uh kind of spontaneously and well in giving away a number of the items that we think let's just share this with other folks in the church. I don't need any more, let's go ahead and give that away. And uh I'm glad for that. I I do that myself. In fact, I avail myself of some of those items and we share that. Uh it's kind of a neat way of fellowshipping and sharing with one another. It's a good service. I hope it continues My mother though taught me a little something about gift giving. And that is this, that you should you should give your best. You should give your best. I know the difference between a gift of convenience and a gift given because somebody is really loved. When you see that someone takes time to make something for you, you know that they were thinking about you while they were making that gift, right? Or you see that they searched for a really nice gift that's kind of hard to find in the stores, but they got it for you. When you get it, you kind of perk up a little bit and you're like, you know about that one. You're like, wow, they bought that for you? It means a little something extra, doesn't it? Where they wrote you the nicest card. It wasn't scribbled Best wishes, have a happy birthday, but gave some thought to it and you read it and you're like, man, this took some time. This took some thought. This is a nice gift. It's thoughtful, we say. The gift costs them something. And then they wrap it up all special like and you're like I can never wrap all that nicely. But they wrap it up all that nicely And then you get it and you're like, you almost don't even want to assault the poor package. You know, it's been a lot of thought has gone into this. You just want to look at it and take pictures with it and not open it up But they've given you the best, and when you get one of those gifts like that, you know inside of you this person values you. Yes? Am I speaking to you? Do you understand what I'm saying? Isn't that true? They gave the best. That is why your giving of your offerings to the Lord in church matters. It's one of the clearest examples of how much you actually Treasure the Lord Himself. How much do you treasure His boundless forgiveness in your life? Your giving tells. How much God actually means to you versus how much it means to you to drive the nicer new car, to have the nicer home, the suave clothes, the cutting-edge phone. The cool sneakers, impressive China dishes, and yes, even that golden American cow, the highest and best education for your children You pay for the things you actually value. You know that, right? Do you value your relationship with the Lord? Your actual budget, your actual expenditures, not the uh good and good intentions, but your actual expenditures reveals your, well I'll put it this way, your actual heart And your actual priorities. That's what it reveals. What do they always say? Put your money where your mouth is. Well, our mouths are here on Sunday morning, and I hear your mouth saying, Great is the Lord. And I'm joining you in saying that because I think that's what our mouth should say. But is this true of us? Do we put our money where our mouth really is? Isn't this really what Jesus taught so simply in the Sermon on the Mount? He said it, and it was It was convicting and embarrassing then, and it's convicting and embarrassing now. He said, Do not store up for yourselves treasures on earth where moth and rust destroy And where thieves break in and steal, but store up for yourselves treasures in heaven where neither moth nor rust destroys, and where thieves do not break in or steal, for where your treasure is, there your heart will be also Despite all of their turning away from God and our turning away from God, God continued to pursue them and to invite them back. Return to me, come back to me, he called Some of you need to come back to God. You've been wandering from God. You need to come back, a decisive decision in your heart. You need to humble yourself and recognize you've made the world your priority, and he's giving you an invitation. Return to Him not just with weeping or regrets, but with a real repentance heart. Return is repentance. Repentance is a turning of the mind, resulting in a turning of one's life Turn back, God says. Turn back. The way you're going leads to destruction. Turn back. That's the constant call of the Old Testament prophets. Repentance is turning, but it's turning back to the Lord. It goes along with faith. You turn from what you're pursuing back to God. See? Repentance is not regretting all your failures in the past. I've lived such a miserable life. That's not repentance. You can do that. That's called regret. If it's a godly star, it will lead to repentance, right? 2 Corinthians. Repentance is actually changing your mind, trusting in the mercy of God, and coming back in your actions, changing your behavior. Judas regretted his betrayal of Christ and he went out and hung himself. He never repented. And he's now in eternal judgment. Peter truly repented of his cowardice and he turned back to the Lord. Repentance is seen in Isaiah 55. Verses six and seven. Seek the Lord while he may be found. Call upon him while he is near. Let the wicked forsake his way. See, that's repentance. And let the unrighteous man forsake his thoughts, and let him return to the Lord, and the Lord will have compassion on him. And to our God, for he will abundantly pardon. Could have been meditating on that verse that the whole parable of the prodigal son was written. Those who truly repent and turn to God will perform deeds appropriate to repentance. Matthew chapter 3, verse 8. Notice, return What does that mean? I will return to you. When God says, I will return to you, and he's talking to the nation. What does that mean? That means not that God went somewhere, that he's hiding on some star and he didn't pay any attention to the nation at all. He means he's going to return to him with the promised blessings that were part of the covenant that he had with the nation. The nation was to obey. If they did that, he'd bring the blessing. He would return to them. He would protect them. He would make their land prosperous. Unfortunately, today multitudes have sought to turn to the Lord Jesus Christ without ever turning from their sins. They want Jesus to save them, but they just keep clinging to all their sins and their practices and their evil mindset. They just want a little religion in with that, but you've got to let go of your sins if you want Christ. That's called repentance, if you want to be saved. And again, notice it's guaranteed by the Lord of hosts. He is the one who says it. His power makes sure that it's done. This, brothers and sisters, is electing love, that God keeps pursuing his people. And he keeps pursuing us. It's that faithful, generous, electing kind of love. A love that never will quit. A love that will never let go. A love that will never say, enough, I'm done with these people. Jesus told us that the devil comes only to steal and kill and destroy. You notice how opposite it is with God? Jesus comes to restore and heal and strengthen and bind relationships. Return to me and I will return to you. When you are looking for a compelling reason for you to give up the money that you own And give it to God in offerings. It really shouldn't start anywhere else than you have a relationship with God where He has forgiven all of your sins through His Son. Here's the amazing new truth that I want you to learn today. You've probably never heard it before. For God so loved the world. That he gave his only begotten son, that whoever believes in him should not perish, finish it for me. But have everlasting life. That's a compelling reason for us to give back to God. Would you agree? Go directly to your relationship with God through Jesus. Has He not saved your eternal soul Has he not called you his very own child and promised you an inheritance? When you need answers to prayer, does he not incline his ear to you? Does he not deliver you from sin? Does he not put up with your foolishness and your stubbornness? Is he not there for you? His word never fails. So give What else do you need to hear? Pack it up, go home. Give. Give thankfully. Give generously. Give cheerfully. Give Giving is an act of faith in God. It's connected to our relationship with Him. Alright, now back to the text. Notice it involves next a return to the Lord by giving the money. That's what we're applying here in the passage. But you say, how shall we return? Now we lead to our second reason for giving to God, and that is that giving is not only connected with our relationship to God, our faith in God, but giving honors God. In verse 8, giving honors God. We might say not giving dishonors God. But giving honors God. Verse 8, will a man rob God? This is the answer to how should we return? We don't really see ourselves as all the best. How shall we return? Will a man rob God yet you, Israel? You are robbing me, God says Now, please understand that God was not saying that withholding tithes and offerings was Israel's only sin, or even their greatest sin But it was a clear example of their turning away from God and not keeping the statutes they were supposed to keep. So it was equivalent with robbing God. Little verb there in Hebrew to rob in verse 8 is used only here in the Old Testament and in Proverbs 22, 23. It just means to defraud, to rob, or to overreach and take what is not yours So, this question in verse 8 really might seem a little bit absurd. Will a man rob God? I don't think that any man actually can rob God, can he? How would you rob God? God owns everything. So even if you could take something from him, which you actually can't, Wherever you took it and put it, it still would be his. You put it in the ground, he can find it, and it's his. You stick it in a bank, he can withdraw it, and it's his. So then, adding to the seeming absurdity of all of this, since God doesn't need anything anyway, why are we even bothering with worrying about robbing God? He has everything that he needs, he doesn't need anything. Excuse me. There's nothing that he needs. Why would we even be worrying about robbing God? Yet the passage says that robbing God is a distinct possibility. In fact, they were doing it. It's pretty plain, isn't it? You are robbing me. That's about as blunt as the Word of God gets. You are robbing me. In the process, you're doing it right now. Typical denials follow. Middle part of verse 8. But do you say, how have we robbed you? That's not an innocent question, you understand, right? The the question was direct, so the answer comes direct. The latter part of Verse 8, and then we'll be moving into verse 9. In tithes and offerings. Wow, that's a lot. How do you rob me? In tithes and offerings. Well that's short. That's simple. Okay. But people aren't getting something. It helps to be blunt sometimes. You are robbing God when you don't give what you're supposed to give, God. So the Lord is censuring their lack of giving. Of course, a robbery can only take place if somebody owns something. It's not really theirs. Someone will argue that's not a robbery. That was a mine. And there would be a dispute. But God says, It's mine, and you robbed me of it. So there's a robbery that's taken place Randy Alcorn in his little book, The Treasure Principle, which is a great follow-up to this sermon series here if you want a little something to read, The Treasure Principle. says God was and is the owner of everything. He even owns me. God never evoked his ownership, never surrendered his claim to all treasures. That's pretty blunt One of the commentators writes this. The idea of robbing God also shows that the people had the wrong idea about their property and their possessions. They thought that they owned what they had. You might be saying, yeah, that's what I think too. Uh-uh Whereas, in fact, they were God's stewards of all their possessions. If we think we own all we have, then we are naturally reluctant to part with any of it. If we think that God owns all that we have, then we're free to give it away on God's behalf. Being God's steward to give or to keep is an immense privilege. We can see that the people made the easy mistake of valuing the gifts of God more than God, the giver of the gift. So when they did not get the gifts that they wanted from God, they turned against the giver. We try to teach children to pay more attention to the people who give them the gifts than to the gifts themselves. And then he concludes this way: perhaps we still have to learn the same lesson. So giving is an obligation that we have toward God. We owe God. We give why? Because it's proper that we show honor to God. God made us. God is our creator. Everything that we have, including ourselves, belongs to God. And then He gives us many good things that we do not even deserve. We complain about We don't even deserve the life that we have that we walk upon this earth. So it is dishonoring for us to withhold our giving from the Lord. Now, in terms of the Old Testament And the way the old covenant arrangement was, let's color this in a little bit so you can see why they were being told that they were robbing God The Israelites were in covenant with God, they were commanded to obey the law of Moses. In return for their obedience, God would provide riches, he would provide safety for the nation, he would keep The nation healed. This was really a big deal. This was what their relationship was. This was what the old covenant was about. And it's all stated in Exodus chapter 19 and chapter 20. It's reaffirmed in Deuteronomy, the second giving of the law. The Israelites were required. Required in this arrangement to give money and give crops and animals and of their physical increase. The giving of the old covenant involved both required giving and voluntary giving, tithes and offerings. The tithe simply means a tenth of what you earn. That's a tithe. So in today's currency, if you made $1,000, a tithe is $100. It's that simple. Voluntary tithing began before Moses, before the law of Moses was even enacted. We read in the life of Abraham that he paid a tithe of his war booty after rescuing his nephew Lot. And he paid it to a priest of the Most High God named Melchizedek. However, it was not commanded of Abraham that he do this. He did it out of his own free will, and as far as we know, it wasn't a regular tithe. It was just from that one time. Jacob also has said in Genesis to pay a tithe as a free will offering. He did it of his own heart, his own idea, Genesis chapter 28 and verse 22. After this, then the law of Moses came along, and it set up giving. Not just with one tithe commanded, but with three tithes commanded. One tithe was the general tithe. That was to be given to the tribe of Levi, who also took care of the priests, and it's talked about in a number of places, but Leviticus twenty seven and verse thirty mentions it This tithe was 10%, a 10% tax, you might say, taxation, used to supply the needs of the Levites. Why? Because the Levites had no livelihoods, they received no territory when they came into the land. when Moses divided up the land among the twelve tribes. So it was mandatory that they gave to the Levitical tribe their crops and their animals. A tenth. If they did not do this, they would be robbing God, for the Levites served God Dr. MacArthur in his book, Whose Money Is It Anyway, writes this. Deuteronomy 12, verses 10 through 11 and 17 through 18 refer to a second annual tithe that the Israelites had to pay. He was ordaining support for all of the national religious festivals, the ceremonial feasts and celebrations such as the Passover. The second tithe was for the sake of the Jews' national religious worship. And it also promoted national unity and fellowship. So there were two ties. That total is what? 20%. And then there was the third, but the third was done every three years, according to Deuteronomy chapter 14, verses 28 and 29. So it really amounted per year as a third of a tithe, 3. 333%. It was called the poor tax because it provided for the care of the alien, the care for the orphan and the widow who were living in the land. So this folded not ten percent giving, this totaled twenty-three point three percent of annual giving and earnings. Now you're about to freak out right now, I know. Because you think I'm about to say you should be giving 23. 3% of your money to the church. No, I'm not. It's hard to compare this to what we should give to church because their giving included what we would call taxes. That was their country. And of course, this is voluntary giving what we do. Israel was a nation, it was a theocracy, and as a nation, they had a government and it had to be supported. The Israelites also had other minor taxes, by the way, just mentioned them briefly. One was also related to the poor, leaving the corners of their fields for the poor to glean. so that they could be harvested or picking up all of the grapes that would fall to the ground during the harvest, so again the poor could pick up on that. Dr. MacArthur calls that a profit sharing tax Ruth was gleaning in the fields because of this arrangement as well. Also, there was a small tax for the care of the temple that came along later. And every seven years the farmland was to be left fallow and not cultivated so that they would have to trust to God in the sixth year and the eighth year to provide all that they needed in their crops. Some have calculated now that all of this came to a little over twenty-five percent of their annual income That was required giving. Voluntary giving came on top of that. Voluntary giving was not commanded in every way, it was prescribed how to do it. But the percentages and all of that were not commanded. In Numbers chapter 18 and verse 12, it describes the principle of giving according to first fruits. It says they are all the best of the fresh oil and all the best of the fresh wine and of the grain, the first fruits of those So you would grow something and you would take the first and the best and give that to the Lord as a free will offering. Voluntary giving of first fruits sets the standard for our New Covenant, New Testament kind of giving. We also pay our taxes, I hope. I mean I don't hope to pay the taxes. I mean I hope all of us are paying our taxes. But we pay our taxes, and then beyond that, we give to the Lord of the first of what we make, to honor God, to show our faith in God. We're to shave the best off the top. Bring the cream of the crop, so to say, the first fruits to God. Not to ourselves, not to savings, not to our vacation plan, but to God. How can you practice this? Take the top off your income, of course. That's what you do. First, before anything else, consider it gods. This is voluntary. This is what I would like to do, to take off the top, the first, before I see how my bills are going to be paid, before I give anything to myself, my family, my kids, my wife, I give it to the one I value the highest and treasure the most, the Lord my God. That, beloved, honors God as having first place in your life. I would say that anything short of that dishonors God because he will not take second place. And if he takes second place in the way your family budget is, you are dishonoring God. Yes, it's free will giving because it's not required by law. Yes, it's an expression of your heart, but if your heart doesn't express that, in what way do you really believe in God and honor God? You know, the New Testament does not set 10% as a command or even a norm as to what to give. There is no give 10% command in the New Testament. It's not there. And those who promote that as the standard and the only standard are not understanding either the old covenant where twenty-five percent was given, not ten percent, nor are they understanding the new covenant where it's all free will offering. The New Testament really gives us the standard in 2 Corinthians, if you would turn there into the New Testament and look at that passage. Past Romans and 1 Corinthians, obviously, is 2 Corinthians 9 and verse 6. And verses six and seven, let's just kinda go a little bit here. Now, this I say, he who sows sparingly will also reap sparingly, and he who sows bountifully will also reap bountifully. It's just the law of the farmer. If you want a big crop, you've got to sow a lot. And so that's the point. Verse 7, each one must do just as he has purposed in his heart. So what is giving in the new covenant supposed to be? It's supposed to be purposed in the heart. It's something you don't just haphazardly do. You think about it and you decide, this is what I want to give to God. It's purposed, right? And then it goes on not grudgingly. You don't put in it and go, oh rats, I didn't mean to give that much I really wish I had that back. Now I can't do this. That's grudging giving. That does not honor God. Imagine giving a gift to somebody, and they could tell that you didn't really want to give it to them. And they're kind of looking at it like, maybe you'll offer it back. If I saw someone looking at like that there like they really want to think, yeah, take it back. I don't really want it. I don't want you staring over my shoulder, you know, burning me with your eyes. And then he says, nor under compulsion. And that's why We can't require that from you as a church. Now we're going to talk about the needs of the church and how the local church works and all of that next next time. I want you to hear that because that should be part of your consideration. But then it goes on and says, For God loves a cheerful giver. Now God loves everybody in one sense, but here he's got a special love for the cheerful giver And God is able to make all grace abound to you so that always having all sufficiency in everything, you may have an abundance for every good work. There's so much all and everything in abundance in that one verse, it blows my mind You can take a whole week to try to meditate on what is that verse saying? It's saying basically that everything that you need, God's going to take care of. And he says that as a promise, not to just everybody, but to the person who decides to what? Give. But what happens if I give? Who's going to take care of me? Verse 8. Verse 8, there it is. That doesn't look like a long-term savings plan. It's verse 8. It's there. Read it. And there's the New Testament standard for giving in a nutshell. It's to be proportionate, it's to be cheerful, it's to be free from the heart. So let's not be like those lousy Israelites to arriving God in the Old Testament of what was required of them, referring probably to those required giving there. I'm sure they looked at their situation in Jerusalem, we've noted that it wasn't really all that good of an economic situation back in the land after the time of the exile and and and the temple didn't look all that well and their living standard wasn't all that good and they probably said something like, you know, we don't have all that much. Our house doesn't look all that good. We really need a new one of those, and we need to fix that. We really can't bring God what He commanded us to bring. And that's how they reasoned. Isn't that how sometimes you reason? But if I give that, then I won't be able to And so God comes, not second, but if you're honest, not even third. Sometimes giving to him is way, well, what's left over at the end of the month? 50 bucks, great. Great. See Lord, I'm giving. Yeah, he sees. He sees how you're giving. He sees the heart that led to that kind of giving. Proverbs 3, 9 and 10 says, Honor the Lord from your wealth and from the first of all your produce. So your barns will be filled with plenty. Now if you don't have barns, you're going to have to think about that a little bit. And your vats will overflow with new wine. That doesn't mean you can get drunk, by the way. It just means God gives you plenty. We should see giving as an act of worship. Hello. Worship is telling God he's worth something. I know that some people are leery of the whole church talking about money and collecting it all of that. Some won't even pass the plate of worship because they're like they don't want money to be involved in the worship service at all. I understand the concern with all of the prosperity preachers and the manipulation of money and all of that. I understand that concern, but giving Is the essence of worship. We should never take the giving of money or time or anything else out of worship. Giving, in fact, is essential to worship. If you're not giving, you're not worshiping You cannot honor God if you don't give. To come and sing only and take only and listen only and talk only is not worship. You're sitting there, you're not worshiping. Worship involves giving. Worship involves sacrifice. In the temple in Jerusalem, there's a place where people can give money as they worship. Though the animals were in short supply, obviously coming out of the ark after the flood. Genesis 8:20 says, Then Noah built an altar to the Lord and took of every clean animal and of every clean bird and offered burnt offerings on the altar. Something that cost him something. Abraham was told to worship by taking his son, his only son Isaac, and offer him on the altar in Moriah. That cost him something. When the wise men showed up and found the incarnate God baby in front of them, they brought something. What did they bring? Gold and frankincense and myrrh to worship. Mary of Bethany poured out an extremely expensive jar of perfumed oil on the feet of Christ as an act of adoration and worship that Christ counted as preparation for his burial. The Jerusalem church collected monies at the feet of the apostles to pass out as people had need in Acts four and five. The early Gentile church used the first day of the week to set aside a collection for those in Israel. who were Jewish believers and were going through a famine. First Corinthians sixteen. We too should bring money from the first of our earnings to honor the one who has given us hands. Used your hands to go out. You have a job. You've used those hands. You earned money with it. You have eyes, you have ears, you have breath, you have strength, you have shoulders, you have a back and you have feet, you have all of that that God has provided. He gave that to you, and from that you earned money. Of course you bring it back. We live here in America and we have so much. This nation has been so privileged and so honored, but it does not give thanks to God. It does not give thanks to God through Jesus Christ. We as believers in Jesus Christ Should of all people be the ones who are leading the way and showing this is how you honor God. You bring your money, you bring your life, you bring your offerings to Him Instead, we honor ourselves and buy the nicest clothes so we can stand and look good before men. The kind of cars that turn heads on the highway. Travel to the nicest places to honor our families and our kids' memories. Do we have the same sense or even greater sense that we should be honoring? The Lord our God. It's my prayer that we will. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this meditation today and your word and pray we would respond. In heart, not out of compulsion, for we know and have heard you love a cheerful giver. Amen.