Well, as we continue our worship by focusing our minds on the Word of God, I would invite you to take your Bible with me and turn to John chapter 3. John chapter three for this message entitled Why People Hate Jesus. Realize that's a bit of a strong title, but it rises right from the text and Here we have Jesus teach us clear truth that is hard to accept, but we have to understand it. Our text for today is John 3, 19 to 21, and this is the conclusion of Jesus' revelation of divine truth to Nicodemus. And in this passage, Jesus reveals the underlying reason that people reject him. There might be all kinds of life circumstances or personal factors that uh influence a person's rejection of Christ, but when you peel back the layers, at the heart of rejection, Jesus teaches us, is that people love the darkness and they hate the light. For the sake of context, I want to read starting in verse 16. So please follow along as I read John 3:16 to 21. For God so loved the world that he gave his only son, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him. Whoever believes in the Son is not condemned, but whoever does not believe is condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of the only Son of God. And this is the judgment. The light has come into the world, and people loved the darkness rather than the light, because their works were evil. For everyone who does wicked things hates the light, and does not come to the light, lest his work should be exposed. But whoever does what is true comes to the light, so that it may be clearly seen that his works have been carried out in God. Let's pray as we begin. Our Father, with this text open before us, we submit our hearts and our minds to what the Spirit would teach us today. Open our hearts, illumine our minds, show us Christ. Sanctify us by the truth because your word is truth. We ask today that you would Give sight to blind eyes and hearing to deaf ears and life to dead souls And we ask that because we believe that you, only you, Holy Spirit, have the power to save and sanctify. And so we pray that you would do it for the glory of Christ. In his name we pray. Amen. Why do people hate Jesus? I mean, Jesus is the greatest man that ever lived. He's the only human being that never sinned. He never did anything wrong. He had no character flaws. He had no awkward or annoying quirks. He had no idiosyncrasies that bothered people. He treated everyone with kindness and love. He always spoke the truth. He revealed divine truth He offered living water to thirsty souls, and he satisfied hungry spirits. He healed the sick, he restored broken limbs, he cast out demons, he raised the dead. He miraculously fed thousands of people on multiple occasions with nothing more than a single meal. He spoke against false religion, against oppressing the poor and the vulnerable. He was the ultimate manifestation of grace and love and patience and mercy and kindness. Why in the world would anybody hate someone like that? How could anyone possibly hate Jesus? Well, Matthew Henry says it best. Christ is hated because sin is loved. Christ is hated because sin is loved. Well, what is sin? Sin is anything that's contrary to the nature and the character of God. In other words, sin is everything that God is not, and nothing that God is. God is love, sin is hate. God is gracious, sin is vindictive. God is merciful, sin is merciless. God is patient. Sin is quick to anger. God is just. Sin is unjust. God is measured and controlled and sin is explosive. God is generous and sin is stingy. God always seeks the good of others. Sin is always self-seeking. God is self-sacrificial. Sin is self-preserving. God's ways always produce joy and freedom and peace. And sin's ways always produce guilt and shame and anxiety. God is a healer. Sin is a cancer God aims to kill sin in us. And the sin in us aims to kill God. And yet, Christ is hated because sin is loved. That's what we see in our text today. Specifically, we learn that from this revelation of Jesus Christ that there are three reasons people reject the glorious gospel of Jesus Christ. First, they reject Jesus because of what they love. We see that in verse 19. People reject Jesus because of what they love. Second, we see that people reject Jesus because of what they fear. See that in verse 20. People reject Jesus because of what they fear. And third, they reject Christ because of who they serve. We see that in verse 21. People reject Christ because of who they serve. Let's begin with the first. People reject Jesus because of what they love. Look at verse 19 with me. Jesus says, and this is the judgment. The light has come into the world, and people love the darkness rather than the light because their works were evil. Why do people reject the glorious gospel of Jesus Christ? Well, it's because they love the darkness. They love their sin. They do evil and they love it. And that enslavement to the darkness creates a hatred for the light of Christ. This is what Jesus teaches here in verse 19. Notice that he begins with the words, and this is the judgment. In verses 16 to 18, Jesus has just proclaimed the glorious good news that God loved the world by sending his only son so that anyone who believes on him would not perish, but have eternal life. The eternal, the glorious God who made all things, who is over all things, to whom we owe our thanks and our praise and our submission He gave up his throne and left the splendor of his majestic heaven, excuse me, to take upon himself a human body and a human nature. And he walked among us, he experienced all of the things that you and I experienced, and then he gave himself over to death to serve as a substitute for sinners. He received upon himself at the cross the wrath of God, and he satisfied God's justice. And now he offers forgiveness and eternal life to any who would believe in him and come under his gracious rule. So salvation from condemnation is made available and proclaimed to all people. But most don't accept it. They reject it. The majority of people have no interest in this extraordinary gift that God gives Why? Well, in saying this is the judgment, Jesus is saying, here is why people are condemned despite The offer of forgiveness. This is why people are judged. And so he goes on to say: notice, the light has come into the world. This, of course, refers to the coming of Jesus the Messiah into the world. This calls us back to the introduction of John's Gospel, where John said in chapter one, verses four to nine. In him that is in Christ, in the Word, was life, and the life was the light of men. The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it. There was a man sent from God whose name was John. His name, or he came as a witness to bear witness about the light, that all might believe through him. He was not the light, but he came to bear witness about the light. The true light, he says, which gives light to everyone, was coming into the world. Here in chapter 3, Jesus Is picking up on that theme, or rather, the order is reversed. John brought that into the introduction because of what Jesus says here, as well as in John chapter 8, where Jesus declares of himself, I am the light of the world. But even Jesus himself didn't invent this title for himself. He he drew from the Old Testament's teaching And the use of light and darkness to refer to spiritual reality. So consider what the Old Testament says and why Jesus would ascribe this to himself. Light, by its very nature, gives life. Scientifically, we know that light is one of the essential requirements for the existence of life And that is as true spiritually as it is physically. In a cry of desperation, David cried out. to the Lord, pleading, saying in Psalm 13, 3, Light up my eyes, lest I sleep the sleep of death. And his his pain and sorrow were so intense that they had blocked out the light of God in his life. And so he he pleads for God to grant life-giving light to his eyes so that he can see God rightly and not die in despair. The Apostle Paul in the New Testament describes this Life generating work of the Spirit in 2 Corinthians 4. 6. He says, For God, who said, Let light shine out of darkness has shone into our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. And notice how the light of the glory of God is knowledge. Knowledge that is only found in Scripture. And so Psalm 19, 9 says, the commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes. So light gives life. The converse of that is true also. Darkness refers, describes death. Psalm 143. 3 says, For the enemy has pursued my soul, he's crushed my life to the ground, he's made me sit in darkness like those long dead. The psalmist there, of course, is alive, but he is in such dire straits that he describes his condition as hopeless as death being in the darkness. So light gives life. Life uh light also gives understanding. It gives understanding. Psalm nineteen, excuse me, one nineteen, verse one thirty says, the unfolding of your words gives light. It imparts understanding to the simple. We have the idiom of shedding light on a matter. When you shed light on a matter, you bring clarity and understanding to others. Darkness, on the other hand, obscures the truth. 1 John 1. 6 says, if we walk in darkness, we lie. Ephesians 4. 18 says, unbelievers are darkened in their understanding, which is to say that they don't understand truth. So light gives life, it gives understanding. Light also reveals the path that we should take. Psalm 119-105 says, Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path. Psalm 18 verse 28 says, For it is you who give light to my lamp, you who light my lamp, the Lord my God lightens my darkness. For by you I can run against a troop, and by my God I can leap over a wall. On the other hand, Jesus says in John 12, 35, the one who walks in darkness does not know where he's going. So light gives life, it gives understanding, it gives direction, helps you to see where you're going Light also in Scripture represents good and darkness represents evil. Isaiah 5. 20 says, Woe to those who call evil good and good evil, who put darkness for light and light for darkness, who Put bitter for sweet and sweet for bitter. Scripture says that God is Himself light, and in Him there is no darkness at all. Such that when we are in the presence of God, we need no other light. And it will be this way forever, in eternity. Revelation 22, 5 says, and speaking of the new earth, and night will be no more. They will need no light of lamp or sun, for the Lord God will be their light, and they will reign forever and ever. On the other hand, hell and the lake of fire are enveloped in darkness 2 Peter 2, 4 says, God did not spare angels when they sinned, but cast them into hell and committed them to chains of gloomy darkness to be kept Until the judgment. And Jesus himself refers to hell repeatedly as the outer darkness, where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. But the hell or rather the outer darkness people experience in hell is not the first time they experience darkness. All those who are born into this world are born into darkness. We who are born dead in sin and blind to the glory of God, Paul describes this way when we are saved, Colossians 1:13 to 14, he has delivered us from the domain of darkness. And transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. So those who find redemption in Christ are set free from the darkness. But those who don't go from darkness of soul in this life to complete and utter darkness forever. And so just as an aside, if you are resisting turning to Christ, Don't think that you can go to hell and have a party with your friends. Hell is not a domain where Satan is in charge and there's raves going on all the time. No, the devil and his angels and every person who dies apart from Christ will experience personal individual torment. And since you won't be able to see anything in the darkness, the only reason you you'll know that you're not alone is because you'll be able to hear Weeping cries and angry screams from others. Well, to deliver people from that darkness, to free people from the wrath of God, the light Came into the world. Jesus came as the giver of life and understanding and wisdom and guidance. He came as the only good and righteous man. He he came to give life. He came to teach the light of the truth. He came to give the light of knowledge. He came to grant the light of righteousness to all who believe. on him. The light came into the world. And what happened? Look at verse 19. The light has come into the world, and people loved the darkness rather than the light. This is shocking. The word people in the ESV, you might have the word men in your translation. The Greek is a little bit stronger than either of those. It could be translated mankind or humanity or human beings. What John is getting at is he's trying to describe the whole class of humanity. The point is this, the light of God came into the world and the human species loved the darkness. The God who created them to rescue came to rescue mankind from the grip of judgment, and mankind seized that light and ran after the darkness. When it says there that people loved the darkness, people don't love the darkness with this Phileo love as though the darkness is their friend. People don't love the darkness with an eros love as though they have this heat of the moment, passionate kind of love for the darkness. No, this tells us that mankind has an agape love for darkness. This is a loyal, committed, self-sacrificial love. People love the darkness even though the darkness doesn't deserve it. Mankind loved the darkness even though the darkness doesn't love them back. Humanity loves the darkness, even though the darkness doesn't keep its promises. It only brings sorrow and pain. It's never satisfied, and it only makes demands of them. The world of sinful people are like a pitiful fool who, in his irrational and blind affections, keeps pining after a merciless and sinister queen. who only keeps the fool around to serve her own purposes. The light came into the world to bring Joy and peace and forgiveness and reconciliation. And people were willfully and passionately committed to the darkness. And we ask why. Why is there such irrational love for darkness? What is behind that love? Well, look at the end of verse 19. He says, because their works were evil. You do what you love. And you love what you do. It's been well said that orthodoxy leads to orthopraxy, which simply means right thinking leads to right living. If the truth is ruling your thinking, it will manifest itself in your lifestyle. But do you know that the reverse is also true? Just as your thinking can and does affect your living, so does your living affect your thinking. When you make a habit of living for Christ, that confirms and cements the right thinking that led to that living in the first place. On the other hand, when you make a habit of living in sin, the current runs the other way, and whatever right thinking you had erodes, giving way to thoughts that validate and encourage your sinful living. Whereas one might sin the first time in some way after a battle with a conscience, after repeated failures, you start to console yourself that God will forgive you. And the further you go down that path, you begin to wonder if God even cares or pays attention. And eventually you've sinned enough that you could care you couldn't care less what God thinks. And then comes the final phase. You hate God because He would have the audacity to tell you that what you're doing is wrong. We'll see that in verse 20. Our thinking and our living cannot be separated. They are intricately connected to one another and affect one another, but we tend to disconnect them. In our self-deception, we think we can go down the path of sin and and it won't affect us. We think we can hit the eject button anytime we want and get out of the situation and run away from anything that's evil. But the truth is the further down the path of sin we go, the the less we desire to eject. And eventually we hate seeing that bright red eject button, and so we cut the wire to turn off the light and make it not work. That's why many unbelievers say when they hear the gospel, be saved from my sin. I love my sin. Why do I need to be saved from it? Well, there's a sharp contrast here between what Jesus says in verse nineteen and what he says in verse sixteen. Here in verse nineteen, he says that mankind loves agape the darkness. But in verse 16, he says that God loves Agape the world. God loves the world that loves the darkness. But his love is not any rational love. It's It's not a love that's pining after the affection of the world. His love is not based on false promises of the world or anything good that he sees in the world. Rather, God's agape love for the world is based on his mercy and his compassion for the world of men and women who are destined to spend eternity under his wrath. Whereas the world's love of darkness enslaves them to it, God's love for the world offers freedom and forgiveness and life. People will sacrifice anything and everything to get a symbol of pleasure from the darkness. God gave and sacrificed his son to unleash a flood of joy and blessings in life. This is why the light came into the world, to take upon himself the divine justice due to those who love the darkness, to grant them new life in him so that they would no longer love the darkness. Well, people here we see Jesus teach reject him, the Messiah, because of what they love. Second, we see Jesus people reject Jesus because of what they fear, because of what they fear. Look again in verse 20. Jesus says, for everyone who does wicked things hates the light and does not come to the light, lest his works should be exposed. Why do people reject the glorious gospel of Jesus Christ? It's because they fear exposure They fear exposure. They don't want their true self on display for all to see They don't want God or anyone else to shed light on their desires and preferences and lifestyle. They loathe someone telling them that what they think and what they do is wicked. In verse 19, Jesus says that the world loves the darkness, and in case someone's tempted to say that love of darkness can coexist with some kind of openness to the things of God, Jesus says here In verse 20, that love for darkness requires a hatred of the light. The darkness itself demands that. It cannot coexist with the light, and it will not tolerate its slaves to have anything but animosity toward the light. Notice how he begins here in verse 20, for everyone who does wicked things. Though the English there sounds like it focuses on a person's behavior. Who could otherwise have good qualities? In the original, the phrase, who does wicked things, reflects the quality of a person. In other words, a person does wicked things because they have a wicked heart. That's the kind of person Jesus is describing here. The Bible really has no category for a good person who occasionally does bad things. Human nature being what it is, there are only evil people who occasionally do relatively good things Scripture is consistent in its anthropology, in its teaching about the nature of man. The Lord says in Genesis 8. 21 that the intention of man's heart is only evil from his youth. And in Jeremiah 17, 9 it says, the heart is deceitful above all things and desperately sick. Who can understand it? And the Lord says, I, the Lord, search the heart and test the mind. to give m every man according to his ways and according to the fruit of his deeds. And then Psalm 14, verse 2 says, The Lord looks down from heaven on the children of of man to see if there are any who understand, who seek after God. They have all turned away. Together they have become corrupt. There is none who does good, not even one. And of course that's quoted by Paul in Romans chapter 3. So when Jesus says, everyone who does wicked things, he's speaking about every human being in their natural state untouched by the grace of God. The words evil in verse nineteen and wicked in verse twenty Which describe the actions and the character of unbelievers might be a punch in the gut to us. We don't use those words very often, but Jesus here is not exaggerating. He is not using hyperbole. Those who are enveloped in darkness are so opposed to all that is good and right and true, and the contrast between light and darkness is so great. And a chasm between God's nature and God's character and everything not like him cannot be overstated. And don't think that God's the only one who thinks this way. Those who love the darkness feel the same. How do I know that? Well, it's because of what Jesus says next year. He says, everyone who does wicked things hates the light and does not come to the light. The darkness is as much opposed to the light as the light is to the darkness. Neither side wants compromise Each hold their strong position where there can be no coexistence. One of the two must fall. That's why I said earlier that God wants to kill the sin in us, and the sin in us wants to kill God. Paul put it this way in Galatians five seventeen, the desires of the flesh and of the spirit are or rather the desires of the flesh are against the spirit, and the desires of the spirit are against the flesh, for these Are opposed to one another to keep you from doing What you want to do. Paul says again in Romans 8, verse 7, For the mind that is set on the flesh is hostile to God, for it does not submit to God's law. Indeed, it cannot. This is why you must be born again. Because being born into this world means that you are born with a pervasive hatred of God and all that God represents. And the only way to change that is to be born again, whereby God gives you a new heart that can see the glory of Christ and desire to know and follow Him. Well, to get to the point of what Jesus is saying here, look at verse uh the uh verse 20 again. For whoever does wicked things hates the light and does not come to the light. Lest his works should be exposed. Darkness fears exposure by light. Paul wrote in Ephesians 5, 11 to 14, take no part in the unfruitful works of darkness, but instead expose them For it is shameful even to speak of the things that they do in secret, but when anything is exposed by the light, it becomes visible. For anything that becomes visible is light. The problem with the works of darkness is that being exposed The problem with the works of darkness being exposed is that they are seen for what they are, which is detestable, awful, disgusting, wicked. And because all people are made in the image of God and endowed by Him with a conscience, the moment our sin is exposed, we feel the pangs of guilt and shame. And that, my friends, is the last thing that the world wants. One of the primary lies of temptation is no one will find out. No one will know. But when sin is exposed, suddenly somebody knows. Others will find out. And that distress can cause people to go to the grave, sometimes by their undoing. But there's more to this than just people knowing about the sin. The word expose is a synonym and could also be translated convict The conscience holds court against the soul, and the gavel comes down declaring them guilty. And then along the same line, you could also translate this word rebuke or reprove Where the sin is not merely known, but the knowledge of that sin invokes a rebuke against the sinner, whereby the conscience whether by conscience or others We see this illustrated in Luke chapter 3, verse 20, where it says, But Herod the Tetrarch, who has been reproved by John the had been reproved by John the Baptist for Herodias, his brother's wife. And for all the evil things that Herod had done, added this to them all, that he locked up John in prison. Herod was an incredibly wicked man, and one of his many wicked deeds was that he took his brother's wife for himself, and everybody knew about it, but only John the Baptist had the courage to say anything about it, and so John rebuked him publicly. Now, if Herr didn't care what anybody thought, he would have done nothing, but he could not stand the idea that someone would rebuke him. And so John, he put John in prison. And this is the same reason that the Pharisees and the Jewish leaders hated Jesus. Because he rebuked them by his very life and his words. After one particularly strong rebuke in Luke chapter 11, it records this. As he, Jesus, went from there, the scribes and the Pharisees began to press him hard and to provoke him to speak about many things, lying in wait for him to catch him in something he might say. They thought that if they could just get him talking long enough, he would trip up in his words, speak some sort of blasphemy, and they would have cause to put him to death. But of course Jesus never said anything false. He always spoke the truth. And so the time came when Jesus declared himself to be the Messiah. And simply on that declaration they charged him with blasphemy and killed him. Why? Because He rebuked them. He pointed out their sin. The darkness hates the light lest their works should be exposed. Think about that in the world today. If you were to stand up in some kind of public forum, social media or in the mall or somewhere and you were to declare God's standard for marriage? Or if you were to declare the biological fact of male and female Nobody would say, well that's just your opinion. No, you would be hated. And you would be persecuted, and you would have people yelling in your face, if not worse, for what you think. Because the world cannot tolerate disagreement. They have to have Your celebration of their sin. Because any time that we disagree with sin in the world, there's an automatic rebuke that the world hears in that disagreement. So why do people reject Jesus? Well they reject Jesus because they love the darkness and they fear exposure and rebuke. Consider the third reason people hate Jesus and reject him. It's because of who they serve, because of who they serve. Look at verse 21. Jesus says, for whoever does what is true comes to the light so that it may be clearly seen that his works have been carried out in God. Why do people reject the glorious gospel of Jesus Christ? It's because they serve a false God And therefore, the true God who would lead them into the truth and empower to live by the truth is their enemy. Jesus teaches this by showing the contrast between those who hate the light and those who come to the light. In contrast to those whose works are evil, and in contrast to those who do wicked things, notice he says here, but whoever does what is true. This is a unique phrase, so we need to think about it a little bit. The word does, at least in the ESV, is different than in the original than the word does in verse 20. As I said there, the language refers to one's wicked character. Where it speaks more to how one characteristically behaves So whoever does what is true is not someone who does what is true from time to time, but rather they habitually, they regularly, they characteristically do what is true. And perhaps you're wondering, why does Jesus say, whoever does what is true? Wouldn't it make more sense to say whoever does what is good or whoever does what is right? Seems odd to use true as the contrast to evil and wicked. Well, there's no doubt that Jesus could have used good and right here, but by using true, we're led to consider what it is that makes something good and right. Now you could say something is good or right simply on the basis that God says so and him saying it makes it right. But then we can ask the question: on what basis does God Himself identify something as good? Someone else might say, well, it's on the basis of consistency with God's character. Okay, but what is it about God's character that make that defines goodness and righteousness? Maybe somebody would say, well, it's anything that God does is good, and so that's it's whatever he does, that's what's good, and that's how we know what's good. That's true, but that doesn't get down to the essence of God's character. That really makes goodness grounded in God's acts, not in his nature. So here's where I would submit to you the rock bottom truth. What makes God good is that He is utterly committed to truth. I need you to put your thinking caps on for a little bit here. Truth is that which is real. That which is true is that which is consistent with reality. You could say, what is Is true. And since God is the only being in the universe who has the quality of aseety, which means he is self-existent. He defines reality. And all reality flows out of the mind and heart of God. Therefore, he is true, and all that he does is true This is why Jesus, who is God, can say, I am the way, I am the truth, and I am the life. This is why John says of Jesus in chapter one, verse fourteen, The Word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory, glories of the only begotten from the Father, full of grace and truth. So doing what is true, as Jesus puts it here, is helpful. It's a helpful contrast to doing what is wicked because the nature of evil, the nature of wickedness is that it is False. It is at best a distortion of the truth, but a distortion is entirely false. A half-truth is a full lie. Therefore, to do what is true is to do that which is consistent with God's character and His revealed will, and His character and His revealed will are good and right because They are true, and we know they are true because they are based on the reality of God's self-existence Well, look again at verse 21. He says, Whoever does what is true comes to the light. If anyone lives consistent with reality, they will come to the light because they're not afraid of being exposed. There's no guilt or shame from doing what is true. So they come to the light, they welcome the light, they embrace the light. And then the rest of the verse gives us a purpose clause. Why is it that whoever does what is true comes to the light? So that, he says, it may be clearly seen that his works have been carried out in God. Whereas those who do wicked things are afraid of exposure, those who do what is true put on a show. And what do they display? They show that their life is the overflow of their relationship with God who is true. Rather than being hostile to God, they're aligned with Him. They are guided by Him. They are empowered by Him Well, who are these people who do what is true? To live according to truth, one must know the truth. And to know the truth, one must have the capacity to know truth. And to have the capacity to know the truth means that one has received new life. And to have the new life, one must have been born again by God. As Jesus says in verse 3 of this chapter, truly, truly I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. And then verse 5, truly, truly I say to you, unless one is born of water in the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. And as we saw in chapter 1, verse 12, those who are born were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. So God's work in a person's life is the explanation for how anyone who hates the darkness would come to the light and live according to the truth. Now, in contrast to that, those who reject God and do not come to the light have not been born of God. They love the darkness. And they serve the darkness. Turn over with me to John chapter 8, just a few pages. What Jesus teaches here in just this one statement. He gives in much more detail as he speaks to the Pharisees who think that they are living according to the truth Follow along as they read chapter 8, verses 39 to 47. They, that is the Pharisees, answered Jesus, Abraham is our father. Jesus said to them, If you were Abraham's children, you would be doing the works that Abraham did. But now you seek to kill me, a man who told you the truth that I heard from God. That's not what Abraham did. You are doing the works of your father. They said to him, We were not born of sexual immorality. We have one father, even God. Jesus said to them, If God were your father, you would love me. For I came from God and I am here. I came not of my own accord, but He sent me. Why do you not understand what I say? Here's the capacity for the truth. Why do you not understand what I say? It's because you cannot bear to hear my word. And why can they not bear to hear his word? You are of your father the devil And your will is to do your father's desires. He was a murderer from the beginning and does not stand in the truth because there is no truth in him. When he lies, he speaks out of his own character, for he is a liar and the father of lies. Because I tell you the truth, you do not believe me. Which one of you convicts me of sin? If I tell the truth, why do you not believe me? And here's the positive statement: Whoever is of God hears the words of God. The reason why you do not hear them is that you are not of God. What would Jesus say to those Pharisees in terms of their nature, their ability, who they serve Paul expands to all people apart from Christ when he writes in Ephesians 2, and you were dead in your trespasses and the sins in which he once walked, following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience. Among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the body and the mind, and we were by nature children of wrath, like the rest of mankind. Beloved, this is why people reject Jesus. They have no interest in serving God because they serve their father, the devil, the prince of the power of the air. I can already hear some of the objections running around in the minds. I don't serve Satan. I don't have pentagrams in my home. I don't perform sacrifices with animals. I don't do rituals and engage in anything that Satanists do. Let's all be thankful for that. But Satan is not just the god of Satanism. Satan is the god of every false religion. He goes by different names. God, Buddha, Allah, Shiva, and many, many others. Sometimes he even goes by the name Jesus. In those religions who would define Jesus as something other than what the Bible defines him. Satan also is behind atheism because he has deceived people into thinking that there is no God. As Jesus said, Satan is a liar and the father of lies. And so everything that is not of the truth, which is to say, everything that is not of God, is of the evil one. So if those who do what is true manifest that they are guided and motivated and powered by God, then those who do what is false manifest that they are guided and motivated and empowered by the devil, whether they realize it or not. So why do people hate and reject Jesus? Well, it's because of what they love. They love the darkness. It's because of what they fear. They fear exposure and rebuke. And it's because of whom they who they serve. They serve the evil one, not God. Do you see why we must be born again? Apart from God, we are incapable of turning from our love for the darkness and our fear of exposure and our loyalty to the Domain and kingdom of darkness. Someone once said to me in conversation we were having that they believed we all have a free will, that we can choose to believe or not believe. It's a very common view, perhaps the most common view. The illustration he uses to explain as to how somebody could believe in Christ of their own free will and not boast in their own salvation Went like this. When when someone is drowning and they're about to die, and someone else sends them a life buoy or a ring, and they grab hold of that and they're saved They don't go around rejoicing. I grabbed the buoy, I grabbed the buoy. No, they praise the person who's who threw the buoy to them. Well that makes sense, doesn't it? We we know that intuitively people who are saved in that kind of way don't take pride in themselves, but they rejoice in the person who saved them by casting that way of salvation toward them. But the problem with that illustration is in how it's set up. It pictures someone thrashing in the water, desperately trying and wanting to be rescued. But that's not how the Bible describes our natural condition. To stick with the same concept, the Bible pictures us as having been drowned. Sinking lifelessly to the bottom of the ocean. And no matter what saving method somebody threw our way, we would have no capacity to grab hold of it, to see it, to know that it even existed. But to change that picture, it's even worse than that. The Bible pictures us in our natural condition foolishly swimming away from safety, ignoring the calls to return to land. And when we get tired and breathless and weak and we start to drown, that buoy is throwing throwing our way and we push it away. And if someone were to dive in and try to grab us, we would fight them off. That is the irrational hatred of mankind. that he has for God in the natural condition. That's what the Bible teaches here and in so many other places as we've seen The unredeemed person is enslaved to their passions and desires. They don't turn to Christ because they can't, and the reason they can't is because they're so utterly committed to their sin. They love their sin, and they hate everything that would move them away from their sin. Again, this is why you must be born again. Because only when our heart is fundamentally changed by God does that hostility Melt away, and our hearts are warmed by the Son of God as His light shines on us, and we come to the light to receive forgiveness and grace. Well, it's taken us five messages to walk through this teaching by Jesus to Nicodemus here in verses 1 to 21. John doesn't tell us how Nicodemus responded in the moment, but there's evidence that whether in this moment or sometime later, John may well, or rather Nicodemus may well have been born again. In John 7, we hear Nicodemus as the Jewish leaders are talking together about their hatred for Christ, trying to find a way to accuse him and put him to death. Nicodemus subtly defends Jesus by seeking justice in hearing what Jesus has to say And then in John 19, Nicodemus partners with Joseph of Arimathea to bury Jesus. Nicodemus himself bringing at great cost. uh oils and uh what's needed to bury Jesus That's all that we know about this leader of the Pharisees, but it seems enough to say that he was not among those calling out for Jesus' death. It seems that the grace of God was at work in his life, and perhaps he was Indeed, born again. Jesus began his theology lesson with Nicodemus telling us that you must be born again to see the kingdom. of God. And then he ends his theology lesson by reminding us that no one goes to hell because they are not born again. Those who are cast into the lake of fire are there because they loved the darkness rather than the light. They loved their sin and they hated Jesus the Christ. My friend, don't let that be you. Don't think that you have time to love your sin now and come to Christ later. Because the more that you love the sin, the more you will hate Christ. The longer your eyes are kept in the darkness, the harsher the light will be to you. The more wickedness you inhale, the more you will crave it. And the more covered in evil you are, the more you will be offended by those who point out your stench. So turn to Christ today. Be washed of your sin. Be freed from your addiction Have your affections changed by Christ who came to redeem sinners with his own life and death and resurrection. Look to Christ and see the glory of his love and his grace and his mercy and his justice. See him hanging on that cross. shedding his blood to take the wrath of God that sinners deserve and see the empty grave where he rose victorious over sin and death. And put your trust in him and believe that he is God and only through him you can be saved from the wrath of God. Know that you can be forgiven today if you would but bow the knee and submit to the one who cares for your soul. And beloved church, those of you who have been born again by the grace of God, see here the condition from which you were saved. Boast in the Lord who rescued you from death and gave you life while you were his enemy. And let this truth embolden your evangelism. And how does it do that? Because it tells you that it's not your job to argue people into the kingdom. It's not your job to somehow, with the flourishes of your speech, make the gospel attractive. It's not your responsibility to say everything perfectly so people will understand and will be and will be convinced by it Rather, it's our joy to simply proclaim the truth with simplicity and clarity and let the Spirit work as He wills, either to grant new life, to draw people to Himself, or to harden hearts. Our evangelistic strategy as a church and as individuals should simply be boiled down to this: find every opportunity you can to proclaim the gospel of Jesus Christ. Whatever you do, whatever services you provide, whatever food is offered, whatever activities we have, everything should serve the purpose of creating a platform for the gospel. You already heard the announcement about the spreading hope ministry meeting today, one o'clock in just a few minutes. It's a time to learn about the ministry. It's a time to brainstorm ways in which we can more creatively and actively proclaim the gospel in our community. We have, as you know, the fall festival, we have hope for the sojourner, we've done the free market fair, park cleanup days, and so many other ways that we've done evangelism over the years, but There's so much more we can do. We can't do everything. We're not responsible to do everything, but there's more that we can do. And we need more people to put their hearts and their hands and their voices together to proclaim the gospel of Jesus Christ. But beyond our outreach ministry, each one of us, as a believer in Christ, is a called and commissioned ambassador for Christ. We're not of the world, but we are in the world, and God has placed you in your family and in your workplace and in your school and in your community. To be a light for Christ. And so wherever you engage with unbelievers, know that you represent Christ in his purposes. So don't be shy and don't be afraid. Answer the call of your king and open your mouth and let the word of God go forth, knowing that it will not return void. Because the Spirit will work. Amen? Let's pray. Our father as we reflect on these things. We're humbled. In part we're humbled because we don't think of ourselves in such stark terms as you reveal us to be in our sin. Or humbled that you would give your life, the life of your son, rather, to rescue us when we are hostile toward you. You saved us not because we're smart enough to figure things out, not because we're wise enough to make the right decisions. Not because we grew up in the right home or lived the right life. You saved us out of your grace and mercy alone. And if it were not for you, we would be lost and we would be in hell. So we rejoice in the gift that we have of Christ. Lord, may it be true that we would live our lives in faithful service. Representing him well with our conduct and our words, but also speaking the gospel at every opportunity. And again, Lord, if there would be anyone here who does not yet know Christ, would you draw them to yourself? Would you grant them new life, a new heart, a new spirit? That we would rejoice in your work of salvation together. For the glory of Christ we pray. Amen.