We've been 18 years as a church and never had a church sign. And I keep thinking if we finally get one, I hope we'll do a little bit better than What I often read out there. This past week was no exception. We drove by a large church, bright modern sign, which read, Be yourself. Everyone else is already taken. So I says to myself With all the dynamic messages in Scripture, 31,173 verses in our Bibles. And an opportunity to spread God's word to thousands of lost people who will never come into church but will read that sign Who, by the way, still sit in darkness and are under God's judgment. Is that platitude the best they can muster? I can only hope that when they get inside, the message would be a little better. At a moment in history when churches should be rising up to spread the Word of God, those of you that were with us, Last week, no, the image we had from 2 Thessalonians to let the Word of God run and spread Unfortunately, so many churches are fumbling their opportunities. What opportunities they have. They've reduced their organizations to social clubs, self-affirming palaces. Feel good networks. I love you, you love me, Barney songs. Some of you remember Barney Where's the solid doctrine? Where's the beef? Where's the godly repentance? Where's holding forth the word of life? What a message we have for people. One wonders why God should continue to grant the American Church freedom when they haven't used their freedom the way he told them. I'm just praying that we will not be judgmental towards other churches as we note things that are wrong in them. We should note things that need to improve in us. We are not the judge of the church. The Lord Jesus in Revelation 1, there's a fantastic picture there of Christ walking among the lampstands. You know what those lampstands in Revelation 1 stand for? Or the churches. And the very first church he speaks to is the church at Ephesus, whom he says, You have endured, and you've done all these wonderful things And you have challenged those that call themselves apostles and they're not, and you found them to be false, but he says, I have this against you. You left your first love, and he warns that church at Ephesus. You need to repent and do the deeds you did at first, or else I'm coming and will remove your lampstand from you. What a warning. But we should be evaluating ourselves. What are we strong in? What are we weak in? What are we growing in, but we need to fan even more? Should be a time for self-evaluation. I'm praying for that. I'm praying we'll do that. I'm so honored. I think we as a church are so honored to be involved, intimately involved, in a central way with the building of a region of churches, the gamma I'm talking about. And just building up other churches, doctrinally, helping them out, helping them to develop their leadership, helping them with their outreach, helping them to form themselves and grow up and become larger and stronger and more established so that they can also help other churches in their area. What a design of God and what an honor for us to be involved in that Helping churches who are not embracing worldly messaging, but sensing the urgency of the times. Charting out a biblical plan of action and then getting started with that. Trying to get everybody in the whole church, every member involved in using their gifts in some way What is it that God has designed for the Church in His programme? Why does Hope Bible Church exist? What is our purpose Well, we've learned that the church is mysterious, it's glorious, it's wonderful, and as fascinating as the church is, it was not created for itself to make everyone relaxed and feel comfortable. about themselves. We're not here to stroke the ego of man in his sinful condition. We have a message that challenges every human being that they're not right with God. that they have to turn away from the direction they're heading in life and follow Christ. We're just saying I've decided to follow Jesus, right? What's behind us? The world, what's in front of us, the cross, what a complete about face in terms of a purpose of life. That is what we are here to tell people about. The ancient creed so eloquently declared that the church is one church, holy, Catholic, and apostolic. Yet, we would say also, to add to that, it is a church with a mission. That mission we have already seen is to build up the body of Christ, not for itself, but so it can effectively make disciples of all the nations. Why do that? So that Christ, the head of the church, will be exalted. That is the harmonious, three-pronged purpose of the church, of every local church. Deepening and edification. Which results in growing in evangelism, which produces jubilant believers who are involved in exaltation. We call that discipling, witnessing, and worshiping. This triangular frame, if you would have it, these three points of a church philosophy of ministry all work together Discipleship is the church's ministry to itself, Ephesians 4. 16, for the building up of itself in love Evangelism is the church's ministry to the world. Luke 24, 47. Repentance for forgiveness of sins should be proclaimed in Christ's name to all the nations, beginning from Jerusalem. Worship is the church's ministry to God. 1 Timothy 1, verse 17. Now to the King, eternally, mortal, invisible, the only God be, and here's where the praise comes: be honor and glory forever and ever. Amen. No one purpose of the church should be weighed heavier than the others. Otherwise, that will throw off the Bible's perfect balance and pattern. Dr. Wayne Grudham in his systematic theology writes this. A strong church will have effective ministries in all three of these areas. We should be aware of any attempts to reduce the purpose of the church to only one of these three, and to say that it should be our primary focus In fact, such attempts to make one of these purposes primary will always result in some neglect of the other two. And you could see that in so many churches. All three purposes must be emphasized continually in a healthy church. I love that quote because it's true. This is not something that we have designed for a whole Bible church. These are universal truths for all the church. But unfortunately, imbalance is how many churches look. You've seen them, I know you have. Let's uh jog our memory a little bit. Some of you have experience in different churches and you've seen or heard of other churches What does a church which teaches and disciples strongly but is weak in witness look like? Think about that. What do you picture? A church that's too focused on itself. It's hearing the Word of God. It's not doing the Word of God. It's priding itself on knowledge, all the Bible teaching they have, but not on the practice and the application of the Word of God, right? Brothers and sisters, how good what how good is it for us to be able to say we know what the doctrine of the holiness of God is like, but we don't live holy ourselves? What's the point in that? What does a church look like which witnesses faithfully but does not teach or edify the saints all that well? Well, it will probably be a fast-growing church with shallow membership And whose members will eventually drift away either into sin, back into the world, or to some better teaching church where their families can finally be fed. People will be pouring in the front door of that church and leaving through the three or four back doors of the church. What does a church look like which has rousing lofty worship and song and fervent prayer, but it's very skimpy on evangelism Well, there would be a church that's worshiping God and singing well and has great choirs, but they're not obeying God to spread his word. In other words, they're worshiping while disobeying God. I don't think the Lord likes that What does a church look like which worships well but has poor preaching and teaching? Well, there'll be a church that worships in spirit but not in truth. What does a church look like which builds up the congregation and has multiple discipleship programs, but does not put much effort and enthusiasm into their corporate times of worship? Well that would be a self-centered and man-centered kind of a church, very pragmatic. Everything runs well, but doesn't have time for jubilant exaltation of God. Why would we put money into that? Let's put money into something else It's a church focused on living the Christian life, but took their eyes off the one who gave them that life. I think you get the point. None of these imbalances are God's design for the church. He's far too wise to do it any other way They don't express Scripture's triangular purpose for the body of Christ. Even in the life of Jesus, we see all three of these Patently and perfectly displayed. What balance was in his life when he lived on earth? Who can doubt That Jesus Christ ardently proclaimed the gospel of the kingdom, going from town to town to make sure they would all hear it, and then breaking off the twelve two by two, go and get to the towns that I didn't get to Constantly training all of the disciples, teaching anywhere he could, by the sea In the towns, and then pouring in extra time to the twelve in discipleship. Daily and nightly, sometimes all night, intense in prayer and worship and love for God the Father. What What perfect balance was in the life of the Lord Jesus Christ? So that's how the church is supposed to be. That's who we are. We are the body of Christ. We're continuing the work of the Lord Jesus Christ, at least the work that we were designed to do. Ericsson in his Christian theology makes this point. In biblical times, the church gathered for worship and instruction, then it went out to evangelize. In worship, the members of the church focus on God. In instruction and fellowship, they focus on themselves and fellow Christians. And then in evangelism, they turn their attention to non-Christians. Like the various elements in a well-balanced diet, all three are essential to the spiritual health and well-being of the body. I think many churches have unfortunately just forgotten a very simple truth. We gather together for the saints and then we scatter for the ants. The ones that ain't got it yet, there's no faith. These days they're trying to make church for the ain't while starving the saints. And if they keep it up, the saints will start living like the ain't So these three broad areas of ministry are not mere theology for us. They are a they're tactical. They're the way We are to plan church, how this church is supposed to progress, what we're supposed to to grow into and become How you're supposed to find a ministry and and and support a ministry or develop a ministry and how those all work together and how we're not jealous of one another pulling in different directions but we recognize Different gifts, different strengths, all working together in one body for the glory of Christ. And so that's where we are today. We come to the glory of Christ. and worship today. I want you to turn to Ephesians three, verses twenty and twenty-one. We're going to talk about the third of these points on the triangle. And that is worship of God. You'll notice too that worship feeds back into discipleship. As you worship God, you want to grow in Him more. As you worship God, you want to witness more You ever notice that witnessing feeds worshiping too? When you go out and witness, you get excited, you come into worship. Someone gets saved, they come into worship Witnessing helps worship. Worship helps witnessing. Witnessing helps discipleship. When you go out and witness, you run into a question somebody has, you don't know how to answer it. Yeah, yeah, I gotta learn the Bible better. You come back and you get built up better And then you go out and you witness better. And they all are intertwined. They all work together. Ephesians 3, verses 20 and 21, a glorious eruptive passage here. But kind of a simple one, too. Really says something simple. Now to him who is able, we know what he's talking about there, to do far more abundantly beyond all that we ask or think. According to the power that works within us, to him be the glory in the church and in Christ Jesus. To all generations, for ever and ever. Amen. Ephesians 3, 20 and 21. This is exaltation This says that God gets the glory. Christ gets the glory. How does Christ get the glory? He gets the glory through the church. God gets the glory through the church and through Christ It all comes back to Him. All the teaching in Ephesians 1, Ephesians 2, and Ephesians 3, all of that leads up to this crescendo, this doxology, God gets the glory. To him be the glory. Why does the church exist? Why did God do all that he did to prepare the church and equip the church? And the answer is so God would get the glory. In fact, this doxology brings to an end the first half of the letter of Ephesians. It echoes something that was profoundly stated back in chapter 1. Scott read it for us earlier. in the uh scripture reading. Look back at verses 22 and 23. And there you'll see that it particularly verse 23 it says that the church is Christ's body And then it says, the church is the fullness of Christ who fills all and all. You got a lot of filling there in that verse. The church is the fullness of Christ. And Christ fills all in all. So Christ is in the church in some mysterious way. He indwells us, he lives here among us, he's moving among us, he's indwelling inside of us. Yet we also in some way fill out And fulfill Christ. Now there's an interesting thought. It's really amazing. What a tight connection there is between Jesus, the head in the heavens, and being filled out by his body on earth. And then also indwelling his body on earth. What it says is Christ and the church go together, and you'll notice that God gets the glory both in Christ and in the church, and both of those are stated. I love the letter of Ephesians. It's probably more than any other New Testament document, the one that explains an ecclesiology the best. And ecclesiology is our understanding of church. What is it all about? It's the best New Testament ecclesiology. It's the best book in the Bible for understanding the church. Ephesians was written by the Apostle Paul. He wrote it from prison. In Rome, as he reveals in chapter 4, verse 1, that he was in prison, somewhere around A. D. 63. He writes to believers. He calls the believers saints back in chapter 1, verse 1. He also says that they are the saints at Ephesus. The city of Ephesus was in Asia Minor, what we call Turkey today. You probably have a little footnote next to those two words at Ephesus in chapter 1, verse 1. That's because there's a lot of manuscript evidence that those two words were not were probably not in the original letter. Most scholars think that Ephesians was more of a circulatory kind of letter, a general letter. It may have started at Ephesus and thus the two words at Ephesus But Ephesus was the largest city and church in the whole region, and so this this letter was to be taken and read there, but also in other areas as well. Unlike Galatians or Colossians, which Paul wrote, or even the Thessalonian letters or the Corinthian letters, Paul mentions no local problems here in this letter at all. He makes no mention of anyone that he knows. He doesn't talk about people there as if he knows them. In fact, in chapter 1, verse 15, he's writing as if he's never seen them before at all. And he's he's heard about their faith, he says And so this letter takes on less of a local flavor and more of a universal flavor. And Paul takes his time in prison as he's reflecting on truth and as the Spirit is inspiring him and guiding him to really explain what the universal church is all about in the world. What is its mission? What does it look like? What is it doing? What is its characteristic? And so it's perfect for teaching us a true biblical ecclesiology. It kind of gets behind the activities of the church that go on. and peers at the church in its essence and in its heavenly position and its eternal significance, its place in God's program through the ages. In fact, there's a unique phrase that occurs only in the letter of Ephesians in all the Bible. It's translated in the heavenly places. Literally, it's in the heavenlies. And it happens in chapter 1, verse 3, chapter 1, verse 20, chapter 2, verse 6, chapter 3, verse 10, and chapter 6, verse Twelve. They are in the realm of spiritual warfare No other book has that phrase because the church is to be seen in its heavenly categories and all the work that is going on there. The first half of Ephesians chapters 1 through 3, there Paul emphasizes the doctrinal truths which formed the church. He talks about election and predestination. We had it read for us so well this morning. We have redemption, forgiveness of sins. Everything is summed up in Christ. We have a great status in Christ. We have a great inheritance. We have a Holy Spirit as a down payment. We're saved by grace in chapter 2, not by works. Jew and Gentiles have been brought together. God is strengthening us in the church. Paul even talks about his ministry in the church. In the second half of the letter, chapters 4 through 6, Paul gets more practical. He says, because these things are true, chapters 1 through 3, then this is the way the church ought to live, chapters 4 through 6. And in living, he takes on that image of walking. How should we walk? And the very first verse of the second half says, well, we should walk in a way that is worthy of our calling. God's given us a great calling. What does that mean then for us? We should live and walk day by day that's equal with and balance with the greatness of that calling. What would that be like? Loving one another, striving together for the unity of the faith, being of humble mind, using our gifts in the body to build up the body, shunning the world and all the evil that is there, shining as lights within the world, walking as wise men in a foolish time, being filled with the Spirit and speaking to God with Psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, giving thanks to God, submitting to authority, and then he pours in the family living and husband and wife relationships and children and fathers, and then right in the masters and slaves, and finally with a spiritual warfare that the church is engaged in. It's a beautiful book that speaks of the church and its position and its practice We come to Ephesians so we can get a little bit of a glimpse of the glory God is supposed to get in the church. In this church, God's supposed to get glory. And that's what I want us to focus on. God's supposed to get glory here So we're going to look at God's glory two different ways. The first is God gets the glory. That's verse 20. God gets the glory. And then verse 21, God deserves the glory. He gets it and he he gets it because he deserves it. Okay, that's pretty simple, isn't it? So this isn't going to be Too complicated. So, but I hope it'll be exciting. I hope there'll be something in you that wants to shout to the glory of God, because that's kind of how I feel if my energy holds up. First, God gets the glory. Look back at verse 20. Now to him who is able to do far more abundantly beyond all that we ask or think, according to the power that works within us. This verse really tells us what God is able to do. And it says, because He is able to do what He does, He gets the glory. It's kind of like uh a concert pianist never listen to someone just fantastic and they play so wonderfully. Or if you like painting, think of a great painter who's painting. The work that they produce itself, what does it do? It it draws back praise and adulation to the one who's performing the work, right? Someone who's so highly skilled at something and accomplishes it so greatly, you kind of look at what they do, and then you look back at them and you just want to, this is amazing, this is great That's what's supposed to be going on in the church. God is the artist, the church is his work, and from the church, and others watching the church, and I might even add spiritual beings in heavenly places watching the church, they all understand God is a great artist, He's a great creator, He's a magnificent being, and that's what it's supposed to be about Now the scriptures say so many times God is able to do this. God is powerful to do this. These are the things that God can do. I'll give you a sampling. 2 Corinthians 9. 8 says, God is able to make all grace abound to us. That's wonderful. You can make grace abound toward us. God's able to do that. That's something wonderful, right? We could do a whole sermon on that, we're not Hebrews 2. 18. God is able to come to the aid of those who are tempted. Some of you needed to hear that this morning. He is able to come to the aid of those who are tempted. That's good. God's able to do that. Because he's able to do that. I can be excited about God James 4:12. There's only one lawgiver and judge, the one who is able to save and destroy. That'll make us fearful of God, right? God is able. We know that. He's powerful. And by doing these great things, he attracts glory, lot, and honor to himself. Now look at verse 20. What does he say he's able to do here? This thing is so packed with truth here, so heavily stacked together. I think to appreciate verse 20, you almost have to strip it down. And take a lot away from it and start with the basic message of verse twenty and then build back on top of it. I want to do that with you, okay? What is like the basic simple declarative of verse 20? It's this. God is able to do what we ask or think. That used to be translated or imagine. I like that translation. God is able to do what we ask or imagine. That's great. He's able to do that. If I have a prayer request and I ask it of God, if I can imagine it and think it and ask it of him, God is able to do that. Tomato. But that's just the baseline. That's nothing. And this doxology goes much higher than that. Let's add a piece back in. God is able to do all we ask or think. Ah, that little all is amazing. So that some of what we ask or think, or a little bit of what we ask or think. He's able to do all that we ask or think. That's very exciting. God is able to do that. I think that improves the prayer life, does it not? Another addition we need to add on here. God is able to do more than all that we ask or think. Wow, so you know everything I ask or think, they can do more than anything I can even imagine. That that blows my mind because I have a pretty good imagination. I can think up all kinds of things. But he can do more. That's not enough, not for this doxology. Oh no, this is greater God is able to do far more than we ask or think. Wow. Don't ever limit God. And that's not even the top. God is able to do far more beyond all that we ask or think. That's getting silly. That's just getting wild. You're a visionary and you'll be confounded by what God is able to do. Great, brilliant minds in heavenly places, these angelic beings that are very intelligent can't figure out what he's doing. He's so great. But then you finally come to the apex, you come to the top, you come to Mount Glory, and here it is. God is able to do far more abundantly beyond all that we ask or think. What category are we now living in in that statement? We are in a superlative category. There is no boundary to the capabilities of the Almighty. You hear people say, well, you know, the universe has to be so many billions of years because the light has to travel from here to here. Why can't God make the light the same time he makes the light source? Don't you think he can do that? Why did it have to start there and do this? If I were God and I was almighty, I'd just stretch it all out. By the way, isn't that what the Bible says that he stretched the heavens out like a curtain? It can be done in a second for him. How can anyone time creative powerful acts? You can't even put a time on that Blows my mind how silly people are, how illogical they are. God is able to do any of these things. We're talking about omnipotence. There is no boundary with Almighty. There is no perimeter to God. It goes beyond that. That's who He is. And you find these eruptions of praises throughout Scripture. Here's something from the Old Testament. Jeremiah 32 and verse 17. Ah, Lord God, behold, you have made the heavens and the earth by your great power and by your outstretched arm. Nothing is too difficult for you. See the galaxies? Nothing's too difficult for God. Isaiah 44, 24. I the Lord am the maker of all things. Does that sound like a boast, by the way? I, the Lord, am the maker of all things, stretching out the heavens by myself and spreading out the earth all alone. Nobody helped me. By the way, that means that Jesus is God, because he created. Isaiah 55, 9. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts. How about Matthew 19, 26? With God all things are possible. And now the part that blows me away and challenges my faith. All of that's exciting. But look at the next part in verse 20. According to the power that works far away in a distant galaxy. In us. Yeah, but I'm feeling so weak. There's no power here. Evidently there is. Evidently there is. And in you, in us. What a challenging statement. According to the power that works within us. See, we can be intimidated. The world is so bold and mean. But we have power. God's doing things through our lives The early church set that example. They were weak people. They didn't have a lot of money. They didn't have their own buildings. They couldn't do a lot They they were slaves, many of them. They were im imprisoned. They were in some cases thrown to the lions and burned at the stake and imprisoned and the great powerful empire of Rome, the greatest empire the world has ever known to this day. Was beaten by those simple Christians through two and a half centuries of faithful proclamation of the gospel. Quiet power at work. I think the greatest days for our ministry and our impact in our culture are still ahead of us, Hope Bible Church. I believe that. I hope that you believe that too. This exceeding abundant superability of God to do far more abundantly beyond all that we can ask or think is already at work within the church That is how God gets glory in the church. By working mightily. He created us, right? He formed the church. He baptized the church. were formed into his body. He regenerated, gave us new life. He fills the church with his spirit. He then teaches us and he guides us and he directs us. And he comforts us and he encourages us and he walks with us and he never abandons us. He puts his love in the church, and that love is spread Eventually, as we die and are buried into the ground, He's going to raise the church from the dead. He's going to speak a word, and the church is going to rise up out of the ground or from the sea, eaten by sharks. And all of it's going to be pieced back together again, but formed into a higher order of things that science cannot explain. And for those who are living, they're going to get raptured right off the planet. Amen? Those of you in the eschatology class are going to be raptured out of there. Snatched, taken, gone. One twinkling of the eye. Power is bringing that church so we can have glory in that church. He gets the glory. He gets the last word, and he gets the glory. God generates his own glory by what he does, and it comes back to him. He gets praise for the amazing work he does. That's what this doxology is saying. It's bringing together all the work of God mentioned in the earlier chapters. No wonder back in verse 18 of chapter 1, Paul said, I pray that the eyes of your heart May be enlightened. He's talking to believers. I'm praying that your eyes will open up even more and be brightened and enlightened. And then he goes on to say this: so that you may know. What is the surpassing greatness of his power toward us who believe? You gotta know, you gotta know the power. Paul's in prison. You gotta understand the power that is at work in you. It's God's power. And he gets the glory for what he's doing in the church. So I ask you, it's a simple question, what should be our response to what God has done? And the answer is we should glorify God. That's the second part, right? God deserves the glory. Verse 21. To God be the glory in the church and in Christ Jesus forever and ever. Isn't it shocking? Again, I go back to what I said the first message, what a low view so many evangelicals have about the church. Big on the gospel, the family, creation science, many other things. What about God's church? It's almost shocking, isn't it, to God be the glory in Christ Jesus? That's fine. What's the church doing in there, particularly right next to Christ? It's not like we're equal with Christ. To God be the glory in the church and in Christ Jesus forever and ever. Amen. God deserves the glory. Do you see the connection? Because God is able, therefore to God be the glory. Because God works in the church, to him be the glory in the church. That's what a doxology is meant to do. A lot of people think the doxology is kind of winding down. You know, you've been writing what you want to write and you're scribbling away and you've got your main topic, and then you're like, you know, you've got to end, so you put something in like that, you know, to the praise of the glory of God Period. Almost like the doxology is just this little punctuation mark at the end that kind of ends things. No. Think of a doxology more like You know, the grand finale in the fireworks show, right? And I know some people mess up the fireworks show, they don't really give a grand finale, but think of the best one you've ever seen where it's good, it's good, it's good, it's getting better. Ooh, it's getting better. Is that the grand finale? No, I'm not sure. And then it really hits the grand finale and it's going and you're like your your your heart is just going like this and you turn to the person next to you like this is the grand finale. This is the one That's what a doxology does. It's a crescendo that reaches the heart and says, hopefully you've been listening and thinking through all of this, because if you have and you've been absorbing it, something should be blown apart in your mind now Paul writes a great doxology in Romans 11, 36. For from God, he uses the word him, I'm going to stick God in there. For from God And through God and to God are all things. To God be the glory forever. Amen. That's a doxological outlook on life. That's how we should think. What am I here for? I'm here for God. You know what the Lord gives, the Lord takes away what? Blessed be the name of the Lord. That's how we live our lives as a living sacrifice for God. Everything about us is God-oriented. We're godly people We're not worldly people. We're oriented towards God. You know, we we eat for God and we drink for God. We do all for the what? The glory of God. God is great. That's what a doxology says. God be magnified. This doxology, this time of a doxology, is where the believing heart is supposed to be worked up to its grandest moment in enraptured concentration on Phaos, God Almighty. When the believing mind and an unbelieving mind which is lost and darkened can never grasp the things of the Spirit of God, right? They're foolishness to him. He doesn't get it. What are we doing in here talking about an unseen being? Because he's the greatest being in the universe. That's why we're in here. But the believing mind grasps all the truth about God and what he has done, and then it realizes there's only one right response. There's only one appropriate way to respond to all of this, and it's praise. It's glory to God. Why do you think you read in Revelation and God's pouring out his judgments and people aren't going, oh my, oh my, look at the judgment. Oh that's so terrible. That's not what they're doing. That's not what they're saying. They're looking at the judgment that God is pouring out in the world and they're looking at God and they're thinking He is most glorious He is to be feared. He's bringing the end of time to a conclusion. Everything that people said was not going to happen is now happening. And you hear these eruptions of praise from all of the heavenly beings You know, uh Revelation 4. 11 has one of those. Worthy art thou, our Lord and our God, to receive glory and honor and power. For thou didst create all things, and because of your will they existed and were created. I was out walking in the park with Sue the other day trying to get a few miles in, strengthen my legs, and seeing a little bunny rabbit you know, bouncing along here, all kinds of weird insects, birds, big bird of prey, beautiful clouds, beautiful sunny day And I'm walking out there and it's so beautiful. God's created all of this stuff. And I'm thinking to myself, all this stuff constantly is praising God. knows who its creator is, is giving back glory constantly. Then I'm walking along and I'm thinking, you know, I didn't even think up myself. Here I am walking along here, you know Who invented me? God. I didn't say, you know, I'd like to be created and be placed on the planet. I never got a say in that, did you? I never got a say in any of that. I I was made by him. I'm his idea. And he put me down here on the planet. I'm walking along. So I'm his creation, right? You're his creation, right? What are you supposed to do as a creation? Same thing the bird and the bunny rabbit were doing. Give honor and glory to God, except better, because you're made in his image, right? So that's what creation does. Creation gives glory back to the Creator. That's also the idea with the church. How did the church get here? Whose idea was the church? Where did the church come from? Christ is building his church, right? God created his church. He formed them through the power of regeneration, put them together in a in a group, baptized them so they were inside Christ. They became the body of Christ. He formed us, he thought of us, he had a plan for the church. He knew the number of years the church would be here. He knew the purpose for the church, which countries it would go to, which continents it would be on. We're his idea, we're his formation. And now that we're here and we're gathered together, what's the right response? Praise and adoration towards God. Right Amen. That's what it's supposed to be about. That's who we are. We're not even here by our own choice. He drew us to himself and gave us the power even to choose him. It is him that did this. That's why you see in Ephesians this constant eruption of praise. Scott, so clearly, as he was reading that this morning, Pastor Scott said it says over and over to the praise of the glory of his grace, you find that to the praise over and over and over again. That's the whole point. To the praise of his glory. The work of God in the church accentuates Chapter 1, verse 19. The surpassing greatness of his power. Chapter 2, verse 7. The surpassing riches of his grace Chapter 3, verse 10. The manifold wisdom of God and other attributes, all active in the church. We don't exist merely to win the lost to Christ. That's where a lot of the churches get it wrong today We don't exist merely to build ourselves up. This approach is the folly of all man-centered religion. It is the folly of the health and wealth gospel. It is the folly of the whole Joel Olseen, feel good about yourself religion. That's not Christianity. The religion that is about me, my success, my feelings, and steals a few words from the Bible to make it sound Christian. True religion is about God. That's why we gather for God. Beloved There is a huge gap between coming here to church for entertainment. Versus exaltation. Those two things are not even close to one another. If you erupt an applause in this in this worship room, your applause had better be for God. Because if you're coming in here with the same attitude that you just go to some concert with and you clap with that, you have so dishonored God. Don't ever do that. Let it be a yelp and a shout and a joy for the Almighty. Okay? That's what it's about Our role in here is not to be passive. By the way, thank you for talking back to me when I preach. I like that. I'm not black, but they say underneath my skin I got black skin It was mostly the African Americans laughing at that too. I remember when we were in seminary and uh African American preacher came to speak to us. We were mostly white boys And he was in five, six minutes into his his message and he was he was on fire. And we were really listening. We were into it, taking notes and everything like that. But we weren't talking back to him And he said, You all are gonna have to start talking back to me. I feel like I'm not getting anything here. So we learned very quickly to give some some sound back, some Some affirmation in preaching. Well I I don't think that we are here for ourselves. I think we're here for God. We're not to be passive. And that doesn't mean we always have to be loud. You can be very active and be quiet as well. What's going on in your heart and your mind? Some people's personality is reserved. This is not about having a loud personality. This is about in your heart There's listening to the voice of God and responding that's going on in worship. That's why we gather. This exaltation mission of the church is pictured weekly in the Sunday worship service of each congregation, of our congregation. Think about what we're doing here right now. The Sunday corporate worship service embodies the very purpose of the church. All the saints gathered together, presenting ourselves to God, before his majestic presence, as one church in one room. God is there, he's exalted, he's on his throne as his robe fills the temple, as Isaiah says. And every one of us is aware it's not it's not the platform. It's God Almighty above us. Who we're in the presence of, right? So collectively with one voice, we proclaim his greatness. We do that in song. We do that in prayer. We do that in offerings. We offer our offerings at the same time. We bow before him. We adore his perfections. Then we listen to him speak from his word. And then we respond, and then we gather at his table, and we know he's there with us. We confess our sins to him because we fear him and we know that he sees and searches our hearts. We determine to live a life this next week more obedient than the last week so that we will not take his presence lightly. The worship service is not a Western cultural idea. It's not optional to the church. It's not a human invention. It's the expression of the church's reason for existence. It's our prelude to eternal adoration of God. The Sunday worship service is the model of the correct philosophy of the ministry of the church. We're very impractical right now. No one's busy doing anything. You're all just sitting and listening and singing and worshiping. My, we could be getting a lot more done in this hour and a half. Oh, don't you believe that This is who we are. This is why we were recreated in Christ. This is what we're here to do. Evangelism falls out of the picture when we're snatched into heaven. Edification won't be needed anymore. What will continue forever and ever, as this verse says, is what? The exaltation of God. Scripture makes it so clear that the church from the very beginning gathered together in whatever way it could for corporate Worship. Individual worship is great. Do that. Family worship is great. The church is a is an entity, and the church has to gather as a corporate group in order for God to get the glory that He wants In Acts 2. 42 it says they gathered together. In 1 Corinthians 11 it says when you come together. In 1 Corinthians 14, 26, it talks about an orderly worship service when they were gathered together. They gathered first in the temple in Jerusalem when the church was only there, according to Acts 3. 1. Then they gathered in the synagogues because most of the Christians were first Jews, right? James chapter 2 verse 2 Then they would go to any building that afforded them the opportunity of gathering in their culture. Acts 18, 7. Later when the church actually did come to riches and power, they began building buildings, basilicas, and but boy were those beautiful buildings And they were high and they were lofty, so you got the sense of when you come in here, we're talking about the greatness of God who is high and lofted and seated in the heavenlies, and they put a lot of effort into the architecture so that God would be glorified and the money that they put into those buildings was not a waste of time. It was to the glory of God And they gathered on Sundays. Why Sunday? Because Jesus was raised from the dead on Sunday. Acts 20, verse 7 says it was on Sundays. John 20, verse 19 says it was on Sundays. And they collected an offering, 1 Corinthians 16, 2. And when they gathered, they came to worship. 1 Peter 2. 5 says, You also as living stones are being built up as a spiritual house. for a holy priesthood to offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ, who Hebrews says is our high priest, right? They worshiped with song according to Ephesians 5. They worshiped with a giving of thanks and praise according to Hebrews 13. 15. The prayers were led by the men according to 1 Timothy 2. 8. There was teaching and preaching according to 2 Timothy 4. 2 and 1 Timothy 4. 11. The Lord's Supper and Fellowship and Giving were all done according to Acts 2, 41-47, and 1 Corinthians 11, 17-26. Did this keep up beyond the apostolic age in the first century? I got a quote for you. Justin Martyr. About 150 years, I think, beyond the time of the apostles. Not even that far. In his first apology, Justin Martyr gives a glimpse of their worship services in those days. This is so encouraging. Listen to this. And on the day called Sunday, all who live in the cities or in the country gathered together in one place. And the memoirs of the apostles with the writings of the prophets are read. New Testament scripture reading, Old Testament scripture reading. As long as time permits, by the way, that means we get to go a lot longer. Then when the reader has ceased, the president, that would be equivalent to what we call the senior pastor today, verbally instructs and exhorts To the imitation of these good things. That's the exposition of the scripture reading that was given. Then we all rise together and pray. That's our pastoral-led prayer. And as we before said, when our prayers ended, bread and wine and water are brought, and the president in like manner offers prayers and thanksgivings according to his ability, and the people sit saying, Amen. That's our Lord's Supper. And there is a distribution to each and a participation of that over which thanks have been given. And to those who are absent, portions are sent by the deacons. And they who are well-to-do and willing give what each thinks fit. See, not a forced tithe, but a free will offering. And what is collected is deposited with the president. That's a good idea. All the money ought to come to the senior pastor, by the way. I like that. He must have had more integrity than the guys today. I don't think it's a good idea today. But that's the offerings. Who succours the orphans and the widows And those who through sickness or any other cause are in want, and those who are in bonds, and a stranger sojourning among us, and in a word takes care of all who are in need. We have a benevolent offering. But Sunday is the day on which we all hold our common assembly, because it is the first day on which God, having wrought a change in the darkness matter, made the world. And Jesus Christ, our Savior, on the same day, rose from the dead. Doesn't that sound like Protestant churches today? At least the ones that still believe in the Bible. This is what the church has always been doing is my point. This is the purpose of the church. To gather as a body the presence of God and do these things for his glory. He is the spectator of our worship service. If you would just grasp that one truth, I think you'd sing a little better. I don't think you'd be like Onward Christian soldiers. Marching as to war. I think that you wouldn't let your mind drift. And I think I know for sure you wouldn't be on your cell phones. God is watching your worship. This goes back to things we learned in Malachi. He wants to be pleased with offerings from the heart When we're done doing this, this is the dress rehearsal, by the way. Don't be late for the dress rehearsal, by the way. That's what this is. This is the dress rehearsal. And when we get into heaven, we're going to do it a little better. But this is the practice now. Come and practice what you're going to do for 10,000 times 10,000 years, which will be a joy to you This worship service ought to be the highlight of your week and your preparation. It ought not to be an afterthought. You ought not to be skipping it when you're a little bit tired at home. You had a rough week. Well, I had a rough week too. You ought to be here. When you're sick, we understand. You're out of town, we get that. But you ought to be here. You ought to be here with the saints. Why? Because this is what God wants. He wants the glory. He's going to get the glory in the church. He deserves the glory. He's gonna get that glory. You and I ought to offer that glory. That's what we're about. I hope that you understand that when we put money into Music ministry and we ask you bring your talents forward and join the music ministry. When we ask the ushers Escort people into this worship room with dignity and guard this place because it's a time of worship for God, that you will begin to grasp and the sound system. That it is done the best that we can. We put money into decorations or whatever we do. It's because God deserves it It's not a waste of money. It's not a waste of talent. It's not a third leg out of the three purposes of the church. Brothers and sisters, to God be the glory. Father, we pray that you were pleased with what you heard today and what you saw in our hearts. We pray let the words of our mouth and the meditation of our heart be acceptable in your sight. O Lord, our Rock and our Redeemer. Amen.