The Lord is very gracious and He has restored me here to you. And it's a joy to be here. I know some are on vacation and getting to watch over the internet. What a special time. I pray to be able to be back for the 18th anniversary, and so he's been gracious here to put me here He's restored me to this pulpit ministry. This is a ministry that the Lord gave me 18 years ago, and I still remember the charge that Dr. MacArthur gave all the graduates at that time to preach the word. I was slumping in my seat. It was such a serious charge. Wondering how I'd ever live up to that. But he did charge me, preach his word, his life-transforming word It is to be preached without abridgment, without adaptation, without smoothing it over to make people feel better about themselves, as is so common these days. I want to preach and have tried to preach as if souls depend on it. And they do. And even before I get started today, I want to say if you're a lost soul, And you don't know for sure Christ is your Savior, you need to run and abandon yourself, run from yourself and flee to Christ. He's the only way to God And you need to know that today. And I'd like all of you just to hear me today, and I say this from my heart as strongly as I know how. I'm here, and God is not taking me anywhere just yet, and I am here, and it is my resolve to be right here and to bring God's word to you as much as God allows me to have strength. This morning is a very, very special morning, and um I am here, this is my calling, to proclaim the excellencies of Jesus Christ, who called This foolish man out of darkness and into his marvelous light. I guess I feel that I hold this conviction to preach. Even more strongly now than I have before. I don't know whether I have six more months to preach or six more years or longer, but whatever it is, I hold this conviction. Maybe to borrow Jude's wording a little bit. I feel I am under compulsion from God's Spirit, with a sense of sense of urgency to get God's word out. I trust that when I am weak, that Christ will be strong. I believe the ongoing exposition of Christ's word wins the loss to Christ. Allows Christ to mold his church by transforming your thinking, my thinking, to be his thinking. That's how we grow, and that's how we mature. I believe Christ is still building his church. And he's using scripture, lots of scripture to do just that. I know times are tough. The church may have lost its political clout in our society, but the church has never lost its calling and its spiritual power in the midst of this society. Now is not a time for any of us to shrink back. Now is a time for bold and courageous men and women to step forward and count for Christ. As I prayed about my return, I wanted to impress upon the whole congregation the things that the Lord Jesus has been impressing upon my mind. When you have a life-threatening disease, you realize maybe more than before. To borrow James' words That we are only a vapor that appears for a little while and then it vanishes away, a morning mist that is gone as the sun appears. When you have a life-threatening disease and at the same time you see your country's freedoms disappearing, that only serves to compound the urgency of Christ's calling. Ephesians 5. 16. Make The most of your time because the days are evil. Add it to this when you realize that world events are moving rapidly to fulfill biblical prophecy And no, David, that was not an endorsement for your co your class on eschatology, but I'm sure you're covering it. You realize the end times are fast approaching. That puts a lot of pressure on you and me to make sure that our lives count for Christ. Time is short. When I couple all of that with the vast ignorance that is out there about God's word, unfortunately, even in many, many churches. And I know what God has assembled right here with many of you, your gifts, your teaching abilities, your convictions, your understanding of doctrine, your giftedness. And that of our sister churches in the Gamma region. And I think about what all that God has assembled here to do, along with that ignorance out there. I know that he has thrown all of this together, at least all of this reality in my mind, like a like a hot cauldron that's burning inside of me and it's just wanting to be expressed. All of this is bubbling up in whatever energy I have to try to express a deeper passion, a more sense of the urgent call for the Word of God. For the church of God, for the gospel of God, for the work of the Spirit of God, for the mission of God, for the church, for all things God. Beloved, these are not times to be dull or to be lukewarm or to be aimless. We have a great and an urgent work to do for God. That's why over the next couple of weeks I just want to speak to you about the vision of Hope Bible Church. Starting it here on this anniversary service, Lord willing. We'll be able to hear more of it in the Sundays to come. I want to borrow now Mordecai's words to Esther. Why are we here? What is the vision for the Hope Bible Church? Well, we are here for such a time as this. That's why we're here. Listen, I love Christ's church. In one way or another, for the last 35 years, since he turned my life around, I've been serving to build up the church of Christ. I love this church. I love you. You're in my heart. I know that our family and myself are in your heart as well. That's been so tangibly and and um amazingly demonstrated to my family and I I love what the Lord Jesus Christ is doing. I love the love that is in your heart because it tells me that the gospel of God is alive and is working in your life. The Spirit of God is doing something special. The Church of Jesus Christ is the most amazing organism in the entire world. It is, I'm not exaggerating. Ephesians 1. 22, there Paul wrote, that God put all things in subjection under Christ's feet. Can you visualize that? And then gave Christ, listen to this, as head over all things to the church. The head of all things in the universe was given as a gift to the church. Who's the head of the Olympic Committee right now? Does anybody know? Does anybody care? Who's the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court? Now that you might know. John Roberts. Who cares? Whoopee, who's the head of this organization right here? Jesus Christ, the omnipotent Son of God. Can't beat that. Can't touch that. Jesus is not a figure head. He's a real head. Ephesians 1. 18 says, I pray that the eyes of your heart may be enlightened so that you will know. And he goes on to say, what is the surpassing greatness of Christ's power toward you who believe? That's amazing. Did you know that the local church is the center of God's redeeming activity in the world right now? Did you know that? Robert Sose in his book, The Church and God's Program, writes, throughout the course of history, God has worked in the world in a variety of ways through individuals. Through nations and peoples. The focus of his present work is the church. Not only is Christ building his church, but it is the primary instrument through which he ministers in the world. How wonderful is that? How amazing is the church that you are a part of. Mark Dever, you know him, down in D. C. , wrote nine marks of a healthy church. He wrote in there, God intends to display the glory of his beauty and perfection and love And you want to end that by saying through Christ, but he doesn't. He says, through the church. Wow! And some of you thought the church was just a building or just an activity on Sunday morning. Did you know that Jesus is totally committed to his bride, the church? Donald Whitney brings that out in spiritual disciplines within the church, the book we require all the new members to read parts of. He wrote, Jesus Christ loves the church. and died for the church, Acts 20, 28, Ephesians 5. 25. With all of its spots and wrinkles, he is at work in and through the church. Regardless of how you view the general condition of the church today or the state of the individual churches in your area, the ultimate future of the church is glorious beyond imagination. Oh, if we could only get a glimpse of the bride of Christ draped in glory. What a gown God Almighty will drape over the church when she gets to glory. But here's the thing. I've noticed that evangelicals who are very committed to their families Very committed to their work, committed to getting out the gospel, aren't always so committed to their local church. They don't get it. And beloved, that has to change because this is God's program for this age, the church. The scriptures present a very high view of the church and a very high view of your involvement in the church. Shockingly high if you really hear what the scriptures are saying. Ephesians 3. 10 audaciously declares That the manifold wisdom of God is made known through the church to the rulers and the authorities And it says, in the heavenly places. That's shocking. That God wants to display his amazing, mini-sided wisdom through the church on earth and what he's doing. God's purpose goes way beyond the Great Commission, way beyond our own salvation, to show off God's wisdom way up there. This is a magnificent Ephesians 3:21 adds this about the eternal status of the church. To God be the glory in the church. And in Christ Jesus to all generations forever and ever. Now we know the church and Christ are not equal, but in that verse it almost makes it sound like they are equal, where his glory is seen. Just like God invests his glory in Christ, did you know he invests his glory in the church forever? It says. It's long past this world. Oh beloved, you are part of something absolutely amazing. And I don't mean your families. As much as we love our families, our families are temporary. You know, our kids grow up. They leave. As permanent as marriage is, our spouses die. And in the next life, the family dissolves away. But did you know the family of God is for eternity? The church of the living God glorifies God forever. And no Supreme Court ruling can ever touch the mission and the power and the calling of the church today. Can't do it. Please do not think lightly of what you are involved in when you are part of a local church. Don't think of it as routine. Instead, join me in considering why Hope Bible Church, or any local church for that matter, but why Hope Bible Church in particular? Why are we here? 1 Corinthians 12 gives us a little bit of an answer to that It's not all the scriptures teach about the church, but it'll get us going. And I want to read verses 12 down through 27 today. Follow along if you can. 1 Corinthians 12, 12 through 27. It says, For even as the body is one, and yet as many members, and all the members of the body, though they are many, are one body, so also is Christ. For by one spirit we were all baptized into one body, whether Jews or Greeks, whether slaves or free, and we were all made to drink of one spirit. For the body is not one member, but many. If the foot says, Because I am not a hand, I am not a part of the body, it is not for this reason any the less a part of the body. And if the ear says, Because I'm not an eye, I am not a part of the body, it is not for this reason any the less a part of the body. If the whole body were an eye, where would the hearing be? If the whole were hearing, where would the sense of smell be? But now God has placed the members, each one of them, in the body, just as He desired. If they were all one member, where would the body be? But now there are many members but one body. Any eye cannot say to the hand, I have no need of you. Or again the head to the feet, I have no need of you. On the contrary, it is much truer that the members of the body which seem to be weaker are necessary, and those members of the body which we deem less honorable on these we bestow more abundant honor, and our less presentable members become much more presentable, whereas our more presentable members have an elite of it. But God has so composed the body, giving more abundant honor to that member which lacks, so that there may be no division. in the body, but that the members may have the same care for one another. And if one member suffers, all the members suffer with it. If one member is honored, all the members rejoice with it Now, you are Christ's body, and individually, members of it. He goes on to talk about the leaders, the spiritual leaders in the church and the giftedness that they have right there. Why are we here? Oh Bible Church. One reason the scripture gives is to build up the body of Christ. That's why we're here. We have a ministry philosophy. I don't know how many of you remember that, but in that ministry philosophy, we try to be true to what the scriptures say about the doctrine of the church, and we lay out the three purposes for the church. a three-part purpose and it actually helps us to categorize the different ministries and activities of the church. First we have focusing inwardly on ourselves, on building up the church. We call that edification. Secondly, we have a focus that's outward to the world, we call that evangelism. And thirdly, we have a focus that goes upward towards God, and we call that exaltation or praise. So we do have a purpose to ourselves. It's called edification. It was read in the scripture reading from Ephesians 4 that we are to build up the body. that gifted men teach the saints so that all the saints will be equipped and they'll use their spiritual gifts, their knowledge to do what? To build up the body of Christ. States it right there at Ephesians 4. Maybe the verse that best summarizes this whole process of edification is a little further there in Ephesians 4, verses 15 and 16. I'll read it. It says, speaking the truth and love, we are to grow up in all fact all aspects into him who is the head, even Christ. From whom, that is from the head, the whole body being fitted and held together by what every joint supplies, that's all of us. According to the proper working of each individual part, and here it is, causes the growth of the body for the building up of itself in love. In other words, the body is always building up the body so that the head will be glorified. Strong body, head gets glorified. There is a strong emphasis in New Testament, New Covenant teaching, not only in Ephesians, which is a great book for the doctrine of the church. But also in 1 Corinthians, which we're looking at, but also in the book of Acts, about building up the church, building up the body. All kinds of verses in Acts. I'll give you one, Acts 9. 31 It says, so the church throughout all Judea and Galilee and Samaria enjoyed peace, being built up. There it is. And going on in the fear of the Lord and in the comfort of the Holy Spirit, it continued to increase. Remember what Jesus Christ said, his mission was when Peter made that great confession, thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. He turned to Peter and said, Blessed are you, Simon Barjona. For flesh and blood did not reveal this to you, but my father who is in heaven. And he went on to speak about the fact that I will build my church and the gates of Hades will will what? Not prevail against it What's Jesus doing? He's building his church. What is his mission? He's building his church. How is he doing that? He's building his church through us, through the activity of the Spirit among us. Out in the forefront of all three of the pastoral epistles is to constantly preach the word, teach the word, build the church. In Romans, you see the same thing, build up the church and elsewhere. Ever since the day of Pentecost and the arrival of the Spirit of God, who took that band of disciples and formed them into a new entity, an organism. He said, now you're filled with the Spirit, but more than that, you've been baptized into the Spirit. What does that mean? You've been placed into the realm of the Spirit. And who is the Spirit? The Spirit of Christ, and where did the Spirit come? From Christ at the right hand of God the Father Almighty. And when that Spirit came down, he formed the body of Christ, a new age, a new era, a new work. That's what we're to be doing. This is not a small doctrine or a small area of God's concern. This is central to what God is doing now, beloved. Please notice now we're jumping into 1 Corinthians 12, and I know we're just going right into chapter 12. I want to give you a few words of context for this. I won't say too much about Corinthians. We preached through the whole thing. Paul's writing to these Corinthians and they had a lot of problems. He's writing to them about the body, how the body is supposed to work, and why is he saying this to them? Because they had a lot of problems, because their body wasn't working. Right. It wasn't working right at all. Why wasn't it working right? Because they had a lot of pride, a lot of worldly thinking, and along with that worldly thinking, thinking the way the world thinks, they had an awful lot of divisions. You notice how divided the world is these days It was the same thing back then, everyone's divided. So because they're worldly thinking, because they don't really have God's aspirations in their heart, they had a lot of divisions in their church And in chapter 1 and 2, it kind of corrects that. Has Christ been divided, Paul says? Why are you chasing after this person and this person? Be unified. And then he goes on to deal with humility in chapters 3 and 4. He says, Who are we, the leaders in the church? We're nothing. We're servants of Christ. That's all. We've been given a stewardship. You're not following us, you're following Christ. We're all one in Christ And then he goes on in chapters five through ten. I don't have the time to outline many of the other problems those Corinthians had, and he had to correct them for that. By the time we get to chapter, the middle of chapter eleven and on in the chapters twelve and fourteen He's now viewing the time when all the saints would come together, just like you are now, and we're all gathered together as one church, and he's dealing with the gatherings on Sunday And in chapters 12 through 14, he's talking about the body of Christ and love and how the spiritual gifts are all supposed to work to build that up Some thought their spiritual gift was better than others. Particularly you'll notice in the chapter and on in the chapter fourteen the gift of languages Some translate it as tongues, but it's really the supernatural ability to speak in a foreign language unknown to the speaker. That's what it was. It's not the ecstatic utterances that some think today. And so Paul was dashing all of that foolishness, my gift is better than yours, to pieces by showing that everyone is in the same body, and we're all just working differently, we're all on the same side, we're all on the same team, and everybody is needed. He even has to include right in the middle of chapter 12 and 14, chapter 13, which is called the what? The love chapter. Why did he have to talk about love right there? It wasn't about marriage. It was about the body of Christ learning to love one another. Love is patient, love is kind. And does not brag, is not arrogant. Why do they have to do all of that? To explain that with giftedness and with ministry, love is important. If I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, what a mighty thing to be able to speak with all the tongues of men, and even the tongues of angels. If I do that but don't have love, I'm a what? I'm a noisy gong or a clanging cymbal So this chapter is about humble, unified body life. Each member, you, me, to do his or her job. Why? To build up the body. So Christ is glorified. Now the key to interpreting this whole section is verse 12. Would you zero in on that and look back at it? Verse 12 of chapter 12. For even as the body is one, notice the emphasis, and yet has many members, and all the members of the body, though they are many, are one body, so also is Christ. And then he goes on in verse 13 to talk about that spirit baptism that put all of us into the body. Every Christian is spirit baptized because every Christian is part of the body. If they weren't spirit baptized, they wouldn't be in the body, and we're all in the body. So in verse 12, Paul is summarizing two main truths, and they're really the mirror image of each other. The first is that the one body has many members. That's kind of emphasized in verses 14 and 19 The second is the reverse of that, and that is that the many members build up the one body. One body has many members, the many members build up the one body. That's in verses 20 through 27. It's really simple, but it's profound and has far-reaching implications for how we live in church. Look at the first half there, verses 14 through 19. I'm not going to read it again for you, but it says, the one body has many members. Please just look through the passage and glance through it and see how Paul impresses the truth of the unity of the body with the diversity of the members in the church. And by the way, he's not talking about black and white here He's not talking about rich or poor. He's not talking about Jew or Gentile or slave or free. He's talking about diversity and giftedness. And really he's doing it all the way through verse 26 Look at these diverse couplets that are in there. He talks about the foot and the hand and then the ear and the eye, the hearing and the and the seeing. Do you see all of that diversity? The head, the feet, the weak members, the strong members, the seemly members, the unseemly members. The suffering members, the rejoicing members. The one body has many different members, lots of variety. And each of these different members performs a needed different function in the body. The foot and the hand are different, right? I hope your hand and feet are different. Different functions need different parts of the body. You agree? It's a simple illustration. We all get it immediately, don't we? That's the brilliance of what Paul's done here. Everyone understands the human body. They're both equally part of the body. My hands here, my foot's there. My hands doing this, my foot's tapping below. They're both a part of the body. The one body has many, many different members, and they have different functions The body needs hearing, seeing, smelling. We all know that. What would it be like if the church was one giant nose? What would we liken the nose to? You know, there's the whole body. We'd look like a comet. Maybe the the nose gift would be discernment. We always sniff out bad doctrine. We'd be just everyone in here would have the gift of discernment. That'd be wonderful. We'd be a church no one could ever trick. We'd also have no hands or feet, no mercy and no helps. How lopsided, how unchrist-like we would be in our ministry. Notice Paul's question of verse 19 kind of proves his point. If they were all one member, where would the body be? You get it? There was no wisdom, no wisdom at all, in gifting every Christian in the church the same. We should expect to be different. We should expect to have different spiritual gifts Different abilities come from those gifts. And with different abilities come different ministries. With different ministries come different way of helping people. When that happens, there's also different passions that develop in the hearts of different people. so that this brother over here has a passion for one thing and this sister over here has a passion for a different thing. It's supposed to be that way. It's designed that way. It's the Spirit's sovereign design and distribution of diversity for the one body. I don't want to be in a church where everybody's doing the same thing. It's much more exciting when you can see, look at the differences that are going on. You get everyone working together. Spirit designed it this way. Every believer, you might be sitting there wondering, do I have a gift? Every believer has a gift. In fact, you probably have a combination of spiritual gifts. You were given that at the time of salvation. You didn't feel anything. There's nothing that was written on your forehead you have the gift of exhortation. You have to figure that out. Say how do you figure it out? You've got to use it You've got to begin using it in the church. You've got to find something, you've got to begin using it, and as you use it, you understand things to develop in you. The Spirit of God makes you aware of things Some people when they're young they don't know where they're gonna be when they grow up. How do they discover what they're gonna be good at? I didn't figure out what I was gonna be good at until around thirty-four or thirty-five years of age. Took me a while to grow up Same thing in the spiritual realm. You use your gift and you discover what your gift is as you use it. You're okay at this, but you're much better at that. Sister so-and-so excels in that, you don't. So you could work in other areas, but then you begin to define yourself and you began to see how you can benefit the body and you began to use it. Look back just to verses 4 through 7, you'll see this. Verses 4 through 7. We didn't read it, I want to read it now. Now there are a variety of gifts. There are varieties of gifts, but the same Spirit, Holy Spirit, right? There are a variety of ministries. Notice how gifts go with ministries. There are a variety of ministries and the same Lord. Jesus is the Lord of all the ministries Verse 6. There are a variety of effects. See, the ministries produce something. But the same God who works all things in all persons, the Spirit, the Son, the Father, the whole Trinity is in here Then it says in verse 7, but to each one, that's the members of the body of Christ, that's you, but to each one is given the manifestation of the Holy Spirit for what? For what? The common good. Building up the body. Spiritual gifts. It's not for personal edification. Never was. Now how can you take all that diversity and make it work together? Ah, now there's the trick, isn't it? All that diversity, that's wonderful. Diversity causes problems, people. Just look at the world. Can't we all get along? Apparently not. There's so much mistrust. There are so many people at each other's throats in the world. They can't achieve unity. They'll never be able to do that They don't have the love, they don't have the humility, they don't got it. It'll never happen. Our country and communities are literally splitting apart in people's hearts. In the church, the Holy Spirit's in charge. And you know what he's urging us to be like? Humble. That's a hard one, isn't it? Humility and love. What do you do when you're humble and you're loving? You think of others first. You admire other people. You think they're more important than you You say, I don't think other people are more important than you, that's the problem. That's the same thing I remember. Used to hear all the time I've come to that Philippians 2 passage, consider others as more important than yourself. Lord, I'm just working on treating them as good as me. Nothing more important. I haven't even got to treating them as good as me. I want you to notice going back to this passage, there are two keys to diverse members working in harmony. I'm going to give these to you quickly. Two keys. How do diverse members work in harmony? The first key to harmony is in verses 15 to 17, and Paul tells us to recognize the value of your own position and your own gift within the body. That's right. See, just personalize this for a moment. God put you in the body. Am I right about that? Speak to me. Am I right about that? You're in the body. Good. Glad. God puts you in the church. You're a part of the body. See, that sets you up. The other members of this church You ready for this? Need you. Some of you are like, oh pissal, nobody needs me. I don't do anything. I'm not important. Everything around here runs smoothly without me. Listen, I've been around here a long time. Uh 18 roses. No, everything does not work smoothly around here without you. Please don't minimize God's gift in you. You can't say, I'm not a teacher, what do I get to do? I'm not a deacon. I'm not needed. I can't sing. So what? I can't sing either. That's not humility. That's a cop-out. That's abdication of your role in the body. Sometimes people don't do anything with their gift because they wish they had someone else's gift. You know what that is? That's called envy Just take what God gave you. What did He give you? Take the spiritual abilities, the passions He put in your heart, the things that you are able to do by God's grace, and then faithfully and yes, dauntlessly, practice it. Advance the body. You don't yet know what you can do well, just start serving somewhere. Look in that bulletin. Find something to do. Talk to a leader. They have something for you to do, more than one thing. I will overwhelm you with things to do if you come talk to me. First Timothy 4, 4, and some of you know that because you've sat down with me before, and you leave with a list and your head is spinning. 1 Timothy 4. 14, Paul warned Timothy, do not neglect the gift you have. Some of you are neglecting the gift you have. 2 Timothy 1:6, I remind you to rekindle the gift of God that is within you. You know what rekindle means? Stir up the smoldering embers into a lively flame. They're dying too low and not burning as hot anymore. Some of you may need to do that with your giftedness. You used to work hard for the church, but now you found a small, convenient ministry, nothing to make you sacrifice. Now you've let the passion for the ministry toward the Lord burn low into faint ashes. You lost your vision for building up the church. You need to rekindle the gift of God that He put within you. Serve the Lord with some holy fire and excellence. Do your very best for the church. Don't bring your leftovers for the service of God. Tone your gift. Be discipled by others. Get some accountability. Join a group. Be sharpened. Take a class. Sign up for a course. Mature yourself. How are you going to make progress if you're not willing to apply yourself? That's the first key. The second key to harmony is to trust God's sovereign distribution of the gifts to other people. He gave other people different gifts. That's in verses 18 and 19. Look at that. Now God has placed the members, each one of them in the body, just as he desired. If they were all one member, where would the body be? See the others are needed too. And you need to respect the fact that they're different and they're needed also I remember uh when I was younger, saw a lot of people flocking to this one gal every time they had a need, like everybody seemed go to the same Christian young gal. It was like, how come everybody goes to heart Nobody ever asks any other person for advice because she had a special gift and she had matured her gift through the years Sometimes you look and you say, why does that person witness so well so they would be an example for you? They have the gift of evangelism, they've honed it through obedience through the years, and now some of that gift can spill over on you You don't say, well, they have the gift of evangelism, I don't have to do it. No, you learn from them. Why does that person give away things so easily to other people in need? Because God gave them the gift of giving. Why does everyone want to seek out that person to help them in a ministry? Because that person has the gift of help. Get the point? It's by God's design. And none of us that I know of got to lobby God and say, God, this is the gift I would like to have. And then it arrives from eBay, and we got what we ordered No, God made the decision by himself. He didn't ask you, He didn't consult you. You're not part of the equation. This is the gift you've got. You didn't even know what hit you at salvation. You had no idea what hit you. You wake up years later and you're like, oh I got a gift. Why'd I get this gift? Doesn't matter. Doesn't matter why. You got it. You use it. Unwrap it Start using it. Develop it. Build the body with it. The body must have no divisions. Yet it must not have uniformity either. Think of all the things that a body could do with all the different members working in harmony. Do you know that when Jesus Christ was here on earth, when he was literally bodily here on earth and he was doing his ministry, he performed these varieties of ministries He exhorted people, he taught people, he evangelized, he had mercy, he had administration. Very good administrator the Lord was He had all those gifts and he used all of them when he ascended and he poured out his spirit. He basically just divided up what he could do among all of us so that now we're called the body of Christ. We are his hands and his feet and his eyes and his ears. And that's what we are down here to do now. That's our purpose. He ascended into heaven, as I said before, he sent the Spirit, which is called the Spirit of Christ, to put us into this new organism called the church. And he equipped us with all the abilities that he had. The whole array of spiritual ministry. Why? Because he wants the church to continue and carry on the work that he began. That's what he's doing. That diversity is what helps the church reach a whole variety of people and do a whole variety of things. That's why God didn't just send down a bunch of different organizations. This little organization will work on this thing, and here's another little organization, and they'll do this. No, he threw us all together in a body and said, get along. Love each other. Work together. Because only when it's diverse like this can Christ really be seen. That's why we're not 25 different organizations, we're one body. That's one of the weaknesses of fair church organizations. They can't demonstrate the fullness of Christ like a local church with all of its problems. In all of its diversity, here is where Christ can be seen. Where people are bumping heads, where people are getting on each other's nerves, stepping over each other. Only there can it be seen that Christ is manifest. That's the glory of the local church. You cannot have people claiming superiority over others in ministry. It hurts the body. You know, uh we don't say it, but sometimes it's communicated that way. You know. Well, I'm the teacher. You're just a parking lot attendant. Chair stacker. A floor sweeper. And we begin to think, well that that's not all that important. I don't know. I like clean floors, don't you? I I I like the chairs to be moved around. I'm glad that we don't have accidents in the parking lot. A guy can't stand up here and teach unless those kinds of things are done, right? Everything's important. That's what he's saying. We would have whoever put this chair also survey I think quietly, Sarva kind of wish that their own spiritual gift was the one the whole church camped on. Raise the little banner up there. This is the best gift in the church That's why when people that are hungry for evangelism, and God bless you, and they're out knocking on the door, they're looking around, how come there's only three of us out today? Where's the rest of the body? Or sister so-and-so is there at the work day, sweating wing. She looks around, why did only half a dozen show up? Where's everybody else? We sometimes think our gift is the most important gift, and if everyone in the church were wise and mature, everyone would be coming out to the thing where our gift is being accentuated. But you see, the person who's serving here didn't have time to come out to that one or come out to that one. And sometimes we as leaders of our area were like, where is everybody? Look, they're over there doing that They didn't come out Monday night, they came out Tuesday night. They didn't come out Tuesday night, they came out Wednesday night. You got it? That's how sometimes we think ours is better. By the way, these gifts can come into conflict with one another, right? There's someone who's hurting in the church. They're kind of lacking. Let's say they're lagging behind. But someone with the gift of mercy just comes along, little arm around them. This person just needs a little more time and tender care. And then there's someone with the gift of exhortation. Get them up out of the chair. What are they doing? Get them busy. Let's get going. The gifts can be in conflict sometimes with one another. What is it that causes them to work together? Wisdom? That there's a time for everything, right? Wisdom. The gift of faith and the gift of administration. Administrative. Let's take care of the ministries we already have. Let's organize them better. Person with a gift of faith is like, no, we gotta start this and we gotta do this now. Take the hill. Charge We don't have the money for that. Fool. We've been created to think differently and then to force ourselves to get along. Does that make sense to you? Here's the point. If building the body is your goal in the use of your gift, Then all the other gifts will be important to you too. Now we come to the other half. The many members build up the one body. A little bit quicker, verses 20 through 26. I'm not going to read it Look at verse 20, focus on verse 20, because really Paul states the exact truth from verse 14. They go together. Verse 14 and 20 kind of go together. They say the same truth, just kind of in reverse Verse 14 says the body is not one but many, and verse 20 says the many members are one body. Mere image of each other, right? So in verses 20 to 26 it illustrates the reverse truth The members have need of each other. They must work interdependently, not independently. Here are two principles here also given to help us as individual members build up the body. First principle. Build up others in the body. Why? So they can do their ministry to build up the body. That's in verses 21 through 24. The more seen and honored members are not more important than the less seen and the less prominent members Less esteen members, or less honored members, we must work harder at honoring them Clapping for them, recognizing them, encouraging them, finding them in the back room, and saying, I love what you do. Thank you for doing this. It's so needed. Please do that. That's what it's about Get everybody busy. Leaders. Our leaders. I pray you're awake and listening to this. You are needed as part of this process to get it all going. You need to be good recruiters. We need to find the people in the church that are underachievers. They're not serving as they ought to be. And you have to do more than make an announcement from the pulpit. You've got to go to them one-on-one. You've got to sit down with them and you've got to say, what's going on in your life? And they'll tell you all the things that are messed up. And you help them with those things. And you love them and you show kindness to them because you need to repair them and you need to encourage them and help them. And when they're repaired, then they're going to have a a stronger back to them and they're gonna have stronger legs and they're gonna get busy and serving more. And then you need to help them find where to serve. What are you good at? Well I don't know. Well let's try this and give them something and help them encourage them and get them started We need to challenge and act, leaders, we need to challenge and activate every man, every woman. in this church to be serving Jesus Christ, not in some small way, but in some way that shows they are expending effort I know you're going to say to me, but that's hard. When I go to people and tell them they make a lot of excuses. I know. They say, I don't know what to do, so show them what to do. I tried that, no one called me back. Get them to try it again. I can't survive lots of family problems. Okay, get the family problems fixed. Let's sit down, let's talk through it, let's get some counseling, some discipleship, let's read some books, let's learn to put some things into practice But it it's not a good time for me to serve in church. Well what are you waiting for? The rapture? You're ready to serve up there, won't you? Bruh, you gotta get busy. Now You need even those who at first glance don't look too promising to the future of Hope Bible Church. That guy The text says everyone is needed. Everyone. No exceptions. You're going through a hard time, you're needed. You need it now. And we can't do it all. That's why down in verse 29, which we didn't get to, it says, All are not apostles, are they? What's the answer to that question? It's rhetorical, no. All are not prophets, are they? You say. All are not teachers, are they? You can't have every gift. God didn't allow it. You're not good at some things. You you got a ministry that you're leading. You need people under you. You need people working. You need you need to get them in there You can't do it all. You need the others in the body. The second is have the same care for one another. Verses 25 and 26. But the members, but that the members may have the same care for one another Boy, I've experienced this from you. Our family's experienced this from you. Boy, what what care we have received. What a joy it's been to be part of this body. of Christ to see I don't know how many of you have showed up at our home or written cards or whatever, given money or whatever it was, just have the same care for one another Would you take the same love and care that you showed to Thomas and Susan Leake and show that to some of the others in the body of Christ who are hurting right now? Would you do that Would you write them a card this week? Would you send them money this week? Would you show up at their house this week? Would you offer them a ride this week and nurse them? That's that's the same love and care, right? Build them up, build up the body of Christ. Verse 26, and if one member suffers, all the members suffer with it. I hate when I hear someone's going through something and nobody else knows If one member is honored, all members rejoice with it. What happens when someone in the church gets an honor in the workplace and the rest of us don't know about that? We should be happy for them, right? Someone gets an award in school and we're the last ones to find out about it. It shouldn't be that way. One member suffers, all the members care. Because all of us hurt. You ever had a pain in the shoulder or the neck? Ruins your day, doesn't it? Or a bad tooth ruins your week. Even the smallest hurt can prevent the rest of the body from functioning fully. That's the idea. Other scripture tells so many of the one another's, rejoice with those who what? Rejoice. Weep with those who pray for one another, forgive one another, bear one another's burdens. Galatians 6. 1, Ephesians 4. 32, James 5. 16. Your concern should be everyone's concern. Your trial, their trial, and yes, your joy, their joy, your triumph, their triumph. Love is an action word. It means get involved in the lives of others where there's no love I I tell you, I see an awful lot of love and joy in this body, and I want to commend you from it. I don't want to sound like I'm just preaching at you. I think that you have been an example. of what this says. I really do. It's one of the reasons I wanted to say it to encourage you. All the praying for one another, lending out cars, babysitting, in some cases sharing homes. Giving of your time. It's a wonderful thing to be part of O Bible Church. What a glorious thing. Each of those acts that are done. Cleaning up somebody's basement, helping someone to get to the store. All these different acts, they really matter. They're not even official ministries of the church. They're just you loving. They're just you doing something. It's beautiful. It's beautiful I loved to see the love of God at work in the body of Christ. And that's what I see at Hope Bible Church. Our membership class kind of sets the expectation with that, doesn't it? It helps people who are coming in, who maybe even members of other churches, and they got kind of a long idea. By the way, friends, if you join Hope Bible Church, you actually have to do something. You can't just write a check and show up on Sunday. Stop it. The death of a church is the Sunday-only member. I got a ministry. I do it on Sunday morning. Okay. Good. That's a start. I want you to memorize this. We don't go to church. We are the church. Once in a while, we get members who think their gift is to sit back in the corner and criticize everyone else who's serving. That's not the way it's supposed to be done My how inefficient that is. I can't believe those people overlook that. That person is not functioning like a member of the body. They're functioning like a cancer in the body. Somebody once told me, I don't go to church. I follow God my own way. That person was acting like he was not a member of the body. Romans 12, 4 and 5. Just as we have many members in one body, and all the members do not have the same function, so we who are many are one body in Christ, and individually members of one another. Like it or not, you're stuck with me. And I'm stuck with you. There is no room for semi-hermits who listen to sermons at home and are not physically involved with other believers. That kind of Christianity is disobedient and immature and it neglects the body of Christ. Alright, as we come to a conclusion, look at verse 27. Because verse 27 is the focal point and the climax of the whole section where he says, now you are Christ's body. And individually members of it. You Corinthians! You didn't get it yet, Corinthians. You're Christ's body. Quit acting like you're ten bodies. You're Christ's body. And I say to us today, whole Bible church, you are Christ's own body. Beloved, these words show forth the magnificent truth that we are the living, dynamic body of Christ down here on earth. The local church is God's way of manifesting Christ to the community. They don't know Christ. They don't get it. They have to see us. The church houses Christ. We're not divine, not in that sense. The Roman Catholic Church took this way too far. But there's a real spiritual truth here. We house Christ in a practical way. We are his hands, his arms, his feet. His mouth. Listen, if you forget who you are, body of Christ. If you start to see yourself the way the world looks at you and identifies you, just another guy out there punching the clock, going to work, trying to live the American dream Paying the bills, walking the dog, no different than anybody else. If you see yourself that way, you will not live out the calling that God has laid on you. You will not see yourself as a member of the body of Christ. You'll just see yourself as an American going through the motions and then going to church once in a while. You won't get your identity. You won't get your calling. You won't get your purpose. You must never forget who you are. You will never get excited about your part of the body of Christ if you view yourself the way the world views you. I I noticed that so many people are in the all these different causes these days. So many causes. People holding up this banner for this one thing, the racial marches, the picket lines. Boycott Macy's, burn the Confederate flag, build a border fence, dump Starbucks coffee. That'd be hard for Pastor Tony, I know March for Cancer Awareness. Restore Dukes of Hazards to TV Save the baby seals. So many people are marching to the drumbeat of the media. And their agenda. That's not Christ's agenda. Sorry. That's not Christ's agenda. For God's sakes, you're a Christian You should be known for one cause. The cross of Christ, the gospel of God, the resurrection of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ One cause, one mind, one body, marching to the beat of the head of the church, the Lord Jesus Christ Laura sang it. For to me to live is what? Christ. And to die is We are to live, eat, sleep, and breathe Christ until our last breath, and then it's gained Our cause is the gospel. So build the body, not your muscles. Build the body of Christ. And please stop dreaming about living in Texas. God placed you in Maryland. The god forsaken land of Maryland What's the saying? Bloom where you're planted. You planted here. Pour your life out for Christ's kingdom here. Be ready to die for Christ. Be imprisoned for Christ. For that will be gained if you die for Christ. Christ bled for you. Christ bled for you. Christ shed his blood for you. For you. Can't you sweat for him? Can't you pour out a little sweat for him? Amen. Father, strengthen our resolve. To live for the one purpose of the gospel, which even in the building up of the body of Christ helps the advance of the gospel and the fulfillment of the Great Commission. And all of that works to your glory. Fill us with a renewed sense of our calling, a mighty calling, a holy calling, a very important job. A very important part of a very important organism for a very important eternal purpose. Help us urge one another on, encourage one another with these truths. We ask it in the matchless name of Jesus, our Head. We look forward to seeing him in glory, and all God's people said.