You know, there's been a lot of anti-American sentiment in the news around the world recently, both at home, also abroad. This message is not in sympathy with that crowd. This preacher has no sympathy for the hatred toward America crowd. That's not what today's message is about. I am, like you are, first a citizen of God's kingdom. Nevertheless, I do appreciate my country and the freedoms that I have and my family has been given right here. My daddy worked for the United States State Department, gave his life and service to his country for many, many years, that is God in his providence guided my dad to Iran where he met my mother and the rest is leaked family history. My life is a product of government service And I'm thankful for that. Here in particular, in America, I appreciate my freedoms. This open and public sermon you're hearing today is a gift by God through what we have in our American government to worship Christ openly. It is also true that God has used this nation that we live in, the citizens of this nation, the Christian citizens of this nation to work in foreign missions and spread the gospel throughout of the world more than any other nation on the planet today. As my Hispanic professor once said while he was preaching at an IFCA convention, he said, the red, white, and blue colors on my flag do not run. Many of us, whether we are white, black, Hispanic, Asian, we are happy for our country. Yet I will grant that it is not hard to find fault with our nation. It's pretty easy, actually. Sin infests this land and her people just as it does everywhere else in the world. that sin in our country is growing bolder and bolder, and I would add, more and more shameless. And it is true that Our citizens, like others in other nations, have great spiritual confusion. Confusion about spiritual truth. What really is the truth? Can a man even know? Now, if you were to ask the average American guy or gal, do you think you will go to heaven when you die? If they still believe in heaven, that is, you are likely to hear the answer, yes, I'm a pretty good person. God's word does not agree with that. God's word does not teach that the majority are already right with God. The Bible does not teach that people sincerely seek after God normally. I can never be the judge of whether most Americans will ever make it to heaven. Certainly there's time for them to change, but based on the clear teaching of the Bible, don't really need to interpret it, it's pretty clear We can judge that most people, due to their lifestyles and the spiritual darkness that they are in, are not right now on a road that heads to heaven. Jesus' warning in the Sermon on the Mount still stands. Matthew seven, verses thirteen and fourteen. Christ said Enter through the narrow gate, for the gate is wide, and the way is broad, that leads to destruction. And there are many who enter through it For the gate is small, and the way is narrow that leads to life, and there are few who find it. Well, since most are unrepentant of their sin, God has said he will not accept them. God has warned he would reject them. Again, from the Sermon on the Mount in chapter 7 and verse 21, Christ said, Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven. But he who does the will of my Father who is in heaven. God demands God demands that all people everywhere would repent of personal sins, and He demands that they place their faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. the only begotten Son of God, or they will surely face his eternal judgment. The Apostle Paul proclaimed this to the most educated people of his day in Athens on Mars Hill, the mighty philosophers of his day. And he said, God is now, that is in this age, declaring to all people everywhere that they should repent, because he has fixed a day in which he will judge the world in righteousness. That is so clear. Without repentance, without a new birth in Christ, no one can even see the kingdom of God, Jesus told Nicodemus. In John 3. 3, truly, truly I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. You must be born again to see God's kingdom. And that new birth will result in a transformed life. You know, the very fact that most Americans have a revulsion to the exclusive demands of Christianity, the uncompromising demand that you must believe in Jesus Christ as the Son of God who was bodily raised from the dead in human history. The widespread resistance to that message, to what we call the gospel, is proof enough that the majority of Americans are out of touch with God and His Word. Exclusive salvation, frankly, is a hated doctrine. That's fine for you to believe in Jesus, they say. Just don't tell me that I have to also Why do you have to keep insisting Christ is the only way? Well, because Jesus did. He said so in the Gospel of John in chapter 14, verses 3 through 6. If I go and prepare a place for you, he told his disciples, I will come again and receive you to myself, that where I am, there you may be also. And you know the way where I am going. And Thomas said to him, Lord, we do not know where you are going. How do we know the way? And Jesus said to him, What I am the way and the truth and the life. No one, no one comes to the Father except through me. Without a conscious faith in Jesus, the Son of God, the Jesus of the Bible, no one will ever get to be with God the Father in heaven. But we know that such an exclusive message doesn't sit too well with a proud and self-righteous people That's to be expected. There should be no surprise there. Unbelievers don't like to be told the truth. I remember that I didn't when I was an unbeliever. We all know that. What is not expected, what is shocking, what is surprising, is that some, some very influential and well-known people in the evangelical church Are now openly denying that faith in Jesus is the only way to the Father. Well, it used to be that an evangelical Christian was defined by the fact that he believed Jesus was the only way. If you didn't believe that, you weren't an evangelical. You might have been a Catholic, you might have grown up in a liberal Protestant denomination, but you were not an evangelical. But now, even the most renowned evangelical in the entire world has publicly denied that faith in Jesus is the only way to God. Billy Graham, on Robert Schuler's Hour of Power program, was asked by Robert Schuler, what is the future of Christianity? And Billy Graham responded, and I quote: Everyone who loves Christ, whether they are conscious of it or not, are members of the body of Christ. That is what God is doing today. He is calling a people out of the world for his name, whether they come from the Buddhist world or the Muslim world or the Christian world or the non-believing world. They are members of the body of Christ because they are called by God. They might not even know the name of Jesus But they know in their heart that they need something that they don't have, and they turn to the only light that they have, and I think that they are saved and they are going to be with us in heaven. End quote. Well, there's no mistaking those words in what he believes. He said that people of other religions are really, by following their religion, placing their faith in Jesus Christ, though they don't know it. Muslims, Buddhists, Hindus, yes, agnostics and atheists, he includes, if they are sincere in their search for truth Billy Graham declares they're all really putting their faith in Jesus. They're already saved. They're already in the body of Christ, and they're headed to heaven. One wonders why then he would bother to travel the world and preach a gospel that is completely unneeded Nor, by the way, and this really shocks people, is this a new belief of his as an old man? Some feel he's getting dementia or whatever, but he's been teaching this since 1960. And he even had an article in Decision Magazine that expressed that. So faith in Christ is no longer needed. Just follow whatever God you have been brought up with, and God counts that as faith in Christ. So the greatest evangelist of our day and age proclaims. Well, is it really true that faith in Jesus is the only way to God? Are we a bunch of stubborn, narrow-minded people? Is it really true one must place faith in Jesus Christ once he is proclaimed to be saved? Yes. There's no doubt at all that that's what the Bible says. Jesus told some really good religious people, as they were known in their day, who prayed, read the Bible, went to synagogue Gave out alms. In John 8, 24, he said, Unless you believe that I am He that is their Messiah, you will die in your sins. That's where people are. In 1 Timothy 2:5, the Apostle Paul made it perfectly clear: for there is one God and one mediator also between God and men, the man Christ Jesus. No one else, no other prophet, can mediate between man and God. In John 3. 36, it is written He who believes in the Son has eternal life, but he who does not obey the Son will not see life. But the wrath of God abides on him. Not believing in the Son means you are in a continuous state of the wrath of God hovering over you. In John 18, 37, Jesus said, Everyone who is of the truth hears my voice. In Acts 4:12, the Apostle Peter declared, There is salvation and no one else, for there is no other name under heaven that has been given among men by which we must be saved. What could be clearer? In John 6. 68, Peter again answered the Lord, Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life. They're not found elsewhere. In 1 John 5, 11 and 12, it says this. The testimony is this: that God has given us eternal life, and this life is in his Son. He who has the Son has the life. He who does not have the Son of God does not have the life. In Romans 10, verses 13 and 14, it says, Whoever will call on the name of the Lord will be saved. How then will they call on him in whom they have not believed? How will they believe in him whom they have not heard? And how will they hear without a preacher? Well, Billy Graham and many other evangelicals today are saying they'll just hear through their other religion they don't need a Christian preacher. You know, in the Old Testament, God called all the other ways, all the other religions, all the other philosophies of life, he called them all collectively one thing. Do you remember what that is? Idolatry. Idolatry. And the first commandment he gave the Israelites is thou shalt have what? No other gods beside me Listen, not only is it true that one must place a conscious faith in Jesus Christ once he is proclaimed It is also true that anyone who professes to have faith in Jesus Christ must demonstrate that by a changed life. The Bible is so exclusive it goes beyond what even those on the outside understand. It not only demands faith in Jesus alone for salvation, but requires that the kind of faith in Jesus. Be of such that it changes the light. Brothers and sisters, soberly, that is what our text of Scripture today says. First Corinthians chapter 6 Verses 9 and 10, just two verses, with a very important, I think, and critical message for the church, the evangelical church today. Let's consider from this text how few of our countrymen are getting into the kingdom of God. 1 Corinthians 6, verses 9 and 10. Paul writes, or do you not know? That the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God. Do not be deceived Neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor homosexuals, nor thieves, nor the covetous Nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God. Verse 11 is so important we're going to save that for one message next time. Well, in verses 9 and 10, just keep looking at them, there are two phrases in these two verses, one in each verse, which help us to understand what the apostle was trying to accomplish with the Corinthian church right here. The first phrase is given as a question, and the second is given as an imperative. In verse nine it is, Do you not know? And then in verse ten it says, Do not be deceived. Together they communicate that there was some important truth, some critical knowledge that was not sinking into the minds of the Corinthians. These two phrases indicate a lack of education in the things of God, a lack of grasping sound doctrine. Do you not know, he writes? Well, that's a rhetorical question. By asking it, Paul is really making a statement. Yes, they should have known. They should have known. Paul uses this question a lot, by the way, in the letter to the Corinthians, probably because they prided themselves so much of spiritual knowledge, and he's pointing out some of the basic things that they haven't yet mastered. So the question is really a rebuke to the Corinthians. They had been taught, that wasn't the issue. Their ignorance was inexcusable And then when he follows up with the rhetorical question, I'm sorry, the rhetorical question with the command, do not be deceived, it's obvious that the apostle was concerned that due to their ignorance about some important teaching, they might indeed become deceived. They were in danger through ignorance of basic Christian truth of becoming deceived. And that is what you and I have to watch out for as well. That's what this message is about. That somehow we would be deceived by not understanding the most basic of all Christian teaching, and we would wander away from the truth. Not knowing important, vital, basic truth, and because of that we ourselves would become deceived. Now this portion of God's word, I think, proves the doctrine that only faith in Christ, the kind of faith in Christ which Transforms the believer into a new kind of holy living is the kind of faith that actually ends up saving a person and bringing him to God's everlasting kingdom. My concern really is that with the growing number of voices in the evangelical church that you're going to be hearing, whether you're listening to radio, reading books, going to conferences, whatever it may be, denying that Jesus is the only way, that you too may become confused. You too may actually become deceived about exclusive salvation in Jesus Christ. See, the whole truth is not this. Jesus saves. That's true. But the whole truth is Jesus alone saves. That's it. That's the truth. Plus, I would say my added concern is that you not start to fudge or compromise or become timid about not just proclaiming the gospel, but that the gospel is an exclusive gospel. You might be fine talking about Jesus. No one may object to that. You have no problem telling about the death, burial, and resurrection. But when the question comes your way, is that the only way What about those who have not believed? I hope your answer will be what God says. There is no other way. There is no other hope. There is no other life out there to find This is not an evangelistic message per se, but it is a message for all of you who want to be evangelists, all of you who share your faith, all of you who want to declare the truth. What the gospel ought to produce in true believers is not just faith in Christ, but a changed life. This is an exclusive passage. It's what the passage is about. It's about excluding. It's about showing who's not going to make it It's like the cuts have come and you see your name written on the list, you didn't make it. You're excluded from the team. You're cut out. That's what these passages this these two verses are about. Exclusion. We have, first of all, the exclusive kingdom. And then we have the excluded people. And then, third, by way of implication, I'm going to add briefly the necessity of this kind of exclusion. Look again at the verses 9 and 10, the exclusive kingdom. The exclusive kingdom. Twice another very important phrase is repeated here. Do you see it? He says, will not inherit the kingdom Spot that? And then he repeats it. Neither will these inherit the kingdom of God. In other words, the kingdom of God is simply not for everybody. Lots of people don't get in What does it mean not to inherit the kingdom of God? Well, the verb inherit simply means to receive as an inheritance, to obtain by right of inheritance. to inherit something is to come to possess it due to inheritance law. The concept of inheritance resulting in one possessing something starts way back in the Old Testament in Exodus 32 verse 13. A prayer is said to God, remember Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, your servants, to whom you swore by yourself and said to them, I will multiply your descendants. As the stars of the heavens, and all this land of which I have spoken, I will give to your descendants, and they shall inherit it forever. They come in possession of what they inherit. That word for inherit in Hebrew there is nahal, and it means to get or take as a possession. Psalm 37 is another example, verses 9 through 11. For evildoers will be cut off, but those who wait for the Lord, they will inherit the land. Yet a little while, and the wicked man will be no more, and you will look carefully for his place, and he will not be there. But the humble will inherit the land, and will delight themselves in abundant prosperity. Jesus taught this very truth In the Beatitudes, when he said, Blessed are the humble, for they shall inherit the gay, the land, the earth. Notice in verse 9, here in our text, it speaks of a future inheritance. Will inherit is a future verb The future inheritance that Paul is writing about is possessing the kingdom of God. Now the kingdom of God is a very common concept. in the Bible. As we go verse by verse through the scripture, we often come across this phrase. In fact, it could be argued that the entire theme of all of the Bible is the progressive revealing of the kingdom of God through God's Son, Jesus Christ. The kingdom of God obviously refers to the place where God reigns. The kingdom of God is God's sphere of rulership, where God reigns supreme. Of course, many verses teach us that God reigns over all things. In Psalm ninety-three verses one and two it says, The Lord reigns, he is clothed with majesty, the Lord has clothed and girded himself with strength, indeed the world is firmly established, it will not Be moved. Your throne is established from of old. You are from everlasting. He's always been the eternal king. That's what that psalm is saying over all things. Psalm 99 and verse 1, another example. The Lord reigns, it says, Let the peoples tremble. He is enthroned above the cherubim. Let the earth shake. He's over all the world. Psalm 115 and 3. Our God is in the heavens, he does whatever he pleases. He's a sovereign king. The whole universe is under his sovereign reign. That is speaking of the kingdom of God in its broadest sense. Now, right now, God is sovereign concerning all events in heaven and on earth. Good or bad But that is not what the Apostle Paul is referring to when he uses the phrase the kingdom of God in this 1 Corinthians context. Paul makes reference here to a more narrow sense of God's kingdom, the kingdom where he reigns through his son over mankind. Psalm 2 speaks of the mediatorial kingdom when the Messiah would come and rule over all the nations of the world, and thus the Son would mediate God's rule to the planet. God would rule through the sun. That kingdom, when it comes, will be a place of unparalleled beauty, unparalleled bounty, and unparalleled blessing. Those who are unbelievers who will not willingly bow their knee to Christ's lordship in this life, they will not be a part of that kingdom. In fact, the concept of the kingdom of God in Scripture usually refers to this more narrow sphere of the reign of Christ over believers. This is exactly what Jesus and John the Baptist meant. When they came to the Jews at the beginning of their ministry and they proclaimed, Repent, for the kingdom of God is what? It's at hand. It's come close. In order to get in, you must meet the qualification which is repentance Sometimes the kingdom of God in Matthew's gospel is called the kingdom of heaven. It doesn't mean the kingdom that is in heaven necessarily, but heaven's kingdom come to work. The kingdom of God now also encompasses us in the church, the Church of Jesus Christ during this age, where people have already bowed the knee to Jesus Christ. They've confessed Christ as their Lord and Savior and King. That is why those who work in the church and serve Christ are called fellow workers of the kingdom in Colossians chapter 4 and verse 11. The gospel that we preach, the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ, is called the Gospel of the Kingdom in Matthew 24, 14. It is also called the gospel of the kingdom in Acts 28. 31 when the Apostle Paul was proclaiming it to those in Rome. We are also said to have been transferred from the domain or the kingdom of Satan into the kingdom of God's beloved Son in Colossians 1:13. So there is a sense in which we as believers who trusted Christ, we're in the church, we're already a part of the kingdom of God, the spiritual kingdom of God. But the kingdom of God also encompasses that future manifestation of Christ's rule over the earth, that 1,000-year millennial reign of Christ. In Revelation 19 and verse 15, a picture of Christ's second coming, it says there, as he comes, he will rule them, that is the nations of the world. with a rod of iron. He comes to rule. He comes to reign. Also in Revelation 19 it says that when he comes back at his second coming, there will be many diadems, many crowns upon his head. Why? He's king. He comes to reign. However, the kingdom of God also encompasses heaven as God's home, where God dwells in the fullness of his glory, and where his word is fully and instantly obeyed. This future aspect of the kingdom and the future millennium, we as believers have not yet experienced. We have not yet possessed it, and so we have not yet, in that sense, inherited it. I want you to keep a finger in chapter 6 and turn to chapter 15 of 1 Corinthians for a moment. And you'll see this future aspect of the inheritance the apostle talks about in this great resurrection chapter. 1 Corinthians 15 and just skim all the way down to verse 50. Verse 5050. First Corinthians 15, 50, Paul writes, Now I say this, brethren, that flesh and blood, here it is, cannot inherit the kingdom of God. Nor does the perishable inherit the imperishable. Behold, I tell you a mystery. We will not all sleep. That refers to a believer's death. But we will all be changed in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, that's how quick our transformation will be, at the last trumpet. For the trumpet will sound and the dead will be raised imperishable and we will be changed. They will be changed so that we can inherit this eternal kingdom. That's our inheritance. So when Paul uses the future aspect of inheriting the kingdom here, he's talking about the future. He's referring to the future aspects of the kingdom that we have not yet experienced, we don't possess, we don't yet see, when Christ returns, or before that when we die and we enter into heaven in our spirit. And I want you to flip back to chapter 6 To inherit the kingdom then simply means to have the kingdom. It's yours. It's your possession You inherit it, so now you own it. It has now become yours, just as the Israelites inherited the land and it was theirs So someone who would not inherit the kingdom of God, as Paul warns here, would then not be entering into the kingdom. Do you see that? He would miss out on all of the blessings, all of the bounty that Jesus will lavish on those in his kingdom As Christ talked about in Matthew nineteen twenty twenty-nine, he said, everyone who has left houses or brothers or sisters or father or mother or children or farms For my name's sake, will receive, listen, many times as much and will inherit eternal life. But those who don't inherit the kingdom aren't going to get any of that. That's the point. Matthew 25 and verse 34, he talks about at the second coming. When he's talking about the millennial kingdom, he separates the sheep and the goat. Remember that? And it says in verse 34 of Matthew 25: then the king will say to those on his right, Come. You who are blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. But the goats on the left hand struck out. Remember that? They don't get anything. They don't possess the kingdom. They're excluded So, this is really another way of saying you will not participate in it. You will not belong to the kingdom. You don't have the kingdom. You're outside the kingdom. There's no distinction between inheriting the kingdom and getting the kingdom. If you don't inherit the kingdom, you're not headed to the kingdom. You're not going to heaven. And you will not be in Christ's millennial reign. That's the exclusive kingdom. Now look at the excluded people, the same verses 9 and 10, the excluded people. What a list we have here. Who is excluded from heaven? Well, one word sums it all up there in verse 9. Do you not know that the who? The unrighteous. The unrighteous. And Paul just used this designation for the unbelievers way back in verse 1. This is what he means: unbelievers. Unbelievers will not inherit the kingdom of God. Unbelievers will not make it into heaven. Of course, because the unbelievers so readily described as the unrighteous, it points out that all unbelievers, no matter what religion they are part of, no matter what course of life they have chosen, God considers them still in their state to be Unrighteous. That should be clear. They are disobedient to God in their behavior. It's more than a label, it actually reflects how they live their lives. In fact, you can really tell in this passage because Paul goes on to write about all these specific sins which the unrighteous people practice. He defines them by these practices, really. So an unrighteous life is clearly on the apostle's mind. You know, sometimes I hear Christians say something like this. They'll say, you know, so-and-so is really a good moral person. They would make a great Christian if they ever converted. So what are you saying? There are no good moral people outside of Christ. They don't exist. There's not one. God has declared all of them to be rebellious, all of them to be rejected. We think somehow their lifestyle looks really good. If you can't see their sin readily, it's still there. Don't be fooled. They're still living an unrighteous life. If it's not a sin of the flesh, it'll be a sin of the mind. Just start with arrogance for not believing, and you'll have enough of a sin. This list that follows speaks of sins of chronic behavior. They are characterized by these. It's not talking about someone who might commit an act here, here or there, or fall into it, as even believers can. It's referring to chronic behavior. They describe the unbeliever's character, the unbeliever's habits, his lifestyle. An unbeliever is unrighteous in his behavior, and he will manifest one or more of these characteristics, or something like this. It's not meant to be an exhaustive list. Right here, Paul repeats six vices that he listed back in chapter five and verse eleven, when he was talking about those who are unbelievers. And he asked four more. Let's go through these. First, fornicators. We've seen that already, haven't we? Already a number of times. What is a fornicator? Is someone who commits a sexual sin, any sex outside of marriage, between one man and one woman It means anyone who practices sex outside the bond of marriage. That's exactly what it is. Living together is fornication. Pornography, participation in that, is fornication. Any sexual perversion is fornication. It's a very broad term. The second is idolaters. What is an idolater? It's someone who follows a concept or an image of God that's not the true God. Idolatry is the worshiping of false gods. Buddhism and Hinduism and Islam and false forms of Christianity. are idolatry. That's all that they are. They just create a false image of God with a false name and a false way and tell people that's the true God. That's what the Israelites did at the base of the mountain when Moses came back down and there was the golden calf. They didn't create another God. They said, This is the God who led you out of the land of Egypt. This is the God you've been following. Uh-uh. It doesn't work Well, if you don't make something out of wood or out of stone or out of gold, that doesn't mean you're not an idolater. If you have a false concept of God. Any false religion, any false concept of God is included in this statement, an idolater. You can claim even to believe in one God, to be theistic, but if he is not the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, exclusively, as the Bible says, your concept of God is wrong. You are an idolater. The other gods are non-existent. The only thing they can be is an idol. The third word is adulterer. Again, we've seen this before. Moy Khoi. Those who break the marriage covenant in a sexual act. We know the prevalence of this sin by no means diminishes God's hatred of it, for God is a faithful God and He hates on faithfulness. How many in our culture engage in what they call flings? They are adulterers, God says. They are excluded from God's kingdom if they do not repent. The fourth word is effeminate. This word means males allowing themselves to act like females in a sexual act with men. They're more passive in this way. Transvestites would fall under this category too. Men were made by God to act male. Why is that such a stunning statement? It shouldn't be too hard to understand that. Changing that is immoral behavior, and God abhors it. It rejects his design, his creation design. The fifth word is homosexual. Some have different translations, but that's the correct translation. Some have debated the meaning of this word, but that's just because I think the homosexual community is so pushing to get another translation. But it means males who seek sex with males. That's what it means. I mean Genesis chapter 2, where sex originated, is as clear a statement on what it ought to be as any can be found anywhere What is sexuality? One man, one woman, one lifetime. Very clear. It is on that creation platform that any systematic or accurate understanding of the Bible's teaching on homosexuality must be based. The clear intent from creation, from Genesis 2, was male with female. No one, no one can argue with that. Even a simple biology lesson teaches this. You wouldn't even need to know a Bible verse Those who argue against this argue against nature itself. You can't argue against what is real. There is nothing whatsoever positive said about homosexuality at any portion in any scripture in any place, Old or New Testament. Every single time it is mentioned or illustrated, it is always with a total rejection of it. I want you to turn to Romans 1 for a minute. We'll see this, just back up one book. Because it's so clear in Romans 1 as well. In Romans one, we see a connection between those who engaged in idolatry and their idolatry then twisted their minds and led them into sin. All kinds of sin. The connection here, and you can't miss this, is between idolatry and sin. Once someone has a wrong concept of God, it naturally leads him in to various expressions. of sin. Look in Romans 1, starting at verse 21. For even though they, these are the Gentiles Paul is describing here who are sinners, even though they knew God, they did not honor him as God or give thanks But they became futile in their speculations and their foolish heart was darkened. Professing to be wise, they became fools, and exchanged the glory of the incorruptible God for an image in the form of corruptible man and of birds and four footed animals and crawling creatures. What is that? That's idolatry. They gave up the true knowledge of God, and now they are into idol worship. Look at verse 24. Therefore God gave them over. Here's a judicial act on God's part God gave them over in the lusts of their hearts to impurity, so that their bodies would be dishonored among them. For they exchanged the truth of God for a lie And worship and serve the creature rather than the Creator who is blessed forever. Amen. Again, you see this idolatry that hu all of humanity, that's why there's no one that is innocent throughout the world, whether they've heard Christ or not, whether they have a Bible or not, they're not innocent in God's sight. They've all gone after and rejected the true understanding of God that's even evident from creation and gone after other gods. Now look at verse 26 For this reason, that is, for their exchanging the truth of God for a lie, for this reason, God gave them over to degrading passions. Listen, for their women exchange the natural function for that which is unnatural. And in the same way also the men abandoned the natural function of the woman and burned in their desire toward one another, men with men committing indecent acts. and receiving in their own persons the due penalty of their error. And just as they did not see fit to acknowledge God any longer, God gave them over to a depraved mind to do those things which are not proper, being filled with all unrighteousness. And here's another list. Wickedness, greed, evil, full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, malice. They are gossips, slanderers, haters of God, and on a go. Do you see what happened here? You flip back to First Corinthians. First their belief system went wrong. They abandoned the truth of God. And then what happened is their mind became twisted and perverted. They began seeing everything wrong. They began justifying the way they lived. Brothers and sisters, the preeminent example of being twisted and perverted and getting the truth of God wrong in the book of Romans is homosexuality. Is homosexuality. He's saying it is the most clear example of someone who completely misunderstands life and righteousness. It can't be clear whether it's male or female. It's the same. Leviticus, the law of God, the holy law of God, chapter 20, verse 13 says If there is a man who lies with a male as those who lie with a woman, both of them have committed a detestable act, they shall surely be put to death. This was a national law, not a church law. Their blood guiltiness is upon them. One person once asked me, do you believe all homosexuals are going to hell? And I could tell that he was very distraught and concerned that This pastor had too narrow of a mind and he was too hate hate-filled and all the rest of that. And so I answered him this way. I said, No. I believe all people are going to hell. And there's a big difference. We're not picking on the homosexual community. Every last person is headed to hell unless they repent. Some of them are expressing their sin in homosexuality, some of them are expressing their sin in adultery, some in fornication, some in other perversions, some not in sins of the body, but sins of the mind and the spirit. But God has rejected it all. It all comes from wrong thinking We're all sinners. When we come back to 1 Corinthians, list thieves next. Kleptase. They are thieves. How many regularly pilfer from their workplace and do it quietly so that they're not seen? How many actually go out and shoplift fairly regularly or steal money from their families Or find just that weak place in order to take advantage of some supplies that are not there. Thieves will not get into God's kingdom. Says it right here. Seventh is the covetous. This speaks of the heart. That constant heart that treasures Things of the earth, like that rich young ruler, who could not part himself from his riches, because he coveted it And that's why Jesus said it is so hard for the rich who spend their life coveting possessions to make it into the kingdom of God. Next, notice are drunkards. Drunkards. Not alcoholics. God doesn't call them alcoholics. God calls them drunkards. These are those who have not repented of their love of alcohol. They've not confessed and forsaken a lifestyle of drinking alcohol. Drunkards do not have a disease problem, they have a sin problem. Now they're enslaved by the substance. It feels like a disease problem. They need help. But it came because of a longing in their heart. It's a sin problem. Someone who makes it a lifestyle of getting drunk, they keep going back to the bottle and back to the bottle, God says he will exclude them from his kingdom. Now, if that were a disease, that would be a cruel thing to say, wouldn't it? It's not a disease. Their profession of salvation, if they profess that, is false. They have to repent from drunkenness. Now when I said that most Americans are not heading toward heaven, how many do you think um are already covered by the list so far? As you know them, as you have experienced? You judge for yourself. But there's much more. Ninth, we have revilers. Who are revilers? They're those who injure others with their tongue purposefully. And again, there's a habit of this. We all know That James says that none of us has a perfect tongue. We all stumble in many ways, he says in James three. If you're able to control your tongue perfectly, you'd be a perfect person. None of us are that We're talking about people who who cuss and defame others with their tongue, and this is how they live. They're constant gossips, maybe, backbiting others. They use their their tongue to slice and dice other people, usually when they're not around, but some are so bold to do it in the face of others. God will not let them in the kingdom. Tenth are the swindlers, thieves who steal indirectly. These are the more sophisticated robbers. They take advantage of others: extortionists, embezzlers, false advertisers, tax evaders. You get the point? I mean, there's plenty here to give a description of those who are not truly putting their faith in Christ. Sadly, this would describe many who are even sitting in churches this morning. But there's more. This list was not exhaustive. Remember I told you that? I want you to turn to Galatians chapter 5. Galatians Just a couple of books to your right. Pass 2 Corinthians and look at chapter 5. Again, written by the Apostle Paul, and you see the same teaching. Verses 19 through 21. Galatians 5, 19 to 21. Now the deeds of the flesh are evident, Paul writes. Which are look at this list: immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, outbursts of anger, disputes, dissensions, factions Envying, drunkenness, carousing. And look how he ends it there. And things like these. You get the point? This is not a complete list, people Of which I forewarn you, just as I have forewarned you, that those who practice such things will not what? The list is longer than just the ten that we have at 1 Corinthians. There it is again. Some people live for their own pleasure in other ways, their own sensual satisfaction, their own thrills in life. Some people are constantly in arguments with other people, always fighting in one form or another. How many are constantly in dissension with other people, gossiping, getting even with others in the workplace or in the family? Many people are carousers. They spend their time walking the streets, driving around at night, going from party to party, getting into trouble. Hanging out, doing nothing, bar hopping. Some prove they have no love for others. They engage in constant jealousy, showing your mind is focused not on love, but on themselves. And what they think they deserve from others. The soap operas, so many of the shows filled with angry, jealous, dissentious people. They have shown by their light they will not be in God's kingdom unless they repent. We could have gone to Ephesians chapter 5, where he says the same thing there, and time does not allow. I want you to turn to Revelation 21 because the exclusion is there at the end as well. Last book of the Bible, Revelation 21, verses 7 and 8. It couldn't be emphasized more clearly Revelation twenty one seven, he who overcomes will inherit these things. He's talking about the new heaven and the new earth and our inheritance You would overcome by faith in Christ. He who overcomes will inherit these things, and I will be his God, and he will be my son. But look at verse 8. But for the cowardly and the unbelieving and abominable and murderers and immoral persons and sorcerers and idolaters and all liars Their part will be in what? The lake that burns with fire and brimstone, which is the second death. Beloved, there's not another way. 1 John 3, little children, make sure no one deceives you. The one who practices righteousness is righteous, just as he is righteous. The one who practices sin is of the devil. Anthony Anthony Thistleton in his commentary simply writes, For people who do evil To inherit God's lordship is self-contradiction. Yes, believers can commit these sins. David committed adultery, participated in the murder. 1 Kings chapter 15 and verse 5 says that that was an exception to his lifelong pursuit of God. Obviously, true believers have and will continue to sin sometimes in gross ways, but it is no longer their pattern of life. There has been a break from the lifestyle before Christ. But the one who has given over to these sins is not yet a believer. They may have professed Christ, they may have been baptized, but they are not saved, they're not part of the church, they have no portion in the kingdom. See, these are not a list of sins which would cause a true believer to lose grace and fall from grace and become unsaved This does not mean, for those of you with Catholic background, that if you commit these, it's a mortal sin that causes you to go from life to death again But that the practice of these sins indicates that a person has never been born again, never been saved. So if you want to cling to a sinful lifestyle, Then that's your possession. That's your inheritance. You won't get anything from God. That leads us to consider very briefly What's not stated in the text, but is implied, the necessity of exclusion. Third, the necessity of exclusion. Why must it be that the unrighteous who practice these things are unsaved and not headed for heaven? Why do we know that those who practice such lifestyles have no part in Christ? Well, there are so many reasons. I'm going to give you four quickly. First, this is what the Scripture says. Is there any doubt about that now? 1 John 2. 4. We'll just add on as another verse. The one who says, I have come to know him and does not keep his commandments is a liar And the truth is not in him. The scriptures are true, even if someone doesn't like what they say, even if someone who is in a major place of leadership in the evangelical church disagrees, the scriptures are true And beloved, the scriptures are clear. This is what the Bible says. That's why it must be this way. Second, it must be this way because what is a Christian if a Christian is not a follower of Christ? What definition would we give to a Christian other than he follows Christ? And what did Christ teach with his mouth we were supposed to live like? And how did he himself live? Did Jesus act this way with these sins? Jesus' teachings have to be followed. He's the one who taught us to honor the law of God. He's the one who told us that we are to have holy lives, to put God first in our lives, to stop sinning, to love others, to not be selfish. He taught us by word, and he taught us by his life So you can't have a non-disciple disciple. You can't have a non-following follower. It's self-contradiction. It has to be this way. This is the way it is. And thirdly, the kingdom of God itself is a holy kingdom, and that's why it must be this way. God is not going to give his holy kingdom to those who practice the life of unholiness. We always point to the thief on the cross, we say, but he lived a life of thievery, and Jesus said he's going to be today in paradise. But if he had had a chance to come down from that cross, if The Romans all of a sudden got merciful and said, Ah, your crucifixion is over. Come on down. Jesus saw into his heart and knew he was transformed. He would not have lived a life of fever. That's the point. He had no chance to demonstrate anything on the cross, his hands were pinned to the cross, his arms were there, and all he said is, Lord, remember me when you come into your kingdom. He gave a public affirmation of Christ, and that is all he could do That tells us we're saved by faith alone, in grace alone, in Christ alone. But the faith that we have in Christ is never alone. It's always followed by transformed life and good works. That's what the entire letter of James is about. The kingdom of God is a holy kingdom, beloved. We're told as obedient children, do not be conformed to the former lusts which were yours and your ignorance, but like the holy one who called you. Be holy yourselves also in all your behavior, because it is written, You shall be holy, because I, the Lord your God, am holy. He's holy. His kingdom is holy. 1 Peter 2. 9 says, you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for God's own possession. He's not going to possess you if you're rebelling against his way of living. And fourth, it must be this way, because this is where true biblical conversion is. It always results in a righteous life. True biblical conversion results in a changed life. We're going to get into this in great detail next week, so I'm going to save that for them. Then beloved, maybe you have thought up to now that you were a Christian. Maybe you've tried to hang on to a life of one of these sins that we read about here, an unrighteous life And you thought that you were saved, maybe you've been baptized, maybe you've even been serving in the church, and now you realize that because of your lifestyle, God will reject you the way you are, and that you're not saved, and that you're not a Christian, and that you're in danger with God. I exhort you as strongly as I can to abandon your commitment to your sin. It will get you nowhere. It will never satisfy your life. It will never bring you to the kingdom of God. Let go. Come to Christ. Maybe there's pressure on you to tone down your exclusive evangelism someplace. Don't. Be strong in the Lord and the strength of his might. Offer yourself a living sacrifice to God to speak a message that is unpopular. Be strong in your witness, unwavering in your testimony. Let no one intimidate you or your message. Maybe your love and compassion for a group of lost people has you aghast at the thought that the vast majority of people around you, not only in America but in the world, are lost. and dying in their sins and separate from Christ and heading to everlasting destruction. Beloved, let your heart Heart and compassion and love for them, not lie to them and tell them they're fine in the condition that they are when God has said he has rejected them. Let it be a motivation to you to get the message out. Would God raise up from our own congregation those who would be evangelists? right here in our neighborhoods to get busy with our evangelism programs, to be an example and show a heart for the lost. Would God raise up some of you? Would God raise up some of you to go out into the places that are lost throughout the world and be a witness, however, you can and proclaim the gospel by word and by deed. That's the proper response to us who have compassion for the lost. Be busy to preach the truth. Can you imagine that you told them otherwise? And you see them standing before the great white throne described in Revelation chapter 20. And you see that the ones you assured were headed to heaven are then rejected by God. And they turn and look at you and say, What did you tell me? What did you tell me? Beloved, we preach an exclusive gospel because we have an exclusive God. With an exclusive kingdom. And you and I can never change that. We must only proclaim the truth. For we don't want anyone to be excluded from the kingdom but to believe the gospel. Our Father and our God, we pray for a greater boldness to proclaim the truth. And a greater compassion for those that are lost and perishing. Lord, that we would never become comfortable in our programs, in our relationships, and our routines at Hope Bible Church. But Lord, you'd put a fire in the heart and the belly of everyone, everyone that they would serve you mightily with their gift. God, that you would particularly stir up those who have been holding back in their evangelism and spur them on. To not be compromisers, to not be timid, but proclaim the truth of the gospel. Oh God, help us as a church to rise up for the calling that you've given us here in this community and around the world. We ask it in Christ's blessed name. Amen.