Father God, we thank you for this morning. Please keep people on the road safe as they travel to church. Um whether it be Hope or or other congregations as well, please keep a please keep people safe on the road. Help us to be focused. Help us to be interactive. Help us to think through these things. Father, considering all the material that we've gone over in the past 12 weeks, I pray that it is useful for your kingdom. I pray it's useful for advancing the gospel. To be compassionate and kind to those around us, Lord, but also standing firm in the truth that we would bring the glory of Christ to the forefront of our world. Lord, you have intended to save a multitude of people. You have elected us from the foundations of the earth. Undeserving, Lord, we stand in your presence. But we are thankful for what you have accomplished on our behalf. And we love you. May your Spirit be with us today, as He is in informing us and instructing us, Lord Whatever I say that is not profitable, let it be forgotten. And what it will stand for your glory, let it remain. God help us now and instruct us in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay. I did it again. Yesterday I was teaching at the men's breakfast and I was trying to drink from my giant water bottle and it gushed over me a little bit. I still have not learned to drink water, but we'll figure it out one day, I guess. Um so this is this is the last week. This is it. Um we have spent thirteen weeks, well twelve weeks, but this is the thirteenth week, a whole quarter on the subject of of worldviews and critical theories. We've talked about the movement of the culture, we've talked about the origins of of critical theory, we've talked about some of its influence, we've talked about social justice, we've talked about biblical justice, biblical authority, all of these things. We've talked a lot and really from a lot of the feedback that we've gotten and I'm sure even in self-reflection for us as teachers that there is more we would like to say, there is more that could be said. Really you could spend another 13 weeks on this. Um uh and and even in preparation for this final lesson, I realized that this final lesson probably could have been split up into four lessons or something like that. It's just the way that it is. There's so much nuance and and details and caveats and things that are that are hard to navigate. but are useful to us because we want to be ones that are rooted firmly in doctrine, in orthodoxy, little o, not big o, little o. Really, what we want to do is glorify Christ. That's our chief end as as creation. That's our chief end as those who have been redeemed by Christ. That's what we're here to do, is to glorify God. We're to honor Jesus and the things that we say and the things that we do. We're to bring the gospel to people, and we want to be effective in that. And you don't really need, and it's not exactly necessary to be experts on the movement of the culture to be able to do that. You can you can just give the gospel to people. Um my my father used to uh talk with me about these things um about evangelism And he would ask the question, how do you how do you witness to a Muslim? And I would give an answer. Okay. How do you how do you witness to um an atheist? you know, how do you witness to a Buddhist or whatever? Any of these world religions and doctrines, how do you how do you really talk to these people? And the answer is always the same. It's it's to give the gospel. Aside from uh dealing with all Societal ills or the hot topic of the day, something that comes up that seems to blindside the church or something like that. um overwhelmingly more than a discussion about these topics, the gospel remains paramount, which is why I was thankful for uh Sean's lesson last week to be able to remind us of that. And it it's it's what I intended as we're developing the outline was to talk about these things, but make sure that we're we're coming back to the gospel. So then you might ask, well, we don't need to learn about the culture. Why even hold a class like this? What's the point of that? Why even spend 13 weeks talking about one of the hottest topics in our country today? Well, we want to be informed of what's going on because ideas have consequences. And adopting certain ideas into our framework as believers especially have consequences. Um we are to be doctrinally pure. Paul constantly admonishes us to ensure that we are remaining true to what God's Word says. And all of his admonitions um relating to doctrinal purity. Never once does he say, well, maybe you should consider what the world says about these things and and give it some thought. Maybe add it a little bit to here, maybe add a little bit to there and then we'll have this more robust doctrine. No, he says um not to engage in that, to run away from false doctrine, to um disengage from uh anything that is that is going to uh bring the glory of the truth of of God um down a peg actually. Because You know, you you understand that worldly wisdom does not compare to to godly wisdom. And that's not something that we don't understand, of course. But sometimes I and and I think we we I don't want to say we all struggle with this, some people might not. But we we wanna be we wanna be compassionate to a to a degree Um but sometimes we allow that compassion to overtake um our our adherence to what God's word says. And I'm not trying to to bring a charge against anyone, of course. Or say that, you know, overwhelmingly we're not doing that because we are. I have great respect for um the congregation at hope. I love you guys very much and I hope you know that. I have great respect for each and every one of you. And I I don't know if I've said it before, I think I have, but I I look up to uh quite honestly the church in general. I I love hope. And I think overwhelmingly we do a really, really good job of holding true to doctrine. Uh Pastor League's asked the question before, other pastors have asked the question before about thinking on why you came to this church in particular. Why hope? What what set hope apart from any other church. Maybe it was location for some. Maybe it was um in in terms of just like checking out the church. Maybe it was just in the area. It had decent reviews on Google You know, if you read some of those they're a little silly, but um you know, you came to church or your friend invited your coworker, your mom sent you a text message Um when I was in the military in stationed in uh North Carolina, my dad used to always send me text messages of churches in the area and then I never went. He would say, you know, hope hope you went to to church this morning. You know, so I know that parents look out for their children and and hope hoping that they would would go attend church and find a good church in the area. Like we we know over time as we've been members of this church or even longtime visitors or or newcomers that the church that you go to is actually vitally important. And most people would say, or at least understand and agree with that maybe distance ought not to be the determining factor of where you go to church I is it inconvenient to have to drive an hour, an hour and a half to a good church? Yeah, it's a little inconvenient. But Your soul is is rejuvenated here, your soul is fed here, you have people that watch over you, you have people to encourage, people to love. Um and overwhelmingly, the answer that I find and the answer that people usually say why they came to hope was strictly because of how true they held to God's word. It it it wasn't because well I'll also say I also hear a lot of people were very loving here too and people were very kind. and people really, really, you know, reached out to us in times of need or something like that. So it's bold. It's it's it's that hope holds to the truth of God's word while also demonstrating the love of God towards each other. Um And uh I I hold that in in in high regard and great respect. Um if I sound a little tired It's because I am a little tired. Last night uh I was putting Ronan down and he really didn't like the fact that I was putting him down. And he I mean he was in this angry fit launched over his crib railing and landed face first into the ground Now thank God it was carpeted. But he has little it's it looks better today but he has a bump on his head. And you know, as as a parent, especially a new parent Like uh when he was like six months old, uh I was like holding him and I was going down the stairs and I fell and slipped and fell and dropped him and then I broke his leg. You know, so I I I get like these panic attacks, not really, but like these anxiety issues whenever Ronan gets hurt, because I don't like that. So last night we took the railing off, but he was really excited about the fact that the railing was off, so he was moving around the room, so Faith had to go and put a cot out and sleep sleep, you know, in a in a in a sleeping bag, but she was she was dying of of tiredness. She probably got a couple hours of sleep last night, so Anyway, but you know me, I'll I'll pick it up as time goes on. So um I'm sorry for the uh sounding a little tired this morning In any case, um before we we go into the the main meat of the lesson I just kind of wanted to open the floor a little bit and see if there's any real lingering questions or comments that people had. Now I I know I'm I'm kind of screening that on you, so I'm not saying that you have something prepared or anything like that, but I really wanted to kind of open the floor. We've we've talked so much in these last twelve weeks and thirteen weeks now of of this subject. And I know that there's more that people want to say because Once we start getting into dialogue with one another, it seems to kind of pick up pace, and then I know that everyone wants to say something or ask a question. So Don't be nervous. If you really have something you want to you want to talk about for a little bit, I really wanted to open up the floor and discuss whatever it is on that's on your mind uh for just a few moments if if you would like to do that. Maybe yes, maybe no. Maybe we're all had a long night last night. Roger stirring his coffee, but you know. Okay. Um I'm sure that there are there are there are thoughts in people's minds that they want to get out. And maybe that'll come up organically in this lesson. That's fine. Excuse me, that's fine. So what is the last lesson? What what are we talking about today? What are we ending this class on? Well I didn't really know what what to title this class and I still don't, to be quite fair. I was gonna call it Manifestations in the Church and what I wanted to relate it to is like how how the social justice movements, how these critical theories affect the way that church operates, the way that church looks at and evaluates doctrine and orthodoxy, the way that we look over passages How it affects our Christology, for an example, how it affects our doctrine of salvation, how it affects the way that we're supposed to operate as a church, things of of of that nature. And without calling anybody out in specifics, I wanted to bring up examples, which I I am going to to some degree, bring up examples of exactly what I mean by that. and kind of open it up to to to discussion of of what it is that um uh what it is that we're looking at Um I wanted to call it the the the social justice gospel class, but I didn't think that really captured everything that could be talked about um in this last lesson. Because really what I'm what I'm wanting to do is bring everything to a culmination of why this really matters. Of why this really, really matters. And then why does this really matter? Because as as I've looked through the implications, as I've looked through at the changes of what's occurred in at least the American Church. And I know that you could talk about the World Church. I know that you know it might be a little bit narrow to talk about the American church just just in general, but we do live in this context in particular You know, every every church has its culture. You you can go to a different country or to a different state, and not all churches look one for one the same. So I'm not really sure what to call this class. I think tentatively I will call it the social justice gospel, but if I ever figure out a better email I'll let you know, and that might be weeks later, who knows? Um this ideology reinterprets our understanding of of core biblical doctrine and reimagines new meaning to old passages. It likewise influences the way in which we practically and theologically conduct our business as a church. Now that's a pretty heavy statement, I understand. And there might be some mental pushback already on discussing that. Do you guys remember the statement on social justice that MacArthur and all a lot of pastors put out? This I think it was like a 10-section um a 10-section document that was signed um by these pastors and and parishioners. I mean you can you can literally Google it and pull it up. I mean I have it I know I know this is on the screen, but like I have it right here. You can easily Google it and pull it up. Statement on social justice And this was talked about. This happened in 2018. This was talked about very heavily. There was agreements, there was pushback, there was conversations. Um and it it really started um the the precipice of this of this conversation back in in 2018. And it goes over a few things, scripture, the Imago Dei, Justice, God's Law, Sin, Gospel, Salvation, the Church, Heresy, Sexuality and Marriage, Complementarianism. uh race and ethnicity, culture, and then finally racism. So it it's pretty it's pretty substantial. It gives we affirms and we denies and then gives scriptural reference to that And um it it's trying to delineate very nuanced things in a in a understandable format. in providing scriptural um clarity and definitions and justifications for these statements. And they worked, I want to say Six months or something, right? Six months. I forget exactly how long they worked on this, but it was it was like a month-long discussion between um various Christian leaders. that reference other other statements as well. You might ask the question, and I bring that up for a specific point later on, just to tee it up a little bit. You might ask the question, um, where does the idea of a social justice gospel even come from? Where is this founded? And obviously, in the past classes that I've done, I tried to do a really good job of demonstrating the origins and the movements throughout history of where these things have come from with critical theory and critical race theory, and then some biblical critiques on these ideas. So the question is then, and I want to a little bit go into just a small smidge of that origin story. Where does this idea come from? Now I'm going to throw out some terms here. Don't be don't be scared of the terms. You may not fully agree with the terms, but here we go. This really started in the 19th century In the UK, there was a movement called Christian Socialism. That's what it was called. It started in the UK. Um there's uh there's a um a little bit of a uh a history lesson on that in and of itself, but the term was generally associated with the demands of Christian activists for a social program of political and economic action on behalf of all individuals, impoverished or wealthy. And the term was used in contradistinction to laissez-faire individualism, which was a doctrine that is is bringing the interests of the individual as being paramount. Later, Christian socialism came to be applied in the general sense to any movement that attempted to combine the fundamental aims of socialism with the religious and ethical convictions of Christianity. I mean you could you could really apply that to today, right? We have societal ills, we have issues that we want to deal with in a very practical means That's trip typically driven in a political sense and merging that with our Christian doctrine. So that's essentially what Christian socialism wants. It's centered in the UK during this time, and America itself would later find the influence of this doctrine in forming what would become to be known as the social gospel. Now some of you, I don't know um some of some of your parents may have been around that. Some of your grandparents may have been around that, depending on how old you are Um, it it came uh to prominence in the United States from the eighteen eighteen seventies to the nineteen twenties. Advocates of this movement interpreted the kingdom of God as requiring social as well as individual salvation and sought the betterment of industrialized society through application of the biblical principles of charity and justice And we spent a good majority of time, at least four weeks, on biblical justice and social justice. Pastor Gabe really took us through what it means to enact biblical justice and what's the difference between that and social justice. This would even transform major leaders like Lyndon B. John Lyndon B. Johnson to enact a transformation of societal problems into a moral issue. So like you might see signs today uh uh uh at some kind of rally of protest in general where it says you know inequality is a moral issue or economic disparity is a moral issue You know, um you might hear some politicians say it's immoral for somebody to be a billionaire, as an example Now you might argue, well that billionaire used, you know, um unethical means to to uh gain their wealth and that that could very well be true. But the f I'm not I'm not trying to make a commentary on on these specifics right now. What I'm trying to say is that it had consequences and it transformed the way in which a nation itself looked at these things. And it was undergirded by Christian terminology. It found justification in Christian ideas. It's been described as the most distinctive American contribution to world Christianity. Now social the social gospel isn't really a thing today. You're not going to hear the term too much of the social gospel or the social gospel movement It it really did end around the nineteen twenties, um around um World War One, just because people saw the the travesties, this this great war that occurred And all these nations were involved. It caused a whole lot of death and destruction. Movements of of nations and things like that And they saw that this kind of concept of like, well, we should we should really worry about the impoverished right now or something like that. It it diminished that in terms of the social gospel movement And it raised up this need um for um for a defense for for getting ready for um uh dealing with the consequences of World War One. So the prominence of social gospel lowered during World War One, but its ideas didn't die. Um there is a there is a book. I'm not saying you should read this book 'cause it's very long. It's like three hundred pages. I haven't read it, so You know. Um and uh it it literally goes over um how the social gospel movement, even though it it fell in prominence in the nineteen twenties its influence can still be seen today, which is a little bit of what I'm talking about. Um it influenced the formation of Christian democracy, political ideologies among Protestants And in Catholics, many of the social gospel ideas also reappeared in the Civil Rights Movement as an example of the 1960s And it still continues to inspire new movements today. You can find its influences in mainline Protestant denominations such as the African Methodist Episcopal Church, the Evangelical Lutheran Church, the Presbyterian Church, the United Church of Christ The Christian Church or Disciples of Christ, the United Methodist Church, and then generally the overarching Episcopal Church, the Anglican Church, and so on and so forth. You can even find it in some Calvinist circles So so its its effect is is widespread. And and we can we can as we've discussed all these issues, we can kind of see where that's coming from. Let me let me give you let me give you just a headline of the news article. You ready? How to fix the Asian American Female Pastor Dilemma That's that's a whole mouthful right there, isn't it? The Asian American female pastor dilemma. I didn't know that was an issue, personally speaking. But that that's a that's a whole that's a whole article right there. Um uh let me let me read uh for you um an excerpt from another um magazine not magazine but article that I found. And and while I I pull that up If there's any comments already, please I'd be more than happy to interact with them. I'd like to make this a little bit more interactive, to be honest. So if something sticks out to you, please please say something Um I I'd like to really discuss these things. I have I have like twenty something pages of of um excerpts from things that I'd like to discuss, but of course we're not going to get through nearly all of that. Alright, this one was this one was interesting. In referencing um the issue of bathroom access when it comes to transgenderism. Is this what somebody wrote in this article? The current flap in conservative Christian circles about bathroom access is a bit baffling They shout about God not making mistakes as if God only works in binaries, and anything falling outside of black and white cannot be from Him But we don't have a black and white God. Creation is so full of color and variation that it's incomprehensible how we Christians struggle to pare him down to the limited palette of our individual expectations The worst offenders are the Christians who claim to take the Bible literally. Now we we spent a whole class on that, biblical authority. Pastor Gabe went through some foundations and principles to keep in mind And then we spent a whole time talking about the necessity of biblical authority. Here, the author of this article is critiquing anybody who takes the Bible literally. So that's you. Of course they don't actually do that. They impose their own filters on stories and phrases to fit the particular ideology. So if we're to take the Bible literally, we can't really do that because everyone's biased, everyone has a filter, so you you can't take the Bible literally, which you would you would give the same um combative uh approach to the person that's even writing this article who has their own filters and stories and phrases on their own par particular ideology. So it's it's circular It goes back and forth. If they really did as they do claim, and this this one this this is the part that really got me, they would quickly see that Jesus must be by their own exegetical rules, not exegetical, but exegetical rules. That Jesus must be the first transgender male. In a theological seminary, a professor uh was teaching in this class that Jesus of the Gospels was a drag queen. I I don't even want to utter that phrase. And I'm not there is more to that that quite frankly a lot of us would be very uncomfortable hearing. And it and he goes on about the creation, you know Um, Eve is a fascinating creature for many reasons. The Bible tells us she's the first example of human cloning. Where does that come from? You you think it's crazy? I I was in work and a guy turned around and started talking to me and he goes he goes since since Eve Since Eve was fashioned from from Adam's rib, does that mean we should genetically modify our wives? What? It it's not even it's not even close. It's not even close. He had he had major issues. I was I had a I had a NASV on my desk and he was like, why do you have this version of the Bible? You know. I'm like, oh I can I can answer that question. I would love to talk to you about about translations. But every once in a while it would just be these these harebrain ideas. What do they do? They distract from they distract from from what we're really supposed to be talking about. To be quite fair It's not even worth the time to address questions like that. I just kind of laughed at that. I was like, are you kidding me? No, of course not. It's not even worth the time to do that. But this is, at least to their estimation, real Christian ideas. I can't imagine being in a in a in a seminary class where a guy is saying these things about your Lord. You wouldn't stand for it, right? Now I'm bringing a lot of like these are extreme examples, aren't they? And and how could I relate How could I relate these extreme examples to the topic that we're we're discussing today? Well, there are some other examples I'd like to bring up And I'm I'm kind of I'm kind of going back and forth here. I'm not particularly focusing on just the transgender issue or or the LGBT issue or or the or the um racial disparity issue You may have you may have seen this one. Um there there is a there is an organiz or an event that was going on in North Carolina in 2020, June 7, 2020. And some North Carolina pastors had invited the white community leaders and officers to do a ritual in honor of George Floyd where they washed the religious leaders' feet. So they sat on the bench. They started washing their feet. So these these officers, some of these first responders got down, got, you know, rags from the from the basin, started washing their feet. And they they were asking in continuous manner forgiveness for their sin of whiteness and racism, right Now what what's kind of the inherent issue with that? Um well somebody pointed out they said this. They said if the whites are the guilty ones And the blacks are supposed to be washing their feet if this is supposed to be like the Bible. Remember this is in relation to to what Christ did. Who who washed whose feet? Jesus washed the disciples' feet. The one washing the feet is the one pure and good. The receiver of the washing is the one is the dirty unworthy one. Now we wouldn't lay that claim to each each of those people, right? Just especially on the basis of their skin color. I mean come on. But but the logical inconsistency has major ramifications. Now, not just that, but think about the witness that that puts on. Now the world will go, wow. Look at this. This is humble. Right? The Pope does things like this. This is very humble. Look at these Christians. But is that is that what our Christianity is about? Who who's ever watched The Office before? One of the funniest shows alive. Steve Correll was snubbed from winning award of being Michael Scott. But um one of the one of the main characters, the White, is played by a guy named Rain Wilson. I've seen some of his stuff too, some of his movies. H his character of Dwight is absolutely hilarious, right? He said this in a in a tweet. The metamorphosis of Jesus Christ From a humble servant of the abject poor to a symbol that stands for gun rights, prosperity theology, anti science, limited governments Parentheses that neglects the destitute, end parentheses, and fierce nationalism is truly the strangest transformation in human history. Now, Jesus isn't either of those. So what's going on here? Uh in in my study, this one this one really surprised me. I didn't I didn't I didn't know this. In discussing the origins of the social gospel, you know, we've talked about how it was traced to the 19th centuries within with industrialism immediately following the Civil War. Um I didn't mention that part. It immediately followed the Civil War. Movement leaders put Jesus' message of love thy neighbor into pulpits, published books, and lectured across the country. Other leaders, mostly women, ran settlement houses designed to alleviate the sufferings of immigrants living in cities like Boston, New York, and Chicago. Now pause. Is that wrong? No. I mean Christians overwhelmingly, if you look at church history, have done so much societal good out of the kindness and love of Jesus. And they want to demonstrate that love to people in very practical means. We establish churches and schools and communities and we've we have really, really loved people. over overwhelmingly. So so this isn't a critique of that, but the this one this one was this one got me. Their mission was to draw attention to the problems of poverty and inequality, especially in America's growing cities. Charles Sheldon, a minister in the city of Topeka Kansas explained the idea behind the social gospel. Now remember, we're talking about the ideals of social of the social gospel in his 1987 novel, In His Steps To be a Christian, he argued, one needed to walk in Jesus' footsteps. Now we would okay, I understand. I'm I'm I'm tracking with that. There we go. The book slogan, What Would Jesus Do, became a central theme of the social gospel movement. Which would also become tied to a belief in what Ohio Minister Washington Gladlin called social salvation. Now what is social salvation? Social salvation is quite frankly, or quite literally, the salvation of society. So we're no longer focusing on the on the experience and the um responsibility of individuals only for their sins But collectively as an entire society. Remember how we talked about in the previous weeks? It's no longer just about the individual sin. It's now we're implicating an entire group of people into one sin. And even if you don't um engage in that sin or something like that, you're still, by virtue of a certain characteristic, guilty of that sin. And it can go both ways or always But did you did you catch the book's title? What would Jesus do? Consequently, um or the concept emphasized the religious the that religion's fundamental purpose was to create systemic change and American political structures. In the nineteen nineties, uh I think a w uh a camp counselor read that book that he wrote about social salvation and what would Jesus do and created the the the the wristbands WWJD. That was a that was a massive movement. Now, you couldn't go anywhere in the 90s without having that bracelet on Everyone had that bracelet. It started from the camp of 300 people and people caught on quick. And guess what happened? Uh uh the American machine ran and said, we're gonna make a ton of money with this. And they made millions of those bad boys, and every teenager had that one on. And then we all thought we were so Christian. What would Jesus do? I don't know what what to do. What would Jesus do? Well sometimes Jesus whipped and sometimes Jesus flipped the table. Is that what I should do? You can make a very good critique of that message. Now, we're boiling a big movement into one phrase, and that's kind of the issue. The focus was on actions The focus was on actions. We want to demonstrate the love of Christ through very actionable means, which is noble to a degree. But it it un it what's the word? It it misbalance the desire to bring the truth to the forefront and being able to explain the gospel. You've heard it before. Um uh you know share the gospel and if you need to open your mouth. You ever heard that I think that phrase before? I think that's what it is. Share the gospel to in if you need to, or if you need to speak, or something like that. Say that again Yeah, if you need to do it with words. So what's what's the idea? Don't really focus on on speaking the gospel, just demonstrate the love of Christ, and that's how we'll we'll get people's attention. That's how we'll we'll share these things with people. That's how we'll give the gospel. Okay. I'm going to pause here for a moment. That we want to we want to talk about? Go ahead. Like in the future, you know, we churches are always seeing something in the future. But as the churches receive more personal in general What are they going to do when the governments come in, the government comes in and says, No, you um really have to have I think Santa Gender come in and be one of the leaders. Yeah. One of the teachers. And um you have to have a sand gender pattern or um Um oh how dare you preach on that passage that's almost happening out of God's word. All the pressure coming down on the earth moving into the form that after the church leader was afraid of what could possibly happen, whether it's fines or recitations, closing of the church. The church As a reminder was not to build the turf it was the body of the house. Right. He could be in the middle of the parking lot or in the or in the woods. Which we'd done that You're in a mess to be encouraged by the work. Yeah. So what's going to happen? Yeah. Yeah. And and Statements like that um were I I don't want to um to be like a fear monger of saying, all right, the government's gonna crush us in like the next couple weeks. I I don't really want to lay that down. Um I want to be very careful about about that. But that uh the point that that Brian was bringing up was that what happens when it becomes government mandated for us to abide by these these equity laws that are coming to pass. The Equality Act is is getting passed and that's going to have ramifications. Um that's that's I I say a political thing, but it's going to have ramifications. And and most people are picking up on that, which is which is good. Um but the big thing um Go ahead, Brian. Sure, go ahead. Is we have to make a decision to stand plus or follow what the laws are saying. So we Yeah. Yes. price that's so important for always yeah because we're going through this um study on force of price and we're learning about standing up we have Yeah. No matter what, you stand Yeah. And and I think I think uh what essentially what Brian was saying was that what happens when the government mandates us to to abide by these equity laws that there will be a time where Christians will have to take a stand. I mean, we we have to take a stand regardless right now. There's there's a lot of things that are occurring that we have to speak out about And part of part of the conversation really is about, well, what particular are we supposed to take a stand on? I think that's a lot of a question in a lot of people's minds. What when when some when this happens or when that happens, am I supposed to do something about this personally? Am I supposed to go after something? Um and and I and I think I don't want to give an answer to any particular topic because I think that that might depend on the individual. What what are your motivations and intentions? Are you doing this because uh you want the world to accept you or are you doing this because you genuinely believe that this is going to be Christ's honoring, but how do we how do we temper that with biblical truth? That's kind of some of the some of the I'm I'm hoping some of the good consequences of this class as well. Um I had a thought but I lost a bit. Roger, um I think you had your hand up. Well you probably saw like uh just I didn't really have a dumb question. Oh here. Okay. But yeah, the the the thing is you're wanting to have an air change here, yeah kinda thing is occurring to me is that this is so mind blowing quite frankly for any of us seeing how quickly Some of this stuff is taking shape in our culture that we're kind of wondering, okay, what happened? What do I do? Um and my major concern for many concerns but one of the major concerns I have prayerfully is that this whole concept of of uh critical thought and and serious theories um these things are designed to divide. Their basic structure, the basic route, is to divide groups. And it has the potential within the church, even within hope, yeah, to be divisive. And that's the kind of thing that I pray that we remain unified around Christ, around uh our our our text, our scripture, and around our doctrines Yeah, I'm gonna I'm gonna pause you there. Um essentially what Roger is saying is that these these ideas have the potential to divide because they're divisive by nature. They're designed to be divisive, and what happens in that comes into the church and we need to we need to address that. Again, um I'm hoping that this will equip us, this this kind of class will equipped us to to at least think through um these things. And I'm I'm glad you brought up the point. Can we go to Matthew 25? I want to say Matthew 25. You didn't think we'd we'd talk about scripture, but here we go. I like talking about worldviews and and things like that. But um I I want to give you I want to give you one pretty easily seen example of of what happens when when the social gospel Starts reinterpreting scripture for us, critical theory when it starts reinterpreting scripture for us. Um We love this passage from verses 31 all the way down to verse 46. It's a hard passage, but it's it's reality Let me give you some context here. Jesus is speaking in parables, and they're all related to eternity. Right. All parables to some degree are related to salvation. These ones in particular are are about the coming groom. Parable of the ten virgins, so you have those that were foolish and didn't put out their lamps, um, didn't add any extra oil, they weren't vigilant, the groom came, took took the the virgins that were ready away And the other ones came and knocked on the door and said, Let us in and he he said no, right? That's this is about eternity. This is about eternity. The talents Right? Some were given one, five, and ten talents and and two and said to take care of these, be good stewards. Do something with these talents, don't waste them. Right Um they they the master leaves, he comes back and requires something from the slaves, and they come and they they present, one turned it over. two times, turn it over three times, I forget exactly what. Um and then he comes to the one servant and says, Well what did you do? And he says, I was too scared to do anything with this. Buried in the grounds And uh here's but I at least have the talents. Here you go, here's the talents. What do you even call him? Worthless slave. Worthless slave. He didn't do anything, right? Verse 26, but the master answered him and said, You worthless, lazy slave, did you know that I reap what I do not sow, and gather what I do not did not scatter seed, then you ought to have put money in the bank, and on my arrival I would have received my money back with interest. Therefore take the talent away from him and give it to one who has the ten talents. For to everyone who has who has, more shall be given, and he will have an abundance, but from the one who does not have, even what he does have shall be taken away, and throw the worthless slave into the outer darkness And the place where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. What is that? That's hell. Right? So this is about eternity. This is about people going to heaven and going to hell. And then we get to verse 31. And this is one of the misused verses that I have seen today. I have seen caricatures, comic strips, Conversations, articles, statements, uh political pundits, all kind all kinds of situations, all kinds of dialogue misuse this verse because what do they say This is talking about the um the immigrants as an example. This is talking about everyone. And what are we talking about here? Remember, all right, verse 31 But when the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all the angels with him, then he will sit on his glorious throne, and all the nations will be gathered before him And he will separate them one from another, just as the shepherd separates the sheep from the goats, and he will put the sheep on his right but the goats on his left. Then the king will say to those on his right, Come, you who are blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundations of the world, for I was hungry and you gave me something to eat I was thirsty and you gave me something to drink. I was the stranger and you invited me in naked and you clothed me. I was sick and you visited me. I was in prison and you came to me Then the righteous will answer him, Lord, when did we see you hungry and feed you, or thirsty and we gave you something to drink? And when did we see you as a stranger and invite you in or naked and clothe you And when did we see you sick or in prison and come to you? And the king will answer and say to them, Truly I say to you, to the extent that you did it for one of the least of these brothers and sisters of mine, you did it for me And then they take that and relate everyone who is oppressed, everyone who is marginalized, everyone who is poor, everyone who is vulnerable to that statement right there. In verse 40, and you go, well, isn't that what that verse is about? Who are the least of these that Jesus is talking about here? You can answer. Who are the least of these that Jesus is talking about here? It's believers. It's believers. Do you see how that diminishes the passage? Does that mean that we're not to do these things for others? No. But that is a reinterpretation of Scripture And then and then to charge Christians you and to slander you, they say this, um he will say also on those to his left, Depart from me, you accursed people, into the eternal fire So they condemn Christians and use these verses to do that and say, when you when you're going against um these policies or you're not standing for social justice or something like that, you are you are um you are disobeying your Lord Jesus. That's the world's charge to us. Why? Because they don't understand what this passage is referring to. And they're trying to convince you of what that passage means. And that has implications. That that's that's the the thing Paul was talking about when he said flee from these false doctrines. Don't let them take you captive. Don't let them take you as spoils of war. Because it is, I don't I don't want to use so much military language here to sound conspiracy theorists or anything like that, but this is an ideological battle at the very least that we have to wage on a consistent basis because of how pervasive this conversation is. Here, here, here's one. You let your kids watch Cartoon Networks You know, you might Teen Titans Go or something like that. I don't know. You might. Um They're they're launching a new PSA as an example, anti-racism, and they're lecturing kids to see color. Cartoon Network, you're a cartoon show channel. Stop that. Stop that. We talked about that. Elias went excruciatingly into detail the issues with racialism. Of constantly seeing these things in a racialistic worldview and viewpoints that leads into racism He he el waxed eloquently over the biblical categories, and now this world is telling you that you have to see it this way, or else you're wrong What happens when Christian leaders take that stance in light of these things? And I mean like for this messaging as an example. A pastor of one of the largest Christian churches in the world said this. Churches might be one of the biggest propagators of racist ideology. Now that's a charge. That is a charge And and this this same pastor, you know, would would go on to be on Oprah and things like that and talk about, you know, all kinds of of spiritual truth and that Jesus is just a marker and you know he's not the only way to salvation and things like that. It's harmful. And I don't mean like physically harmful. I mean like spiritually, this is harmful. Again, in in light of not trying to call out anyone in in particular, and I mean in like the evangelical world. Um you've probably read his books, but uh he wrote this article, it was a critique of of of critical theory And he give in in in in these ideas. And he gave actually a really, really, really good I would recommend the article, but I'm I'm not trying to be that guy Um he gave a really good definition of of critical theories and these these ideas of postmodernism and and and right ideology and things like that. He actually did a really good job. I was quite impressed with the article until he came to this portion. It was supposed to be a critique of these things, but you can't critique something totally when you've already adopted it for the most part. Let me ask you a question. What is the Bible about? Anybody can answer. Jesus is a great answer, but let's let's give a little more robust definition. What is the Bible about? I'll give you a a moment. Oh okay, two people at once. Uh Ms. Trina, please go ahead. Mm-hmm. Yes, ma'am. Please go ahead. Yeah, God's plan for redemption, what he expects of us, how do we live the Christian life. What what what else is the Bible about? Yes, Ms. Karen. The knowledge of God. Great. Anybody online wanna wanna give me a quick definition of what the Bible is about? No one? No takers? Everyone's in their jammies still. I love that. That was that was really fun uh initially when Zoom calls were happening. I was I was one hundred percent in my jammies. And you might go, well, you're 28 years old, why do you call them jammies? Because they're jammies, alright? That's what they are. Alright, I wear my jammies and I love my jammies. The storyline of the Bible What the Bible is and what it talks about is God, the triune God, demonstrating his glory in the redeeming of particular people through his son, Jesus Christ. both in the Old Testament and in the New Testament. A prominent Christian author, you've probably read his books, said this. Finally, the storyline of the whole Bible is God's repeated identification with the wretched, powerless, and marginalized. We talked about pyrodynamics. This is the language, right? The central story of the Old Testament is liberation of slaves from captivity. Is that the central story of the Old Testament? No. Again, it is God's repeated demonstration of his glory for a particular people, through a particular people, not for through a particular people. Over and over in the Bible, God's deliverers are usually racial and social outsiders, people seen to be weak and rejected in the eyes of the power elites of the world. Whoa. So so King David was a was a racial and social outsider? No, he was not. He was the king of Israel. Fourth, only biblical justice offers a racially and subversive outstanding understanding of power. The postmodern view rightly critiques liberal and other secular views as being blind to the operations of power and oppression at work and human life and society. Liberals and he means theological liberals rightly criticized the postmodern for being prone and blind to its own forms of deno uh domination. Biblical justice in contrast with liberal gives us a profound account of power and its corruption, but in contrast to the postmodern gives us a model for changing how it is it is used in the world. Now, this is where the real rub is and this is where I get um Not just concerns. Um yeah, I I don't know, maybe concern is the right term. He writes this When God came to earth in Jesus Christ, he came as a poor man to the to a family at the bottom of the s of the social order. Where do you read that in scripture? You say, oh, well he was born in the manger. Do you know why he was born in the manger? Because his parents were traveling. Not because they were poor. Uh they were they were probably stonemasons or carpenters, right? They're I hate to use it in in in our modern day, but they're likely middle class He experienced torture, remember power dynamics in in language, he experienced torture and death at the hands of religious and government elites using their power unjustly to oppress. So in Jesus, we see God laying aside his privilege and his power. i. e. his glory, in order to identify with the weak and helpless. And he quotes Philippians 2, 5 through 8. Let's go to Philippians 2, 5 through 8. It says this: have this attitude in yourselves, which was also in Christ Jesus, who, as he already existed in the form of God, did not consider equality with God something to be grasped. but emptied himself by taking the form of a bondservant and being born in the likeness of men. And being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, death on a cross Okay. Did Jesus lay aside his privilege and power? Did he lay aside his glory? It was veiled. He was in perfect humanity. Excuse me. Did Jesus ever lay aside his power and glory? It brings me to tears. Talk about my safe like that. And yet, through the endurance of violence and human injustice, he paid the rightful penalty of humanity sin to divine justice. Yeah, that's that's right. That's absolutely right. But here it is. Jesus takes authority, but only after losing it in service to the weak and helpless. God thrust him to the place of prominence because of his obedience. Because he is God in human flesh, seated at the right hand of the Father. Yeah, we are weak and helpless. But he didn't do it in service to us primarily. He did it to what? Glorify God. Okay. Now that's ten minutes, or we have like fifteen minutes. Again, I really think this class should be longer. It may even it may even be worth doing I don't know. I I don't want to say more, but Do we have any comments or questions at this time right now? Anything like that? Hey, Danny. It's Patrice Wallace. Oh, Miss Patrice is is saying something. Pastor Gabe her sound is not on, I don't think. Uh yeah, I hear you talking this Patrice, but I I it's not coming through the the speaker, I'm sorry. Um Pastor Gabe might try to get that fixed real quick. If not, I I really apologize. If you want, you can type in your question um into the chat. No, he's got it. Okay, Mr. Can you hear me? Yes, ma'am. Can we go back to Matthew twenty-five? And when Jesus talks about um that you've done this for the least of of them. You've done it for me. Yes, ma'am. We don't know who saved. And so you know, as a Christian we should be doing these things, you know, to to anyone that comes across my pat our path that have have these needs. Yes, ma'am. Although, you know, and so, you know, I think we need to kind of differentiate between um our responsibilities because we love Jesus and we want to show the love of the world. Right to you know show love to the world as a result of our love for Jesus that we don't know um who is saved and who isn't And so, you know, how do we argue with these social justice people when they say if they use this scripture to tell us that we're not following our our we're not following God's command. Mm-hmm. But we are you know, following it because we don't know who's saved. Yes. We are doing these things out of love of Christ. Mm-hmm Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, I I get I get bothered. Um I think a Elias kind of brought up this point too. I get bothered when when these really heavy charges are laid against the entire church as if the church has done nothing I'm sorry, God works very powerfully with the church. I'm not sorry, but I hate that phrase by the way. Sorry, not sorry. Ugh. That really that really gets me. And I just used it so Um thank you, Miss Ms Patrice, for saying that. Um You had to think about that before it all about the force of the church. I feel like um society um kind of takes Right. Can you talk a little bit more about that? Because like you said, um we'll fall to the love God and neighbors. Yes. I mean that's just too hard to Christians love for the brother you know me um but a lot even Christians sometimes still like the church should be going out there and feeding the poor and helping everybody. Can you talk a little bit more about that? Uh yes. And um Yeah, I'll be I'll be I'll try to be careful with my my words here. Um uh there is nothing wrong with Oh Ms. Margot, can you mute yourself for one second, please Thank you so much. No, there's there's nothing wrong with with doing those things. I mean, we have we have like we have um people in this church that that constantly are helping people of the world. I mean constantly. Um, I, you know, from my own Bible study, we've had people host families that needed a home that that don't go to our church, not even Christians, but they needed a a place to stay, right? We've seen a demonstration of love and reaching out to those at the workplace. Hey, come come over for dinner, let me feed you, you know, care for you, and things like that. programs and and things of, you know, we need to we need to to help people that um are uh suffering. And and and there are there are Many passages that aren't just relating like Matthew twenty-five is to brethren, but that's relating to generally the world that we are to be kind and and and respectful and and hold people with dignity and value and to do that and a demonstration of that is is is to help them. Like going like if you went to work as an example and somebody was suffering, would you go, he's not a Christian Or she's not a Christian. I'm not I'm not gonna get involved with this. No. I certainly hope not, you know. And I'm I'm not saying we do this perfectly every time and that we're always obligated to do all these things, because that's that's another distinction. Um, you know, there there there are times to be given priority over over you know one thing or another uh another. But that's that's a that's a nuance that again I don't have we don't have time to to discuss right now I'd like to. Hey Dan. Hey Dan Yes. Yes, Sean. I'm so sorry. Sean. No, no worries, but uh I know it's probably even more confusing because I think it's Dory's name. But anyway. Um I just wanted to um Uh kind of just if you didn't mind, I just wanted to add on real quick to what uh so I think, you know, um, amen. We should be, you know, showing the tangible love of Christ to the least of you know, um, to the overlooked and to those who the world would consider, you know, less than, right? Yeah. Um, because that's what Christ himself did. Right. But I think we also have to balance that with remembering our mission is not to rid the world of poverty, right? Christ said, the poor you will have with you always Our mission is to proclaim the gospel and to make disciples and to you know be faithful to that, right? And so that's where the social gospels fall short. Yeah. They're trying to um rid the world of of social ills, you know what I mean, by doing it through worldly means. We are going to live holy lives serving our God and that and praying, right? That we cannot underestimate the power of prayer, right? We're probably going to hear more about that later on today. Oh, yeah. Um, and praying that the Lord would use us effectively in this world to proclaim his gospel and to meet the needs, right? And and not thinking that we have to do one or the other. Because oftentimes people think, oh, I just need to preach the gospel. Yeah. Amen Do that and be faithful to that. But don't walk past your your neighbor when you see him lying dead on the floor. You know what I'm saying? Like we talked about you know it's at the workplace. Like don't don't do that because then we're falling into hypocrisy like the Pharisees Yeah. So we just want to. Yeah, and thank you, Sean, because that that sparked a point that I really wanted to bring up that I I I was forgetting. Um these these ideals are trying to make heaven on earth is what they're doing. Um that's not our goal. Uh uh well, depending on your eschatology, but um go ahead. Oh Margo, did you did you have something though? Yes ma'am, please go ahead. Good discussion. Can you hear me? Yes, ma'am. Okay. Um I think John Sean just answered my question because um I've been accused in the past by my neighbor of well not accused but She used to ask, Well, what does your church do? I mean, you know, here are some clothes and you can take 'em to your church and you can I'll tell her, Nay, I don't I don't need them. You know, we're not we're not doing that. Well What are you doing? And it's been hard to know how to address that. I think that what John just said is a way to kinda answer that question. Yes, ma'am. So Okay. Thanks for the dialogue. In the chat Someone brought up Galatians 6. 10. So then as we have an opportunity, let us do good to everyone. Yeah, this is a great verse. And especially to those are of the household of the faith you have a particular care of of one another and that that pleases the Lord. But yes, one one of the points I wanted to bring up was that they're essentially trying to bring, we want to bring heaven on earth. But This earth is passing away. Um Christ will establish his domain for a thousand years, right? Physically, and it'll be great. It's gonna be great. And then this is going to melt. Just melt. And it's gonna make a new earth and then then the heavens And then we're gonna do something with like like like that's why I think Pastor League says it like he thinks we'll be able to fly 'cause like how do we get between you know, things like that. It'll be cool, right? But Pastor Gabe had had a comment as well. I was going to say the danger of the so called gospel if you much attention to riding the world of its ills, which again is there's a balance, but the danger is that uh we will make this world Can you say that again louder so everybody can hear you? Because I don't want to but butch butcher that. The danger is on the score is that you can get too much intentional to be made in the only heaven people experience it of course it will be very temporary and they'll experience health right turn. So yes there is a balance there is an appropriate uh attention to Meeting means as we have opportunity. But that's not our main mission. Our main mission is to proclaim the gospel so that people will experience heaven for eternity, even in this world. It was a very painful experience for me. Okay. Everyone online, did you more or less hear what he what he said? I can't repeat all of that, but I'll try. No one's saying no, so I'll assume that's a good one. Okay. Thank you, Mike. Okay. Um He was essentially saying that if we focus too much on on ridding the world of societal ills is that we'll make earth the only heaven people will experience, which I think is a very powerful point. Um and then he said more, but you'll have to ask him because I already forgot. But that will stick with me. Um In response to the statement on social justice, we have three minutes, so I have time. I have three minutes of time. In response to the statement on social justice, a seminary put this out. It was a series of of tweets going category by category, and I just want you to hear some of these categories. So it starts out with scripture. These are very short. I'm not going to read a whole page to you. This is this is from a seminary called Union Seminary. If you Google them, you'll know very quickly that they're not a biblical They're not even they're not even a Christian seminary. And you'll find that out too on these tweets. Um they had a really nutty article to where they put plants on a stage. And they got around the plants and asked forgiveness from the plants and the way that we've treated the world. So just just to give you the idea of that. So I'm not I'm not at at odds with with pointing them out Scripture says they say this about Scripture. Point one, statement, statement on social justice according to Union Seminary And this is really I wanted for thirteen weeks I've been wanting to bring this up because this this really, really, really demonstrates what I've been trying to say, what we've all been trying to say in Battle List Number one scripture, while divinely inspired, we deny the Bible as inerrant or infallible. Why do you think we had a class on biblical authority initially? This begins at this issue. I can repeat that over and over again. It begins at this issue. It was written by men over centuries and thus reflects both God's truth and human sin and prejudice. We affirm that biblical scholarship and critical theory help us discern which messages are God's Okay. Point two Amago Dei. We affirm that God created every person in God's own image. Accordingly, we deny the vitriol directed towards people because of how God made them, i. e. sexual orientation and gender identity. is in any way faithful, biblical, or godly. Well, you just accuse the Bible of not being inspired or or infallible, but then you're using the Bible to say it's not biblical to do these things The inconsistency is crazy, but okay, let's let's continue on. And I know this this this is like this is a no-brainer for us, right? Like, okay, we can understand these things. But some of them, it's very tricky and it's wording. Already Justice. We affirm that justice is central to God's liberative mission. Moreover, we affirm that God enacts that justice through humans, helping us correct millennial old sins that permeate both church and culture. We deny that critical theory is irrelevant to this mission. Point four, God's Law. We affirm that God's law, as summarized in the two great commandments, should guide Christian morality. However We denied that wisdom accrued in the century since the Bible the Bible's inception can't help us understand what it means to love one's neighbor as oneself Sin. We affirm that all people, systems, and institutions are affected by sin. We deny, however, that we are only responsible for our own personal sins. God calls us to understand how we benefit or are harmed by structural oppression and break sinful systems down. This is verbatim the language that we talked about in critical theory and race theory um in those classes. But but but again, this it's that very particular Christian um twist to these things. Gospel. We affirm that the gospel was revealed through Jesus and that liberation was central to Christ's mission. In his own life, however, Jesus demonstrated that works, living justly in the world, are as bit As every bit foundational for the gospel as faith, they cannot be separated. Salvation. We deny that salvation is only found through Christianity. Okay, so we we already get it, right That God's salvific grace is exclusive to any single faith or religion. Moreover, in God's eyes, there is no difference in spiritual value or worth between those who are in Christ and those who aren't And then they put the term s seminary, right? They're using Christian language. Now, we're discerning enough. I'm I I'm confident in that. The we're discerning enough to go, okay Yeesh. This is not even close. But here we go. When it comes to what the church should do, the church, the primary role of the church is to serve God. Certainly, that service includes preaching and administering sacraments, but we deny that political or social activism shouldn't be viewed as integral to this work. Laws may change hearts, but they save lives Heresy. We affirm that heresy, which okay, that's an oxymoron, being being incredibly heretical throughout this whole thing. We affirm that heresy is denial of God's will But furthermore, affirm that certain heresies have long concealed themselves inside the church. And they had a particular emphasis of that correcting it from within. Heresy ought to be condemned, regardless of whether those espousing happen to be ministers, like yourselves, for instance. And and they go on and they go on. They talk about sexuality and marriage, complementarianism, rape and ethnicity, culture, and then of course racism. So verbatim point by point by point from the statement on social justice. Every single one of these is tinged with that, every single one of these. And we don't have time to go over any more. How do we wrap this class up when I'm already over time? Uh one one person told me that, you know, you you have to learn how to how to end the class because then it's like you're flying a plane and then you're flying really good and well, but you don't know where to land so you just crash at the end. The one who told me that told me that yesterday and I won't point them out, but um I I find it quite relevant even right now as I meander on and on and on. Guys Honestly, with with with every ounce that I can say, this has been a very long thirteen weeks for various reasons, whether it be the class or or what's going on in life. It's been rough It's been rough for us uh at home. It's been rough, I'm sure, for you guys to some degree. Maybe you're in the midst of blessing, I'm not sure. Um I have greatly, and I mean greatly appreciated the tone of this class the the conversations that we have had, the discussions that we have had, the the conversations that undoubtedly have happened outside of class. I've been approached a few times, I've gotten a few emails, and I have appreciated every single one of them. Every single one of them I know that us as teachers are very appreciative of your attentiveness, of your learning, of your asking questions, of your trying to work through these issues in a very biblical manner And it brings us joy to know that we can glorify God in this manner. And so with that, I just I just say thank you for your attention. If you have any feedback, any comments, please email us Um I I want to hear it all and and we'll help work through these things together, okay? Because I I put very clearly in the in the in the class um like description that the goal of this class was was unity. All right. Let's pray real quick. Lord, thank you for your word. Thank you for your truth. Thank you for your guiding of us. Thank you for each and every one of these congregates, brothers and sisters in Christ, members of this church, visitors. Lord, thank you for all that you have taught us through these weeks. And there's so much more that we could learn, so much more that we could say. But I pray that this would equip us in principle to help us work through these things personally and as we collectively um discuss these matters with one with one another, Lord. We love you. And that is that is very well evidently known That we love you, Lord. But more than that, you love us. And you demonstrated that love by sending your son to die for us and rose again, securing our salvation. Lord, and we are so thankful for you, and we are so thankful for the grace and for the mercy that you've shown us. We do not deserve it. But you have demonstrated that love all the same, Lord. Let us do likewise and love others well. Give us attentive hearts to the message today. May we learn and grow from the trials of our beloved pastor as we learn to navigate this world's temptations Through prayer, of how we can equip us through prayer, Lord, and let us grow in sanctification by your Spirit, through your word. In Jesus' name. Amen. Alright guys online. We'll see you at we'll see you at service hopefully. If not Danny it's Wyatt. Hey Wyatt One one last time, White, bring it on man. Can I see can I see Peg Gowell on camera with you? Uh I think he's gonna go do some some of his prayer group stuff here soon. Um So probably not, but he can hear you right now. Nope, he's coming over. He's coming. Thank you, Danny. He's coming. And do you have a lot of people? Anyway. You're quick on that turn game. I did it. Got me. You're quick on that Y Did Dave show you what I got him for his birthday? Say that again. Did Dave show you what I got him for his birthday? Okay, they got me a couple of these. Oh yeah, go ahead. Let me see. No no no I don't have them, he has them. Oh well Oh, it's very nice of you, White. Thank you for doing that. Wow. Uh You're you're staying home today, right? What? Are you riding to church today or are you staying home today? It's a little wet out. If if the weather corroborates I'll I'll um I'll I'll get I'll come up there. But I stayed home last week because one of my Mormon friends was missionary friends was being transferred and they wanted me to zoom their church meeting too. To sue? What do you say? Oh to to be there? Okay. He was being transferred. Zoom. Oh got it. Okay. Um well maybe we'll see you after service. If not, um we'll we'll be in touch the sweepwater, all right?