Okay, that's good. Um so yeah, I uh like I have said, um this is gonna be my last time teaching kind of worldview. Um and I wanna uh and then next time I'll talk about repentance and then after that I'll start moving in with Bill and doing more book of John. My three points are gonna be right there in the center in bold, that the you know, the charges that the world brings against Christianity and the Bible. One, the Bible condones slavery, the Bible oppresses women, and the Bible advocates genocide. All three are false. I'm not gonna read everything on here because again we're gonna have a little special visitor at the end. Um but I do want to just give you a lot of material But not blast you and with a hope of just coming away knowing that the Bible does not condone slavery. It does not oppress slavery women and it does not advocate genocide. So let's kind of start at the top. Um number one, this is really a new perspective of thinking. And what I mean by that is um today The stance is the Bible can't be trusted because it's immoral. And this is kind of strange. So when I was growing up in the 80s, it was actually the opposite The world would say the church is too moral. And now we've done a complete opposite where now the Bible is immoral, which is kind of strange. Um when I was growing up, uh it was the moral majority that was a big kind of banner that people were waving that Christian leaders were pushing their moral message And the world was like, you know, you know, leave me alone, this is my life. Um and I kinda put it interesting up uh t an example. There was a vice president, Dan Quayle, back in the eighties. And um He famously critiqued this TV. There used to be a TV show called Murphy Brown. It was kind of this push in the envelope kind of uh show. Um and he criticized single motherhood, single parentshood. And uh I kind of put a reference in there and you can watch that video and you'll hear him really downgrade single moms. Children grow up better with two parents. And everyone in the audience is applauding and cur and clapping and agreeing Well today it's the opposite, right? People would be, um you know uh people then would say, Stop pushing your morality on me, but today it's the Bible is immoral. So it's it's like a complete opposite. Rather than the Bible being too moral, it's now immoral. So it was kind of an interesting little video I haven't seen in a long time. So we're going to consider these following charges that the world has or thinks they have to say against the Bible that one it condones slavery, that it oppresses women and that it advocates genocide. Genocide is just like wiping out an entire population. Um Um and the answer is no to all these and I'm specifically saying that because I'm being recorded and I don't want to be taken out of context. So so. Um let's look at these points. And again, uh I'm going to not go over everything, but you have it there, so you can kind of look at it later if you'd like. Or if you want to look ahead and you have some questions, um think about these points. Think about how You know, do you you know do you run against that when you're out there in your everyday lives? Are people you know saying you know the Bible is you know can you know condone slavery, it's it's it's it's against women. Um it clearly um it glorifies going out and killing entire populations. Um I mean these are things that at one were never said and now they're they're they're said all the time. So is the Bible pro slavery? So um Our culture is on edge, right? I mean it is we are super hypersensitive out there. Um and unfortunately we're hypersensitive to the f to the fa to the to the fact that we're we're thinking everything through a Civil War slavery lens. And that's not necessarily True. Um historically, yes, there was a slave trade, yes, uh uh s uh slaves were were abused during the Civil War, and yes, there were things called gym cruel laws. This was actual legalization of racial segregation. In fact, it was kind of interesting if um it was back in the sixties Six years or so. If Mrs. Finan and I wanted to get married back in the 60s, it would have been very difficult So that's not that long ago, because there was a real racial segregation. So these things are true in our in our in in the United States, in the history of the United States. There's Japanese interment camps a little bit oh there it is, yeah, nineteen sixty interracial marriage was declared uh finally declared legal. So if we would have gotten married back in the early sixties, um it would have had to have been kind of an underground marriage. So yes, historically in the US there was definite racial segregation and earlier than that there was slavery for sure. And it wasn't just um So yes, so these things are true for the US for sure. Um and it was a horrible situation. Horrible conditions. But that's not the biblical perspective. Alright, let's look at what the biblical s perspective is. Um Um if we look at uh F, point F, let's read um, so this is where most people would go to to say something, you know, to criticize uh the Bible as supporting slavery So there's Ephesians 6. 5 and we can just read it there in point I. In the ESV it's bond servants And the NS NASB is slaves. Obey your earthly masters with fear and trembling, with a sincere heart as you would Christ. Not by the way of I service as people pleasers, but as bondservants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart. Rendering service with good will as to the Lord and not to man. And then kind of down to verse nine. Masters do the same and stop. And this is this is where people kind of forget about Verse nine. Masters, do the same and stop your threatening, knowing that he who is both their master's and yours is in heaven, and that there is no partiality with him. There is no partiality with him. Again, this is where the world would come to and and use as a um kind of a false argument that the Bible, God, condones slavery. How could this be? Our initial reaction, um arises out of an insufficient understanding of the biblical world. So we're looking at these things and the world is looking at these things as if we're pre civil war or um the KKK is running around and controlling um What goes on? This is far from the biblical perspective. Um so point three. Um I'm gonna go through some of these bullet points and um Let's see what the biblical perspective is. In three, or I guess that's uh uh yeah, I uh trip uh three. Slaves during the time of Paul were not necessarily destitute, but all but often paid for their labor. Some were able to accumulate considerable wealth, some were highly educated Um many were given great responsibility and authority running the operations of a home or business. Um if you were walking down the street, you may not necessarily be able to identify who was a slave and who was not. Um So why people became slaves? It was not because of skin color. Um people who looked like me. could be slaves. Um you know when we look back at uh the times of Christ, there was no social security net. There's no social security at all. There was no homeless shelters. There were no food banks. Um most people were uneducated. Um Your choices were do I starve to death out in the wilderness or do I bring myself into service to a wealthy landowner So the w the the situations back then were very different. And slaves, I would say, um, were more of a bondservant. You would see where people would would give their services for either length of time or for pay um or um you know protection or uh housing um and sometimes it would be for time Or sometimes it would be forever, but there was an agreement there. Um Point five. Yes, conditions of slavery could be, in a lot of cases, were cruel and oppressive. But this does not mean Paul nor God commends that activity. In fact, Paul in First Corinthians seven twenty one encourages slaves to gain their freedom. Um And point six, although not uniformly condemned in the New Testament or Old Old Testament, we don't there isn't like a verse that says slavery is is is bad and um The application of the truths point to the elimination of its abusive tendencies. I have two uh could someone read that that verse here? It's Exodus twenty one, sixteen. The Bible is clearly against the abusive tendencies that we that that we witnessed in our own history in the United States, as well as abusive relationships of a master to someone who put themselves um under their authority. I think it was sixteen. Well we just do that one specific one. Now one that should not put themselves in under this progression shall certainly be taken down. There you go. Someone who so clearly the slave trade, anyone who went out, kidnapped people and tried to sell them would be guilty to death according to the Bible. So that's a good one to go to, to refute the th the claim. Claim that the Bible condones slavery. Clearly does not. Um I'm gonna go down to Uh seven. The New Testament Testament teaching does not focus on reforming or restructuring human systems. I mean really the problem really comes down to man and man's heart. If men's sinful heart is not changed, they will always find ways to oppress one another. Um Again, God never approves of man's oppression of another person under any of these circumstances. Um on the other hand, the spirit filled believers will have just and harmonious relationships with each other, no matter what the system So clearly the the issue is that man takes advantage of situations and man is the abuser not God. God does not God does not support or justify oppressive behavior to one another. see the problem that you know because throughout scripture seems like God's focus makes kind of change part of it. So I think what a lot of people are um are criticizing and want to see when they bring up this uh issue of slavery is they're like, Oh, there should be a verse in the Bible that says it's illegal or ro immoral or wrong to for one person to do Um and you know, that's what they want to see. But if you outlawed slavery Uh and this was shown in in the the eighteen hundreds and nineteen hundreds. If you outlaw slavery, people are just gonna find other ways to oppress other people and they'll call it something different Right, so it's not really like that external solution is not actually a solution. God knows because he knows our heart that He has to solve the problem in our hearts uh before it can actually be solved. You know, that has to work itself out in society. And that's you know, that's why the abolitionist movement as as an organic uh outgrowth of of Christian theology happened after hundreds of years of the gospel pervading society. It had to the gospel had to work its way into people's hearts before a society would accept the outline of the institution's slavery. And if anybody has anything they want to say, just you know, feel free to jump in. So Um or you'll just hear me lecture you. You don't want that. Make it a make it a back and forth. Um but yeah, you know, I mean the Bible doesn't say anything about doesn't say, you know, It doesn't say anything against child abuse, specifically. But just because it's not in the Bible doesn't mean that God's horrifically against child abuse, right? Um, I mean if God had to list everything that he was against against you'd have a thousand volume Bible. So um but we could take we could look at um uh kind of jugular concepts of God does not um God does not commend uh abuse of practices between people. And we can take that and we can say Yeah. The situations of slavery, abuse of th you know, the t those were clearly ab abusive relationships. God is against that. Um Number three, does the Bible oppress women? So we got married, Syan and I. We um yeah. We were we were g uh I so I I don't I don't Um so the uh pastor preacher of course always goes to this uh Ephesians six, right? Which talks about um Yeah. Uh the women, you know the woman will will submit to the husband, right? The wife will submit. And There was someone out there, a good friend of ours, my actually my parents, good friend of my parents, seething that she couldn't believe that Hong was gonna have to uh Mrs. Hong was gonna have to submit herself to me. Yeah, yeah. Couldn't believe it. Almost walked out. But what she missed out was the other verses of that. Oh that scripture. So um I'll get a little bit into that. A as with the issue of slavery, the initial grant of oppression of women is deceptive. But a deeper look into the scriptures, again knowing the context, the narrative is clear. Both men and women have equal dignity and worth. When we talk about submission, it's just a a role identification. Um This was a pretty radical view in the days of Christ. The ancient Roman Greek world, they were not kind to women at all. Um women were not viewed equal. Um you know They received maybe a basic education at best. Uh, they had no vote, they had no role in public life. Um this is how the world treated them. And the Bible was in a very radical contrast to the culture of that day. Um the Bible views women as equal in dignity and worth um and equally identified as being made in God's image. That was a pretty radical idea. Um so Genesis 5, 1-2, this is the book of the generations of Adam, and I'm sure you know this. Uh male and female, he created them and he blessed them and named them man or mankind when they were created. So God created both and he blessed them both. And there's no distinction in value and worth. Um D, uh Jesus talked, he befriended, he traveled with, he served alongside women. And this is also a major taboo in the Roman and Greek world. I'm actually I'm gonna um I'm not gonna go those I'm not gonna hit those verses, but they're there just to as support of of um the fact that you would Jesus I mean a lot of cases it seemed like actually The women were more faithful than than the apostles. Um right? So there's a lot of examples where the women really Seems to have a stronger faith, I would say. Yeah, look at the response to the resurrection. Okay. It was the women who believed immediately and told the disciples that the female disciples were like all skeptical and doubtful and Yeah, the the men don't have operation. No, no, yeah. Um So let's look at the submission verse in E. This is the verse Ephesians 5. 22. Let's look at some points here. Wives submit yourselves to your own husbands as to the Lord. Oh, I'm telling you. I won't I won't give you her name, but she was seething out there. I knew she was gonna go out of her mind. Um but what she misses is there's one verse for the wife, and there's nine for the husband. Okay. So it's really important not to just stop at verse 22. Alright. Um Okay, point two. Uh um it's not the right of a husband to demand. The husband doesn't I don't go up to Mrs. Fine and say, you must now submit. I don't demand that. The language convey conveys it is on the part of the wife to offer this willingly and lovingly. So guys don't expect biblical submission when you poorly treat your wives. And that's really the the uh context if when we read the entire passage. So we should we should do that too. Um point three, guys, you are to create an environment which nurtures your wife's willingness and desire to submit to your leadership. So again, there's one verse for the wife, there's nine for the husband. The wife's submission isn't directed at making Comfort, the priority for the husband, is directed towards his clear spiritual leadership as he displays care, love and self sacrifice to his wife. And I still have a long way to go and I've been working at this for I don't know how many years now. What are we? Twenty two? Woo. Uh so it's a big calling. It's a big calling. And um I would say um why don't we why don't we read that whole thing? Can I get some volunteers to read? Ephesians five Starting at twenty-two. And I think it goes all the way to like thirty-three-ish or something. Ephesians five Yeah, because always so five, why don't we start at uh yeah, we'll start at twenty-two, so I'm gonna go twenty-two to twenty-four. How do you girls feel about that when you hear that first verse? You out of your mind a little bit? No, I'm not interested in the case. Oh question. It's like in this day and age, people confuse like roles for XC because it didn't make That's like a secondary. Like if you get one apple, I get one apple, then yeah, that is like an equal share of apples. But here what people fail to realize is the system of marriage is complementary to each one. Right? It's not like God specifically gave one role to be of higher value than the other. So that's what people are missing. When they say, oh, but like the Bible is inherently sexist because like, for example God made Eve out of a rib, like if two was truly equal, like she would have he would have made her out of like dust too, like out of whatever and so on. But yeah. If you view roles as a measurement of equity and like rank, then you're never gonna get the context of uh I want to say what I was thinking to activist like the modern day feminists want women to be powerful period. Like there's no equity there. So when they look at marriage, of course the woman is going to wanna leave. She's like, Well, I can do things better. I can do things better than you can it's not about equity for them. So it's just like It's not something that they'd be able to grasp because they're not even willing to understand the concept of marriage. It's like private what I want. Not what we want. It's not marriage tastes like humility. an incredible patience to work together to think because you're living with a whole other person. Oh yeah, and you're both dinner. Okay. So what's how do we know? that you can have two people with different roles and they can still be equal to us. How do we know that that's fine? Okay, yeah. Oh yeah. Uh uh it's uh I know it's very interesting. I created some I just want to say from like a reverse engineering perspective, from a very like Like in Revelation, right? It's when when all of anything, right? There is no specific gender specific j or judgment or a gender specific role either. I mean uh uh rewards, sorry, for those who right? If there was inherently an imbalance while we were here on this earth, then there would have to be a legal um distinction for the two parties if there was really If we were like two completely separate, not equatable as okay. So why would there be one now? Yeah. So it's easy to one action creating man kind of just got but then in the same breath. speak up the distinction. Yeah. Uh any any other um I'm thinking of a Trinitarian explanation. Oh go ahead. Well, unpack up Um so in the Trinity, um and I can't remember where this is in scriptures, maybe someone else can, but um you know You see Jesus submitting to the Father and yet they are one. And yet the Father is his give us authority to overheaven in our fear. Um to have different roles that they're in our spirit. Yeah, you see the Alter IG is worse, right? He keeps on claiming equality with the Father and saying, I am the Father alone to the point where it's actually heresy to say that Jesus is inferior in any way to the Father. And yet he's constantly saying, I only do the Father's will. I only I submit myself to his will. Not my will, but your will be done. So he has a different role than the father, and it's a subordinate role. He's under the father's authority, but he's completely equal in essence. So yeah, all three of these are they're great pieces of evidence. That's how we know that there can be distinctions between people and their role and yet they can be completely equal and uh it's it's good to keep that in mind 'cause the world doesn't believe that's possible. Right. I and I would even say it's complementary to one another, right? I can't believe that there's someone who could do everything absolutely perfect on their own. I wouldn't even question why would you want to do everything? on your own. So for example, our marriage, I'm good at, I'm good at some things. And where I fail or I'm not good at, she takes over. So yes, I could struggle and try to uh I'm trying to think of something. Like g uh trying to do both things, I'd go out of my mind. Um and I wouldn't do anything very well at all. So why not I focus on the things that I can do well and Mrs. Fine can focus on the things she can do really well and we combine together as a team and do everything well. So that's kind of the the concept. Um I was trying to think about how um today with uh the whole University of Penn um where a guy has transgendered into a woman and now he's like breaking like like swimming records not just like by like uh slight margins but like you know like they're pretty uh Three the uh you know, just minutes ahead of other people. So obviously, I mean there are some things that just I mean, men are just physically stronger. And you know, I mean he he can wear a little swimming cap, but he's still a guy. We don't have to go to the screen. There's always like a worldly like but band aid overs is mm mm. Yep, yes, yeah. Th there are some very clear worldly examples of saying that men and women are different. I mean it's disgraceful. Disgrace is women. Oh We are okay. Half hour. About fifteen minutes. Um Oh, we didn't even read the uh we didn't read the Ephesians, did we? One later, I'll I'll I'll read Ephesians. Anybody else want to read Ephesians? Twenty-two to thirty-three? Okay. Why? After the Lord. For the husband is the head of the wife, as Christ also is the head of the church. He himself being the Savior of the Body. But as the church is subject to Christ, so also the Bible's attributes of husbands and everything Husband, of your wife, with this place also of the church, to create yourself of her, so that you might sanctify her having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word, that he might possess to himself the church in all her glory, having no spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that she would be holy and joined. So husbands also also love their own wives out of their own bodies. He who loves his own wife loves himself. For no one ever hears his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it. just as Christ also does the church, because we are members of his body. For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother and shall be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. This mystery is great, but I'm speaking with reference to Christ and the church. Nevertheless, the individual among the is above his own life and himself and the wife must see to it that she respects the hundred. Yep. So if I kinda went back so first you can see there's a verse and a half directed at at the at the wife and about nine at the husband. And if I just kinda went if we went back to uh verse twenty nine there it says um For the man um uh is to nourish and cherish is what, just as Christ nourishes and cherishes the church. Why why would you not want to? And submission just has a bad rap. Why would you not want to put yourself under that kind of leadership? Someone who nourishes and cherishes. Um and it's not just like like making sure you have daily meals. It's It's spiritual growth, it's physical protection, it is um um Mrs. Fine doesn't have to work. So she could do ministry, she could do anything. any day of the week. Um whereas if she was off on her own she'd have to work and she and she couldn't do the ministry that she does today. So um that's what submission is. Submission results in the ability to minister together and to minister better. Um and to have both the ma husband and wife be strengthened spiritually and just work as a team. So that's really what submission is from the biblical perspective. And um I can tell ya, the world does not have a very attractive active concept of marriage. Um so Has anyone ever had that kind of interactions? Has anyone ever had to to argue that point of well it sounds like more like feminism, uh hardcore feminism is a point issue? I think that's cool. You get that, right? Anything like effort so efforts coming in whatever is happening with what's going on around the world. Everything's funny. God established the future. That's like hot, where's your I would say like in general, college, high school. It doesn't matter. If you're in work, this is inherently. These are like the three most common combacks. Yep. Everything is bigotry, everything is But the Bible clearly does not support those perspectives. I would also add like some people when you learn history, right? There's definitely people misuse the Bible. We see that today is the outcome of small small teachers, small consequence of Reinterpreting the Bible to their attempt to purposes. So yeah, there are unfortunately are Bajillion examples of people who misuse the Bible Like we could talk for days about like why did the K start and like what is your like they use the Bible to claim white separation from black separation. So then when students learn about this without learning what the real Bible is all about. then they have this artificial version of what they think the Bible is. Well, how can you explain how such a holy book creates such un unholy features? Mm-hmm. Yeah, yeah. And I and I and I I think in all these cases it's really deception. People are deceived. into thinking this. If you really ask people why do you believe that, it doesn't really get much deeper than just just accusations. And again, it it really comes down to the heart. Um sinful nature of man. Work for the church who correctly expandes the Bible publicly Right? Because there was an entire rang of the church in the eighteen hundreds America that took the Bible to support um race-based slavery. And That you know there was there was another wing of the church that was that was outspoken in this denunciation of that. But like We need to be and I I wish that their voice were were more amplified, right? Like that the biblical argument against slavery took more center state in in the public square at that time. But it's just, you know, it's a charge to us. Like we we can't be silent on matters of matters of scriptural interpretation and application Um you know, 'cause there is so much error in the church even saying it's right. There's an entire uh wing of the church even that um really defines the concept of uh uh why believe issues what we Yeah. Impo unpalatable and and you know patriarchal and so they try to argue from scripture that it's not that way. Uh and I believe if they commit serious errors in their in their executions and their interpretation of the text, then we need to be um you know, preaching the the correct interpretations of scripture on that issue, on the issue of race and ethnicity and like all these things so that so that the world has a light, you know, because without it They just see the twisting of Scripture inside the church and they think, oh, that's you know, that's just what the Bible says. It's interesting people do kind of just grasp onto that misinterpretation rather than the true interpretation. Um I know every once in a while when I'm listening to C SPAN in the way to work somebody will say some crazy thing from the Bible and you just know it's just going out to like millions of people and you just want to like no, no, no, no It's it's fine. And you know that's where they get that perspective. Um whereas rather than like really coming down and like really looking at what the scripture says. So it's it's very important. But it is not completely unexpected, right? Um Um let's look at the last one. Does God commit genocide? Because again, genocide just means just kind of wiping out an entire population of people. So um point eighth. Yeah, kind of uh Don't do this at home, but uh if you have a world map out there, just throw a dart at it. It'll hit a country probably where there was some form of genocide. So, um um Or people were like completely wiped out. And it this even continues today. Um and critics will say that God is no different. Right? Um so for example, the Israelite entered Canaan and commanded by God to wipe out all of the people in the land. And you can read this in Deuteronomy 2017, 2017. Um As Christians, we defending the faith, this could be a hard spot to be in. We want to say, no, God didn't really say that, but he did. Um we want to kind of soften God's command And so I c I was kind of thinking about this a little bit and I and I read from someone else. Um, point B, maybe God doesn't want us to get him kind of off the hook. We try to like run circles and try to well God didn't really want to kill everyone. Well yeah. Yeah he did he did command that. That's pretty clear. Make sure to write this down because after you're done with them, nobody's gonna know about these people. It is interesting that God writes that and makes it known Yeah. So God is not afraid of saying this was his commandment, right? I mean he he could have not had it in the Bible, right? But it is there Point C, rather than taking the chance of rationalizing God's actions, um maybe the better message is to share that God is holy and people are sinful and rebellious. Actually a different perspective is surprised God doesn't just wipe us out. Didn't just wipe out everyone. Just start all over again, right? Um God deal deals with our rebellion. Um yeah, God radically deals with our rebellion and sin. Um But the good news is he doesn't just leave us there forever to be condemned, but he provides a way to be reconciled back through the work of Christ, right? So um it's hard, it's from our perspective, to just see a commandment like that of God just wiping out entire populations. But Um let's go to uh I'm gonna skip a little bit um down to F. Perhaps not the worst people group. The Canaanites were not exactly peace-loving people Okay. There's kind of like this um unfounded perspective that um oh God just just just looked down and like, oh, here's a group of people running around, I'm just gonna wipe them out just for my enjoyment. or um you know, I want the Canaanites to come in so whoever's there, I'm just gonna just wipe them out. Um no, the Canaanites were not exactly peace loving people. The behavior was horrific in God's sight. Um They were evildoers, they were murderers, they practiced idolatry, immoral immorality, and they even sacrificed their own children to their gods. God's patience has had run out. Um and we can look at that and go like, when's God's patience gonna run out? for me or for the person criticizing um God's actions. I mean who are we to judge with God um oh to to judge God's actions. Um, if anything, we should be on our knees praying and thanking God for his long suffering and seeking um repentance and reconciliation. Um this is actually a great place to turn the tables on a critic and say, you know what? Your time one day will come too. And this is what God does to rebellious evildoers. Um, rather than trying to judge God on what he did to evildoers in the past, maybe the better question is, where do I stand behind before this holy God? Where am I um and and and how can I reconcile um what I clearly deserve? Um I'm gonna go back up to to D there. The correct concept to understand that everyone, D and the critic, would will be accountable and guilty of the same punishment unless saved through Christ. So, um, yeah, God's not just gonna wipe out, didn't just wipe out the Canaanites. He's gonna wipe out everyone who is in rebellion to him. And that's probably the real m takeaway message. That's that God just wipes out a population of people, but that God does judge sin and he judges rebellion. Um But he's patient and he is given a way out so that we don't have to face this kind of condemnation. Um kinda what's also kinda interesting is I would say God still today, he um I r I ri I think I ri I may have written my concluding remarks. Let me go to my concluding remarks, I think it's in there. Um and I think Pastor Kirby will be here at about 10 minutes or so. Kink, let's go to their concluding remarks. He's going to come in and visit. Yeah. Yeah. Um, since every human deserves judgment, God is justified in taking a life according to his timetable. So the critics' accusations against God taking the lives of people, such as the Canaanites is not honest, nor is it accurate to compare God as being like a Hitler. They'll call God some yeah, I I've heard that before too, where they reference God as like a a Hitler. Well clear Clearly wrong. God is pursuing righteousness. Hitler was just p pursuing his own his own glorification. The real objective is that God does not have the right to judge anyone. The critic appeals to a false morality that doesn't exist. Rather than focusing on God's judgment of sin, they should be praising him For restraining man's full potential of evil. There will be a day when God won't restrain evil. And he's just gonna let man do whatever man wants to do. Um Mm-hmm. Um secondly, the Bible does not oppress women over men, but holds women in high regard and equal in value. They just have different roles. This was especially radical idea during Jesus' ministry. The most simple message to take from Ephesians, which we just read. Men be the kind of leader leader, a servant leader, that women would love to place themselves under rather than personal gain, which is the world view, biblical submission actually benefits the women spiritually and physically And for for women. Women seek a guy who seeks God. Engage in the decision process. Provide your wisdom and experience, but ultimately be willing to follow his lead. in the final decision. It's actually kind of interesting. The husband will actually be judged more harshly than the wife. So let let your husband take with Brunt of a poor decision. Um and lastly, God does not condone the slavery as defined by the world. God is clearly against oppression and against taking advantage of a of other persons. So th again this is going to be my la last worldview um Lesson from for me. Next time I see something to do it on repentance or do repentance and then um jump into Book of John. Any any any questions at all? Questions, concerns, prayer requests? Then uh yeah. Pastor Curry should be around ten minutes. Oh, yes, yes