God is spirit. And those who worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. That is what Jesus said in John 4. 24. Of course, worship is common in our world. We all know that. Muslims have their mosques, many of them pray three times a day. Mormon temples have beautiful choirs, many rituals, lavish altars. Catholics go to Mass and worship. American Indians have their customs. Jews go often faithfully to synagogue. The act of worship does not make man good. Worshiping God in a way he does not want brings God no honor. In fact, the Bible calls such worship idolatry. And God hates idolatry. The issue is not whether or not we are worshiping God, but if we are worshiping him the way he actually is. And how do we know how God actually is? The answer by the way God has revealed Himself to be. For God is not a vague concept that we can mold to our personal preferences. God is a real person. He has genuine characteristics. He has accomplished real exploits throughout human history. We do not get a chance as humans to invent God. Rather, God has invented and made us. And brothers and sisters, when we learn who God truly is, He is so great, He is so glorious, as we have already sung this morning, there is absolutely no reason to try to substitute some lesser concept of God for the one true and living God. When we worship God the way He told us, that is what it means to worship God in truth. Yet many who know the true name of God and worship in truth and understand that he is the God of the Bible and the God of the Bible alone, and that he is the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, that he has provided a way of salvation. They still don't worship him, though they know all of that truth, with a fervent spirit, with heartfelt joy. Their hearts are not into worship. They hear the truth, they accept it as the truth, but they lack perception about what it actually means For the truth does not seem to move them. They have no fire in them when they pray. Their lips are dutiful, but the joy is gone from the prey. As Jesus said in Matthew 15, 8 and 9, this people honors me with their lips, but their heart is far away from me. The sad thing is what Jesus said next there. In vain do they worship me They are distant in their desire to the things of God. And so God does not consider their duty, the mere form or the liturgy alone, to be worship that He is pleased with. We must really have in our hearts a desire to sing to him, a desire to praise, to shout to the Lord, to exclaim before him that he is great, to adore him. to want to bow down, to humble our hearts before His throne. When we do that, then we are worshiping in spirit and in truth. Now last time we introduced the subject of corporate worship, where we all worship together as believers. Psalm 100 gives such a strong call to worship It says, to enter his gates with thanksgiving, remember, and his courts with praise, to give thanks to him and bless his name. At the time At the same time that Psalm 100 said all of that, it also provided foundational truths about the Lord. Doug just mentioned them that God is good and loving and faithful to all generations. In last week's message, we learned that God and His Word exhort us to be ready when we come in here on Sundays to worship Him. We gather here on Sundays in order to adore Him. We come here into the very presence of Almighty God. We ought not to come with lackluster. We ought not to come engaged in our own conversations of a lesser nature. Not constantly late, caught up with all of the Sunday morning distractions, but making our plans to come present ourselves in our gifts and our praises and thanksgivings before the King who truly today sits upon his throne. I continue to earnestly pray that all of us would take that charge about getting ourselves ready for the call to worship. I could sense some of that this morning, but we should excel So much more, I just pray and desire that our church will be prepared on Sunday to worship God as He deserves. People, we serve the King of heaven. That's who we serve. There's a king in heaven and we serve him. When we come here, when you come to church anywhere, not just here, you're coming to prepare yourself to serve him by your worship. Now today we're going to turn the pages backward in the Psalter to a song extolling the kingly rule of Yahweh, the God of the Israelites. And here we find him to be no mere tribal deity, but the sovereign of all the earth. We turn back to Psalm 96. Psalm 96, verses 1 through 13. Enjoy these words with me. Sing to the Lord a new song, sing to the Lord all the earth, sing to the Lord, bless his name. Proclaim good tidings of his salvation from day to day. Tell of his glory among the nations, his wonderful deeds among all the people. For great is the Lord and greatly to be praised. He is to be feared above all gods. For all the gods of the peoples are idols. But the Lord made the heavens Splendor and majesty are before him. Strength and beauty are in his sanctuary. Ascribe to the Lord, O families of the peoples, ascribe to the Lord glory and strength Ascribe to the Lord the glory of his name. Bring an offering and come into his courts. Worship the Lord in holy attire. Tremble before him all the earth. Say, among the nations, the Lord reigns. Indeed, the world is firmly established, it will not be moved. He will judge the peoples with equity. Let the heavens be glad, and let the earth rejoice, let the sea roar and all it contains, let the field exalt in all that is in it, and then all the trees of the forest will sing for joy before the Lord, for he is coming. For he is coming to judge the earth. He will judge the world in righteousness, and the peoples in his faithfulness. You can't help but tell as you read this, right, that this is a psalm about worshiping the Lord as reigning king. Says a lot about his kingship, says a lot about worship. One commentary I read flatly labels this psalm King of the World. If we brought that up to modern lingo, we might say master of the universe. That's who he is. He's a universal king. He does in fact rule over every nation and all the affairs of men today, from Israel to Iraq, to Iran to China, North Korea, Venezuela. Wall Street, any place that is in the news today, God, your God, the God you worship, reigns over it all. God is unrivaled in the universe. He's never been beaten, he never will And so the only logical response to one like this, to his exclusive universal reign, would be exclusive universal worship, right? It's the only thing that makes sense. There's one king above all, only that king should be worshipped. All peoples on earth everywhere must engage in praising Him. He is not a local deity. He is not a God of the East or of the West. He does not deserve honor only in one geographical area. Israel is way too small of a congregation for a God like this. Praise is demanded from all peoples. from all families and clans, all nations. Even the creation itself is called into worship here in every corner and type of creation. In fact, the Psalm declares that all glory belongs to God, all of the gifts of the earth and sacrifices belong to God, even all the government or the judgment of the world is his. All glory, gifts, and government belong to God, so the Psalm tells us. So not the false gods with false names and false promises should our allegiance and praise be given, but only to the true king of the universe. Now, just as remembrance from Psalm 100, Psalm 96, like Psalm 100, falls in book 4 of the Psalms And within Book 4, it falls in a section on the kingship of Yahweh being accentuated for the people of Israel. This Psalm is Part of the middle four Psalms in a cluster of kingdom psalms about God, the first bookend of The cluster, that is before the four, is Psalm ninety-five, and the last, which we talked about last time, is Psalm one hundred. So Psalm ninety-six is another one of those enthronement psalms, or as Phillips calls it, a theocratic and coronation psalm. And the kingly aspect of the psalm, I think, is heightened when you get a little more background to where do the words for the psalm actually come from? The words for the psalm are very similar. to a time of praise that we could read about in 1 Chronicles chapter 16. You say, what happened in 1 Chronicles 16? Might not be an area of the Bible you spend a lot of time in Well it records there in 1 Chronicles sixteen that David brought the Ark of the Covenant for the first time to his city, the city of Jerusalem. God had given Jerusalem in battle to him. Jerusalem used to be owned by his enemies. He conquered it. God gave that city to him. And so to honor God, he brought the Ark of the Covenant, which represented the very presence of God to his city, to Jerusalem. James Montgomery Boyce gives a good description of this time. He says, There must have been many joyful moments in the lifetime of King David, but to judge from the narratives, the brightest of all must have been when the Ark of God was brought to Jerusalem From its temporary resting place in the house of Obed Edom. Thousands of people were assembled, led by hundreds of priests, clothed in white linen. There were choirs and an orchestra, and when the priests set out with the ark, their advancing steps were heralded by the sounding of ramshorns and trumpets, the clash of cymbals, and the happy plucking of myriads of lyres and harps David was so delighted that he threw the quorum aside and danced among the people before the Lord. What an amazing scene that was All of this was very important to David. It spoke not just of his reign, but the coming of God into his city to reign over all the world from Jerusalem. John MacArthur points this out too in his commentary. He says the substance of this psalm and portions also of Psalm 97, 98, and 100 are found in 1 Chronicles 16, which was used by David's Direction in the dedication of the tabernacle on Mount Zion. The psalm has importance beyond that historical occasion, however, he writes. Because it anticipates kingdom praise for the Lord from all the nations of the world and even from nature itself. It also expresses the intense joy that will saturate the earth when the Messiah Is ruling from Jerusalem, a hint of the millennium to come. So that coming of the Ark to Jerusalem was in David's mind a pledge A promise, a foreshadowing of the fact that Messiah would one day rule over all the nations of the earth, and indeed that God presently from his throne in heaven was ruling. A bright and beautiful day for King David. Now Psalm 96 was written long after that, but it picks up that optimistic celebration and borrows many of the words And it calls later generations of Israelites, maybe those after the exile, but maybe before, we're not sure when it was written, and even all of us, believers down through the ages, to enter into worshiping the King of Israel who is the King of the world. In the Psalm, there is a lot of interplay between exhorting worship and explaining the God we worship. Their exhortations, worship, and then the reasons why, and it kind of goes back and forth. It's hard to organize the psalm. I'm going to borrow our outline today from Dr. Steve Lawson. I got to take a course from him through DVD lectures from the masters. Seminary, exposition of the Psalms. And he has a commentary, a very nice one, Holman Old Testament commentary. And in that he gives this outline with a little bit of moderation. Psalm 96. Psalm 96 gives us four guides to our worship of the King. Four guides to our worship of the King. Here they are. The invitation to worship. The inspiration for worship, the instruction in worship, and the importance of worship. Invitation, inspiration, instruction, and importance of worship. I've decided we're going to chop this one up into two Sundays. There's just so much to look at. We'll cover the first two today. Okay. Here we go. First, the invitation to worship. This is our first point. Look again at verses one through three with me if you would. Oh come. Excuse me. Sing to the I was reading Psalm 95. That's a good one too. We'll do that another time. Sing to the Lord a new song. Sing to the Lord all the earth. Sing to the Lord, bless his name, proclaim good tidings of his salvation from day to day, tell of his glory among the nations, his wonderful deeds among all the peoples. There's an invitation And the invitation to worship, much like we saw in Psalm 100, a call to worship, calling the people out. That invitation begins with an invitation to sing. See, why do we sing so much in church? Well, tells us the sing right there in the Bible. Sing. You're going to worship? Sing. Joyful singing is the beginning point of this psalm. And the psalmist initiates this song with with kind of a quick and staccato invitations, I think, here. There's a sing, sing, sing. In fact, that's how it starts out. It says sing and sing and sing. As you get to the middle of it, it says a scribe, or you could put the word give, give, give, give, and that dominates the middle of the psalm. And then as you come to the end, it has let, let, let. So you have this this strong Call to worship, this invitation to worship throughout. Sing to the Lord, give to the Lord, let all the earth praise the Lord. That's the invitation Each time it encourages singing, we are to sing to the Lord. Each time we are to give, we are to ascribe to the Lord. Each time it induces blessing from the creation, it says, Let it be given to the Creator. So the whole psalm, and this is important, is Godword and focus. We have many needs as humans. This psalm is Godword and its focus entirely. And I would say not just Godward, but I would say very, very excited. There's almost an irrepressible enthusiasm the psalmist has expressed in this psalm. It's an excitement that cannot be held back. He's so excited about worshiping God. It's like those forces about to break out of the gates in the races, and it just burst forth. He cannot help but be excited in his worship of God And as you just read through the Psalm, it doesn't just start strong and then wane. There's a there's a crescendo, a a continual building of worship throughout the whole psalm. In fact, in the first three you can see this building. It says, Sing to the Lord a new song, and then I think higher still A crescenda, sing to the Lord all the earth, and then it gets even higher. And very strongly, sing to the Lord. Bless his name. And it just builds that up It tells us what we are to sing, a new song. It tells who should sing a new song, all the earth, and it explains what to do while we're singing the new song. Bless his name. So let's apply this to ourselves. We as worshipers are to be singing to the Lord. This is a call for us to give direct blessing and praise and thanksgiving to God. You know, singing is a wonderful gift that God has given human beings, right? We sing for many reasons. At home we may have reasons for singing. There are romantic songs, and there's nothing wrong with that. There's songs just about joyful things. various festivals and celebrations and we sing we sing about work, we sing about play, we sing sing about cars cars. We sing about just about anything we want to and all of that is fine. But greater is when we gather together as Christians and we sing to one another, as Ephesians 5. 19 tells us. We teach and exhort one another through Psalms. We're hearing the hymns and the songs and the spiritual songs, and they teach us something, and that's a greater use of singing, but I think even higher and greater still is when we sing to the Lord It is the highest kind of singing. Why do you say that? Because it's the kind of singing we're going to be doing in heaven. We're going to be singing to God. That's what's going to fill up our time. Sing to the Lord. Amen. Now here we're told that we are to sing a new song. A new song. I like this. Now a new song doesn't mean that this psalm here was brand new. We already showed you that its origin was long before the time Psalm 96 was written back in the days of David. Nor does it mean that we are not allowed to sing an old song. Some might say, no old songs. You've got to sing always a new song. No, there are precious songs of the faith that have been sung for thousands of years. We certainly are allowed to borrow those and sing those with all of our heart, those favorites. A new song means a song arising out of a new situation in which we are in. Something fresh and new has happened in our relationship and our dealings with God, and we create and sing a song based upon that. The new thing done back in 1 Chronicles 16, where these words originated from, was that the ark was now being brought to Jerusalem. There it was, in David's city. He said, sing a new song. This is so great. There's no existing song that can tell us about this event. So create a new song and let's sing it. This is such a great event. A new song is one arising out of something that God has done specially for me or for you. It's a new blessing, something new with experience Psalm 40 talks of this. I waited patiently for the Lord. There he is waiting for God to answer his prayer. Maybe during that time it wasn't so joyful. He says, I waited patiently for the Lord, and he inclined to me and heard my cry. He brought me up out of the pit of destruction, out of the miry clay, and he set my feet upon a rock, making my footsteps firm. He put a new song in my mouth. A song of praise to our God. Many will see and fear and will trust in the Lord. Now we need contemporary songs. There's nothing wrong with contemporary songs. They need to be you know firmly about God, the words need to be written well, but there's nothing wrong with a contemporary song. We need the old songs, we need contemporary songs. I think the one that Laura sang this morning was sort of a blend of both, wasn't it? And that's fine. We need to be thinking about our new situation. And sometimes fresh songs are wonderful for us. Hannah had a new song. It came bursting forth from her mouth when she who was barren gave birth to children. The Israelites had a new song when they saw the armies of Pharaoh drowned in the Red Sea, and they sang a new song, a new situation, powerful answer to prayer. Let's get a new song written, composed, and let's sing it. That's how they were These are things they'd never experienced before. Listen to Psalm 144, verses 9 and 10. I will sing a new song to you, O God. Upon a harp of ten strings, I will sing praises to you, who gives salvation to kings, who rescues David his servant from the evil sword. He's rescued. Something great has happened. He sang a new song. The end times are going to have new songs. Revelation 5:9, they sang a new song. This is about Christ, saying, Worthy are you to take the book and to break its seals. For you were slain and purchased for God with your blood, men from every tribe and tongue and people and nation. Evangelism went out into all the world, and there they all they're gathered before the throne, and they're giving praise. to the lamb and a new song is sung. You know God's mercies are new every single morning. Does not the scripture say that? Do we not have something fresh in our experience to talk to God about, to sing about? You know, if you don't want anyone to hear your song, you're not sure it's all composed all that well, you could just kind of mutter it under your breath and just sing it to the Lord in your private devotion time, right? No one's hearing it, you and God, it's from your heart. You start singing a song, it doesn't make all that much sense, it doesn't rhyme, but you just sing it to God. Isn't that okay? God's mercies are new every single morning. Some of you might say, but I'm still waiting for my answer to prayer. I'm in a terrible situation I have nothing to thrill my soul at present. The Lord is not hearing me, it seems. All I have is tears and cries and sighs. Okay, be real with the Lord. Psalms also express emotions of despair, even of doubt at times. Pour out your supplications to the Lord. Confess your sins as you do that. Wait on his answer. But does not in the meantime the sun still rise upon you this day? Is that not true? Does not his grace sustain you in the midst of the trial that you're going through? Does not his wisdom still lead you at present? Does not his mercy mean more to you now than even before? Does not his promise still stand for you? Is not his Holy Spirit still in you to guide you? Can you not sing about those things? Does God shepherd his people only upon a high mountain and not in the valley of darkness? Sing a new song anyway. Sing a song, all the earth. Sing of his grace and his mercy and his sustaining help. Notice the extent of this call to worship. Sing to the Lord all the earth. All the earth gives it that universal appeal again of the God of Israel. God reigns over all of the world, so all of the earth must acknowledge his reign. Listen, the angels were all about singing. They're called the sons of God in Job 38, 7, and they saw God creating the universe, and they stood there sing God creating the universe, and they just sang. What else could you do? Sing all those glorious things brought into existence. They sang. Should we not also sing of what God is doing today? Should we not join that chorus of praise? Spurgeon is so wonderful to quote. When I start quoting him I never know where to stop because he just you can quote him on and on. Here's a quote from him. No corner of the world is to be discordant No race of heathen to be dumb. All the earth Jehovah made, and all the earth must sing to him. As the sun shines on all lands, so are all lands to delight in the light of the sun of righteousness. The multitudinous languages of the sons of Adam who are scattered at Babel will blend in the same song when the people are gathered at Zion Nor men alone, but the earth itself is to praise its maker, made subject to vanity for a while by a sad necessity, the creation itself also is to be delivered from the bondage of corruption and brought into the glorious liberty of the children of God So that sea and forest, field and flood are to be joyful before the Lord. Is this a dream? Then let us dream again. Blessed are the eyes which shall see the kingdom, and the ears which shall hear its songs You can tell he was excited. He was really excited about praising. And then verse 2, I think, is the height of the singing. Sing to the Lord. Bless His name. Bless His Name. Blessing is that word Barak we saw back in Psalm 100. We are to bless him for his amazing name. What does his name speak of? It speaks of power, sovereignty, beauty, majesty, strength. We're going to see all of that later here His name also should be a lovely name to us. His name should be music to our ears, and so we sing of it. It's a delight to our spirits. His name is great and greatly to be praised. Derek Kidner writes, nothing listless or introverted, nothing stale befits the praise of God. After the invitation to sing, notice there also is an invitation to make a proclamation. He calls us in to praise, to sing. He also calls us to proclaim. To proclaim. He says, proclaim good tidings of his salvation from day to day, tell of his glory among the nations, his wonderful deeds among all the peoples. Some feel the psalmist is calling for the proclamation to be done in the song that was called to be sung in the first couple of verses. That might be, but the song was said to be sung to the Lord. And here the message of salvation is to be proclaimed among the nations. So I think the psalm sees the believer both in the presence of God praising his name and afterward in the presence of man preaching the glory of God to all the nations Do you see the order? Worship precedes evangelism. Evangelism flows from worship. Only when you get caught up in the greatness of God is your evangelism the kind that brings glory to God. And I would say likewise, if you do not want to speak of God among unbelievers, your lips are closed, you cannot find it within you to proclaim the glory of your God, then probably What you need to do is look back at your own private worship and your thoughts of God inwardly. And when you get a hold of God. You get a hold of who God is, even just a glimpse of him. How can you not but speak of him? We speak of things that are far less important, far less in terms of their greatness. We speak of them all the time. Do we not know who God is? Do we not want to speak of him before others? What are we to proclaim? It says, proclaim good tidings of his salvation from day to day. Here is the gospel in the Old Testament. Right here. The glad tidings, the good tidings, the good news of salvation. Proclaim it. Here is an Old Testament evangelistic psalm, a missionary psalm, a great one for a missions conference. Phillips gives this charge. He says, how can we who sit bathed in the full light of the gospel, ransomed, restored? Forgiven, heaven-born and heaven-bound, be content to sit in our pews and sing our songs when millions lie in darkness under the shadow of death. When countless million live and die in darkness and disease, wrapped in delusion and deception, how can we ignore the missionary implications of the faith? This is a necessary song. The gospel is so good. It's so good. It is to be proclaimed from day to day. Did you catch that? It's worthy of our speech. It's worthy of our explanation and our proclamation every single day. The gospel should never become stale in our mouths, beloved. It is the good news of our eternal security and salvation and deliverance. If we understand it, it should be in our mouth afresh. The world yawns at the message of the gospel, you stay excited about the message of the good news of Christ. We're working on our outreach. here at Hope Bible Church. We're building and we're growing. I like the progress I see now with our visitor pals ministry. Praise God for those of you that stepped forward and understood this is where it began. Soon we're going to have our CD Discover Hope Ministry. And if if you feel like you you don't know how to explain the gospel to anybody, you can have the word on your heart and pick up a C D or a track and purposefully hand that to someone and get that to someone each week. Can you not do that? You don't know if they'll listen to it. You don't know if they'll read it. Can you do that? Can you pick one up and do that? We're going to be announcing that ministry soon as well. Everybody in one way or another can be involved in outreach. Every single one of us can be involved in proclaiming. uh the good news, the glad tidings in some way. You don't have to be afraid that you can't knock on a door. You can be part of the evangelism and outreach ministry. Every single one of you can find a niche. Every single one of you can help. Indeed, we need all of us. We all ought to have it on our hearts. As we worship God, as we're filled up in here, there ought to be something in us that says, I want to be part of getting it out. I want to help others to get it out. Or I want to speak it myself. Or I want to bring others in so they can hear it. That ought to be on our hearts. Do you see that? Remember what we sung? Comes from Isaiah 52 7. How lovely on the mountains are the feet of him who brings what? Good news, right? Who announces peace and brings good news of happiness. Who announces salvation and says to Zion, Your God reigns. That's good news. There's a God in the heavens who reigns over all, and he loves mankind, and he's patient with mankind and willing to forgive their sins. We should have the enthusiasm of the preacher of Isaiah 49. Get yourself up on a high mountain, it exhorts, O Zion, bearer of good news. Lift up your voice mightily, O Jerusalem, bearer of good news. Lift it up. Do not fear. Say to the cities of Judah, Here is your God. That could be speaking in our hearts, couldn't it? Don't be afraid. You have good news. Lift up your voice. Say it louder. Say it. Here is a God who reigns and he loves. Learn to say that. Tell of his glory. What is this glory? The glory is all that God is, all of his wonders, his holiness, and his righteousness, and his justice, and his mercy, and his patience, and his grace, and his omnipotence, and his omniscience, and all of that. You know, we know of the glory of God now. Better than they knew of the glory of God then. You say, why? Because we have the New Testament. And because Jesus Christ Himself has come down from heaven and he revealed to us the very glory of God. He was God in human flesh, and it says in the Gospel of John, we beheld him as of the only begotten of the Father, full of glory and truth. He is that to us. John 1:14, the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we saw what? His glory. Glory as of the only begotten from the Father. You know, the true Jesus was not a weak and wimpy man who accepted all people, no matter what kind of sin they were engaged with, no matter how dishonoring they were. The Jesus that is proclaimed like that is a Jesus that is the figment of people's imaginations. The glory of God seen in the historical Christ who walked on this earth. is the holy character of the Son of the Living God. No lie ever upon his lips, only truth told without compromise, boldly in the presence of his enemies. No accommodation to the pride of man. The real Jesus showed zeal to do the will of God. His whole life was about seeking first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. The real Jesus had utmost faith in everything stated in the Old Testament. That Jonah was swallowed by a whale, that Adam and Eve were real people. He believed it all. He believed in every one of the miracles. Jesus debated false teachers and exposed them by name and told their lies because he loved the truth. And Jesus loved others so purely He never excused their sin as we want today, but rather he exposed it. And once it was exposed and confessed, then it was fully and freely forgiven. That's what love and grace is. So to tell of God's glory in our day is to tell of who? To tell of Christ, right? To tell of Jesus Christ, who represents the very glory of God. Who is Jesus? Tell people. What does Jesus stand for? Tell them about that. What did he do for us? Explain that to them. Tell the glory of Christ among the nations. You know, very interestingly, Romans 9 through 11, those three chapters, let us know that because Israel did not receive Christ, but rejected the Christ. That resulted in something wonderful for the nations. Here it says in the Psalm, let his glory be made known among all the nations. How is that going to happen? Israel rejected their Messiah In Romans 9 through 11 it says, Because Israel rejected their Messiah, the church has now been sent out to all the nations and among all the nations. Where are we today? We're in the United States of America. We're not in Israel. Where are you sitting? You're sitting in the state of Maryland. Where are we to proclaim his glory? Right here in Maryland, or DC if you're from there. I don't know if anybody's from Virginia or not. Wherever you have contact, that's where we are. We're among the United States of America. We are to proclaim his glory right here. And they have a hand in making sure among all the nations as we support missions in various ways that it's proclaimed there as well. You remember Mark 16, 15, Jesus said to them, Go into all the world and preach the gospel to all of creation. Romans 1 fifteen, listen to Paul's enthusiasm. So for my part I am eager to preach the gospel to you also who are in Rome. Can't wait. I uh don't think I didn't want to get there. I want to get on the ship. I want to get there to Rome and I want to preach the gospel in Rome, the biggest city in the ancient world. What are we going to proclaim? The Lord reigns. How do we say it today? Jesus Christ is Lord. He's King. He's master. Dr. Steve Lawson summarizes it by saying, this calls for a bold, global, evangelistic thrust by all believers. Now there's a second guide to our worship here as well, and that is inspiration for worship. Verses 4 through 6: Inspiration for worship. For great is the Lord and greatly to be praised. He is to be feared above all God. For all the gods of the peoples are idols, but the Lord made the heavens. Splendor and majesty are before him, strength and beauty are in his sanctuary. Here we have a reason or reasons for worshiping the king Why should all peoples praise Yahweh the Lord? Why ask for the conversion of the world to worship the one true and living God Why reject pluralism and postmodernism today? Why be so narrow-minded that there's only one way and one truth and one life and one God? The answer, for great is the Lord, and greatly to be praised. Man, what an answer. That's really just a general statement there, isn't it? He's going to elaborate on that in verses to come. They fit together. Great is the Lord, and therefore greatly to be praised. He's great. How is he great? His attributes are great. His character is great. His name is great. His acts and wonders are great. His deliverances are great. His eternal plan is great. Is there anything he does that's not great? And in keeping with the fact that he and all that surrounds him is great, he then is what? GREATLY to be praised. If we understand the truth, it affects how we worship. Do you see that? How greatly is he to be praised! He is to be feared above who. All the gods. There's the answer. Above all the gods. You name the religion, you name the God they worship. This God is to be worshipped and praised above them. That is clear, is it not? Listen, there is no room in the Psalm for pluralism. God doesn't share his glory with another It's all about him. He's above them. He's greater than them. He has a greater name. How dare we even put him on the same line with other gods? It is to dishonor him greatly by lowering him down to the other gods of the world. Whatever the name of the other god is, forget them. Forget them. We have the greatest God. Forget the others. Boy, does our worship need improving? Do you see that? This is about uh fearing God above all others. How much we need to improve. You say that sounds like boasting. I mean I could see some people being really offended by that. You know, you Christians think you have the best God and all, you know, uh that sounds like bragging. I thought Christians weren't supposed to brag. Wrong. We're not supposed to brag about ourselves, and we do far too much of that. We are to boast You know what another word for boast is? Glory. We are to boast and glory and brag in our God because He is the greatest. Okay? We can boast and brag about our sports teams. Why can we not boast and brag about our greatest God? He is the maker of the ends of the earth. Why do we not get excited and brag about God? Not in the sense that we made him, but that he is God. He's the greatest. Let everybody hear. Let everybody know. 2 Corinthians 10:17, let him who boasts what? Boast in the Lord. Do it. You want to boast? You have an avenue. Go ahead. Boast in the Lord. He is to be feared. That means honored above all others. If you don't honor him, listen, if you don't honor him above all others, you don't honor him. So what's wrong with uh with pluralism? Everyone has their own God, it's okay, different ways to God, doesn't have to be through Christ. Jesus is above every name. If you don't honor him the way he is. You don't honor him. You've lowered him. You've brought him down. You've dishonored him. By putting him on an equal plane with anybody else, any other name, any other religion, you have dishonored Jesus Christ. That's not a way to please him. Jethro figured this out when uh Moses led the Israelites out from Egypt. He says in Exodus 18, Blessed be the Lord. That's Yahweh, the God of Israel. Blessed be the God of Israel, you could say. who delivered you from the hand of the Egyptians and from the hand of Pharaoh, and who delivered the people from under the hand of the Egyptians. Now I know that the Lord is greater than all the gods Imagine him saying, hey, now your God gotten up and he's just as good as all the gods in Egypt. He just wiped out the gods of Egypt. He just put plagues all over them. He just left that entire great civilization in darkness and in death. They were devastated. Their armies were destroyed. Their crops were destroyed. And God did that to them. He's greater. And Jethro You figured it out. You saw it. The pagans unfortunately groveled themselves before false gods. They hope in their false gods. They they get down low before them and they they they hope that they will be treated well. They fear the retaliation of the gods. But the Lord is truly great, unlike them, and he is truly to be feared. Malachi 114 says, But cursed be the swindler who has a male in his flock and vows it, but sacrifices a blemished animal to the Lord. For I am a great king, says the Lord of hosts, and my name is feared among the nations. You know what he was telling them? You pledge. To give your best sacrifice and you bring the second best to the king of heaven that dishonors him What you bring to God when it is your second best people, whether it's your money, whether it is your time, whether it is your talents, your gifts, when you bring the second best to God, you dishonor him. He deserves the best. In everything we do. Jesus doesn't share a round table with eleven other spiritual or religious knights. No, he alone reigns supreme. Christianity is exclusive, and it is called for exclusive worship. What is the reason we are to worship God exclusively? Verse 5. All the gods of the peoples are what? That covers every religion in the world today. You want to know what God thinks about Buddhism, Shintuism, Taoism, you want to know what he thinks about Islam, Mormonism, or any other religion? There it is right there. For all the gods of the peoples are what? There's the reason. An idol. The word idol in Hebrew is interesting. It means insufficient or worthless. There's a little play-on word actually here in Hebrew. The Elohim of the people, the gods of the people, are Elohim, worthless. There are no nothings. No nothings, do nothing. 1 Corinthians 8:4. Therefore, concerning the eating of things sacrificed to idols, we know that there is no such thing as an idol in the world, and that there is no God but one. Even the demons that are acting behind the false religions, they are not gods. This statement really denies any real power to any other religion or God at all. Satan has powers that's delegated to him. He is by no means God. He's going to be thrust and burned in the lake of fire ultimately. You want to learn this really graphically? Just keep your finger in Psalms and turn to the prophet Jeremiah, chapter 10. Talk about graphic explanation of what idols are. Here's a little course in comparative religions from God. Jeremiah 10, verses 1 through 10. Would you like to sit down and get a course from God on comparative religions and what he thinks? Here you go. Jeremiah 10, 1 to 10. Hear the word which the Lord speaks to you, O house of Israel. Thus says the Lord, do not learn the way of the nations, and do not be terrified by the signs of the heavens, although the nations are terrified by them. For the customs of the peoples are delusion, because it is wood cut from the forest, the work of the hands of a craftsman with a cutting tool. They decorate it with silver and with gold. They fasten it with nails and with hammers so that it will not totter, so it won't fall over. Like a scarecrow in a cucumber field are they? And they cannot speak. They must be carried because they cannot walk. Do not fear them, for they can do no harm, nor can they do any good. There is none like you, O Lord. You are great, and great is your name and might. Who would not fear you, O King of the nations? Indeed it is your due, for among all the wise men of the nations, and in all their kingdoms there is none like you. But they are altogether stupid and foolish. In their discipline of delusion, they're idle as wood, beaten silver as brought from Tarshish, and gold from Upans The work of a craftsman and of the hands of a goldsmith, violet and purple are their clothing. They are all the work of skilled men But the Lord is the true God. He is the living God and the everlasting King At his wrath the earthquakes, and the nations cannot endure his indignation. By contrast. Who reigns? The idols don't. Turn back to Psalm 96. Notice it says the Lord made the heavens. Why did it single out the heavens? Didn't say the heavens and the earth. Got thinking about that. Well, the heavens are above the earth's If you've got the heavens, you probably have the earth. That's one way of looking at it. But I think it was this, that most of the gods of the ancient world were gods that their power was located where? Except when you're talking about procreation, they had gods for that. There was the God of the moon, the god of the sun, god of the stars. Astrology is still present. This isn't ancient stuff. This is present. The God of the weather. Remember the debate Elijah with the prophets of Baal? The prophets of Baal could not make it rain for three years, and then they couldn't even make it rain fire. Elijah came and made it rain both fire and water. Not because he did, but because God did, because he's the God overall. So this is the only God who exists. He made the heavens. He made it all. He caused everything else to exist. He exists. He caused everything else to exist. And the ludicrous thing is now there are people on this planet that he caused to exist that are questioning whether or not he exists. Spurgeon writes, he is no petty deity, presiding as the heathen imagined their gods to do over some one nation or one department of nature. Jehovah is great in power and dominion, great in mind and act. Nothing mean or narrow can be found in him or his acts. In all things he is infinite. Praise should be proportionate to its object. Therefore, let it be infinite when rendered unto the Lord. We cannot praise him too much, too often, too zealously, too carefully, too joyfully. He deserves that nothing in his worship should be little, but all the honor rendered unto him should be done in largeness of heart, with the utmost zeal for his glory. We can't do enough to give God glory. We can't get this place loud enough. We can't get our hearts joyous enough to give him what he deserves. Who is the real God? Who is like the Lord? What is he like? We're going to close with this. There are four attributes given here: splendor, majesty, strength, and beauty. Do you see him? The interpretation commentary says the king cannot be visualized directly. One must imagine him by thinking of these attributes. They're hard to fully imagine, too, for nothing that we have ever seen is like God. But let's give it a try anyway. He is S he has splendor and he has majesty, strength and beauty. Splendor and majesty are before him, it says. It's like his two attributes are are riding out in front of him and they're guarding his glory. There they are. He his presence is here, and before him is Splendor and majesty. Splendor is the word hod. It means beauty. It was applied to the high priest's garments in Exodus 28. 2 and Exodus 28. 40. So it talks about his what he wears, light and glory, splendor is what the king of the universe clothes himself with. Majesty, of course, ties that to his greatness, to his kingly nature, his kingly beauty or splendor. So splendor and majesty naturally go together. In Psalm 104. We read, Bless the Lord, O my soul, O Lord my God, you are very great, you are clothed with splendor and majesty. He just puts it on. And there he has it. In Psalm 111, verses 2 and 3, it says, Great are the works of the Lord. They are studied by all who delight in them. Splendid and majestic is his work. That's because he is splendid and majestic. So in God's presence there is sovereign splendor spilling out everywhere around him. And all of the splendor and majesty is going to be manifest to our eyes one day. In Revelation 19, 16 it says, when Jesus comes back on his robe and on his thigh, he has a name written, King of Kings and Lord of Lords. He will be splendid. He will be majestic as King of all kings. This is why now we need to have an understanding of who God is to worship Him properly. He is majestic. Majestic in holiness. He shines with the greatest beauty, greatest brilliance that we could ever know. This is who God is today If we aren't caught up in that kind of worship, we're not grabbing a hold of what worship really is all about. J. I. Packer wrote a book years ago that has helped so many people called Knowing God. He writes in there, this is the knowledge which Christians today largely lack. And that is one reason why our faith is so feeble and our worship so flabby. We are modern men. And modern men, though they cherish great thoughts of man, have as a rule small thoughts of God. When the man in the church, let alone the man in the street, uses the word God, the thought in his mind is rarely of divine majesty. To worship God rightly we have To have the right God in our minds and hearts. Psalm 8:1, O Lord, our Lord. How majestic is your name in all the earth, who have displayed your splendor above the heavens. Notice too, strength and beauty are in his sanctuary, it says. Strength and beauty, not one or the other. For those who admire strength, the Lord is strong. For those who admire beauty, the Lord is beautiful He does not possess raw, uncultured power, nor does he possess a frail, handsome aura. It is not elegance without ability, nor strength without beauty. Both flow from his throne in parallel majesty from his sanctuary. That word sanctuary literally means in his place, likely referring to the place where he is, which in the sanctuary was the holy place, right? It was made and designed with real beauty, gold and fine cloth. But that earthly sanctuary that the Israelites made was only a mere shadow and copy of a greater heavenly reality, which is, I'm sure, much more glorious and beautiful There, God's strength and majesty are really perceived by all who fly about and serve in the heavenly court. And we, through our God-given imagination and worshiping hearts, are to try to envision what that looks like and enter into that kind of worship. God, we are told, is a God who is strong. He has power and strength. How do we say that? We sing, God is able. In Ephesians 320, he is able to do far more abundantly beyond all that we ask or think. God is a strong God. He's described this way in Psalm 89:13 You have a strong arm. Your hand is mighty. Your right hand is exalted. God has such strength we could say he has unstoppable strength. In Isaiah forty three we read earlier, Even from eternity I am He, God said, and there is none who can deliver out of my hand. I act and who can reverse it God has power. He has omnipotent energy that goes forth from him How do we perceive that power? We look at creation. We look at creation, we see the things he's made. You know, it's uh hurricane season. Hasn't been too bad this year, right? Every year if someone wants to have a a a hurricane party, drink their beer right there on the coastline and wait for the hurricane. And then every year when it's done with you hear them say things like, I'm never gonna do that again. I'm never gonna do that again. One little small storm stirred up with his pinky. God is powerful. How do we understand his power? He upholds the universe today. There's no such thing as chance. God holds the universe together. Today, that's power. God saves souls from hell and rescues them and delivers them. God works inwardly in us with a quiet power, transforming our very lives. So that we think and act differently from before. God makes his strengths even available to us if we would but humble ourselves and say we need his power and his strength. Ephesians 6. 10 says, be strong in the Lord and in the strength of whose might? Of his might, right? Young people, strong people particularly need to hear that. Be strong in the Lord. You don't have any real might. Be strong in his might. Exodus fifteen, two. The Lord is my strength And my song. He has become my salvation. This is my God, and I will praise him. My Father's God, and I will extol him. And God not only is strong, he also is beautiful. Tifarah, beautiful, beauty, glory, like that of fine jewelry or fine garments, external, fine design. The Lord is beautiful. Psalm 27, 4. One thing I have asked from the Lord that I shall seek, that I might dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to behold the beauty of the Lord, and to meditate in his temple. This is a call for Christian art to reflect the glory of God. Psalm 50 and verse 2: Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty God has shown forth. The perfection of beauty. John Frame in his work, The Doctrine of God, writes this about God's beauty. God designed the temple to be a beautiful place And as we have seen, the temple is itself an image of the heavenly temple, the theophany itself. So God's image is found in aesthetic as well as ethical ways. The beauties of the earth and the human art are significantly analogous to the beauty of the Creator of all. The vast riches of creation are far too great to be ascribed merely to utilitarian purposes. God's intentions are aesthetic as well as ethical. And of course, as with all attributes, God's beauty serves as a norm for ours. Beauty is in the eye of the beholder, then let us have God's eyes. And let us look through God's eyes and know what true beauty is. The Lord is beautiful. Now I say to you today, this is your God. This is a description of your God, majestic, strong, glorious, splendid, beautiful. This is the true God. There is no other. Let our worship in this place, week by week, be equal to the God we worship. Amen? Help us, Lord, in our feeble understanding of your majesty and splendor and strength. And beauty, to elicit from our hearts both song and proclamation and giving and service. That is worthy of your great name, a name above all other gods. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.