Well, good morning, Hope Bible Church. It really is such a blessing for us to be with you guys this morning. Um Yeah, we're just we're thankful to be here. You guys have sent us well, and we know you have been supporting us and praying for us, and so then to be together and to worship you. with you and fellowship over these next several months. We're thankful for that. We we want to express our gratitude for how well you have taken care of us. Even that was Giving us Christmas gifts when we got back here in January. So thank you very much. To start off this morning, I want to just give you a fact of myself that most of you probably do not know. And that is, I have relatives in the Bluegrass Hall of Fame. Might seem very far from me being dressed like I'm from Togo. Um I'm sure most of you know what bluegrass is. It originated in Appalachia, the mandolin, the banjo, the vi uh the not the violin, the fiddle. Just be careful there. Um, but my mom has cousins who are in the group, the Bluegrass Cardinals, and last year they were inducted in the Hall of Fame. I share this because growing up I heard a story about them. Um they were touring the American Southwest And so the tour bus stop at the Grand Canyon and they parked right at the rim and one of the members on the of the group got off the bus. He looked at the Grand Canyon, he's like, that's a big hole, and he got right back on the bus. And it's kind of ridiculous, right? Because I know people can have different opinions, but you really ought to appreciate the Grand Canyon. Um why is that? Well I think it's because we were created to have wonder. Um it's right to look at the stars or the ocean or mountains or the Grand Canyon and to stand in awe of the beauty and to feel insignificant compared to the scope of the universe that we live in. And that's because we were meant to worship something bigger than ourselves. Namely, we were meant to worship God. And when I say we, I don't just mean those of us here at Hope Bible Church. I mean every human in the entire earth was made to worship God. And so speaking of all people needing to worship God, we just had our missions weekend, and that was so great. I really am appreciative for all those who put effort into that. And I say that because I love missions, and it's not just because I'm a missionary in Togo. I love missions because when you really back up and look at what we're called to do at the church as a church It really is all about missions. We're to go into all the worlds, make disciples, and so that people would follow Christ and do all that he commanded. Our work as a church is about missions. And we are to be calling people to worship God and love Him and to be restored to Him so that they can glorify Him for eternity. And so for me it was also a joy to hear my friend and brother Juan Moncayo last Sunday preaching here. But I had to laugh because a lot of what he was talking about was the stuff the Lord had been laying on my heart to talk about this morning. But God is sovereign, so clearly he wanted us to hear that. So we're going to hear about it again, this time from Revelation 5, 19 through 14, which is the passage about worship. Calls us to worship Jesus Christ as the Savior of all men. And so my goal for us this morning is to look at that passage, look at why we need to worship Christ. We're also going to tie it into God's mission for us as the church. So take a moment. Just pray with me. We'll pray that God will open our hearts to this passage. Lord, we are so blessed to be here this morning because you have saved us. You desired to restore that relationship with us, and so you sent your son and forgave our sin. And it is right that we worship you for all you are and all that you have done for us. But we know we are weak, we know we are easily distracted, and so I pray that you would just open our hearts through your spirit to be in greater awe of what your son has done for us and who he is. Um that you would even just work through my words this morning so that your son would be glorified. And may that joy we have in him just overflow into every area of our lives and change us to be more like you to be servants who go out and share your word. And so we pray this in his name, Lord, amen. So if you're not already there, turn to Revelation 5. And as I said, we're going to talk about verses 9 through 14, but to really understand this, we're going to have to do some look at some of the context building up to this. So as you know, the book of Revelation is comes from Jesus Christ. It's a message where he was sharing with the churches in Asia Minor what he is going to do. What is he going to do? It We can't look at all the details. There's a lot of details here. We're not going to look at all of them this morning. Um there are people who study that much better even than I have Um, but we see that he was sharing this, this hope that God would come, that he would judge the world that is in rebellion to him, this hope that Christ would reign, that we would be with him in his millennial kingdom and in his new heavens and new earth And as I said, the audience was for the church in Asia Minor, these seven churches in modern-day Turkey. And for them specifically, if you read in chapters two and three, it was a call to endure. Call to be faithful. And so John through Christ is correcting some of them. Others he's commending. Often it's a mix of both But the heart of this book is not just to give a bunch of details about what's going to arrive in the future. The heart is pastoral. Christ's coming should motivate our faithfulness. And so we're going to look at that today in chapters four and five. So I'm actually going to start in chapter four just to give some introduction to the worship and the end of chapter five. John is there, and we read, um, the first voice which I heard speaking to me like a trumpet said, Come up here and I will show you what must take place. Now this sets the scene. John is taken into heaven by the Spirit, and he sees what is going to happen in the world through this vision. And the first thing he sees when he is there is, behold, a throne stood in heaven with one seated on it, on that throne, and John goes in on to describing you really get this idea that he's kind of at loss for words to describe the magnificence and the beauty of God on the throne. Um but what it's reminding us all of is the fact that God reigns. And that is true. And sometimes we look at the world and we look at the sin in the world and just where people are headed in all sorts of different directions. They are living for themselves. They are Promoting evil and it's easy to be discouraged, but we need to remind ourselves first of all that God reigns. That is true And so around this throne you have other creatures. You have these four angelic bait beings that seem to be the cherubim in Ezekiel one. Um, but you have them there worshiping God. You have the 24 elders who I am just gonna say they represent uh redeemed believers. possibly the church, possibly a combination of the church and Israel. I'm not going to go into all those details, but for us what's important to understand is they represent humans who have been redeemed by God. And what we're going to see in this passage is that there is this ever-increasing crescendo of worship. Worship is the key focus and activity here in heaven. And so because we're going to talk about worship, I thought it might be helpful just to give a couple definitions of worship. John MacArthur in his systematic theology says, worship is the theme of salvation history, the supreme purpose for which believers were redeemed. and the occupation with which we will be internally athralled. To worship the Lord is to ascribe to him honor, glory, adoration, praise, reverence, and devotion that is due him, both for his greatness and for his goodness. And then John Piper goes on to describe worship. He says the inner essence of worship is to know God truly and then respond from the heart. to that knowledge by valuing God, treasuring God, prizing God, enjoying God, being satisfied with God above all earthly things And then that deep, restful, joyful satisfaction in God overflows in demonstratable acts of praise from the lips and demonstratable acts of love in serving others for the sake of Christ. And to go so to kind of summarize those, we recognize the great worth of God, and we do that in actions through the fruit of our lips, and we do that with a heart attitude that loves him. And what I will say about worship is it's required of us. It's morally necessary. It's a question of are we doing what is right or are we doing what is wrong? And so Just like me going to the Grand Canyon should provoke a response of awe, even more looking at God should lead our hearts to worship. And so we read this first act of worship in verse eight, um these four living creatures Each of them with six wings and full of eyes, around and with the inn, and day and night they never cease to say, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty, who was and is and is to come. So they are involved in unceasing praise. In Revelation, there are some other activities they're doing, but they always come back to praising God. And what do they praise Him for? First of all, they say he is holy. Just like the seraphim in Isaiah 6, it's a similar similar scene. Kittle says the word holy means divine perfection. So it's the idea that God is pure, completely pure without sin, and also that he's utterly distinct from his creation. He's different than us. And it's that holiness that's going to lead him to judge the earth, as we see later in Revelation. We also read that he is almighty, that he has supreme power, that he is eternal. And Beale says the significance of these two titles, Lord God Almighty and the one who was and is and is to come is to emphasize that the God who transcends time is sovereign over history. So we see one who has the right to rule and who we know will rule this earth. So it starts there with the praise of these four creatures, but as we said, it's it's a crescendo, it's always getting bigger, and so it moves on to the twenty-four elders who they are now going to praise God. So when they hear the living creatures praise God, they fall down before him who is seated on the throne and worship him who lives forever and ever. They cast their crowns before the throne, saying, Worthy are you, our Lord and God, to receive glory and honor and power, for you created all things, and by your will they existed and were created. Note, they say that you are worthy, and they list three powers. They say you are worthy receive glory and honor and power. And we're going to come back to that in a second when we get to chapter five. But they say that, God, you are worthy to be worshipped because you are the creator of all things. And what that means is that our God has power, he had the ability to create all things, and that he is also sovereign, he rules over us. If he hadn't willed it, we would not exist, and we only continue to exist because he wills it. And I want to just Take you for a moment, because I'm a biology nerd, to just I'm a science nerd, just to help you ponder God's greatness and creation. Because I think too often we can just kind of freeze by this and we go, yeah, he's creator And it's something vague and it's something abstract and it's something esoteric. But I just want to focus on three little examples, but they're not really little. But three examples. First of all, remember, this is the God who created 200 billion trillion stars. That's our estimate in the universe. And You and I can't even grasp a number that big, but I'm going to try to do some math to show you. Essentially what it is is you think of a quarter, right? If you spread out 200 billion quarters, 200 billion trillion quarters across the face of the earth, in the oceans, and on land, they would rise up to a height of 1,500 feet. That's enormous. And so God made these, not just quarters, but stars, that many stars, and he knows them all by name. And so we could start out at kind of this grand scope of the universe, and then we could like narrow down into our universe, which just has one star that's 93 million miles away but is really hot and we're like just at the right distance so we're not burned up by it And then zoom in onto Earth, which is populated by 8 billion people, and each person that has 60 trillion cells, and you go down to the microscopic molecular level, each of us and ourselves we have DNA I don't know if you ever thought about it, but the DNA, do you know how much memory that takes up? It's actually not very much. It's about 800 megabytes that all your DNA is stored upon. So, you know, think of our iPhone. That's like fifty live photos on your iPhone. And yet in that small amount of space God puts in all the information necessary for you to grow from a little zygote all the way to a fully developed human being. and the potential in there to do all the things that we as human beings can do. We're watching the Winter Olympics at home. You can see that great athletic feat, or you can You know, the potential to hate the Sistine Chapel or to send a man to the moon. All of that kind of encoded within that potential. And then just to give one last example, just want to talk a little bit about our nervous system and how God has taught our brains to calculate vectors Now just quick show of hands. Who remembers what vectors are for math? Not that many of you. And I guess those of you who do remember didn't really like them because they're complicated. The idea you kind of have magnitude and direction together. But what happens of something as simple as say say this phone seated here on this table and I want to reach my hand to grab that phone. Well so what my brain has to do is it has to look and register an image. And remember that image is different whether I'm looking directly at the phone or looking away or where my eyes are located in that on my eyeball socket, but together my brain puts all that together with the position I am at space and the position my hand is and calculates a vector from my hand to that phone and then has dozens of muscles work all together so I can just reach out and grab this phone. And what that also means though is that your 10-month-old baby who is reaching out to grab Cheerios from their high chair train, they are calculating three-dimensional vectors in space before they can even talk. Um and so those are just a few things that God has done in creation. That's just like we took a teaspoon out of the ocean. There's so much more we can marvel at, so much more we have yet even to learn. But all of it points to the greatness of our God, this creator who is worthy. And so worship is the right response to all that. Just like it's wrong for me to look at crew look at the Grand Canyon and go, that's a big hole. It's especially wrong to look at the creation and not see the creator. It is a moral evil. I would ask you, do you see the Lord in the world around you? Every detail is meant to point you to God. And if you think about it, this is a God who works everything together for our good. So that means every blade of grass, every drop of rain that falls, somehow it's working in ways we can't comprehend to work for our good as his people. It shows his greatness. It shows that he is so kind to us. And yet the problem we know in the world, this is why I hate evolution, is because the world sees this amazing creation and doesn't recognize the creator. That is all this world is pointing to. And it's sad because our world lives in rebellion against him. And so we see the creator of this world is going to come and he is going to judge the world, and he is right to come back and claim lordship over that. And so that moves us into chapter five. We're getting through the introduction. John is there in chapter five when he says, Then I saw in the right hand of him who was seated on the throne a scroll written within and on the back and sealed with seven seals. What does this scroll signify? Just doing some research. It signifies the title deed of the earth. It's probably the best summary of it. It signifies that God owns the earth and declares the judgments that are going to come as God takes control of it. And just that Point out a little bit of that. After the seven there are seven seals. After the seven seals are open, there is seven trumpets, and after the seven trumpets is sound, an angel announces The kingdom of the world has become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ, and he shall reign forever and ever. So it's the title league to the earth. And that's significant because if we look out at the world right now, it's under the control of who? It's under the control of the devil. And we are under death and creation is under the curse, and we're waiting for God to make that right And so we see then an angel, a mighty angel comes proclaiming with a loud voice, who is worthy to open the scroll and break its seals? Who can claim authority over the earth? And no one in heaven or on earth or under the earth was able to open the scroll or look into it, and I began to weep loudly because no one was found worthy to open the scroll or to look into it. John looks around and he goes, There's no one here. He knows that God created, when God created Adam, he meant Adam to rule over the earth as his regent. And so it's right that there should be a man ruling for God over the earth. And John looks around and he's like, There's no one who can do this. And so he weeps because he's like, is there hope? It's almost caught up in the emotion of like, is the curse always gonna last? Is mankind always gonna be under death? Is Satan always gonna be rule And so then what happens is we read in verse 5, one of the elders comes to him and he says, Weep no more. Behold, the lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David, has conquered, so that he can open the scroll and its seven seals. He gives this image of Christ as a lion, his courage, his boldness, and it speaks to in Genesis 49, it talks about Judah as a lion and as a king. It's a messianic prophecy. Christ is the one who fulfills that. Christ is the one who fills the prophecy in Isaiah eleven one that says, There shall come forth A shoot from the stump of death's Jesse, a branch from his roots shall bear fruit. So the descendant who would come from David to rule. And even in that chapter In Isaiah 11, it talks about the Messiah who would have the Spirit of the Lord, who would rule, who would act, who would judge rightly. Who would bring the nations to himself? Christ is fulfilling that he has conquered, and so he can open up the scroll. And then we see in verse 6 it says And between the throne and the four living creatures, and among the elders I saw a lamb standing as though it was slain with seven horns. And seven eyes, which are the seven spirits, sent out into all the earth. And he went and he took the scroll from the right hand of him who was seated on the throne. And so from among the elders, I'm finding again a man, we see that man, the Lamb, Christ. He's a lamb in contrast to his description of the lion, so he is powerful but humble. This title for lamb, it's actually the title that is used most in the book of Revelation for Christ. And it is a lamb not just a lamb, but a lamb who was slain. So again, all of this hearkening to this imagery of the sacrificial lamb, the one who comes and takes our sins so God can pass over us. But this lamb is not weak. It has seven horns, which represents complete strength, and it has seven eyes, which represent the fullness of the Holy Spirit, and that this lamb is all-knowing. And so we see this mixture of strength on one side and humility on the other. One who judges, yet one who saves. One who conquers Satan, yet one who will shepherd his people. And the lamb takes the scroll, and then we see the response of heaven, the response we too should have, and he is worshipped by the elders. And by the living creatures. And again, that crescendo. First it's the creatures, then it's the elders, then they're combined. And so what I want to do this morning is look at the praise that they are giving to Christ. And we're going to look at two aspects. First of all I just want to let you know that we have a lamb who is worthy. And the second point is not only do we have a lamb who is worthy of worship, we have a lamb who is worthy of all worship. So we're going to look at why we should worship him, and then we're going to look at the extent to which we should worship him. So take a look with me at this song that the elders break And the four living creatures break out into, they say, in verse nine, they sing a new song, saying, Worthy are you to take the scrolls and to open its seals for you were slain, and by your blood you ransomed people from God for God from every tribe and language and people and nation, and you have made them a kingdom and priest to our God, and they shall reign on the earth. They burst forth into a new song. This is a fresh expression of praise. It's coming forth from their heart. They see, MacArthur says they see, you know, that the Messiah has finally come and he's finally going to take a hold of take control of the earth, and Satan is going to be defeated, and we are going to be saved, and it just bursts forth from them. They say this Lamb is worthy. He is worthy to reign. He is worthy to judge. He is worthy to be worshipped. This idea of worthy has this The concept that Christ has earned it because of what he has done. It's a statement of value and of merit. Christ is worthy. And specifically, he's worthy to reign, to take the scroll. And though Daniel Daniel 7, 13, and 14 talks about the Son of Man, it doesn't talk specifically about the scroll, but it's the same image. It says the Son of Man was given dominion and glory in the kingdom that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and his kingdom one that shall not be destroyed. So this is the Lamb who is going to come and judge the earth and defeat Satan and reign on earth. He's going to carry this out for God. And as we see, the only right response is to bow and worship. So I want to ask the question, why is the Lamb worthy? Why is it morally necessary for us to come to Him and worship? us, the whole world, why do we have to do that? And John gives us several reasons for that. First of all, he starts out with what he did. He says, you were slain. Slain is the word for slaughter. It can be used for a violent murder. It can also be used for the idea of sacrificing a lamb. And I got a good picture of that. About five years ago, we had just went back to Togo. It was 2021 and it was the day of Tabaski. And so Tabaski is a feast that the Muslims do to celebrate what they say is when Abraham was gonna sacrifice Ishmael and God provided a lamb. We know it was really Isaac from the Bible, but that's what they celebrate. And so every Tabasti, each family will grab a sheep or a goat or a cow and sacrifice it. And in their minds, it's this idea that they're getting forgiveness of sins through this sacrifice. And so because I knew it was Tabowski, we had a short term with us. We went out into town in our car and we happened to turn down a street. And we just happen to be there right at the moment where they're about to sacrifice this sheep. And they pull its head back and they slit his throat and blood is pouring out and my nine-year-old daughter is going, Dad, why did you bring me here I l she loves animals. Why did you do this, Dad? And I share that story not not to shock you, but I share it to remind you that that's what Christ did for us. Like the cross was an instrument of murder and torture, and yet Christ went willingly and lovingly for us. Hebrews 12, 2 says, For the joy that was sent before him, he endured the cross, despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God. Christ willingly went to die because he loved us and he saw joy in the result of that, of bringing us to him. And so that is an amazing kind of love, a love Love for us, love for his father. He was doing the father's will. They weren't working against each other. The father wanted to save us, and so he sent his son to do that. And if that love doesn't touch our hearts Then there's something deeply amiss with it with us. It's why we call out to God, Lord, help us to just to respond to your love with joy and worship and service. And so we see that the Lamb is worthy because he was slain. And again, it's not just what he did, like he's not just an example. He he was slain and that being slain accomplished something great. What did it accomplish? Well, first of all, it accomplished um by being slain he conquered. We see that in verse five It says, the root of David has conquered, so he can open up the seal. So when you put this together, he was slain and he conquered. It's a powerful picture. Interestingly enough, in verse 5, it says he has conquered, but he hasn't yet taken control. So where has he conquered? How has he conquered I think the natural answer is through the cross. But I want to push a little bit further and say, how has being slain allowed Christ to conquer? Because It wasn't that Christ didn't have the power to defeat Satan before the cross. He didn't have the power to take control of the universe or judge. He had that power, but there was something specifically that happened on the cross Um and what was helpful for me as I was thinking about that is thinking of the nature of what Satan was trying to do. Remember, God in the garden created us to have a relationship with Him, right? And so Satan comes along and he tempts Adam and Eve and he causes them to doubt God and he destroys their relationship with God because they're now in rebellion against God. So Satan has created this counterfeit kingdom for himself. But seems to me he also thought he put God in an impossible situation. He's like, well God is either gonna have to be just, but if he's just he has to punish these people he has made, or he's gonna have to ignore his injustice because he's gonna be loving, but he has to then tolerate sin. And so, personally, I'm not sure that Satan ever thought he was really going to overpower God, but it seems like he had in his mind this idea, well, at least even if God comes back and punishes me, I will have forever thwarted God's plans. to be restored to his people because to be just he has to punish his people. And so Satan thinks he's put God in this impossible situation. But what do we know? In the cross, just as we sang about, Christ satisfies the justice and mercy of God. Isn't that what he did for us? Christ takes our punishment of sin. So God can be just. He doesn't ignore sin, but God can also extend forgiveness because the payment has been paid. There is no more debt. It's as we read in Romans 3. 26. In the cross, God showed his righteousness at the present time, so that he may both be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in the cross faith in Jesus. And as we know Christ did not stay dead, the resurrection happened, and it is the proof of God's acceptance of him. He did not deserve death. And so in Christ's death and resurrection, he has conquered sin and death And we see God's love and his wisdom and his justice as he defeats Satan. And what I love about that part of the story is Satan thought he was going to thwart God's plans But what are we doing? We're worshiping God for how he acted in grace and mercy. Satan ended up giving more glory to God by his plans. So we see that Christ conquered. He also saved us, right? This goes on. Christ paid for our sins, and now we are children of God if we trust in Christ and the payment he has given for our sins. We now have forgiveness. We now have a restored relationship with Christ. We have the hope of eternal life. And who was it that he saved? He saved you and I. This is very personal. But it's more than just You and I. What do we read here? You saved people, ransomed people from every tribe and language and people and nation. The word tribe speaks of kinship and descendants. Tongue speaks of languages. People and nations are this idea of people who are united around a common culture. Um it's our idea of nations. And so basically what John is saying through Christ is saying, all peoples, not just Jews, but every way you could divide up people because of their heritage, God through Christ has saved people from every group that you can imagine. It's interesting to think how we even got here. How did we even get to this situation where we have multiple nations? We read in the Bible, it happened at the Tower of Babel. Remember After the flood, God said, go fill the earth, but the people were like, no, we're gonna stay together, we don't want to be separated, and we're gonna, you know, build this tower as a center of idolatry and false religion. And God sees this rebellion and he has to punish it because he also knows if he lets them continue to do it, they will continue in more and more Rebellion. And so he comes down and he confuses their languages so that they are forced to now separate. I will say that when God did that, he did a really good job. Um I've had to learn French. That was no easy feat. And I'm in the process of trying to learn Fafool Day. And just to give you an example, Fafool Day, it's the language of the Fulani people. They're cattle herders, essentially. They're shepherds. They didn't have a written language until twenty years. And yet, as I have learned in this language, they do not just have masculine and feminine. They have twenty-three different types of noun classes So that means for every adjective you have to learn twenty-three different ways to say it. And if that's not confusing enough, when you go from singular to plural in about half the words, whether it's nouns or verbs or adjectives You have to change the leading consonant. You have to change the sound w that it starts with. It's really confusing. It's hard to learn. It's hard to communicate if you don't know the language You can have the same word and go, oh, that's the word I know, but I didn't know that was the word I knew because now it sounds completely different. God did a good job at the Tower of Babel. He did that. You know, I mean if that's what he's doing with Shepherds, like what hope do we have of communicating easily? It's hard. Um And the sad thing about it is that difference in language and culture and nation separates people from the gospel. Um But we also know that it was never God's plan to just save one people. It was never even just the Jews, though he used the Jews and powerfully there's a hope for the Jews. But he promised to Abraham even from the start, through you I will bless all nations. And we see that through the Old Testament, and then Christ after he is He has died and he has risen. He said to his disciples, You're going to go out and you're going to make disciples of all nations. And so it's true, culture and language, they are real barriers. But Christ says you need to go overcome those obstacles and share me with others. And why does he do that? He does that because there's a particular glory, there's a particular worthiness in Christ as the Savior, not just of one people, but of all people. In Isaiah forty nine, six, God says, It is too light a thing that you should be my servant to raise the tribes of Jacob and bring back the preserved of Israel. I will make you as a light for the nations, that my salvation may reach to the ends of the earth. Essentially what God is saying is, what you're doing to bring my people Israel back is great. But what you did was so great that we just can't let it be for them. It has to be for all nations. It's a question of worthiness God wants everyone to worship Christ. And so what's so interesting is you this idea of different cultures, you have different values, you have different traditions, and it makes people from different ethnic groups, it makes it hard for them to get together. We see that all throughout history. And yet despite all those differences, what each one of those groups find is that when they hear the gospel, they find that Christ is their greatest treasure. He is the one who meets their greatest needs, no matter what culture, no matter what language. He is the one who unifies them all into the family of God. And remember, that's just not something vague and abstract. When we say he has redeemed people from every tongue and tribe and nation, we are saying there are hundreds of millions of particular stories of grace where God has worked in the lives of people. So just to share one from Togo, I had the privilege, it was a couple years ago, this man came in, he was Fulani, he came in because he had some health problems, but Specifically, he had no blood flow in one of his legs. So I got consulted on him because the surgeons were like, is it safe to take him to surgery? And in Togo we have to do a lot of things that we wouldn't normally do in the US. So I ended up echoing his heart and found a big blood clot in his heart. And I'm just gonna say if I am doing the ultrasound of your heart and find a blood clot, it's a big one Because I'm not I'm going to miss the small ones. And so that is incredibly dangerous for him. But it also said like if we don't operate on his leg, you know, he's going to die. And so very quickly I I realized like we need to talk to this guy about the gospel. And so through our chaplains we were able to talk to him and share the gospel of Jesus Christ and oftentimes with People from a Muslim background, it takes a long time for them to come to Christ. But sometimes the Holy Spirit just breaks through. And in this guy's case, the Holy Spirit broke through and he said, I'm going to accept Christ. So he goes to surgery. By God's grace he comes out of surgery, but he follows up with us several times over the next month. And what we could see was he was remaining faithful. He was Still following Christ. He was sharing that with his family. And so we had the joy of knowing that even five months later when he passed away, like, this is going to be someone we're going to share heaven with. And you guys are going to be able to hear his story. And the story of hundreds of millions of others. And I think that's part of the reason why eternity is so long is we need to hear everyone's story of how God worked. So yes, we have this God who has saved us. Additionally, I will just add, he's the God who blessed us. We're not just saved, we're not just forgiven, but we are made a kingdom of priests to God, and we will reign with him. So again, remember We are all in different nations, but ultimately in Christ He brings us together into one kingdom under His Son. This is what it says in Colossians 1. 13, or I'm going to read 1 Peter 2. 9. You are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people of his own for possession, that you may proclaim the excellencies of Him who called you out of darkness into His marvelous light. You know that's the goal of all of this, that we declare His excellence. We are priests, we represent others to God and we worship him together. And we have the promise that we will reign with Christ. And that is a huge blessing. Think about it. Revelations 24 and also Revelation 22. 5, it says, we will reign with Christ both in the millennial kingdom and in the new heavens and the new earth. And so just as God gave his kingly authority to Christ to reign, Christ now calls us to rule with him. And it's a really cool picture because Christ just doesn't take up the role that Adam should have played. But he brings us along to help fulfill it with him. And so we see these are reasons why the Lamb is worthy of worship. But not only that, we could stop there. We would already have plenty of conviction and plenty of motivation to worship. But we also will see in the preceding verses that the Lamb is worthy of all worship. We could ask the question, how much worship does God deserve? And the answer would be, all of it. As much worship as we can give, as many people as can worship him, God deserves it all. I know personally like worship is one of those things I'm just gonna be honest here. Sometimes I struggle a little bit with worship because I I struggle with small thoughts with God, or sometimes I I get bored, I know I shouldn't, but I do Um but the reality is he's worthy of all worship. And so it's really a spiritual battle that's going on in all of our hearts. Are we going to worship Christ? But I would say to you, there is hope too, because God's Spirit is working in our hearts. He's training us to respond rightly. And we know that God's greatness doesn't run out. You know, part of the reason we're there for eternity is because there's always more of God we can worship and learn and enjoy. I know I've talked a lot about the Grand Canyon, but we actually got to go there last month. And what's interesting there is it's a beautiful place. But you don't just like stop at the Grand Canyon and just go, okay, I've seen it. Like you go to different places and you get different angles. And then depending on the time of the day, there's different lighting. The clouds are in different places. We were there during the winter, so there was actually a bit of snow. The seasons change it You just don't get tired of that kind of beauty. And if we can find just one place on earth that beautiful, how beautiful are we going to find the God who created it all? And so for us, I would just say that worship and joy are synonymous. You know, in heaven, praise is overflowing. It's not being dragged out, it's just overflowing. They have joy in singing God. And singing to God. As Psalm 67, 3 and 4 it says says, Let all the people praise you, let the nations be glad, and sing for joy. Joy, worship, they go together. So let's look at this crescendo of worship. We see in verse 11, John says, Then I looked and I heard around the throne and the living creatures and the elders the voices of many angels Numbering myriads of myriads and thousands upon thousands. All the angels join in. It's an uncountable number. And they say with a loud voice, Worthy is the Lamb who was slain to receive power and wealth and wisdom and might and honor and glory and blessing. Christ is worthy of power. He has authority. He's worthy of wealth. He possesses all. He's worthy of wisdom. He has all knowledge and knows how to use it. He has might. He is strong. He deserves honor, respect, and reverence from people. He deserves glory. This idea that's related to honor but says you are worth it all. And he reserve deserves blessing are speaking well of him. And this idea here, it talks about receiving. This idea receiving has multiple things in this idea. It says, first of all, Christ is worthy to possess all of these characteristics infinitely. It also says he's worthy to be praised infinitely for possessing these characteristics. But there's a third aspect which says he is worthy to receive these characteristics from us. Not that we have anything in ourselves, but it's this idea of like as humans made in God's image, we do have a certain glory, and He has given us possessions and wealth, and humans do have a certain power on this earth and we can give honor to people. And so what is this idea of we as humans, we we recognize that it all came from God and we give it all back to God. Um there's actually an example of this in the end of Revelation 21. It talks about the kings of the earth coming into the new heavens and the new earth and giving to Christ their wealth and their glory. That's the idea there we bring it all back to him. And I want you to compare this verse with what we talked about in verse chapter four about Christ as as creator or God as creator. There it talks about three things, right? Here it talks about seven things. Why does it do that? Well it seems that it's because as much worship and glory is due to God as Creator, even more is due to Him as Savior of all mankind. And specifically savior of all nations, people from every tongue, tribe, and nation. So if you ask me why am I excited about missions, well, it's because heaven's excited about what God did in missions Um and what this means, but this is so beautiful. Satan's plan was to destroy God's relationship with mankind in the fall And yet it means that there is a glory that now comes through through God being gracious and loving and the Savior and through what Christ said on the cross. There is a glory that comes through that could never come through just through God being creator. Um and so Satan had this plan of I'm gonna subvert the world of God, I'm gonna take away his glory, and God's like, nope, it's just gonna show my glory all the more. We're gonna be worshiping even more in heaven for what Christ did for us as Savior. and Lord. And so what we see is now all the angels are praising him. Now all creation joins in. First thirteen. And I heard every creature in heaven, on an earth, and under the earth and the sea, and all that is in them saying to him who sits on the throne and to the Lamb be blessing and honor, and glory and might for ever and ever And the four living creatures said, Amen, and the elders fell down and worshipped. This echoes Philippians 2, right? Christ is the one who was humble and who obeyed to the point of death, and then God highly exalts him and he bestows on him the name that is above every name And every creature bows down before him, and every tongue confesses that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God. Everyone will acknowledge the praise due to God. And for those of us who are in Christ, that is Something we give willingly with joy. We love praising him. We are rejoicing that he will come back one day and he will reign. That is joy for us because we will be with him forever. But we realize that there are others who it will be drawn out begrudgingly. They will acknowledge his worthiness, but they won't love doing that. And this idea that he is coming in judgment is terrifying to them. And so I would just even briefly pose the question to you, what group are you in? Because I know there are people here who have not yet submitted their life to Christ. And I would just say, don't wait. Do that. Please do that. And so we see that everyone will praise him. And we also see that in praising Christ, they are also praising God the Father. They're praising them together, right? We see this. The praise offered here makes clear to us that Jesus Christ is God. Because we know only God can be praised. To do so otherwise is idolatry. And yet All heaven and all earth is praising Christ in the exact same way that they are praising God. And so when we worship Christ, we are also worshiping God the Father. And that has been his plan for all of redemption. It points to Christ, the worthy Lamb of God, who deserves our worship. So how does this impact our lives Theology always leads to application and it impacts our lives in a profound way. There's a lot you could say here, and I would encourage you just to reflect on this because there are ways that God will bring it out and help you in your own lives. But I want to leave you with just three points of application. this morning. Again, it's not exhaustive. The first one is that worship is crucial for endurance Remember, this book was written to seven churches and it was encouraging them to endure and overcome. They were to do that by obeying Christ, to continue in love for Him and others, to remain faithful, to avoid false doctrine I know you're facing difficult things in life. They were too. They were facing persecution and they were facing death The reality is, is it's only when we treasure Christ more than life itself that we're going to be able to endure the trials that we face in life, the hard things that we face. We see the example of Paul and Silas. Remember, they're in Philippi, they're preaching the gospel, they're beaten, they're thrown in prison unjustly, and what do they do? They praise God. We need the Spirit to work in our hearts to stir us up so that we will have this kind of affection for our Savior. Because if we just turn inwardly and we turn on ourselves and we don't worship God, our spiritual lives are going to wither up. And I would say it's not something you can do in your own power. Like you need the Holy Spirit of God to do that in your life. But what's exciting and encouraging is God is eager to do that in our lives. He's eager to stir up our affections. And I would also add that our endurance is actually a form of worship because it shows that Christ truly is our greatest treasure. So I would encourage you, worship so you can endure. Another application is that worship leads us to engage in missions. You know, Christ is being praised for this great work. But this great work that He did was also accomplished by his body going forth. In Acts 1, it says, in the first book of Theophilus, I have dealt with all that Jesus began to do and teach, which means Christ was continuing to do and teach things and what he was doing was he was sending forth his church with the message of the gospel and we see people saved and churches planted and they keep sharing the gospel. And so I would say it's a work requires you, and it requires me. If we want to see him supremely worshiped, we need to go out as a body and do this work. And that desire to see him worshiped should motivate us to engage in missions, whether it's praying, whether it's supporting, sending, going. And I would say, honestly, you guys are doing a great job at this. Like it's encouraging to me to see how our church does a good job at this. But I don't want you to be satisfied. Last night was Valentine's Day. I went out with my wife, thanks to Teresa watching our kids. We went out for dinner. It was a great time, but I don't go, wow, that was a great time. We can do it again in a couple years. Like that's not how it goes. It's like, no, I want to spend more time with my wife because I love her. In the same way, we should want to see Christ. praise more and more. And I would just challenge you, there are still thousands of people throughout the world that really aren't engaged with the gospel. And I know statistically that if we ask the question, are we called to go or stay, the majority of us are going to be called to stay. But at the same point, when I look at the need that's there, I can't help but thinking it's probably not because the entire church across the world has seriously asked that question of what would God call them to do and said, no, he's calling me to stay. I've engaged enough I think there's more that we should be doing. And so how do we fix that just globally as a church? Well, I think it comes back to this. It starts with worship. John Piper says worship is the goal and the fuel of mission. If you worship well, you're going to want to see more worshipers. And finally, by way of application, I would just say we need to worship. You know, we don't worship just because it motivates us to serve God. We worship because that's the goal itself. Um we won't always have missions, we won't always have sick and poor to care for, we won't always have this battle battle of sanctification to fight. But we will have worship. All of heaven is going to be worshipped. And it's not just going to be singing, though it will be a lot of singing It's going to be learning more about Christ. It's going to be enjoying his creation. It's going to be enjoying how he has worked in each other's lives. And in all of it, we're going to see his goodness and we're going to take joy in who he is. And so I'd encourage you start doing that now as an end and of itself. You know, you have an opportunity to participate in the joy of heaven right now through worship. And so what we're going to do today is just finish by worshiping. We're going to worship this God who has conquered sin, who has saved us, who will redeem us. Who will redeem this earth? Who will reign? And we're going to get the joy in eternity with him. So um I'd like to encourage you, we're going to do this together as a body. The worship team's going to come up. And they're going to lead us two more songs based on this passage in Revelation. As they come, join with me in a word of prayer. God, what a privilege to see Christ and to see how He is Worshiped throughout all eternity because of what he did, and how it shows your love for us. And so I just pray that you would do that in our hearts Encourage us to worship more and more and to live our lives as worship, because worship isn't just singing, but it's going out and living with you as our greatest treasure. So help us in all that, I pray, Lord. Amen.