Well, it is truly a joy to be here with you uh this morning. Um I wish we could come more often, but uh every time that we can, it is just just a special a special joy. As as he said, I come just uh um in fact I arrived yesterday morning uh back from from Ethiopia, so I'll try to be awake. Uh hopefully you you will as well. And uh so if if I can take just the first uh two, three, four minutes, uh then I'll I'll join with this that was given to me yesterday or no Friday. Uh uh as a gift So um I I can share a little bit of of the work here in Ethiopia. You know, um there is a c a country that uh received the gospel Uh Beno in in uh Acts eight or from the first century they had the gospel But like happens in so many other countries, uh it was lost for a long time. It had it have some flows and um It was uh through especially missionaries in the eighteen hundreds where the gospel was brought back to the people. And so since then the the work has continued to grow But there are areas in the country, especially in the north, where most of the the Orthodox Church dominates their the the the the religious landscape uh where uh they don't want the gospel to come in and then the the areas of of of the of the West um dominated mostly by by Muslim religion. They of course don't want the gospel there. But there's men and women that want to share the gospel and part of the the the ministry of World Service then is to uh train uh men who will then train others so that they can go into those those areas Um you can see uh I was there in the city of Awasa uh and that's uh that's a city more more towards the the south of of the country And uh we had a group of of twenty pastors gathered there. There's a um uh a nice bi Bible camp by the by a beautiful lake And if we could go to the next uh slide there, um most of these pastors have already gone through some uh Bible training. But they they lack a lot of the resources uh and they want to be better trained with better material so that they can go and take it to to other places. Next slide um we had just great opportunities of of dialogue uh and theological discussions and also the issues that affect them in in these days And so uh it was just good to see uh and hear I didn't understand the word, but hear them dialogue and talk and and and share their own uh thoughts as uh in in in the different subjects. We go next and uh of course we have to eat, right? Uh and I had to relearn how to eat with my hands, like we used to do when we were two years old. Uh so traditionally then you you you wash your hands and then And then you eat with with your hands and I should have put again. Then you wash your hands uh one last time after eating and you have to you have to have Ethiopian coffee to end the meal Uh so I I definitely enjoyed that part of the of the ministry. Next uh slide. Uh I had an opportunity the the last Sunday to preach at one of the country churches there. Just a beautiful time. There were this was a church of probably there were about four or five hundred people and they loved to sing. In fact, this particular church has six choirs uh with uh you know choirs of all the different ages. Three of those choirs were uh uh on uh um on task uh that Sunday all three choirs sang. So you can imagine the service ended up about three and a half hours uh by the time we we we were all finished and so just to give you a little bit of a taste There's about thirty seconds of a of a video that that we took. Yeah, you have another one. Um I I was hearing yesterday that uh that you have about ten of you who are going on a short mission trip this time to Colombia this this summer and I I just want to tell the whole church at some time in your life you have to go at least once uh to experience worship, to experience uh life in Christ in other countries and with other believers um to to to experience other ways of of worship and the enthusiasm that that there is. But I have to warn you If o if you go once, you will want to go again. Well, let's uh uh Come now to to the time of teaching of God's word. So I invite you to to to pray with me. Our Father in Heaven, thank you. Thank you for the opportunity to see a little glimpse of the world you see The Lord Jesus is building his church all around the world, so that one day We, your sons and daughters, gathered from all nations, tribes, and languages, may worship you in in unison before your throne. And now, oh Lord, as we open your word, I pray that the Holy Spirit, present in our lives and present in this place, may teach us. May encourage us, may embolden us to continue to participate in your mission. We come to you humbly and boldly. In the name of our Lord Jesus, our Savior and Lord. Amen. Amen. Well, if you will, please take your Bible and open it to Ephesians chapter three. I'm sure you've you've read this passage before, this this chapter, and uh and maybe you can think then of terms like Paul's insight into the mystery of Christ, or the term the unsearchable riches of Christ, or the manifold wisdom of God. And it makes you ask lots of questions. Or maybe you read it and ah say I don't understand this, what Paul is talking about and So I just we'll go to the next section. And of course the next section is this beautiful, encouraging and uplifting prayer that Paul offers. What does all this mean and what does it mean to us I do know that we have different translations of of the Bible that that that uh some of you uh have. I I'm used to using the nineteen eighty-four n new um new international version, which I got uh when I first came to this country with my very rudimentary English. It still is. It's still it's getting better. But I want you to listen this morning to what Ephesians 3 says For this reason, I, Paul, the prisoner of Christ Jesus for the sake of you, Gentiles. Surely you have heard about the administration of God's grace that was given to me for you. That is the mystery made known to me by revelation, as I have already written briefly. In reading this then, you will be able to understand my insight into the mystery of Christ, which was not made known to me in other generations as it has now been revealed by the Spirit to God's holy apostles and prophets. This mystery is that through the gospel the Gentiles are heirs together with Israel members together of one body and sharers together in the promise in Christ Jesus. I I became a servant of this gospel by the gift of God's grace given to me by the working of his power. Although I am less than the least of all God's people This grace was given me to preach to the gentles the unsearchable riches of Christ and to make plain to everyone the administration of this mystery which was Which was which was kept hidden in God who created all things. His intent was that now Through the church, the manifold wisdom of God should be made known to all rulers and authorities in the heavenly realms according to his eternal purpose, which he accomplished in Christ Jesus our Lord. In him, and through faith in him, we may approach God with freedom and confidence So I ask you, therefore not to be discouraged because of my sufferings for you, which are your glory. With the Lord's help. My aim this morning with this message is to help us grasp the glory of the gospel for the believer. the recent formations and God's cosmic purpose for the church, so that we may enjoy confident access to God and unity among his people. Let me say this again. The aim of this message is to help us grasp the glory of the gospel for the believer. The recent formations. And God's cosmic purpose for the church so that we may enjoy confident access to God and unity among his people. So, let's start from the beginning then. Paul writes, for this reason I As a well known pastor says, let's stop here Look at now verse fourteen. For this reason I and You see, many scholars surmise that between verse 1 and verse 14, what we have here is a parenthesis, a digression. If Paul would have followed his original train of thought, we would have gone from the end of the end of chapter 2 to 314, and there would have been continuity and great harmony of thought. You see, after an an extraordinary introduction of our position in Christ by the eternal plan of God in chapter one. Then in chapter two he Paul begins an explanation of the access and unity that Christ brought through his death on the cross. Jews and Gentiles were in the same situation that dead in their trespasses and sense. They received the same astounding mercy and grace by our great God. They have the same means of salvation. They have the same access to God. Both are part of the people of God. Both are members of God's household. Both are becoming a holy temple in the Lord. Both are indwelt by the Holy Spirit. And so for this reason, and he was going to say, I kneel before the Father But after saying for this reason uh I guess he had a new thought or as one would say he went into rabbit trail. Here is my sanctified imagination. Paul is describing in big strokes this amazing truth Cosmic in its scope and reaching down to us, the common people, and he realized I I need to tell them where I got this from It's not my invention. In fact, I am the least qualified to be proclaiming this message Particularly when this communication includes a message to celestial beings. So I better slow down here. And explain. And so we have a digression. We have a rich digression as Paul explains the mystery to his readers. Now remember, these believers did not have a Bible. They were a mixed congregation of Jewish believers who knew the Old Testament from being read every Sabbath in the synagogue. And Gentile believers who had come out of the pagan worship of the goddess Diana. Paul, as we know, had been in Ephesus for about two years preaching the gospel. In fact Luke says in Acts 19 that all the Jews and Greeks who lived in the province of Asia heard the word of the Lord. Sometime later, Paul goes by the to the uh an area close to Ephesus and and meets with with the elders that he had established because this is a final farewell which we have in Acts chapter twenty. And he instructs them to continue the work of teaching and training, of guarding and watching over the congregation. But if you want a potential for this unity, here is one. Two groups Formerly enemies, religiously opposed, culturally different, now worshipping together, and their pastor is gone. Yes, it is true they they had uh for he Paul had formed a group of elders that They also were about two years old in in in the Lord as well as everybody else in the congregation. So about six to eight years later, Paul's Paul writes this letter. He he wants to solidify this church. He wants to teach them truths that would impact their daily life. Ensure they remember the e the equality of access to God their oneness as a body. So for us this morning, in order to better grasp the significance of this text, I want us to take a look first to what he has already written, verses 2 through 6 Second, take a look at the present and its meaning for us. Verse 7, 8 and 9 And then look forward into God's eternal purpose, verses ten through thirteen. So Verse 2 and 3, Paul writes, Surely you have heard about the administration of God's grace that was given me for you, that is The mystery made known to me by revelation as I have already written briefly The Apostle Paul uses the word mystery seven times in Ephesians. Four of those times are here in this chapter. So We just can't avoid talking about this mystery. The good news is that Paul tells us what this mystery is and why it was a mystery. Our minds are set at ease when we hear that this mystery is about the administration or the stewardship of God's grace. It is not about his judgment. It is not about his wrath. It is about his grace. This mystery is for us. It was revealed to Paul, and he had already written about it previously. In verse 4, he calls it the mystery of Christ. So we understand then the mystery is about grace. The mystery is about Christ, and he says that if we read it again, or if we read what we he has already written, we will be able to understand it. So, where does he talk about these things? Just look one one page before in chapter one. I'm beginning in first three. We won't read the whole section, but just to get an idea He writes, Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in the heavenly realms with every spiritual blessing in Christ. For he chose us in him before the creation of the world. In love, he predestined us to be adopted as his sons. through Jesus Christ in accordance with his pleasure and will to the praise of his glorious grace which he has freely given us in the one he loves He writes in verse 7, in him, in Christ, we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins in accordance with the riches of God's grace. that he lavished on us with all wisdom and understanding. Verse 9, and he made known to us the mystery of his will according to his good pleasure, which he purposed in Christ In verse 11 he will say, in him we were also chosen, talking about Paul and uh and the Jewish people. And then in verse 13 he says, And you also, we Gentiles, you also were included in Christ when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation. Having believed, he says you were marked in him with a seal, the promised Holy Spirit. You see, it's all there And of course we could continue in chapter two where we find the description of our lostness and God's incredibly mercy and grace towards us. But you say, so then what's a mystery? If it's all there, where is the mystery? Notice chapter 3, verse 5. Which, the mystery of Christ, was not made known to men in other generations as it has now been revealed by the Spirit to God's holy apostles and prophets. You see, it may not be a mystery for us, because we're reading it, but it was a mystery to them That is, it was written in the past, but in veiled form. It was concealed. The prophets of the Old Testament spoke and wrote what the Holy Spirit would have them write, and much of it related to what was going on at the moment with the people of Israel. But they also wrote things of the future that did not make much sense to them or they didn't know exactly what they were referring to. This phrase not made known means not declared or not disclosed, not revealed to many in other generations, that is, the people of the Old Testament. Let me explain it this way. If we did not have the New Testament, we would not be able to explain the gospel We don't find the words Jesus, cross, pay for sins, grace, eternal life in the Old Testament. Yet listen to what Paul said when he was before King Agrippa accused by the Jews. In his defense, he shared his testimony and then he said in Acts 26, I stand here testifying both to small and great saying nothing but what was but what the prophets and Moses said would come to pass That the Christ must suffer, and that by being the first to rise from the dead, he would proclaim light both to our people and to the Gentiles. And so you say, well, where in the Old Testament do we find the prophets or Moses writing about Christ's death and resurrection? We don't. And we do. It is there, but veiled. It is in the making of the tabernacle. It is in the sacrificial systems It is in the Psalms, it is in Isaiah, in Hosea, in Zachariah, it is all over the place. But it was veiled, it was not disclosed to them. Paul will explain it in Galatians 3, verse 6 to 9. He said, consider Abraham. He believed God and it was credited to him as righteousness. And then he says, the scriptures foresaw that God would justify the Gentiles by faith and announce the gospel in advance to Abraham. And here it is in this phrase. All nations will be blessed through you. So those who have faith are blessed along with Abraham, the man of faith. This is why it is a mystery The people of those days did not fully understand the message, but now it was revealed. Similarly, Peter writes in his first letter, chapter 1, concerning this salvation, the prophet who spoke of the grace that was to come to you searched intently and with the greatest care, trying to find out the times and the circumstances to which the Spirit of Christ in them was pointing, when he predicted the sufferings of Christ and the glories that would follow. He says it was revealed to them that they were not serving themselves, but you, when they spoke of the things that have now been told you by those who preach the gospel to you by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven. You see, we were included in the message of the Old Testament. It is one story. And a great portion of this mystery, particularly for the Jewish people, is that they were not the only ones who were the chosen by God. God always had many other people in mind. He had you and me in mind. He has many around the world in mind. So What is the mystery of grace? The mystery of Christ? Look at verse six This mystery is that through the gospel, the Gentiles are heirs together with Israel members together of one body and sharers together in the promised in Christ Jesus This was truly a mystery. Do you understand that? What is so glorious to us was downfounding to the Jews of that day. Or maybe let me ask you, is it glorious to you? How does the gospel impact your life? In just a minute we'll see how it impacted Paul. But what about you and I? Have we gotten used to talking Christianese that we are no longer amazed by God's grace for us? I love hearing uh uh talking with believers as we as we uh travel to this different countries. And despite their circumstances and the things that that they are going through it is it is just amazing to to see that uh that their life is is different and they are uh they are constantly giving thanks and praising God for his mercy, for his care for them. even in the circumstances in which they they are living. And so it should be with us Two things to observe here. First, the mystery for the Jews is that salvation included Gentiles God's salvation's plan was not just for the Jews, but it was for us also. And second, for the Gentiles, this is all brand new. Those few who got closer to the Jewish faith and wanted to know more about God throughout the Old Testament, they were always kept at a certain distance. They couldn't get too close. But now comes the time to declare God's full intention The dividing wall is torn down. The differences are set aside. The same salvation is offered to all, regardless of ethnicity, nationality, color of skin. This was truly astounding. Look at verse 6 again. This mystery said through the gospel The Gentiles are heirs together with Israel, members together of one body, sharers together in the promise in Christ Jesus. That's why I love the way that the NIV translates it. Heirs together, members together, sharers together, emphasizing the equality to all. This truth was explained in chapter two of the letter. This the whole section from verses 11 to 22 of chapter 2 detail how it happened So marble with me for a minute on this three elements of togetherness by looking how it was before. Chapter 2, verse 12, Paul writes, remember that at that time you, Gentiles were separate from Christ, excluded from citizenship in Israel, and foreigners to the covenant of the promise, without hope and without God in the world But now, in Christ Jesus, you who once were far away have been brought near through the blood of Christ. Brothers and sisters, is this not astounding? Do you not marvel at this glorious truth? Do you thank God daily for including you in his plan? For convicting you of your sins so that you were able to embrace the forgiveness that Jesus Christ offers to us. Most missionaries, those whom you are supporting, and most missionaries uh uh left the comfort of life in the US. And missionaries from the global south, which is now more than from the global north, do so as well. Because they marvel at this truth and they want to share it with others. Whether it is through church planting, medical ministry, seminary training. The aim is the same. Make known this glorious truth. But it is not just for those who travel abroad Paul wrote this to a local congregation, likely small groups of people meeting in homes. This truth was for them to marvel in. Therefore, it is for you too. No. We just took a quick look back. Second, let's look at the present now and its meaning for us. Verse 7 through 9, Paul writes, I became a servant of this gospel by the gift of God's grace given me through the working of his power although I am less than the least of all God's people, this grace was given me. What is it? To preach to the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ, and to make plain to everyone that ministration of this mystery which for ages past was kept hidden in God who created all things So you might say, well, this is for Paul. He was made a servant. He was specially commissioned to be an apostle to the Gentiles Or you might say, this is for the missionaries. But is it? Is it any different for us? We are commanded, we are challenged by our Lord to go and make disciples of all nations, beginning right here, beginning at your doorstep. So may I ask you, do you see yourself as a servant of this gospel? That is, as one who is willing to share the good news with others. You don't need to become a preacher, just a sharer of what God has done in your life through the gospel of Jesus Christ. Last night at the dinner, three of you shared your testimony. You were servants of this gospel. You who will go uh uh to Colombia, you are sharers are are servants of this gospel But you who also share through life and word at home and at work and at school and in your neighborhood, you are also servants of this gospel. Notice that it is the unsearchable riches of Christ. Or as the New American standard puts it, the unfathomable of Unfathomable riches of Christ. Brothers and sisters, let us never forget that though the gospel is a simple message. That God's truth is to be understood by children, still the riches found in the gospel are inexhaustible. As a church, you cannot remain only with the simplicity of the gospel. You also have to teach the riches of the gospel. And I know you do. Because I know your pastor. I have also been in your growing disciples class So please do not change your high view of scriptures. As you have uh or view of the church. Pastors, elders, continue to teach the depths of God's word as you have for so many years, without mencing words, but also continue to show the practicality of the Word of God to their daily life. Do it in your teaching, in your discipling, in your counseling. Notice even just in this passage what riches may w would be found if we had the time to explore what it means to be heirs together with Israel and members together of one body and sharers together in the promise in Christ Jesus But because of time there is more. Number three, we said, let us look f now forward into God's eternal purpose. If you if you want mystery, here it is. Verse 10. His God's intent was that now through the church The manifold wisdom of God should be made known to all rulers and authorities in the heavenly realms. This one should blow our minds. Not only do we learn in Hebrews twelve that that we have a great cloud of witnesses, the Old Testament saints that showed us the way and now watch us as we run the race. Second, not only do we have an unbelieving world watching us as we walk with Christ But see, here we learn that we also have rulers and authorities in the heavenly realms watching us. learning about the manifold wisdom of God by watching the church God's plans. God's purpose is much bigger than just saving you and me You and I are much are are part of a much bigger plan, a gloriously eternal plan, a plan that includes angels and heavenly beings As one commentator put it, the church, therefore, does not exist for itself. It exists for God, for his glory. When the angels in heaven behold the works and the wisdom of God displayed in the church, their knowledge of God whom they adore is increased And they rejoice and glorify him even more. That we exist for the glory of God is not news to you and me. But have you thought about the effect that you and I as a church, both universal and local, have on the angels appreciation of God's wisdom and grace? And I don't mean the church gathered only on Sunday morning. But also the church scattered on Monday through Saturday in your home, in your workplace, at school, or your favorite or or your favorite sports field. Peter said that even angels long to look into these things They long to understand a God that offers salvation to a sinful people that rejected him, that became his enemies. See the they they long to understand God's love for a people that deserved his wrath. After all, that's all that's what their disobedient and rebellious fellow angels received. They did not have a second chance. They were not offered salvation. So do you see why this is important to the angels? On that future day when we are all in the presence of God John tells us in Revelation that we are going to sing a new song You are worthy to take the scroll and to open its fields because you were slain and with your blood you purchased man for God from every tribe, language. Peoples and nations, you have made them to be a kingdom and priest to serve our God. And they will reign on the earth. And the angels will counter thing and say, Worthy is the Lamb who was Slain to receive power and wealth and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and praise Yet Jesus Christ is not their lamb They sing because they have watched those who have who were saved by the Lamb They have watched the church redeemed by Christ, built by Christ, sustained by Christ. The sacrifice of Christ as the Lamb of God is only for us, human beings. Angels have not experienced what it means to be forgiven, to be so loved when while deserving wrath. They can they can only see it manifested in those who have become children of God You and I, and those around the world that are included in the Church of Jesus Christ. My brothers and sisters, do you realize what privilege that is? Now notice verse 11. According to his eternal purpose which he accomplished in Christ Jesus our Lord. So as Paul is drawing this parenthesis to to a close, he restates what he has written before. God had an eternal power plan, an eternal purpose, and it all culminates In Christ. Nothing falls away from God's precise plan and purpose. And I know you know this But stop for a sec uh for a second and think about it. God, the sovereign God of the universe Thought of you and chose you before he created the world And you say, Well, that's a nice thought But look at my life. Look at the troubles I have Look at the difficulties that seem to never end. Look at my weaknesses that I cannot seem to overcome. So what about that? Verse twelve In Him, and through faith in Him we may approach God with freedom and confidence. My friends We need to hear these words with the background of those first believers. For the Jews, this was astounding. They could never approach God. Only the high priest could, and only once a year, and only for a brief moment to atone for the sins of the people. For Gentiles? Whatever gods they had, they could only be at peace through sacrifices and rituals of their own, including human sacrifices They could only appease their anger and wrath. There was no grace to be received from those gods. But now they hear that because of Christ and through faith in him, they we may approach God with freedom. and confidence. Have you lost sight of this privilege? Paul understood it clearly, and he asked in Romans 8, what then shall we say in response to this? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son but gave him up for us. So how will he not also along with him graciously give us all things? Unless you you think of all things meaning freedom from troubles and instead riches and health in this life He continues a few verses later with the words trouble or hardship or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword. No. In all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. You see, it is in difficulties, in troubles, in illnesses, when we are assured that God is still with us Nothing separates us from his love. But because of his plans and purposes are eternal, we can bring to him uh even ever every small trouble that we might have That's why I marvel at believers in so many other countries I'll tell you it is difficult to explain the joy of their worship. They're their loud singing, their dancing, their clapping. Because they know their Heavenly Father is a good God, a merciful God, a compassionate God, a loving God, despite their circumstances. Jesus reminds us as we pray for His kingdom to come and His will to be done. And in the same breath we ask for our daily bread and sins forgiving and leading us away from temptation. Yes. we can approach God with freedom and confidence. So as the author of Hebrews writes, let us therefore Draw near with confidence to the throne of grace that we may receive mercy and may find grace to help in time of need. Brothers and sisters, I I I read that the purpose of Hope Bible Church is to glorify the head of the church, Jesus Christ by building up and edifying the local church body so it can effectively outreach through evangelism to the lost world Therefore, remember that God has made you an heir together with Israel. A member together of one body and a sharer together in the promise in Christ Jesus. And he wants you to marvel and rejoice in this truth and share it with the lost world. Now maybe you are here today and you realize you have not appropriated yourself with this great salvation. Today is for you also. The mercy of God extends to you If you recognize your sin, your unworthiness before a holy God, and come to Him in repentance and faith. Believe that Jesus' death on the cross paid the penalty for your sins like He did for mine Believe that because of his resurrection, you can have eternal life, a relationship with God that your father can start today. So I encourage you, I urge you to maybe talk with a friend or family member that brought you today. Or talk to one of the pastors here. It will be able to show you how you can be part of this family of God. Please bow your head with me as we close in prayer. Great God of wisdom and grace and love. We have been the recipients of your benefits. Help us live this week in the light of your truth. We come to you confidently, because of Jesus Christ, and in whose name we pray. Amen.