In 2007, I was still on active duty in the United States Air Force and returning from a three-year overseas assignment to Germany. We landed in San Antonio, Texas, where I was assigned to the Air Force Personnel Center. It would be analogous to the Human Resources Department of a large Fortune 500 company. I led a team of 10 officers, and our job was to manage the assignments and development of approximately 6,500 officers specializing in program management, engineering, and applied sciences. I own the nerds of the Air Force. Of course, with my engineering background, I guess I was one too. The motto of the Air Force Personnel Center and the goal of my team was to get the right person to the right place at the right time. But why? Why move people every three years and send them to advanced schooling and training, assign them overseas, and send them even to war? Very simply, we were trying to develop leaders that could execute the mission of the Air Force. It was that simple in theory, a bit more difficult in practice. Difficult because our wisdom and knowledge was based on a secular system. We were not all-knowing. We did the best we could with what we had. There's a story from Scripture I would like to share with you this morning to encourage you that you, you as a child of the Most High God, are the right person at the right place at the right time. In God's unfolding redemptive plan. Let me say that again. I want to encourage you that you, you as a choice and precious child of God, are the right person at the right place at the right time, according to God's orderly and specific plan of redemption. If you are not there already, please open your Bible to the book of Nehemiah. Chapter one. I'll be quoting for both the ESV and NASB translations. Now you notice up there chapters 1 through 6. I am not going to exposite 1 through 6. I am, of course, a firm believer in expository preaching, but today will be a bit of a blend of Exposition and Old Testament survey, covering the first six chapters of Nehemiah, along with other applicable passages Now, if you have not spent much time in Ezra, Esther, or Nehemiah, they give us a glimpse of the state of affairs for the Jewish nation post their 70-year exile in Babylon. And they are also the last few books written before the 400-year gap in canonical history until John the Baptist and Jesus come on the scene Now, the science and art of leadership has always been a passion of mine. So I've naturally been drawn to the character of Nehemiah because he is a portrait of godly leadership I will highlight several of Nehemiah's leadership traits, but that's not the main point of this story. The main point of the story is this. to trust in God's unfolding plan of redemption and your specific role in it. In doing so, we are trying to cultivate a really high view of God and a correct view of mankind. As I navigate through the context of Old Testament history and zero in on a specific time period around Nehemiah, I implore you, don't lose sight of the main point. How did Nehemiah fit in God's plan of redemption in 445 BC? And as important, how do you fit in today, August 25th, 2024? Just as Nehemiah was back then, I want to convince you today you are the right person at the right place at the right time. There are three aspects of Nehemiah I'm going to highlight this morning. His preparation, his purpose, and his perseverance. His preparation. How was Nehemiah prepared as a godly leader? His purpose. What was Nehemiah's purpose? And how did he stay focused on that purpose? And his perseverance. How did Nehemiah stay focused on God's purpose through opposition? However, throughout the sermon, keep the main point, the main point, thinking of the application in our own lives. How are we being prepared? What is our purpose? And how do we preserve in times of trial and tribulation? Alright, but we have to start with a very obvious question. Who is Nehemiah? Outside of being from Jewish descent, having brothers, and the name of his father, Scripture gives no specific account of how he was raised. Or where specifically he was raised. Nothing. But in regards to his spiritual condition, Scripture gives us plenty of clues to fill in the gaps, as we will see shortly. What we know for certain, though, is written at the very end of chapter 1. It reads, Now I was the cup-bearer to the king. To be placed in the high position as cupbearer required a man who could be trusted, a man of great character. It was not uncommon in those days for kings to be assassinated by someone poisoning their drink It was the cupbearer's job to first sample the wine before it touched the king's lips. But more than an errand boy, the cupbearer would be a close and trusted confidant of the king. As we have seen God orchestrate events to place his chosen people, like Daniel and Esther, in high positions of secular governments, it's a similar scenario we now find Nehemiah as cupbearer to the king. The king of the time? The Persian king, Artaxerxes. The book of Nehemiah gives us a wonderful and exciting glimpse into the unfolding of God's redemptive plan. and the use of mankind in executing that plan. Now let me throw out a little teaser. Nehemiah and you and I as the church actually bookend a key revelation. I want you to hold that thought. We're going to come back to it. Starting in Nehemiah chapter 1, verse 1. Nehemiah chapter 1, verse 1. The words of Nehemiah the son of Hakalaub. Now it happened in the month Chislev, in the twentieth year, as I was in Susa the citadel, that Hanani, one of my brothers, came with certain men from Judah. And I asked them concerning the Jews who escaped, who had survived the exile, and concerning Jerusalem. And they said to me, The remnant there in the province who had survived the exile is in great trouble and shame. The wall of Jerusalem is broken down, and its gates are destroyed by fire. Now let me pause here and give a little historical perspective. Where do we find ourselves in the historical timeline? The context is important because it will help us better understand who Nehemiah was and his spiritual condition Many centuries before Nehemiah, Israel rises to the peak of her size and glory under the leadership of David's son, King Solomon. However, Solomon loses his focus on God as 1,000 pagan wives and concubines draw his attention inward instead of upward. The result? The king with a divided heart leaves behind a divided nation. Upon the death of King Solomon, the twelve tribes were divided into two kingdoms Ten tribes to the north, known as Israel, and two tribes to the south, known as Judah. First and 2 Kings gives us an account of the tragic history of two nations of disobedient people. who are on a collision course for captivity. In 722 BC, the northern kingdom, Israel, falls into captivity to the Assyrians A little over a century later, the southern kingdom, Judah, falls to the Babylonians. The lamenting prophet Jeremiah, who witnessed the destruction of Jerusalem and the Temple. prophesied of the impending seventy years of captivity under the rule of the Babylonians. However, Jeremiah went on to relay the word of the Lord, giving a message of hope. After seventy years are completed, I will punish the king of Babylon and that nation. Jeremiah 25, 12 Here is where I want to weave in the first of two revelations to Daniel that are directly applicable to this story Now keep in mind Daniel was a major prophet during the 70 years of captivity, known as the period of exile. You all know the story. King Nebuchadnezzar had a dream, and it deeply troubled him The king sent for his magicians and conjurers and sorcerers, but none could tell him the dream or the meaning of the dream. Daniel, however, by God's revelation, was able to not only describe the dream, but also its interpretation. We read in Daniel 2, starting in verse 31, You saw, O King, and behold, a great image. This image, mighty and of exceeding brightness, stood before you, and its appearance was frightening. The head of this image was of fine gold, its chest and arms of silver its middle and thighs of bronze, its legs of iron, its feet partly of iron and partly of clay. Daniel would go on to describe this image as representing four successive kingdoms Starting with the head representing Babylon, then Medo-Persia, Greece, and finally Rome. Recall Jeremiah's proclamation that Babylon would be punished after the 70 years of Judah's captivity. And that's exactly where we find ourselves in the first chapter of Nehemiah, roughly 90 years after the 70 years of captivity. Considered the post-exile period. The Persians are now in power, and Nehemiah is cupbearer to the Persian king Artaxerxes. Located in Susa, the capital of the Persian Empire, which today would be Turkey, modern-day Turkey. One more tidbit before we jump back into our story. Commentators believe Nehemiah was only thirty years old at this time, which means he certainly wasn't alive during the seventy years of captivity, and most likely has never set foot in Judah or Jerusalem. So let's pick back up in the book of Nehemiah, chapter 1, verse 3. And remember, one of his brothers and some men from Judah are before Nehemiah. Verse 3. And they said to me, The remnant there in the province who had survived the exile is in great trouble and shame. The wall of Jerusalem is broken down, and its gates are destroyed by fire. Spoiler alert, Nehemiah is going to lead the effort to rebuild the wall and restore the gates. This 30-year-old man is going to put his trust fully in God. And stand before King Artaxerxes and plead, send me to Judah. This takes us to the first P in our outline, Nehemiah's preparation. How was Nehemiah prepared as a godly leader? Scripture is not explicit in the how, but we can glean much from Nehemiah's response in the remainder of chapter one. Three traits jump out as we read verses four through eleven. Nehemiah was first a man of prayer. Second, he knew the word And third, he presents himself before God with exceptional humility. Reading verses four and five. When I heard these words, I sat down and wept and mourned for days. And I was fasting and praying before the God of heaven. I said, I beseech you, O Lord God of heaven, the great and awesome God. who preserves the covenant and loving kindness for those who love him and keep his commandments. I don't know what your first response would be if you were in Nehemiah's shoes But we see a man who is anguished over the news of the deplorable state of his countrymen and his country. And his initial response is to cry out to the God of Heaven, weeping, mourning, fasting, and praying for days. Verse 5 begins with, I beseech thee, beseech, meaning to pray with urgency. Nehemiah's first reaction in the midst of deep sorrow and anguish is to cry out to the God of heaven in great reverence. This is not an urgent plea to a God, but the God. Nehemiah was first and foremost a man of prayer. Second, Nehemiah knew the word of God. Notice again in verse 5. And I said, I beseech thee, O Lord God of heaven, the great and awesome God. who preserves the covenant and loving kindness for those who love him and keep his commandments. Nehemiah was versed in the unconditional and literal covenant God made with Abraham in Genesis chapter twelve, verses one through three. which consisted of a promised land, the promise of descendants, and the promise of blessing and redemption. The extensions of the Abrahamic covenant are found in the Davidic covenant, 2 Samuel 7 Where God promises a descendant of David would establish his throne forever. The new covenant, found in Jeremiah 31, where God makes a new covenant Not like the old Mosaic covenant, which was conditional, but an unconditional promise to put my law within them, and on their heart I will write it, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. And keep in mind, Jeremiah was writing this to those in Babylonian captivity, giving them a message of encouragement and hope. Lastly, and the one most relevant to Nehemiah's prayer is the Palestinian or land covenant found in Deuteronomy 30, and undergirded by the Mosaic Law. Follow along in Nehemiah chapter 1, verses 8 and 9. Remember the word that you commanded your servant Moses, saying, If you are unfaithful, I will scatter you among the peoples. But if you return to me and keep my commandments and do them, though your outcasts are in uttermost parts of heaven, from there I will gather them and bring them to the place that I have chosen, to make my name dwell there. Verse 8 is a reference to Leviticus 26 that describes the conditional aspect of the Mosaic Law. Simply put, if you are obedient, there will be blessings. If you are disobedient, there will be penalties, to include being scattered among the nations, which is exactly what happens. However, in verse 9, Nehemiah references the promise in Deuteronomy. If you return to me and keep my commandments, I will bring them to the place where I have chosen to cause my name to dwell. This is the backdrop of Nehemiah's urgent plea to the God of heaven. Keep in mind that in the last nine years after captivity in the fall of the Babylonians, the Jews have been allowed to slowly migrate back to the Promised Land. The first wave was led by Zerubbabel, who led the restoration of the temple in Jerusalem. Ezra, a priest and contemporary of Nehemiah, led a second wave with the intent of restoring worship in the reconstructed temple. The report, though, that Nehemiah just received is that the people in Jerusalem are under great distress, remain a reproach by the surrounding nations, and are unprotected Because the walls are broken down and the gates are burned. This is in stark contrast to what Nehemiah knew of God's promises to the nation and his chosen people. Nehemiah's immediate reaction is not one of anger or bitterness, but beseeching the God of heaven in prayer, and grounded upon the promises of God revealed in Scripture. He was a man of prayer. He knew God's word, but was also governed by a spirit of humility. Look with me, starting in chapter 1, verse 6. Let your ear be attentive, and your eyes open to hear the prayer of your servant, that I now pray before you day and night for the people of Israel, your servants. confessing the sins of the people of Israel, which we have sinned against you. Even I and my father's house have sinned. We have acted very corruptly against you and have not kept the commandments, the statutes In the rules that you commanded your servant Moses. Did you notice the pronouns? Nehemiah is not claiming to be a victim of the consequences due to the sins of his forefathers Rather, he includes himself in the plea for forgiveness. He says, Hear the prayer of thy servant on behalf of the sons of Israel, confessing the sins which we have sinned. I and my father's house have sinned. We have acted very corruptly. We see very similar language from the prophet Daniel in chapter 9. Again, this was during the seventy years of captivity, after reviewing the book of Jeremiah and recounting the word of the Lord that foretold the desolation of Jerusalem, Daniel also prayed to God and confessed Alas, O Lord, the great and awesome God, who keeps his covenant and loving kindness for those who love him and keep his commandments. We have sinned, committed iniquity, acted wickedly, and rebelled, even a turning aside from the commandments and ordinances. I don't know about you, but I think I don't think I have ever prayed with that kind of humility. It's exception. Alright, but back to the original question. How was Nehemiah prepared as a godly leader? How was he prepared for this exact time to be used specifically to carry out God's redemptive plan? How did he cultivate such a spirit of humility? Why, in the moment of intense anguish and sorrow, his first response is to beseech the Lord, to urgently pray. And how did he ever come to know the Word of God so intimately? As I stated earlier, Scripture does not mention the how. We can only speculate. I would not be surprised though if the how originated with his parents obeying Deuteronomy 6. Often referred to as the Shema, the Hebrew word for hear Which is the first root of word of Deuteronomy 6 verse 4, meaning to listen in the sense of obeying. It reads. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your might And these words that I command you today shall be on your heart. You shall teach them diligently to your children And you shall talk of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise. Were Nehemiah's parents diligent to teach the young Nehemiah the Word of God? Only speculation? But it appears so. There is a man in our church, a godly man, an elder, but I promise not to use Rob's name. I can recall many times during our Friday morning, 6 a. m. eldership and training gatherings with Pastor Dave Rob sharing the sweet, sweet testimony of his father's commitment to diligently pass on the commandments of the Lord, both in word and deed. In Rob's words, his dad was, quote, more important to my own spiritual growth and development than anyone else on earth. What a legacy. As many of you know, Rob's father is now in glory with his Savior and Lord Jesus Christ. And we are grateful for this incredible testimony of faithfulness. But it doesn't end there Rob and Canuku are faithfully passing on the commandments of the Lord to their son Alex. Alex has severe autism and does not speak They have no idea if Alex understands any of the scriptures being read to them or preached to him. They have no way to assess his spiritual condition. Is he saved or not? And they may never know here on this earth. But the command of Deuteronomy 6 is not conditional. You obey it regardless of your circumstances. We may not fully understand all the details, but can we trust God is using Rob, Ganuko, and Alex as part of his redemptive plan? Absolutely. Their faithful commitment has certainly had an impact on me. We can have confidence that Rob and Kanuko are the right parents at the right place at the right time for God's glory. It is likely Nehemiah was heavily influenced by his parents, but his preparation for godly leadership may have in may have influenced, may have included the influence from others Nehemiah's prayer and humility are very similar to that of the Prophet Daniel. Ezra, the priest, the restorer of temple worship was a contemporary of Nehemiah's and may have extremely influential on exposing him to the ancient writings. There may have been many, many more, but there is someone in particular I want to introduce that may have had a huge impact on Nehemiah's call to duty, Queen Esther. You might be thinking, Esther, how does she fit into the story? Well, let me tell you. Esther is the stepmother to King Artaxerxes, his father being the previous Persian king Xerxes. Esther was the queen during the reign of King Xerxes. I point you to the book of Esther if you want a full account, but for the time's sake, let me summarize. Through God's providence, Esther, a young Jewish woman, becomes the queen. Her cousin Mordecai gets wind of a plot to wipe out the Jews, devised by the evil king's advisor, Haman. Mordecai appeals to Queen Esther to act on behalf of the Jews scattered throughout the provinces. This is a do-or-die situation. And more importantly, the elimination of the Jews would have proven God a liar. Esther is understandably frightened But notice Mordecai's response quoted from Esther chapter four verse thirteen. Do not think to yourself that in the king's palace you will escape any more than all the other Jews. For if you keep silent at this time, relief and deliverance will rise from the Jews from another place. But you and your father's house will perish. And who knows whether you have not come to the kingdom for such a time as this? Mordecai's firm response to Esther, you are the right person, at the right place, at the right time. If you wish not to act, the Lord will raise up another. God's redemptive plan will not be forwarded. I can only speculate if Nehemiah actually talked with Esther. It's not clear whether their timelines overlap, but it would have been really, really close. Regardless, the account of the preservation of the Jews through God's use of Esther would have been well known during Nehemiah's day. We now find Nehemiah in a similar situation, fully prepared for such a time as this, which leads us to the second P in our outline, his purpose What was Nehemiah's purpose, and how did he stay focused on that purpose? Let me start with the bluff, the bottom line up front. The single purpose of Nehemiah was to obey the Lord. The Lord had put a plan on Nehemiah's heart to rebuild the wall and restore the gates, and his singular focus was to carry out that plan. In Nehemiah chapter 2, verse 5, Nehemiah makes his appeal before the king and queen. If it pleases the king, and if your servant has found favor in your sight, that you send me to Judah. to the city of my father's graves, that I may rebuild it. Nehemiah's ability to carry out God's task includes some very practical wisdom The three-month journey from Susa, the Persian capital, to Jerusalem, would be a treacherous one, especially for a Jew. Chapter 2, verses 7 through 9 describes the provisions granted to Nehemiah because the good hand of my God was on me. Nehemiah wisely requested official letters that would transfer a portion of the king's authority to Nehemiah, so he could present to the governors in each province for safe passage. The king also provided officers of the army and horsemen for his protection. Further, lumber was a precious commodity and forcefully guarded Nehemiah petitioned for another letter authorizing him to cut down trees required to restore the gates. Nehemiah would spend three days in Jerusalem planning his strategy of execution before venturing out at night to survey the damage by himself. He finally gathers the workers, the nobles, the priests, and lays out the plan. Picking up in chapter 2, verse 17 Then I said to them, You see the trouble we are in, how Jerusalem lies in ruins with its gates burned. Come, let us build the wall of Jerusalem, that we may no longer suffer derision. And I told them of the hand of my God that had been upon me for good, and also of the words that the king had spoken to me. And they said, Let us rise up and build. So they strengthened their hands for the good work Nehemiah's divinely driven purpose and motivating message revived the workers' spirits to continue the task set before them. While living in Massachusetts, I was introduced to a friend of a friend to a man, his name was Larry, that had been suffering with chronic illness for many, many years. The doctors didn't have any answers by the time I met him, and he was going on fifteen plus years of deteriorating health Our small group helped install a wheelchair ramp at his home. His illness was getting worse and starting to affect his mobility. That started a friendship between the two of us and gave me the opportunity to minister to Larry and his wife. He was a godly man. He knew his Bible well. And he prayed to the God of heaven. Larry was also human. And sometimes the seeds of doubt would creep in. He would plead, Lord, have I sinned against you? Are you angry with me? Lord, if only you would restore my health, what a witness I could be for your glory. This was a logical thought and plea. Lord, in full health, we can give you maxima effort for your kingdom. Anything less seems extremely inefficient. My heart broke for this man, yet in that moment, by God's grace, I was able to draw Larry back to God's sovereignty and providence I said, Larry, for right now, for this season of life, this is your ministry. This is how God wants to use you to carry out his redemptive plan. This is your purpose You are now interacting with people that you never would have seen if you were in full health. People that need to hear the good news of Jesus Christ. I didn't say this to him, but Larry was the right person in the right place at the right time, according to God's redemptive plan. Nehemiah's purpose was clear, to obey the plan God had put on his heart. He stayed focused on that purpose by simply keeping his mind fixed on God, fixed on the God of heaven. And not the circumstances around him. But that focus was going to be tested. And how does Nehemiah respond? That brings us to the third and final P in our outline: his perseverance. How did Nehemiah stay focused on God's purpose through opposition? How well did he persevere? Well, it doesn't take long to find out Almost immediately upon arriving in Jerusalem, Nehemiah is met with opposition. Follow along starting back in chapter 2, verse 9. Then I came to the governors of the province beyond the river, and gave them the king's letters. Now the king had sent me with officers of the army and horsemen But when Sanbalhot, the Horonite, and Tobiah the Ammonite servant, heard this, it displeased them greatly that someone had come to seek the welfare of the people of Israel. Sandalah, Tobiah, and later we read of Geshem, were all governors or leaders of Samaritan factions surrounding Judah. The history of the Samaritans finds its root in the captivity of the northern kingdom by the Assyrians, which I discussed earlier The deportation of Israelites to Assyria created a void in the region of Samaria, which was filled by foreigners eventually intermarrying with the remaining Israelites. Giving rise to the Samaritan community. The ethnic and religious differences between Samaritans and Jews led to hostility and prejudice. One significant difference was opposing views on the rightful center of worship. The Samaritans built their temple on Mount Gerizim in Samaria. while the Jews maintained the only legitimate place of worship was the temple in Jerusalem. Everything was fine as long as Jerusalem remained in ruins and a reproach in the land. King Artaxerxes' approval to rebuild the wall changed everything. The opposition could no longer overtly attack the Jews for fear of reprisal from the king. So they had to resort to asymmetric warfare using intimidation and deception. Their goal? Instill fear and discouragement. Does that sound familiar? The enemy prowls the earth today with the same tactics to create fear and discouragement among the saints, to disrupt the work of the Lord. Chapters four through six highlight seven different times the opposition tries to disrupt the work by mocking Nehemiah. threatening military attack, trying to lure Nehemiah outside of Jerusalem, threatening him with false charges, playing paying false prophets to discredit him, and writing letters to frighten him Nehemiah's purpose from the Lord was crystal clear, and yet the execution of that plan was met with opposition. At one point, the builders had to carry a weapon in one hand and lift rocks and boulders in the other hand. Not an efficient way to build a wall, according to our plans. You could all stand up here today and give a testimony of various trials and tribulations that have disrupted, aggravated, frustrated your ideal plans of how best to serve the Lord. But God allows trials. Knowing the testing of your faith produces in endurance, and let endurance have its perfect results, that you may be perfect and complete, lacking nothing. And James starts this passage in chapter 1 how. Consider it all joy when you encounter various trials. Why joy? Because that is part of God's redemptive plan, to conform his children more and more into the image of his son, Jesus Christ. I want to read a summary from MacArthur's commentary which succinctly summarizes Nehemiah's perseverance in the face of opposition and his ability to stay focused on God's purpose. Well, as the work moved forward, Nehemiah did not allow himself to be distracted by attacks of various kings or tricks from enemies. He took threats seriously enough to arm the people, but not so seriously that the work came to a halt. At every turn, we find Nehemiah conferring in prayer with God, placing every decision before him. Nehemiah succeeded because he never lost sight of the reasons for the work and the source of power with which to accomplish the task. Let me re-emphasize that last point. He succeeded because he never lost sight of the reasons for the work and the source of power with which to accomplish the task. He kept his focus squarely on God, even in the midst of intense opposition. The results? We read in Nehemiah chapter 6, starting in verse 15. So the wall was finished on the twenty-fifth day of the month Elul, in fifty-two days. And when all our enemies heard of it, all the nations around us were afraid, and fell greatly in their own esteem, for they perceived that this work had been accomplished with the help of our God. Ironic, isn't it? The opposition's goal was fear and discouragement, and that's exactly what happened to them, because God's plan will not be thwarted. Nehemiah was a godly leader, a faithful leader, because he was prepared, cultivating a deep love of the Word of God, dependent on communion with the Lord through prayer. and obedient with exceptional humility. He was singularly focused on the purposes of God rather than his surrounding circumstances. And he persevered through various trials and tribulations by the strength of the Almighty God. Nehemiah was the right person at the right place at the right time. But what does that mean for you and I today? How do we fit into God's plan of redemption? Let me show you something that's very interesting. I stated earlier I was going to share two revelations to Daniel that had direct applicability to our story. The first revelation was the identity interpretation of King Nebuchadnezzar's dream. Remember the image that represented the four kingdoms. The first kingdom, Babylon, had been defeated at prophesy. And the Persians were now in power. As we dove into the book of Nehemiah, we were able to pinpoint exactly where we were in the unfolding of God's providential plan. His hand superintending the hearts and minds of pagan kings to fulfill God's unconditional covenant with a disobedient people. I want to now share the second revelation to Daniel that will bookend our time today in 2024 and our purpose today with that of Nehemiah. I noted earlier that Daniel, as a prophet during the time of the exile, was observing the book of Jeremiah, inquiring of the prophesied time of desolation for Jerusalem. In similar fashion to Nehemiah, Daniel humbly approaches the Lord, confessing his sin and the sin of his people. Daniel is in anguish over the reproach of the nation, the people And ultimately God throughout the land. Daniel cried out to the Lord, O Lord, in accordance with all thy righteous acts Let now thine anger and thy wrath turn away from the city, Jerusalem, thy holy mountain, for because of our sins and the iniquities of our fathers, Jerusalem and thy people have become a reproach to all those around us. In chapter 9 of the book of Daniel, we see the angel Gabriel sent to minister to Daniel. Affirming the 70 years of captivity. But Gabriel goes on to describe an extended decree for God's chosen people and their holy place In Daniel chapter 9 verse 24 it reads, 70 weeks. This can be interpreted as 70 times 7 years, so 490 years. 490 years have been decreed for your people and your holy city to finish the transgression, to make an end of sin. To make atonement for iniquity, to bring in everlasting righteousness, to seal up vision and prophecy, and to anoint the most holy place. The start of this timeline, the start of the 70 weeks, verse 25 says, from the issuing of the decree to restore and rebuild Jerusalem. To be clear, there are different opinions, but many scholars believe this timeline started with Nehemiah. The 70 weeks started with Nehemiah rebuilding the walls of Jerusalem. by the leading and strength of God according to his redemptive plan. The passage goes on to indicate that after sixty-nine weeks the Messiah will be cut off, referring to the crucifixion of Jesus Christ. The 70th week has not yet occurred. And again, there is difference of opinion, but many scholars attribute the 70th week to the seven years of tribulation described in other passages of Scripture. Culminating in the second advent of Jesus Christ to set up his rule on earth. What that means is we are in the last days. By God's perfect design and for his specific purposes and for his glory, he has allowed an extended period of time between that 69th And the 70th week. What me and Nehemiah started, we now bookend in these last days. We are tied to the same redemptive plan God has progressively revealed through the canon of Scripture, beginning in Genesis, culminating in the book of Revelation, with a parenthetical around the 70-week revelation. My encouragement to you today, August 25th, 2024, if your heart has been regenerated, if you have been born again, If you have received the faith of God through grace and repented, turning away from sin and towards Christ, then you are a child of the Most High God, and you are the right person at the right place at the right time. To carry out God's perfect plan of redemption, just as Nehemiah was in 445 BC However, if you are sitting here today and you have not confessed Jesus Christ as your Savior, and you do not live like He is your Lord, then there is also a plan for you. But it's not one of redemption. It's not one of reconciliation with the Holy God. Quite the opposite. It's a plan of eternal damnation in hell. If that is you, I implore you to call upon the Lord Jesus Christ today, for we are in the last days. Let me close with how I started. The main point of the story is this, to trust in God's unfolding plan of redemption and your specific role in it. You trust the God of heaven and know his purposes by being prepared, cultivating a really high view of God through the daily reading and meditation of God's inspired and errant authoritative and sufficient word, communing with Lord, your Lord in prayer, presenting yourself in humility. You execute his plan by a correct view of who you are as a child of God Choice and precious, no longer under condemnation, but justified, declared righteous, demonstrating your faith through the good works God has prepared ahead of time, by the indwelling power of the Holy Spirit. For from him and through him and to him are all things. To him be the glory forever. Amen. Abba Father, we thank you for your Holy Spirit that illumines your truth and empowers us to willingly obey in love. May we learn to rest, even rejoice in your sovereignty, trust in the unfolding of your redemptive plan and our role in it. To you be all the glory. Amen.