Every Sunday to me is a special day, but Easter Sunday is really special, is it not? What a joy to worship with you all this morning. Today, as we've already sung and said so well, we celebrate a man who beat death. Can you imagine that? He is a man who beat death. That's what Easter's all about. There's no sense in celebrating Easter if you don't get that. Paul said, if Jesus were not bodily raised from the dead, being a Christian would be a worthless thing. And we preachers would be false teachers. It's all about the resurrection of Jesus. Jesus now wants to show the rest of us how we can beat death too. And we're going to have a decision. Do we trust him and his word? Do we believe that he beat death and that we can beat death too? If you believe that, God will save your soul. If you don't believe that, you're not a Christian, and you have no salvation. These are serious, serious matters. Can you imagine anything more practical and personal to you than victory over death? Can you I mean can you? Is there anything you can think of this morning that would be more important than having victory over death? I mean really, is there anything at all? The Apostle Paul in the first century understood how important all of this was. Just listen to what he wrote in 1 Corinthians 15. Behold, I tell you a mystery. We will not all sleep, but we will all be changed. In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye at the last trumpet, for the trumpet will sound and the dead will be raised imperishable, and we will be changed. And then with his Christian faith, he chided the greatest enemy of mankind and said, Oh death, where is your victory? Oh death, where is your sting? The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law, but thanks be to God, who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Did you catch the last thing he said there? Paul understood that Jesus' resurrection wasn't just Jesus' victory. You have to understand that. That's pretty important Do you want a good reason to let Jesus take control of your life, to call on Him to be your Savior from sin? To follow Him as a teacher for life? Well, I ask you, do you have victory over death this morning apart from Jesus? How did you get it? How did you get victory over death apart from Jesus? If you don't have victory over death, isn't that good enough reason to really pay attention to him? There is a special day that's coming up in our future. It's a very important date for you personally. It's much more important than your birthday. Now I'm not talking about the day that you'll die. We don't know when that is anyways. This day beats the date that you die, literally beats it. It's not a date in your life that you could prevent. You can't make a decision now and try to avoid it. There's nothing really that you can do to stop this date from coming into your life. I would venture to say it's the most important personal day ever in your life. What am I talking about? I'm talking about your personal resurrection day. Not Jesus', yours. Last week um four of our men in the church on the same day shared a birthday. Celebrating a birthday is uh pretty pretty important to us, isn't it? We all have birthdays. I hope we got into this world somehow But you know, if it's important for us to celebrate our birth into this world, what about our birth into the next? Just look around you a moment. Think about what this world is about. Everything down here is temporary, right? I mean and it's not the best world. Let's just admit that right out front. There are a lot of rude people in this world. There's a lot of illness and disease. There are a lot of unpleasant things we go through. But yet why are we celebrating our birth into this world? God would have us celebrate our birth into the next world, the future Resurrection Day. That makes more sense to me. What will happen on that day? Your body will be raised from the dead. If you're in a casket, that casket will be blown open and your whole body will come out of there. Doesn't matter if you've been blown into a thousand pieces, God will put all that together. He will raise you from the dead You'll never decay again, you'll never be unhealthy again, and if you believe in Christ, you'll never die again. Might ask how come people don't want to think about this day more? Why don't they want to celebrate this day? How come people don't sit around their living room, you know, in the evening and say, you know, boy, I can't wait for my resurrection day? Why is it we don't say things like that The guys down at the water cooler or down at the office, you know, gee, this this job is the pits. Yeah, I know our boss, he's so hard, he's so ununderstanding. Yeah, I know, but can't wait for my resurrection day How come people don't think about their resurrection day as a solution to all their problems during the day? I think maybe uh people don't think about it, people don't talk about it, people don't anticipate it, because they don't really believe it. I ask again, do you believe that that is what's going to happen to you? Do you really believe it Well, my job this Easter is to get you to think about your personal resurrection day. I want to get you ready for it. It is a day that God has guaranteed for everybody. Did you know it doesn't matter who you are? It doesn't matter what you believe It doesn't matter where you started, where you're going from, where you will die, when you will die, how you will die. None of that matters. You will be raised from the dead. If you're a Christian, you'll be raised from the dead. If you're not a Christian, you'll be raised from the dead. Everybody who ever lived on this planet will be raised from the dead. And there's nothing that any of us can do to stop that. Did you know that Your resurrection is guaranteed, but what kind of a resurrection will it be? We're going to go to the very last book of the Bible, the book of Revelation. It's a prophetic book to find out the answer to this question. We're going to go to other scripture as well So we can see how this is all over God's Word, but we're going to look closest at Revelation twenty and verse six. If you would open up to there, we'll read it And then we'll consider it and some truths related to it. Revelation chapter 20, verse 6. Let me just read verses 4 through 6 to give you a little bit of the context. Back in chapter nineteen it mentions the second coming of Jesus Christ in glory, the seizing of the false world ruler called the Antichrist and the false prophet, and the removal of them from the world as we still anticipate those evil events in this world. Satan is bound. He's removed from the planet. And then we pick up in verse four through six. John says, Then I saw thrones And they sat on them, and judgment was given to them. And I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded because of their testimony of Jesus, and because of the Word of God And those who had not worshiped the beast or his image and not received the mark on their forehead or on their hand, and they came to life. That's the resurrection. and reigned with Christ for a thousand years. So here are some who have been beheaded and they come to life, very clearly talking about a resurrection. Then verse 5 it says, the rest of the dead, there are many others who died, the rest of the dead did not come to life until the thousand years were completed. Now that's parenthetical Then he says, this is the first resurrection, referring to the ones that were mentioned before. Blessed and holy is the one who has a part in the first resurrection. Over these, the second death has no power. But they will be priests of God and of Christ and will reign with him for a thousand years. Now this is just one place in the Bible that speaks about our future bodily resurrection. Sometimes people object that you can't understand the Bible, but what this says is pretty direct, it's pretty simple, it's straightforward. Revelation 19 was straightforward in describing the second coming of Jesus, even with symbolism, it was clear he was talking about Christ. If you didn't get last week's message, you can listen online or get a CD and it kind of leads up to this And then after Jesus returns, it says he defeats his foes, he removes Satan from the world, all the deception from the world is gone, and then God raises believers in Jesus, many of whom have been persecuted and killed for their faith. during that tribulation time. And they are said after they are raised from the dead, after they are raised from the dead, to reign with Jesus a thousand years. And then at the very end of the thousand years there is a second group who are also raised from the dead. But this group doesn't have it so good. They face a second death. Very interesting. We'll talk more about that later. So it says in verse 6, blessed and holy is the one who has part in the first resurrection. That's the one we want Over these, the second death has no power. Got it? First resurrection, no second death. Second resurrection, second death. That's the way it works. And thus the Bible makes these predictions about our future. Many people want to know: how do we know the Bible really is God's word? Because it accurately predicts the future. Has already and it continues to do so. It's really that simple. When the Bible is put to the test, every time it is right, and the scholars who criticized it are found to be wrong. That's happened so many times. You think people would learn a little bit of humility in turning to the Bible and believing it. This is not just any ancient book. It lives and breathes today. God wrote it. Its accuracy is guaranteed by the one who knows It has been confirmed by countless archaeological finds. It has a coherent message. It has stood the test of time. It has been criticized more than any other book in the history of the world. And it stands while the criticisms fall away. It tells of the greatest person who ever lived, died, and lived again, Jesus of Nazareth. It is God's word, and your soul will realize it is if you open your heart to God. You know, Jesus said of his own teachings, if anyone is willing to do God's will, he will know whether this teaching is of God or not in John 7. You'll know. You just have to open your heart. If you don't open your heart, you'll never know. God won't show it to you This book has the power to give new life to people today, but they have to listen and they have to believe, they have to want it You know, you may have a lot of questions. We can't answer them all today in one message. There's no way we can do that, but we're going to answer three questions for you today. Three questions. And here they are. Three questions to get us ready for your resurrection day, because it's coming and it's going to happen. The first question is why is there death? Why death? Then why was Jesus raised? And third, why will we be raised? Why death? Why was Jesus raised? Why will we be raised? Why death? Well, just indulge me on Easter Sunday to speak about death a few moments. It's not the best topic on a day that's celebrating life. But I think you will agree with me that there would be no celebration of a resurrection without the reality of what? So we have to talk about it. We won't appreciate the resurrection without facing this fact squarely. Here are four facts about death. Fact number one, death happens. That's stating the obvious. People don't like to talk about it, but it's true. Studies have shown the mortality rate doesn't change through history. It's still 100%. No one escapes the grave. There were some 620,000 soldiers who died in the Civil War, we're told. But the slaughter since then by death of the remaining soldiers was greater. All of them have died. Every last one. I think the last one was buried in the 1950s. Give it time, everybody dies. Death is the great equalizer in life, isn't it? The poor die, but the rich, having better health care, they still die. Those who are weak die. Those who are strong get weak and die. It really doesn't matter after you die if you have a bigger gravestone. Does it matter? I mean who cares about that? Because we're all going to be dead. Fact number two, death is a tragedy. Death is a tragedy. It's a strange thing when I see people glorifying death. You know the symbols you see sometimes on t-shirts? or in the back of a pickup truck or in a song or a tattoo on the arm and are glorifying the emblems and symbols of death. I say, why are we celebrating death? We don't celebrate disease and poverty and things like that. Why would we celebrate death? Because it makes us look tough. But death is going to beat everyone down into the ground. No one's tougher than death. Death is a terrible tragedy. You have someone that you love, you spend time with them, you cherish them, and then they die and they're taken from you. And you can't talk to them anymore. They're gone. You can't pick up the phone and call them and wish them a happy Easter. They're gone. They're not there with us anymore. Death can't be reversed, or so it seems. It makes us feel hopeless. It makes us feel sad. In some cases, it makes us feel angry and mad at God. Remember after 9-11, the question was, where was God on 9-11? Death doesn't seem fair. It's a news article from North Carolina tells of a soldier from Fort Bragg who was driving to his Colorado home. Did you hear about that? It was recent His truck went across the center line of the highway and sideswiped two limousines in a funeral procession of all things. The soldier was reaching for a mountain dew and lost control of his car. Don't drink Mountain Dew, I guess, is the Moral to that. Little girl named Cheyenne Thomas, nine years old, writing in the second limo. She died from injuries sustained in the accident. That's a tragedy And there's just countless stories like that all the time. But every death is a tragedy. Every death is the loss of a life. It's a tragedy. Number three, death is caused by human sin. Yes, death happens, and death always is a tragedy, and many people just accept it and they don't ask why. The biological reasons don't really answer the question. I mean, yeah, your blood spills out and you die. That's stating the obvious, or you get a disease and it attacks your body and you die. But why is the world like that? Science can't answer that question Why would God make life and then plan for life to be ended? Why would he do that? What's the point in that? I think this is so misunderstood. It's not that a person sins and so because they sin God strikes them dead for sinning. No, I think we all would have been wiped out a long time ago if that's how it worked. You see the cartoon, the guy sins and the lightning bolt goes across the sky. That's not how it works. That little girl, nor her parents, were worse sinners than anybody else that day. In fact, since she was younger, she probably was less of a sinner than the rest of us. It is this that the entire human race, without exception, except for Christ, I should say, has fallen into sin. Whether we die at seven years of age or die at seventy, we have all forfeited the right to life before God. That's something many are not willing to admit. Remember that God is the maker and creator of life. He didn't have to give us any life to begin with. Once he did, he gave us moral rules to live by and said, live by them and you live. Break them and you die. It was pretty simple. It was his to give, and it was his judgment to take away, if he so chose. And now people die. They die in hundreds of different ways There are deaths that are due to murder, but also deaths due to accident. Deaths due to natural disasters, but also just natural aging. But all of it is part of a world that God has no longer placed his protection over. He no longer guarantees life. We're not pleasing to him. We don't live the way that he has told us. Do you know innate to human understanding, except for a very few who have so violated their conscience they no longer have any morals But in age to human understanding in every society across the entire world at all times through human history, there has been a moral code, a sense of right and wrong, and even particulars You you shouldn't do this or it's wrong, and you should do this because this is right. And everybody, amazingly every human being, whether they've read the Bible or not, has this moral code built into them. Why is that Because everybody was made in the image of God. Genesis 127 says so. We're all descended from one race. You hear all the time about the problems with race and politics, there is only one race here. There's one race. There's the human race. There's not two or three or four. All of us are descended from one man. We don't live on a multiracial planet DNA now has confirmed what Genesis said all along. But all when they are honest, I think will admit that every last one of us has violated the moral code. Even the conscience within them bears witness to their own sin. When they point the finger at others and say they do wrong and then go practice it themselves, they have already proven they understand they've done wrong. Do we need the scripture to say it? The heart and mind already accuses, but the scripture does say it. There is none righteous, Romans 3 verse 10 says Not even one. There is none who understands, there is none who seeks for God. All have turned aside. Together they have become useless. There is none who does good There is not even one. End quote. Romans 3. 23, you all know it. For all have what? Sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. Jesus taught in Matthew 15, where does evil originate? From the heart of man, because man is not basically good. In the center of his being comes out evil and wicked thoughts and actions and words. People sin when they doubt God. People sin when they live selfish lives, when they're proud of their own accomplishments and don't give glory to God. They sin when they complain and don't give thanks. They sin every day. Word Deed or just evil thought. Guilt before God is not going to be hard to prove, people. It's better to admit it now. There'll be many desperate attempts to shift the blame, but it won't work Fact number four, death is not final. Hmm, this is the debatable one, isn't it? Death is not final. Well hang in there and you'll see why I think you know. Second question we want to ask and answer this morning is why was Jesus raised from the dead? That's a fact of history. Jesus of Nazareth was raised from the dead. Many people try to act like it's not a fact fact of history. It's better attested than many, many, many, many other facts of history that the history books declare as fact. So why do they not also declare this as fact? Well, there is a bias against the supernatural in people's thinking today. They think they're smart in excluding the supernatural as an explanation from the beginning. That's not smart. That's not open-minded. That's not even logical. This is a fact of history. His body was dead. His body was buried. Then he came back to life. Had nothing to do with CPR. It was the same body. God took the same body out of the tomb. He transformed it into a glorified body. It had powers and capabilities. Ours do not, but it was still a body. He was not a ghost. It was not a spirit. He was not a phantom To prove it to his own disciples, he appeared to them many times. He sat down and ate with them. He drank with them. He let them touch him and see him and talk with him. He did this over forty continuous days. Just turn a moment to the Gospel of Luke, if you would, to the last chapter, chapter 24, and I want you to see this. Luke 24 This is where all of the gospel writers point in faith, towards the end of the gospel. And here's the testimony given in verse, let's go to verse 36. Luke 24, verse 36. While they were telling these things, this is after the resurrection, Jesus himself stood in their midst and said to them, Peace be to you. What's their reaction? Verse 37. They were startled and frightened and thought that they were seeing a spirit. Listen, the Bible tells it exactly like it is. These great witnesses for the resurrection, they still didn't get it And he said to them, Why are you troubled, and why do doubts arise in your hearts? See my hands and my feet that it is I myself, touch me and see. For the spirit does not have flesh and bones as you see that I have. And when he had said this, he showed them his hands and his feet. While they still could not believe it, because of their joy and amazement, he said to them, Have you anything here to eat? They gave him a piece of broiled fish They remembered exactly what he ate. This was so memorable to them. A piece of broiled fish. There it is. That's what he ate. I was there and I saw it, you know. It wasn't fried, it was broiled And he took it and he ate it before them. Now Jesus said to them, These are my words which I spoke to you while I was still with you, that all things which are written about me in the law of Moses and the prophets and the Psalms must be fulfilled. And then he opened their minds to understand the scriptures. And he said to them, Thus it is written that the Christ would suffer and rise again from the dead the third day. And that repentance for forgiveness of sins would be proclaimed in his name to all the nations, beginning from Jerusalem. You are witnesses of these things. And then he goes on to talk about the sending of the Holy Spirit to give him power. That's one account. Would you turn now to the Gospel of John in the end? Just one gospel to the right. And chapter 20. And verse 26. They contain many, many of the appearances Christ had to his disciples. This one is noteworthy as well. John 20, verse 26. After eight days, his disciples were again inside, and Thomas with them. Thomas missed the first time. That's my name, Thomas, so I remind myself not to doubt. Jesus came and doors having been shut and stood in their midst and said, peace be with you. And then Jesus, he knows everything. He said to Thomas, reach here with your finger and see my hands, and reach here with your hand, and put it into my side. And do not be unbelieving, but believing. Now whether Thomas actually did it or not, we assume he did, but he clearly was convicted. Thomas answered and said to him, My Lord, and he understood this, my God. Jesus was no human being alone. He was God. He was the God man. Jesus said to him, Because you have seen me, have you believed? Blessed are they who did not see. and yet believe. And that's why John wrote this gospel. That's what he goes on to say. These were written so that you may believe. Come back to Revelation 20. Jesus' resurrection at that time was undeniable. Even to those who had a hard time believing it and did not expect it The prediction was made way ahead of time that he would rise from the dead. Centuries prior to that in the Old Testament. Jesus Himself made that prediction His death was a public death, and confirmed by expert witnesses who had executed hundreds before. They knew a dead man when they saw him. You know, Islam came along 500 years later and said, oh, Jesus really didn't die on the cross. How do you know that 500 years later? The ones that were there all saw him. They executed him. They said he was dead. Who are you going to trust? His burial place was well known by all. It was thoroughly protected with a very large rock rolled in front. The Emperor's seal went across it. There was a train guard posted to protect the body from theft. All of this was carefully recorded in Scripture. And yet Sunday morning there was that large stone rolled away. The body was missing. The grave clothes were inside that he was wrapped in The Jews didn't have the body and couldn't produce it. The Romans didn't have the body and couldn't produce it. And what happened to the disciples? They went from scaredy cats into bold proclaimers of the gospel. Hundreds of eyewitnesses on many different occasions over forty days not only saw him but touched him. And they saw him at length, they had discussions with him, they shared meals with him, they listened to his teaching. And not one at a time, hallucinating 500 at a time. And none of these people believed in Jesus' resurrection before it happened. Not one of them. And then they went on to die for what they believed. We know they're fanatics who die for crazy things, but these people investigated, they were persuaded against their own mind, then they believed, then they went out and preached, and then they died. Those are also facts of history. They had no motive to lie anyway. It brought them nothing but persecution, loss of money, and hatred. Surely, after a few months of A lie and a trick not working, they would have given up. But they didn't. They took it all the way to the grave and they sealed their testimony with their blood. What else do you need? What stronger testimony is there than that, humanly speaking? The evidence is strong. It's very strong. Arguments that have been raised against Jesus' resurrection one by one by So-called scholars, they're all very weak. They're really, honestly, they're laughable objections. But that's all that people have. They don't have anything intelligent to pose against the resurrection of Christ except to be prejudiced against it from the beginning Christianity started within the very cradle where Christ was persecuted. Christianity was born in the cradle of Judaism, right there in the city of Jerusalem. All of it started there. It was a well-known fact, and it spread right in the very city where Jesus was executed publicly. It didn't start a hundred years later as a legend. It started three days later. And then was proclaimed publicly forty days later. And the message was believed Not by a few, by hundreds, no, by thousands, no, by tens of thousands of people in Jerusalem They believed because the evidence was there and they were transformed into Christians There's so many books that have been written to help with this. There's one called The Case for Easter by Lee Strobel. It's short, it's to the point. Get it. He was an atheist, and then he investigated the evidence and he became a Christian. I think he worked for the Chicago Tribune as an editor. There's the book The Passion and the Empty Tomb by John Ankerberg. Who moved the stone by Frank Morrison, who also started out as a skeptic, a journalist to investigate the evidence and he was converted. The Resurrection Factor by Josh McDowell, any of these books would help. There are many others Why don't smart people believe this? They don't want to believe it. And you know something? That doesn't make them too smart. Okay, Jesus was raised, but the question really was why was he raised? That was the question we were supposed to answer. Very simply, here it is. Why was Jesus Christ raised from the dead? He was raised from the dead because that is the only solution for death. There is no other solution for death. If you die You're dead. There had to be a solution for death. He provided it. There are no other remedies. I know it's become more popular recently to believe in the reincarnation Why do people believe in that? That's not a remedy for death. They die. They don't break the power of death. They say they come back to do what? To die again. That's to me an admission that they don't know the secret for breaking the power of death. They don't know how it works I don't know who who wants to come back here anyway. You want to come back as a poor person? There's more of them than there are of the rich. We're only 5% of the world's population here in America. What are your odds of coming back here? Maybe you come back as a cow. I'm not making fun of it. That's exactly what they say. You can come back as a cabbage patch. You can come back as an insect. You can come back as anything. Folks, that is not a solution for death. And why it captivates so many people's minds is beyond me. Does it sound like a solution to you? Does it sound like they've figured something out? Is there anything there that really sounds intelligent? We die. Who's gonna help us? Jesus is. That's it. There is nobody else. You know, there's a lot of advice that are given to dying people and families these days. We we have grievance counselors and and and and they come along and and they're gonna help families, they're gonna help them as they approach death and cope with death. What are they gonna say to them Gee, things will be better after you die. How do they know? Did they go visit and come back? How do they know If all we have is a guest or a lie to get people to comfort them, folks, that's not comfort. There's no comfort in that. Well it's mean to it's mean to say these things, we're told. It's mean It's just mean. You know something I think it's meaner to lie to people and let them slip into eternity and find out the truth then. I think that's much meaner. I don't think there's any love or kindness in that at all God says there's a judgment for all sinners and all sin. Jesus was raised from the dead to solve man's greatest problem. And it's not the upcoming election. It's not the economy. Stupid. It is the resurrection of Jesus Christ, is it? We're told there are so many problems, but this is the problem. This is our problem. We die. And we need a resolution for it. Jesus' resurrection has great meaning Here's a few things. Number one, it tells us he is really the son of God. That's what Romans 1. 4 says. Jesus was declared the Son of God with power. By the resurrection from the dead. He was declared the Son of God with power by the resurrection from the dead. That's what the resurrection says God was making a statement about Jesus. Do you want to know who I'm pleased with? Do you want to know who's my son? I'm going to tell you, the rest of you are going to die and stay dead. I'm going to raise him from the dead. And that'll let all the rest of you know there's something unique and special about him. Pay attention to it. All the other leaders of all the other world religions are unless they're living right now and they started a new religion and they will be dead soon. Is that politically incorrect? Or is that the truth? That's the truth. Why would you ever follow a dead man who didn't conquer Death. Why would anyone ever do that? What is the intelligence in that? Jesus is not dead. Why not? Because he's the Son of God Also, it means that Jesus was sinless. You know, we die. Why do we die? Because we sinned. Jesus died, not because he sinned, but because he took whose sin. Our sin on him. That's why he died. But since it was our sin on him and he paid for it completely, he couldn't then stay what? It was impossible for him to stay dead. We forget that. It was in a sense to be expected that the Holy One of God would not suffer decay, as Peter says in his sermon. He makes that very point in Acts 2. God raised him up again, putting an end to the agony of death, since it was impossible for him to be held in death's power. There's a third reason he was raised. It shows that he's the savior of mankind. You remember Jesus' conversation with Martha? He said to her, I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in me will live, even if he dies, and if every everyone who lives and believes in me will never die. And then he turned to Martha, he said, Do you believe this And she said to him, Yes, Lord, I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, even He who comes into the world. Jesus saves people from sin and death. He gives them eternal life freely to anyone who will just believe. But your faith must be firm. A fourth thing it means is that there's hope for all the world. Peter wrote about this in 1 Peter 1 3. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who according to his great mercy has caused us to be born again to a living hope. Through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. Many people have hopes, expectations, wishes. They hope certain things will work out in their lives. They expect life to turn out in a certain way or after life to be another way. Give it time and those hopes will disappoint those people. They will disappoint those people. Because what they hope in is either never living or is already dead. Jesus is called a living hope because he is what? He is alive. A fifth thing that Jesus' resurrection means is that he's coming back to this planet. He's coming again. Everyone will see him. He's coming back visibly and bodily. He didn't go into heaven as a ghost or a spirit. He went into heaven, the other dimension. He went there bodily, in flesh and bones. You say, how does that work? I say, I don't know. It's never happened to my body before. I don't understand the physics behind it. I doubt there's anyone studying physics today whose physics are as advanced as God's. He just did it. He transformed his body and he went to another realm. We can't see that realm and he's coming back. You doubt God has the power to do that? Look out your window and see what God has already made. You see enough power, don't you? 1 Thessalonians 1:10 says, we wait for Jesus from heaven, whom God raised from the dead. Jesus rescues us from the wrath to come. And the sixth thing his resurrection means is that he holds your future in his hand. Now Here's where we come home. This is where we come back to Revelation 20 and we think about ourselves. You have to deal with Jesus, the resurrected God man. He is the man God has chosen, Acts 17 says, to be the judge of all other human beings. He will judge your life. And he knows everything about your life. He knows your motives and your inner thoughts. Jesus Christ, not anybody else, this isn't a Western idea. This is a universal idea. He will judge everybody So we come to the question, why will we be raised? This is interesting, and I hope in the few minutes we have remaining that this will just be impressed upon you. We come back to Revelation 20. Why will we be raised? Well let's just state briefly that we will be raised. In 1 Corinthians 6. 14 it says God has not only raised the Lord, but will also raise us up through his power. That's referring to Christians. What many people don't understand is that there's going to be two resurrections. Do you remember our text in Revelation 20, verse 6? There's going to be one resurrection before the reign of Jesus on earth, and then there's going to be another resurrection after the reign of Jesus on earth. What is the difference between those two resurrections? There's a lot The first will be a resurrection of the righteous, of the believers. These are people described even earlier in the book of Revelation as those who believed in the testimony about Jesus, they believed them as their Savior And then they lived a a righteous life as proof of their faith. In many cases they were persecuted. You saw even in many cases they were beheaded. They were sinners who admitted that they had sinned. They didn't trust in their own goodness. They knew they needed Jesus. They asked him to clothe them in his goodness. That's why they're clothed in white as symbolism there in Revelation. And verse 6 says, they're blessed. Blessed are those who take part in the first resurrection. That's the righteous resurrection, the one for believers in Christ. The first resurrection here in Revelation is that one right before the thousand-year reign of Christ, when we all get raised from the dead. We live with Christ in a perfect new world, a paradise, as it was before. We're blessed. That means we're well off. It's going to go well with us. We're fortunate. We're the ones that should be the most happy. It also says, notice that the blessing goes along with holiness. That means God has cleaned us up by the blood of Jesus. We're forgiven of all of our sin. You are blessed because you have eternal life in that resurrection. You'll be priests. You will reign with Christ a thousand years, it says And then later you'll be part of the new heaven and the new earth beyond the thousand years. It goes on to talk about that in Revelation 21 and 22 You're blessed because your life has a future. You're blessed because it's an unending future, a joyous future, a happy future, a blessed future, a holy future, a peaceful one You're blessed too because you don't face the second death. That's the only blessing I need to hear about. Because if there wasn't all that good stuff, I have enough fear of God in me just to avoid this. I hope you do too. There's going to be a resurrection of the righteous, there's going to be a resurrection of the unrighteous, the second resurrection is the resurrection of the unrighteous Now this is hinted at also in Daniel twelve in the Old Testament in verse two. Many of those who sleep in the dust of the ground, Daniel wrote, will awake these to everlasting life, but the others to disgrace and everlasting contempt. Two different results. In John 5, Jesus spoke of these two in verses 28 and 29. Do not marvel at this. He knew people had a hard time believing in the resurrection. He said, Do not marvel at this, for an hour is coming in which all who are in the tombs will hear God's voice and will come forth. Those who did the good deeds to a resurrection of life, those who committed the evil deeds to a resurrection of judgment. The good deeds are deeds because of our faith in Christ, by the way. They're not on our own. Two different resurrections with two very different results. Notice in Revelation 20, it also speaks of those who are raised in the second resurrection. And then it goes on to talk about what will happen to them. Look forward to Revelation 20 and verse 12. 12 through 15. Just look down there. John again with a vision says, I saw the dead. The great and the small standing before the throne. This is following the resurrection. And books were opened, and another book was opened, which is the book of life, and the dead were judged from the things which were written in the books according to their deeds. And the sea gave up the dead which were in it. A lot of people have died and fallen to the sea. You've seen the movie Titanic, and you know there are a lot of dead. Their bodies are at the bottom of the sea somewhere. Their bones were down there. And death and Hades gave up the dead which were in them, and they were judged, every one of them according to their deeds. And then death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. Listen, this is the second death, the lake of fire. And if anyone's name was not found written in the book of light, he was thrown into the lake of fire. What is the second death? It is a lake of fire. It is for those who didn't take part in the first resurrection. It is for those who were part of the second resurrection and were raised for judgment. They died once. Then they got raised from the dead. Then they stood before the great white throne. All their deeds were recorded. Every sin was noted. It was cataloged, and they were judged. And then they were thrown into the lake of fire, where there is contempt and torment. They died a second time. And the second death is far worse. And it's permanent. Folks, you're going to have a resurrection day in your future, and it's the most important day in your personal life ever. There's nothing else that's going to happen ever in your life, not even the day you die, that's more important than your resurrection day. Which one is it going to be? Is it going to be the resurrection unto life that Jesus gives freely, or is it going to be a resurrection? unto a second death. Why even flirt with that? Such a wonderful offering that God has given. Freedom from all sin. Free life given forever. Why is Jesus being held back and not coming? We talked about that last time because this is a time of mercy and grace But if his grace is presumed upon, if you think you can get away with it, you'll be so sorry. In Romans 10 it says, if you confess with your mouth Jesus as Lord, you say, Jesus is my Lord, and you mean it And you believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead. In other words, you don't just go along with the Easter crowd, but you're convinced it's true. You will be saved. That's it. You don't have to come up. We don't have to sing just as I am or any other hymn to get you to walk forward. And try to get you converted right there in your seat. You confess Jesus to be your Lord. You believe in your heart, God raised him from the dead, and you are saved. It's so simple. John 1, verses 12 and 13, as many as received Christ to them he gave the right to become children of God. Even to those who believe in his name, who were born not of blood, not of human birth, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but were born of God. In John 6, Jesus said these precious words, For this is the will of my Father, that everyone who beholds the Son And believes in him will have eternal life. And I myself, Jesus said, will raise him up on the last day. Christ the Lord is risen today. You and I will be risen then. Make sure it is the first resurrection through your faith in Jesus Christ and you will never die again. Again. Almighty God, our maker and granter of life, we acknowledge your right over us and your right to judge us. Mostly we are so grateful for the sending of a Savior crucified and buried and risen for us. We pray for All our visitors, our children, maybe those who've come and who've been part of this church before and have listened and it's never sunk in, Lord, save their soul. Grant them faith. Open their eyes Transfer them from the kingdom of darkness into the kingdom of light. Help them to know of your power. Grant them new life And we just ask it because you're a merciful and gracious God, and we worship you and love you, and we say, yes indeed, Jesus is our Lord, and he is risen from the dead. And all God's people said, Amen.