John chapter 8, verses 21 to 30 is our text. And in this passage we see Jesus mercifully warn the Jews about his departure. And their dire condition. This passage, this part of the conversation that Jesus has with the Jews, is filled with warnings. And so will our time be this morning. Let's pray and ask for God's help. Father, we thank you for your word. This revelation of Jesus Christ, our Lord and Savior, the Son of God, the Messiah His words are represented here. They're given to us, not only for the sake of those to whom he spoke on that particular day, but for us on this day. And Lord, as we come to your word, we acknowledge it not as the word of man, but as it truly is the word of God, which means it bears the weight of divine authority. We also know that your word has told us that the only way for us to hear And understand and believe is if you would open our eyes and our ears and our hearts. And so we ask that you would do that today, that you would accomplish in each one of us according to your will. For some, new life, for others, encouragement For us, knowledge and wisdom, whatever it is we need, Lord, grant that to us by your Spirit. For Christ's sake we pray. Amen. Everyone thinks they're going to live a long and full life until they come face to face with their mortality. This is especially true of children and young people who have a sense of invincibility, and yet some experience tragedy that Reveals to them that they in fact are null, are not invincible. To learn To avoid learning this lesson the hard way, Ecclesiastes gives us this word of wisdom It is better to go to the house of mourning than to the house of feasting, for this is the end of all mankind, and the living will lay it to heart. There's nothing more sobering than attending a funeral and watching a casket being lowered into the ground. James four fourteen reminds us if we are presumptuous in our making of plans He writes, you do not know what tomorrow will bring. What is your life? For you are a mist that appears for a little time and then vanishes. For many of us, being healthy, uh being productive in life gives us the false notion that We can determine the future, that we can make plans and accomplish those plans, that we are in full control of our lives. And we might even be deceived into thinking God wouldn't take me out in my prime. That's foolish thinking. Now there are many reasons why it is wise to consider one's mortality and the uncertainty of the future, but I submit to you that the most significant reason is because when we consider our mortality, it forces us to answer the question in some way When will we get right with God? When we consider our mortality, we realize we may not have as much time as we think. For those who think they have a long life to live, they don't consider their own soul. They need to consider that their time may almost be up. To say it nicely, the it's the immature person who thinks that they don't need to get right with light with God today. They can have all their fun, and then someday in the future, once they've had all their fun, then they'll get right with God. Proverbs 28, 6 puts it this way: whoever trusts in his own mind is a fool. It's foolish to think that way, not only because you don't know how much time you have, but it also assumes that once you've gone down that path of sin, you'll want to come back. But sin isn't like that. Sin is like a cancer in your body. And so the fool would be the cancer patient who decides, you know what, I don't want to go through treatment. I want to have fun and enjoy life, and maybe someday I'll treat my cancer. But what might have been operable, easily treatable when it was first found, the longer you let it go. It may become inoperable and untreatable. Sin is the same way. It hardens those who pursue it Disinterest and apathy today lead to hard-hearted rebellion tomorrow. And so my burden this morning as we look at this passage of scripture. culminating, though not concluding, but culminating everything else that we've looked at in the last few weeks of uh the the study here in the Gospel of John is to appeal to those of you who have not yet believed in Jesus Christ and given your life to him. Whether you are eight years old or eighty years old. Whatever stage of life you're in, my prayers that you would heed the warnings of the Lord Jesus Christ and consider the condition of your soul. And the uncertainty of the future. And that you would set aside whatever has been hindering you from believing, and that you would believe. That Jesus is the Son of God and the Savior and Lord. Now, for many of us who have believed, this passage is for us as well. It's a sober lesson for us on how we can communicate a warning to those with whom we share the gospel. And it's also a warning for those of us who, even if we have belief, maybe we're allowing sin to fester in our life. And we're trusting in our perceived salvation that we're gonna be okay. We can handle sin in our life. We can continue to let it be fostered. But the reality is, no, we must repent and pursue faithfulness to the Lord because our time might almost be up. Follow along as I read John chapter 8, verses 21 to 30. So he, Jesus, said to them again. I am going away, and you will seek me, and you will die in your sin. Where I am going, you cannot come. So the Jews said, Will he kill himself since he says, Where I am going, you cannot come? He said to them, You are from below, I am from above. You are of this world. I am not of this world. I told you that you would die in your sins, for unless you believe that I am He, you will die in your sins. So they said to him, Who are you? Jesus said to them, Just what I've been telling you from the beginning. I have much to say to you and much to judge, but he who sent me is true, and I declare to the world what I have heard from him. They did not understand that he had been speaking to them about the Father So Jesus said to them, When you have lifted up the Son of Man, then you will know that I am He, and that I do nothing on my own authority But speak just as the Father taught me. And he who sent me is with me. He has not left me alone, for I always do the things that are pleasing to him. As he was saying these things, many believed in him. The last few messages in the Gospel of John, we've been studying. Jesus, as he interacts with the Jews in the temple at the Feast of Booze. John 7 begins before the feast, it moves to the middle of the feast, it ends on the last day of the feast. And if you saw the video on why I'm not preaching John 7. 53 to 811, you understand that while that section moves the narrative. forward a day because that's not originally part of the Gospel of John. Jumping from John 752 to 812 keeps us on the same day, that last day of the feast, which makes sense with what Jesus proclaims. Now from here in verse 21 all the way through to the middle of chapter 10, it's actually unclear how much time passes. It's entirely possible that that whole section takes place on the same day or there may be some passage of a number of days or maybe even a month. The middle of John ten takes us to the Feast of Dedication, which is two months after the Feast of Booths. But whatever the time factor is, all that takes place between John 7 and the middle of John 10 is taking place in or around the temple. in Jerusalem. And we've seen here that the interactions that the people had with Jesus, uh in those interactions, that there was a mixture of responses by the people to Jesus' teaching and his claims. We saw that in chapter ten there were many who misidentified him. They believed that he was the prophet sent by Moses but the prophet like Moses. There were some who believed that he was the Messiah, and it's unclear whether their faith was genuine or not. There were those who I uh who doubted his identity as the Messiah. There were those who were amazed by him and his teaching and what he could do. There were those who hated him. Of course the religious leaders were cheap among them. And then finally there were those who were willing to consider his claims and listen more, such as Nicodemus the Pharisee who uh scripture seems to indicate came to faith uh at some point then or later. But the overall response of the Jewish people to Jesus here at the Feast of Booz was anything but full fledged belief. Here at the tail end of his ministry, when he had been teaching the Word of God, he had performed innumerable miracles and signs. He had been uh uh defending himself against false accusations. After all of that, the people still rejected him And that's tragic to be sure. Everyone would read these pages and want to say to themselves, if Jesus came in my day, I would believe in him. So it's tragic that they didn't believe in him, but it's not a surprise. John began his gospel by telling us the outcome of Jesus' ministry. It says in John 1, 10 and 11. He was in the world, and the world was made through him, yet the world did not know him. He came to his own, and his own people did not receive him. So he tells us the end from the beginning. So the reader of John's Gospel, you and I, are not surprised to see that the people disbelieved in Jesus. But neither was Jesus surprised in the midst of it. He knew that he would not be Received, in fact, he said in chapter two, verse nineteen, as he spoke with the Jewish leaders at that time, You destroy this body Or rather, this temple referring to his body, and in three days I will raise it up. That was a cryptic way of letting them know what was going to happen. Or in chapter 6, verse 51, he said, I am the living bread that came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever, and the bread that I will give for the life of the world is my flesh. He knew that he would die at the hands of the Jews and the Romans. He knew that he would be crucified. He would tell his disciples that for a long time, even though they didn't understand and believe him. He knew that the Jews would despise him and reject him. So what did he do with that knowledge? Did he bide his time and go away with the disciples and wait for just the right opportune moment when he would come to Jerusalem to be crucified? Did he refuse to interact with him whose or with those whose only interest was to find some way to arrest him and kill him? No, he kept giving the Jews every opportunity to repent. Like the prophets of old, Jesus kept calling the people and the leaders to faith, to belief, to turn from their wicked ways and turn to the Lord. And so we see here, beloved, the mercy and the goodness of Jesus. He kept opening the door for them to come to their senses and believe in him, the Messiah. And specifically in this passage, we see Jesus warning the Jews that though there was still time for them to believe, their time was just about up. But they could still believe before it was too late. The warnings Jesus gives here on the to the Jews on this particular day were not just for them, they are for us as well. Some of you need to listen to these words carefully. You need to pay attention to what Jesus would say. Some of you children have been growing up in the church. You've attended Sunday school classes. Maybe you went to a class this morning. And yet you have not yet trusted in Jesus as your Savior. Pay attention to what Jesus says today. Some of you teenagers have been apathetic. You've not cared. You've not listened. You need to pay attention to what Jesus says today. Some of you adults have been coming week in and week out. You've been interested, curious, maybe you've been fulfilling your religious duty as you perceive it. You need to listen to Jesus today. If you fall into any of those categories, listen to the warnings that Jesus gives here. And again, for those of us who have believed, we too need to listen to these warnings. To see how we can, like Christ, warn mercifully, graciously those with whom we call to believe in Christ. Well, in this passage, we see five distinct warnings. Five distinct warnings to those who have heard the truth of Jesus Christ and have not yet believed. Let me give them to you up front and then we'll walk through them one by one. First, your time is almost up. Second, your time to believe is still at hand. Third, your time for judgment will come. And fourth, your time of belief might be too late. And then finally, your time can be today. Jesus has some sober warnings to give in this passage. But you are never too young or too old to respond by faith. Let's begin with the first. Your time is almost up. Look again at verse 21 So Jesus said to them again, I am going away, and you will seek me, and you will die in your sin. Where I am going, you cannot come. Notice that these words are unprompted. Jesus is not responding to a comment. He is not responding to a question. We're not jumping into the middle of a conversation necessarily. This may be soon after the previous section. Perhaps it could be within a matter of days, it's unclear. Jesus knows that they want to arrest him, Jesus knows that the Jews want to get rid of him, that they don't want the people to sit under his teaching, they don't don't want him to have influence over anyone any longer. And so one might say that Jesus tells them about his departure to try and get them to back off of trying to get rid of him. But that can't be true. Because he knows that God's timing is perfect. He knows that this is not the right time for the Father's plan to be accomplished, that he will not die on this day He knows that his death will be at their hands, but not now. And so he's not trying to get them to stop anything. He doesn't have to do that. He knows the Father divinely protects him. The only possible reasonable rather explanation is that by raising the issue of his departure He's warning them that their time is almost up. Notice how he says here, I am going away, and you will seek me, and you will die in your sin. At first glance, that may seem to be cryptic, but when you consider the context and what has come before this, it becomes clear. As Jesus has taught and engaged with the people in the temple during the Feast of Booth, he has invited all of those who are thirsty to come to him. And because he is God, he has the ability to grant the Holy Spirit the giver of life, the fountain of living waters, to those who are thirsty. This is a direct proclamation that he is God. He's declared himself also to be the light of the world. And that is a direct and explicit proclamation that he is the Messiah. He's defended the claims of his teaching by simply asserting that he is to be believed. And also because of his relationship with the Father who bears witness about him. In other words, at this feast of booths, where the Jews celebrated God's deliverance of Israel from uh slavery to Egypt and protected and provided for them for the forty years in the wilderness and where they also looked forward in anticipation for the coming Messiah through the water drawing ceremony and the lighting ceremony Jesus has loudly and clearly proclaimed, I am here. You don't need to keep looking for the Messiah. I am right here. In response, though, the Jews have questioned, have doubted, and have denied him. And worse, they've been trying to get rid of him. And so Jesus says, I am going away, and you will seek me, and you will die in your sin. What does he mean by you will seek me? He means that when he's gone, they will keep looking for the Messiah. Those who rejected him all along will continue their search for the Messiah. Those who thought he was the Messiah will conclude by his death that I guess he wasn't the Messiah, so let's look for another candidate. They will keep looking for the Messiah. And you know what? The Jews are still looking for the Messiah. They're still searching and hoping and waiting for the Messiah to come. Jesus says, you will seek me, and you will die in your sin. The Jews who Jesus spoke to sought for the Messiah their whole lives. And they died in their sin. And every generation of Jews since then who have searched and hoped and waited for the Messiah. Have done so their whole life, and they came to the end of their life, and they died in their sin. And so it will be for those who are alive today. The Jews who are searching for the Messiah apart from Christ, apart from Jesus. And why will they die in their sin? Because they rejected the Messiah who already came. They rejected the the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. They did not receive, indeed they killed the one who came to die as a substitute for sinners And reconcile them to God and grant them forgiveness of sin. When you die in your sin, Jesus says, Where I am going, you cannot come. When you die apart from Jesus Christ, there is no second chance. He was going back to the Father. He was going back to the glory of heaven. But those who die in their sin cannot go there. Psalm 1 says, The wicked will not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous. For the Lord knows the way of the righteous, but the way of the wicked will perish. Those who die in their sin cannot go to heaven. They can only go to hell. The place of God's judgment. In hell, you are separated from the glory and the grace and the mercy and the kindness and the goodness and the beauty and the life and the light of God. In hell, the only thing you know of God is His judgment. And beyond the torments of God's judgment are the torments of your own soul. Where you will be crying out, why did I not believe when I had a chance? Why did I not listen to those who proclaimed the gospel to me? Why did I ignore the goodness of God? Why did I choose my sin over the Savior? Why did I delay believing in Christ? Jesus says, if you die in your sin, you cannot go where I'm going. When he says that, where I am going you cannot come, he doesn't mean that they don't have the permission to come. He means that they do not have the ability to come. Why? Because heaven is the place where no unrighteousness dwells It's the dwelling place of God. Heaven is where all that is good and righteous and beautiful and true thrives, and where the opposite of those things, which is everything that sin is, cannot survive. There's only one type of sinner who can go to where Jesus went, and that's a forgiven sinner. Who is now a saint in Christ. When you die in Christ, your sin has been eternally removed from you, and you are now clothed in his righteousness. But when you die in your sin, your sin is eternally attached to you, and you cannot dwell with God. But my friends, please know that when Jesus says this, he hasn't closed the door yet. He hasn't Left yet. They haven't died in their sin of unbelief yet. There's still time, but that time is almost up. Now they don't know this, but We know because we have the scripture in front of us that it will be about six months before Jesus goes away. Once they walked away from Jesus as he hung on the cross at Golgotha, they would never see him again. Until they stood before him. Can you imagine walking away from a man hanging on a cross? thinking you just did God a favor by killing a blasphemer. And the next time you see that man once bloodied Body torn apart, you standing as your God and judge. Lord have mercy on their souls. Looking back, six months is what they actually had to be in the presence of Jesus on this earth and believe in him. If you knew that you only had six months for the opportunity to believe What would you do? Would you stay hardened in your unbelief? Would you wait to the very last moment possible to believe? Or would you believe as soon as you could so that you could live the rest of those six months in worship and service of Christ? In his book, Don't Waste Your Life, John Piper tells this story. For me as a boy, one of the most gripping illustrations my fiery father, who was an evangelist, used was the story of a man converted in old age. The church had prayed for this man for decades. He was hard and resistant. But this time, for some reason, he showed up when my father was preaching. At the end of the service during a hymn, to everyone's amazement, he came and took my father's hand. They sat down together on the front pew of the church as the people were dismissed. God opened his heart to the gospel of Christ, and he was saved from his sins and given eternal life. But That did not stop him from sobbing and saying as tears ran down his wrinkled face, I've wasted it. I've wasted it. I've wasted it. Some of you think you would be wasting your life if you believed in Jesus today You think that it would be better, a better use of your life to spend it in pleasure, in fun, in success, and then wait until some later day to give your life over to Jesus Christ. But the truth is, when your eyes are open to the glory and the majesty of Christ, and you come to experience his forgiveness and grace. That's when you realize that there is nothing better, there is nothing more fulfilling, there is nothing more exciting or more satisfying than to live your life following after and serving the King of Kings. If you wait until the end, you've lost that opportunity. You've wasted your life. You don't know if you have six months or six years or sixty years. Or six days, or six hours. What you do know is you have right now. You have not read your last. Your heart is still beating. Your mind is still functioning. So believe in Jesus before your time is up. Do not die in your sin of unbelief. Consider the second warning. Your time to believe is still at hand. Look at verses twenty-two to twenty-four. Jesus says, or rather, so the Jews said Will he kill himself since he says, Where I am going you cannot come? He said to them, You are from below. I am from above. You are of this world, I am not of this world. I told you that you would die in your sins. For unless you believe that I am He, you will die in your sins. This is not the first time that Jesus has said that He would He was going where He uh where they could not go and the last time was in chapter seven verse thirty four and their interpretation at that point which was actually just a few days earlier was that Maybe he's going to go to the Gentiles. Maybe he's going to go preach to those people that we despise and so where we would not even want to follow. But over these last few days the tension has increased, the hatred in their heart has intensified, and they put a different spin on his words. There's a sinister sarcasm in their question. You can almost imagine them elbowing one other one another. Oh, is he gonna kill himself? What's this man talking about? You see, the Jews believed that killing yourself was a fast pass to God's judgment. And in their self-righteous pride, they assumed that they were going to be entering into paradise. And so if they couldn't go where he was going, then that must mean that he's going to hell. And so just as a form of sarcasm, they conclude, he must be talking about killing himself. Well, Jesus ignores their slight there in verse 23, and in verse 23, rather, he pinpoints the issue, the issue that decides where he was going and where they are going. And where you who are sitting here are going. What determines where you go? Again, he said to them, You are from below, I am from above. You are of this world, I am not of this world. These two statements are parallel but not equivalent. First, he speaks of origin, to be from below And from above refers to their heavenly uh rather their earthly origin and his heavenly origin. Yes, Jesus was conceived on the earth and born just as they were, but he existed before his conception and they didn't He existed in heaven for all eternity and came into this world, and they came into existence on this earth. And so he speaks of origin. You are from below, I am from above. Second, he speaks of citizenship You are of this world means that they are citizens of this kingdom ruled by the devil And so for Jesus to not be of this world means that he is a citizen of the kingdom of heaven. Jesus will put this a little bit more explicitly down in verses 42 to 47. Look there with me. We'll study this in more detail in a number of weeks. But Jesus said to them, If God were your father, you would love me. I came not of my own accord, but he sent me. Why is it that you do not understand what I say? It's because you cannot bear to hear my word. You are of your father the devil And your will is to do your father's desires. He was a murderer from the beginning and does not stand in the truth because there is no truth in him. When he lies, he speaks out of his own character, for he is a liar and the father of lies. But I tell the truth. Because I tell the truth, you do not believe me. Which one of you convicts me of sin? I tell you the truth, why do you not believe me? Whoever is of God hears the words of God. The reason why you do not hear them is that you are not of God. Jesus' preaching ministry began a couple years prior to this with The proclamation that the kingdom of God is at hand. Mark chapter 1 records that repeated message that Jesus proclaimed. The time is fulfilled, the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Repent and believe the gospel. And then at the end of his ministry, as Jesus stood before Pilate, Jesus said to him in John 18, 36, My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, my servants would have been fighting, but or that I might not be delivered over to the Jews. But my kingdom is not of this world. So Jesus is not just a citizen of the kingdom of heaven, of course, he is the king of the kingdom of heaven. They, on the other hand, are of this world. Where in the words of Ephesians 2, they are following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air, reference to Satan. Now let's be clear about this by distinguishing their origin and his origin, his their citizenship and his citizenship, if you will, Jesus is not making a distinction between them as human beings and himself as divine. He is not speaking in terms that would prevent all of humanity from going where he is going. And we know that because of what he says in verse 24. Look at that again. He says, I told you that you would die in your sins for unless Unless you believe that I am He, you will die in your sins. In other words, as long as you are of this world, You are in your sins. And if you die in that state, if you die in your sins, you cannot go where I am going. You cannot join me in the presence of God the Father. But notice that Jesus says, unless you believe that I am He. The issue of their origin and citizenship is based on the fact that at present they do not believe But if they do believe, that changes everything. Because then, when you believe, you are born from above. You are born again. And so alongside the warning that your time is almost up is this warning that your time is still at hand. There's still time to believe unless you believe that I am He. Now there's that's not a reason, of course, to delay believing. It's a reason to believe before the last grain of sand drops through the hourglass. There's only one way to go where he is going, and that is to believe that He is. Notice again verse 24, unless you believe that I am he, as the ESV translates it. That translates the simple phrase ego a me, which very simply means I am. The he is implied. Maybe. This phrase is used in context where there is a clear referent or an antecedent, such that I am he is a natural assumption of what is being intended. We saw this back in chapter four, verse twenty-six, when Jesus was interacting with the Samaritan woman at the well. She said, I know that the Messiah is coming, and when he comes he will t uh tell us all things. And Jesus is replying the same. Jesus' reply in the Greek is the same. Ego, a me, I am, but it fits the context that he's intending to mean, I am he. I am that Messiah who is coming. But here in verse 24, there is no clear referent or antecedent to imply the he unless you go all the way back up to verse 12, where Jesus says, I am the light of the world. But for various reasons, that seems too far of a stretch to make. And so we're left with this phrase which simply means I am. And we know that it's at least a possibility, if not a likelihood, that that's exactly what Jesus intends to mean because this whole conversation ends at the end of the chapter with an unambiguous I am. In fact, look down at verses 58 and 59. Jesus said to them, Truly, truly I say to you, before Abraham was, I am. So they picked up stones to throw at him, but Jesus hid himself. There's there no one's confused. Jesus said, A go, a me, I And that's exactly what he meant by saying that before Abraham existed, I am, Jesus clearly identifies himself as Yahweh, the I am, the God of Abraham. And so here in verse 24, because he says that he is from above, and because there is no clear referent to whom he's referring, it's almost certain that he means exactly the same. thing. But because that's such an audacious statement, the Jews don't initially jump to that conclusion this particular time. Jesus warns them that their time to believe is still at hand. And believing that He is the I am is the only way to go where He is going. Now, how does that belief enable you to go where he is going? It's because when you believe the truth about Jesus. You become reconciled to him and you become a citizen of his kingdom. You are now not of this world. Again, Jesus said in John 3 that unless you are born again, you cannot see the kingdom of heaven. So when you believe, you are born again. And in fact, Jesus describes his disciples In this similar way in John 17, when he prays in the upper room, he says, I have given them, he's speaking to the Father, I have given them your word, and the world has hated them because they are not of this world, just as I am not of this world. I do not ask that you take them out of the world, but that you keep them from the evil one. They are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. So, my friend, understand what this means for you This means that the issue that determines whether or not you will go to heaven and be where Jesus is is not a matter of being a good person. It's not a matter of performing religious duties. It's not even a matter of believing a set of abstract religious principles. What determines whether you go where Jesus went is what you believe about Him. You must believe nothing less than that He is truly God and truly man, that He is the Christ, the Son of God. And when you believe that truth about Jesus, that's when you receive the forgiveness of your sin, you receive eternal life, and you become a citizen of heaven. And this means that it can be said of you that you are no longer of this world, but you are a citizen of the kingdom of God. But if you die before believing, you will die in your sins, and you will find yourself away from the presence of Christ and God and experience his judgment. So far, we've considered two warnings. Your time is almost up, and your time to believe is still at hand. Consider the third. Look at verses 25-26 to see that your time of judgment will come. So they said to him, Who are you? Or, who are you? Jesus said to them, just what I have been telling you from the beginning. I have much to say about you and much to judge, but he who sent me is true, and I declare to the world what I have heard from him. Jesus has just made the statements that made statements that no common man can make. I am from above, I am not of this world, unless you believe that I am, you will die in your sin. And such statements taken on their own would indeed be confusing. But Jesus has said them alongside everything else he's been declaring over the last few days. And since he's clearly and explicitly identified himself as the Messiah, these statements should not have been confusing to them. But to a darkened mind and a hardened heart that can't pull these strings of truth together, it is confusing. And so they say Who are you? And it's unclear whether they mean who are you in a confused, hey, I'm interested to hear the answer sense, or if they really intend, who are you, as an expression of unbelief. Who do you think you are, in other words? Either way, Jesus responds by asserting that he's not saying anything new, that he's been telling them who he is all along. And some of you might have a translation where Jesus puts this in the form of a question. What have I been saying to you from the beginning? Other translations like the East V makes it a statement, just what I've been telling you from the beginning. The underlying Greek has some challenges, but it's clear what he's communicating. In other words Simply that I've been telling you exactly all of these things from the beginning Their question is not born out of interest in truth, it is born out of unbelief. And so he confronts that Remember that back in uh uh verse 15, which we studied last week, Jesus said, I judge no one. And we noted that he meant by that, that he doesn't judge the way that they judge. He doesn't judge by appearances. Also, he doesn't judge in the sense that it wasn't his time to judge. His purpose in his first coming was not to judge, but to save. Judgment would come later. And that's what he means there in verse 26 when he says, I have much to say about you and much to judge. In other words, you're not getting off the hook. The time for judgment is coming. He says, He who sent me is true, and I declare to the world what I have heard from him. In other words, the day will come when I will tell you what I think about you. And I will judge you. But right now, my mission is to convey to the world what I hear from the Father. Who only speaks the truth. His mission at his first coming was not to judge individuals, but to proclaim the message of salvation to the world and to give his life as a ransom for many. But when he comes again, he will come with judgment. the ungodly, of all their deeds of ungodliness that they have committed in such an ungodly way, and of all the harsh things that ungodly sinners have spoken against him. Your judgment, or rather, your time for judgment is coming, Jesus says. That warning again applies not only to the Jews present in that moment, but it applies to all of us today. You may think that because Jesus hasn't judged you yet, that he won't judge you, or maybe that there isn't a judge. Don't be deceived. Romans 2. 4 says, God's kindness is meant to lead you to repentance. You may be enjoying life and prosperity, but don't take that as a sign that you have escaped God's notice. It may be that the good life you're experiencing today is a mercy from God because it will be the only good you ever experience. If you continue in unbelief, the day will come when you look back at your healthy body, your healthy bank account, your healthy relationships. And you will mourn the fact that you didn't see God's mercy. Jesus will hold you accountable for ignoring his kindness. And his goodness and taking it for granted. If you feel blessed in this life, even while living in unbelief, One day you will experience what Psalm 73 describes, God will do to the wicked who enjoy prosperity in this life. It says, truly you will set them in slippery places. You make them fall to ruin. How are they destroyed in a moment, swept away utterly by terrors My friend, make no mistake that the time for judgment is coming. Consider the fourth warning. Your time of belief might be too late. Verse 27. They did not understand that he had been speaking to them about the Father, so Jesus said to them, When you have lifted up the Son of Man, then you will know that I am He. And that I do nothing on my own authority, but speak just as the Father taught me. And he who sent me is with me, he has not left me alone, for I always do the things that are pleasing to him. Because the veil is still over their eyes, they couldn't understand what Jesus is saying here. So even though he kept referring to the Father and talking about his relationship to the Father as much as he publicly put Excuse me, publicly taught that the Father sent him. They just couldn't comprehend that when he says He who sent me is true, then he was referring to the Father And so without any response from them, he having having warned them that their time is almost up and that their t their time to believe is still at hand and yet the time for judgment is coming, now he gives the bad news that though There will be a time when you will believe it may be too late. Notice how he says there in verse 28, when you have lifted up the Son of Man. When you have lifted up the Son of Man. In chapter twelve, verse thirty-two, it says, Jesus says, And I when I I am lifted up from the earth, I will draw all people to myself. And then John gives this editorial note, he said this to show by what kind of death he was going to die. So when Jesus says, Here, when you have lifted up the Son of Man, that's clearly a revelation that the Jews will be involved in Jesus' death by crucifixion. But it's not just that. Jesus is not speaking narrowly about his crucifixion, but Broadly about his death by crucifixion as well as his resurrection and his ascension back into glory Why can I say that? It's because the word translated lifted up when used literally means to be lifted up, to be raised up. In Acts 1. 9, it's also used in that way. It says, as the disciples were looking on, Jesus was lifted up, and a cloud took him out of their sight. But more often, it's used in a figurative sense to mean exalted in passages like Acts 5. 21. God exalted him at his right hand. as leader and savior to give repentance to Israel and forgiveness of sins. So the word translated lifted up, depending on the context, context can literally mean to be lifted up. put up on a cross or lifted up in some other way, or figuratively it can mean to be exalted, to be magnified, to be praised. And so consider also as you think about what does Jesus mean by when you have lifted up the Son of Man, that Jesus being lifted up on the cross does not prove what Jesus says here will be proved. In fact, by itself, his death proves the opposite. When Jesus hung on the cross, he appeared to be cursed of God, not affirmed in his declarations. He was mocked and he was ridiculed. In fact, they said to him as he hung on the cross, he trusts in God. Let God deliver him now if he desires him. For he said, I am the Son of God. In other words, while Jesus hung on the cross, while he was lifted up on that cross, the Jews were ridiculing him, mocking him, and they felt justified in that because he was being crucified. Now it's true that when Jesus breathed his last and there was an earthquake, the centurion, a Roman centurion, concluded this man truly was the Son of God, but the Jews did not come to that conclusion. They were happy to see Jesus dead as confirmation that he was not divine in their minds. But after that When he was raised from the dead and he ascended into heaven, that was proof of all that Jesus said, and that he was submitted to and empowered by the Father. When God delivered him from the pangs of death, that showed divine approval. And so when Jesus says here When you have lifted up the Son of Man, he refers to the crucifixion at their hands, which would lead to his exaltation as the final confirmation. And so at that point, when he is exalted by the Father, he would no longer be among them. And so with him gone, they would have lost the opportunity to believe in their Messiah King and to welcome him and to let him rule over them. By then it would be too late. The prophet Zechariah looks ahead to that day when the Lord will open Israel's eyes to their error and The Lord says there, I will pour out on the house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem a spirit of grace and please for mercy, so that when they look on me On him whom they have pierced, they shall mourn for him, as one mourns for an only child, and weep bitterly for him as one weeps for their firstborn. When Israel finally comes to their senses, when those who don't believe come to their senses, they will war mourn with an incomprehensible Morning. For you today who have not yet believed, why would you wait until it's too late? Philippians 2, 9-11 says, Therefore God has highly exalted him, same word, and bestowed on him the name that is above every name, so that the name of Jesus every knee should bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth. And every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. This means that every person in this room and every person on this planet, past and future As well as present, will bow the knee and they will believe. They will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. The problem is many of them will bow to their judge Whereas those who believe will bow to their Savior. Who will Jesus be when you bow before Him? Your time is almost up. Yet your time to believe is still at hand. Your time for judgment will come, and your time of unbelief might be too late. The good news, my friends, is that your time can be today. Look at verse 30. As he was saying these things, many believed in him As Jesus is speaking here primarily to the Jewish leaders, they are surrounded by men and women, young and old, Jews and proselytes. From the middle middle of the feast to this point where uh Jesus has been teaching, he the crowds that have surrounded him have grown larger and larger. There's been, as we said, much confusion, much disagreement among the people, but here we're told that many, not some, not a few, but many believed in him. Was this genuine faith? Did they truly understand that he was the Messiah? Well, at least initially it seems that that's the case. In fact, if we can dip into verse 31, it says there, so Jesus said to the Jews who had believed in him, If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples, and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. We'll look at that in more detail in the few next few weeks, but Jesus speaks directly to those who believed and tells them what to do if they in fact believe, which will determine the genuineness of their faith. And so it seems, at least for the moment, that their belief is based on a true understanding of Jesus' words. Whether they continue to follow will reveal Whether the light of the world has penetrated their hearts. So that day there were many who believed, as well as many who did not believe. And I imagine that that's true today. Most of you came in this room believing in Jesus Christ, and perhaps some of you came in not believing in Jesus Christ. And so there's only one question to be asked, and that is, will you believe today? Will you believe that Jesus is The Savior of the world, that He took upon Himself the death that sinners deserve so that He can offer forgiveness of sin and eternal life. Will you heed these warnings of Jesus? Will you take the re the warning seriously that time is running out? But for now, for today, for this very moment, you still have the opportunity to believe. Well, you believe today instead of believing on the day when it's too late. Church family, again I want to highlight the mercy and the compassion of Jesus here. I know that many of us have friends and family, perhaps even co-workers, maybe even neighbors. For whom we're praying, with whom we've spoken about the gospel, maybe those that we've talked to over and over again for years, even decades, and maybe you've been tempted to give up. Maybe you've gotten frustrated, maybe you've gotten into arguments, and you just don't know whether you should talk to them. As long as they have breath, with wisdom you can speak the truth and warn them. The gospel is not to be shared like yesterday's headlines. It is a call to respond and a warning to be given And so everyone must hear your time is almost up. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, I just so much more that could be said, more details in the text to draw out, more elements of your glory to be highlighted. And yet we have here such soberness. Lord, would you open hearts this morning? Would you cause those who do not believe to see their dire condition and grant them faith and eternal life? Lord help us to be like you, Jesus, to have compassion and Patience with those who do not believe, to speak the truth in love, to warn. To have in our heart the solemnity and the burden that they would believe. And yet to trust in you for your saving work to be accomplished in your perfect time Would Christ be magnified and lifted up by each one of us as Savior and not as judge? For his sake we pray. Amen.