Um I d I it's kind of a long chapter. This is such a I don't I hope uh you read this before that you contemplated some of this? Can you give up? No, no, sorry. Um But this is such a transition chapter. Uh I hope you notice that and and you just It helps that of course I'm immersed in it and I'm spending a lot of time on it. But um a lot of this I would not have uh uh appreciate it and let's face it we it it takes time to meditate on it and s and to really for me for it for me and I assume for you to kind of grasp some of the ramifications of this But especially I mean to me this chapter was such a light a as many of 'em were for you know, we when we go back and read the gospels, w what Jesus uh He's telling us what the what he's gonna experience. He's in uh to us looking b looking back it it's it's a lot more clear. Uh the people at that time wouldn't have seen it. Obviously they didn't. They they were blind. And that's basically what he's telling 'em in this chapter. You're gonna reject me. And this is what I'm worth. So having said all that, I've kind of debated how to to do this. I thought maybe I'd read to it. Um I kind of stop because I know I want to get give you an overview of this. I don't know if we'll have time to go through all the notes. Uh I tend to run out of time. But we're we're nearing the end of the quarter, so um I can't keep pushing it back. Eventually we g there's due dates of the deadline. Um So anyway, that's kind of what I thought because this chapter's three sections, verses one to three, gives you just an overview and in a poetical sense of the total destruction of Israel. That that's that's what it is. He he puts it in a in a word picture which is so uh way God did a lot of his Hebrew, I mean, you know, uh the Greeks are tend to be didactic and everything is is is outlined and it tends to build on one another, but the the Greek it tends or the Hebrew tends to be poetical. It's a word picture You know, my word will come as rain and snow, it won't come back to me void. The Greeks wouldn't have talked like that. It would have been, you know, rather uh more more of a technical uh thing. It's just, you know, different cultures and Um but m you know both are effective. But this this is poetic. This is a total destruction is what he gives, basically. And then verses four to fourteen, he basically gives the reason why he's going to destroy it. And we'll look at some of the detail on that. This is where we may or may not we it depends on the time. Time just seems to slip by. I don't know. We'll get to all the details. They're in the notes. And even the trust me, those notes are really condensed. I mean, you know, if you read some of the the commentaries on this, obviously, you know, you're looking at pages and pages, so we can't do all that. So you know, number regardless you're you're getting the clip notes, shall we say. And then in chapter and then in uh verses fifteen to seventeen you have this amazing thing. This is the end time. All of a sudden he jumps to the end time. They're going to make a covenant with a bad shepherd. It was his motif. Good shepherd, bad shepherd. He said, I'm going to quit shepherding you. That's what he told them in four through fourteen. And in fifteen to seventeen he's telling them they're going to make a covenant with the bad shepherd Uh I don't know how much time we'll have to look at Daniel. Uh I did quote the one passage, uh but Daniel outlines this too. And again, it's in a condensed form And unless you studied it before, it's kinda like, what in the world is he saying there? Um there's a lot. So that's the quick overview of of this chapter. Um Of course we have the the the great quote we all know, the thirty pieces of silver. And and w we'll think about that. And um um Again, that's in the notes. So what is he why is he doing this? What what's there? So uh let's do that. Let's read through it. Um So somebody read uh verses uh one through three for us. Take your time, nice and slow, it's poetry. Chapter eleven, one through three. Chapter eleven. Yeah. Open your doors, eleven, that the fire may be on your cedar. Mm-hmm. Wail Cypress. The cedar has fallen. Glorious trees have been destroyed. Wailed fashions. Angel forest has come down There is a sound of the shepherd's wail. There is glory's ruin. There is the sound of the young lion's roar. Pride of the kingdom. Mm-hmm. Again, that he's he's using a poetical sense. Um we'll look at this in the notes. He's going from north to south, uh, and they're gonna destroy the land. Uh uh that that was uh that's just kinda like the there's uh premise, I shall we say, or the thesis for for this chapter. He's telling you what he's gonna tell you. Uh you're gonna be destroyed. Verse 4, Thus says the Lord, my God, pasture the flock, doomed to slaughter. So I mean he's telling them right up front. He's gonna pass through the flock, uh doom to slaughter. Those who buy them, slay them, and go unpunished. And uh each of those who sell them says, Blessed be the Lord, for I have become rich, and their own shepherds have no pity on them. So, uh you could tell the the uh eternal uh leaders or the the people of this time uh uh they don't care about the the flock They're they're gonna have bad leaders. Verse 6, for I will no longer have pity on the inhabitants of the land, declares the Lord. But behold, will cause the men uh to fall each into another's power, into the power of the king, and they will strike the land, and it will not deliver them uh from their power Um again, uh I think you s you see this, uh y you we're we're looking at um they they can't agree with each other. They're gonna deliver them into each other's hands. There's not gonna be any unity. There's there's no it seems like uh it happens with all societies. It certainly seems like it's happening with ours. Uh uh I want to spend a little time on that if we can, but you know God raises up nations, doesn't he? And God takes them down. Incredible. And so Israel forgets this, and so does every other nation. Israel should have known this. They had the word. So I pastured the flock, doomed to slaughter. hence uh the afflicted of the flock, and I took for myself two staffs, one called favor, the other I called union, and I passed into flocks. Then I annihilated the three shepherds in one month, for my soul was impatient with them, and their soul was also weary of me Um annihilated may not be the best word there. Um i you could just uh maybe cut off would be better. Then I said, I will not pasture you. What is to die, let it die. What is to be annihilated, let it be annihilated, and let those who are left eat one another's flesh. Again, we can look at a lot of detail of this, but I want to give us the big picture. God is going to turn them over You know, we are confident in our abilities and our nation. Israel was confident in their abilities and their Who ultimately protects them? Who who gives us the confidence or the ability that we have to defend ourselves? We're not giving God the the credit. They're not giving God the credit This is bad. Get when God to is you know Romans 1, right? I'll turn you over. Horrible I took my staff favor and cut it in pieces to break my covenant which I had made with the peoples. So it was broken on that day, and thus the afflicted of the flock who were watching me realize that it was the word of the Lord. Um again, w we'll flesh this out some more, but it it's amazing, you know, those uh you could say the poor, but um Uh it's not riches are bad, but riches and ever all that they blind us. We get comfortable with that. Um Um we de get dependent on that. We we think that there there are. Are these necessarily the poor, but at least the poor in spirit, right? Um Uh Sermon on the Mount. Um you know we're talking about blessed are those who are poor in spirit Uh you realize you it's not me, right? Uh but these people realize this. There's a remnant. God sees this, there's always a remnant. Even if he destroys something, even when they were carried off the first time. Remember, he's talking to a people that are just coming back. Remember where we are, they're just building the temple. The temple's only halfway completed. And then now he's telling 'em about this, this future. I said to them, if it is good in your sight, give me my wages, but if not, never mind. So they weighed out thirty sh uh shekels of silver as my wages. We're familiar with this. Uh Matthew Wright quotes this or Then the Lord said to me, Throw it to the potter that the magnificent price at which I was valued by them So I took the thirty sh uh shekels of silver and threw it to them as a potters, uh uh uh to the potter in the house of the Lord Then I cut in pieces my second stab union to break the brotherhood between Judah and Israel. Again, dissension. uh nations are built up by people, people that are unified. Uh you when you have divisions, you tend to tear a nation down. Uh uh again, uh So ver of in the last section, verse 15. The Lord said to me, Take again for yourself the equipment of a foolish shepherd. For behold, I am going to raise up a shepherd in the land, who will not care uh for the perishing seek the scattered, heal the broken, or sustain the one standing, but will devour the flesh of the fat of the sheep, and tear off their hoofs Woe to the worthless shepherd who who leaves the flock. A sword will be at his arm and on his right uh and on his right eye. the arm uh excuse me his arm will be totally weathered and his right eye will be blind. So again I just wanted to give you this this big kind of picture The other thing I'll say before we get into this, and of course I bring it up in the notes, um uh I believe uh the commentators that that uh kind of argued uh I I think Zechariah is acting this out, much like um Jeremiah did. So you kinda got this going back and forth, you know what I mean? So you're you're in this what I say is y y you're in this immediate situation In some ways, in some of these verses, he's talking directly to the people and he's talking to Zachariah. Zachariah is doing this, but You know sc you know prophecy is particularly. All of a sudden you zip to right a prophetic end or you know, is it the Lord? Now we s he's speaking for the Lord But you you ever notice like um uh so many times of prophecy, somebody would be speaking uh at that time and all of a sudden they're they're speaking as if the W Lord is speaking himself. And it's almost like in midver and so yeah you have that kind of going on throughout this this chapter It makes it kinda difficult. But the point is, regardless of whether he's acting it out or not, keep the big picture in mind. Who's it ultimately pointing to? Not Zachariah, right? It's the Lord. And and that's what we o i That's our our battle uh all at all times when we read New Testament or anything. Do we see what's going on? The Lord is in control. He's given us his spiritual picture Yes, he is given as um uh what's actually happening at at that time, but but there's the the the ultimate thing behind it is what's the spiritual significance of it And and that's why again it it's confusing, it goes back and forth. But um I believe uh with um uh Uh Unger and and Henderson and one of the some of the ones he quoted that um and there are others that z uh Zechariah is actually acting out some of this. So that's why I say we kinda go i it gets confusing. So we just read verses one through three and won't read it again. But it is, you know, I decopy it in this form because it it is poetry There's no question. And it's what kind of poetry do we have? Little pop quiz. What kind of poetry do you have in Hebrew? Anybody know That's fine. The reason I I uh me because I want you to remember this, it's parallelism If you look at Hebrew poetry, there's one thing about it, it's parallelism. Yes, it goes into other things and it can get specifics. They they have these you know, different meters it but if you say one thing about Hebrew uh poetry it's parallelism And ye and typically what what it is is they'll say something and then they'll say, and what's more. So it's kinda like, Well this is what I told you and if you look the second verse or the verses following tend to build on that theme. Um, you know, God is good. God is good all the time, you know what I mean? Uh so uh open the doors of Lebanon, let uh fire devour your seed. And again Even this, some people say uh these uh uh images here, the oaks, the cedars are um you know personified people. But uh again Uh if you read it literally, which is what Unger and several of them take it as, uh Feinberg, the again it's the same thing. If you destroy these areas What's the consequence that's gonna happen to the people? Right? So if you just read it literally, uh you know uh d as these areas are destroyed you assume the people are gonna be caught up in it, right? You don't have to necessarily personify it. Uh 'cause you get into trouble that way. Um uh we start to make sometimes too too great a detail, something that is not necessarily there. So these these three verses um They describe destruction of the land, right, as a result of the judgment against the people. Again, some I said so many people personify it. Chapter eleven depicts the destruction of the region, uh to uh the trees and surrounding uh regions, the forests, the regions were celebrated. Right, for their beauty, their splendor, you know, you talk of the the the oats and the the cedars and uh their magnificence. Uh it's kind of a surreal image, right? But the devastation is is complete. You look at the wailing of the uh shepherds, the wailing of the lions, th their habitats are are being destroyed. And again, you can see it's just a literal thing. If you destroy the whole area, what's going to be the fallout for the people? Uh so again uh that's I'll let you look at the notes, uh what I wrote up there Verse 4, this is a big transition right here. Um the devastation of the land of the people is illustrated in one through three. Now the uh explained this section four through fourteen, the nation Israel's committed the crime of unbelief, which is manifested in the inherent wickedness of rejecting and killing their Messiah. And he's telling 'em they're they're gonna do this. He's uh Remember we and remai and again you you as you look at this section, remember in nine we had the coming of the Messiah, right? He's mounted on a donkey, you know, humble So this is this is all part of this section. And chapter 11 is telling them they're going to reject that Messiah. So Zechariah has given a word from the Lord to act out the parable in order to demonstrate the prophetic truth. Zechariah dressed as a shepherd, and he took these two staffs, and w uh we're we're gonna see that uh uh uh the the uh uh significance of each of these as as what they represented Um uh the people mocked him, uh uh the witness of his actions and he demanded the wages for his services. Uh we'll get to that. The question arises, uh who is acquired acting out? The prophetic office, uh, the angel of the Lord, i. e. the Messiah, the Lord Himself Uh Kyle and Unger, see this as illustrating the Lord, uh since it's portrayed uh uh could only be what's being portrayed can only be done by the Lord Himself or through his Messiah. So And it seems kind of uh close there. I I really wasn't sure what they were differentiating, but I think to them it was like this is the Lord, this is God. If the Messiah uh uh So you w I think the point was the Messiah would have to be God if if he were to execute these judgments. And again, this is a realization we have, but not necessarily. Right? Those uh in the Old Testament. They would have seen him as anointed, they would have seen him as being a king, they would have seen him as But I don't know that they really would I doubt they would have seen the Messiah as God incarnate It would have been br uh quite vague. I mean y you've read the Old Testament. There it's not clear like it is uh for us. I and the Father are one. I mean, uh we don't we don't have that clearer picture in the Old Testament. So anyway, the shepherd, uh uh Shepherd the flock destined for slaughter, the word uh shepherd, uh, that's not that important. To them a shepherd uh they would have associated with a shepherd's past. Uh you know, caring for, feeding, leading, nursing, all the things a shepherd does had uh dead at that time, this this would have been um uh on the minds of the hearers back then. If you were to say the shepherd, the flocks, it would have just everything else would have been assumed. Uh Uh w obviously we don't have that. We we can study it, but you know we're far removed from shepherding like they were. The flock of slaughter, uh the covenant was commonly uh presented under a figure of sheep. Uh the flock was intended uh for slaughter or result in God's judgment of them. Right? We're looking at this So, verses 5 and 6. Whose possessors slay them, hold themselves not guilty. They will sell them and say, Blessed be Jehovah, for I am rich. uh and their own shepherds uh pity them not, uh uh for I will no longer pity the inhabitants of the land, saith Jehovah, but lo, I will deliver uh every uh the men, every one of them, into his neighbor's hand and into the hand of their of his king, and they shall smite the land, and out of their hand I will not deliver them. So he's turning them over there. So let's look at this. There's mu and again there's debate of who the possessors are. Uh many uh argue that uh uh uh i well uh they were either jewish leaders or the romans. The argument for Jewish leaders seems to have more weight um uh than the uh uh in these uh traffickers uh they say blessed is Yahweh. Uh Unger argues, look, Gentiles, Romans, Henderson says the same thing, would hardly make such a statement. The think about it, they're using you know, we have it in our way, uh, Lord, but it would be the proper name. It would be Yahweh that that they're using here. Uh Jehovah is is our translation. and and uh New King James and all, but that's unlikely the Romans would use that. Also, um, well, this was uh Th and this is what um uh uh m McComisky wrote um the comic picture of the uh gr uh Evening. The comic picture of the sheep uh market of the buyers and sellers haggling over the price of the sheep Who would buy the sheep? Do not put them at the pasture, uh, but slaughter them for the sale of the meat market. And again, what he's saying is this is a common picture. This would have been the economy during the time. The merchants and the shepherds count their profits and praise God for the blessing of the wealth. Merchant sellers and shepherds have new compassion for the sheep. uh the leaders in Israel society are represented as wealthy members of the community. The historical fact of the avarice of the Sadducees and the Pharisees was evidence in the of the ho hypocrisy in the presence of Christ. When Christ came we saw that all the time. And he and he told them, remember what he told them uh even in Zechariah, what did he say to the the congregation or the uh uh committee from Bethel, right? Take care of the widows and the orphans. It's the same thing. Isaiah said it, right? And Zai Isaiah 1. Look. I'm tired of your sacrifices. I'll wash you white. Take care of the widows and the orphans. Take care of the helpless, the foreigners. Um this they were not doing. So again, and even in the context, it makes logical sense, it would be their shepherds that aren't doing this. It's their shepherds who are um lacks in it. The Romans have no part in in shepherding them, devouring them, yes, but um uh God uses them as the instrument. Uh it's a shepherd We see this we see this kind of theme over and over again again. I think we can apply it to ourselves. We've forgotten God We're depending on our own resources, our the wealth that we built. And it's amazing. We have a disparity. there is a tremendous amount of wealth like never before in this country, uh and yet the the separation is getting bigger and bigger But where is that wealth coming from? It's coming ultimate all things come from God. We forget that. Um this is what um Israel is doing Their own shepherds pity them not, for I will no more pity the inhabitants of the land of Jehovah. Again, I think the context itself. the the Roman shepherds didn't pity them ever. They should you know, I mean to them it was just a uh it's just a deal You can have your autonomy, pay us the taxes, behave like we want you to do, we'll pretty much leave you alone if you follow these rules The suffering of the people under the oppression of their own leaders will come to the zenith when the Lord Himself has no compassion for them. because of the rejection of him as king. We see that over and over again. We're we're we're going to talk about how there's division amongst them. That's when the shepherd turns you over. There's no unity without without God I will deliver the men, every one into his neighbor's hand, into the hand of the king. This is interesting. This is what I want us to focus on. After the rejection of the Messiah He will actively turn them over to one another in strife and enmity towards one another. This became a terrible reality during the siege of 70 AD when the people literally devoured each other The Lord also delivered each man into the hand of the king. The king spoken of here must be the Roman king, for Israel uh historically w was without a king And the Jews themselves declared, We have no king but Caesar. We don't have time, but focus on this. Remember, Pilate comes out, he goes, What shall I do with your king? And they said, We have no king but Caesar. And here is Zacharias telling them, I'm going to turn you over to your king. And he did, didn't he? 70 AD they crushed him. It was horrible. Isn't it amazing? God, we can see that. I mean the there's no way uh I w what again we saw in the previous verses the poor understood The word of the Lord. Did they understand the whole plan and the pictures like we do now? But they understood. You hear God's voice It's uh the fact that we're listening to this and believing this is because God opened our eyes. Um I didn't believe this stuff. If I remember reading through the Bible, I didn't believe most And I certainly didn't understand it. And they shall smite the land, and out of their hand I will not deliver them. Again. Wow, that's bad. When God turns it over, right? The word of the Lord uh for for smite is uh cut off. Uh Basically it's hammer. It's to strike something, it's to beat it down. And that's exactly what the Romans did. Remember Jesus said Not one rock. Remember s uh Olivet discourse, right? When they came out of the temple and he goes, Wow, look at the temple. And he goes, I'm telling you, not one stone will be left on another. And they did, they crushed it They didn't just tear it down, they broke the the stones. Um Josepha said one point one million people died. Unger said maybe another five hundred thousand died in the siege before they they broke down the walls. Um it was incredible, the slaughter. Um I haven't looked at this. Uh I I'm not uh but apparently, you know, Hadrian I think it was. Um He came after this m maybe the turn of the century, uh, and he went through af this is after seventy A D, he went through the land from the north from what I understand. and he just decimated what was left. Uh th there was there was uh a slaughter even after this. Uh to almost total They just totally moved Israel out of this nation at this time. God gave them over. Verses seven and eight. So I pastured the flock, doomed the slaughter, hence the afflicted of the flock. I took for myself two stats. One I called favor, the other I called union. So I passed the flock. Then I uh annihilated the three shepherds in one month, for my soul was impatient with them, and their soul also was weary of me. Again, this is one of these passages that uh who are these shepherds? I've given you the clip notes. I think I think uh Zechariah is believed to have acted out on the part of the shepherds with two stabs as an object lesson. Again, the flock of slaughter is mentioned He repeated this right from verse 4. The prophecy was fulfilled during the Maccabean and especially during the siege of the destruction of Jerusalem. That Maccabean uh Uh Antiochus Epiphany uh again he was doing the same thing. Uh He was basically slaughtering the Jews. And again, the Jews, uh it was interesting, I told you this before when I was reading Daniel. Uh the Jews had embraced Y you know, they kinda embraced this Mac or this uh Antiochus uh era. They kinda became friends with him and then of course he turned on 'em Which is ironic because it's exactly what he's prophesying here in fifteen. They're gonna do it again and and it's gonna be the ultimate. But they had kind of Josephus wrote, uh I remember reading a quote uh Yeah, I think Leon Wood turned me on to it, uh, when I was doing Daniel. Anyway, they had embraced it and Josephus wrote about this, how they uh went along with these games and everything else, and then of course the Slotter game. So um but this I believe I think the ultimate one he's referring to here is uh seventy AD Two staffs, one called favor, the other union. One staff called favor spoke of the good shepherd, is loving, kind, gracious, right? He takes care of his sheep. uh the sheep of his flock. The other staff he called uh unity or union expresses the binding together. Again, uh what we said uh uh w without the uh without God there is no unity. The good shepherd came to unite his sheep into one flock. Uh John ten sixteen. Right? They should have one shepherd and there'll be one flock. Of course he's calling there his church. It's it's it's uh Jesus was still alive, uh the uh they haven't totally rejected him as yet And I just say this, this is kind of a little sidetrack. I think even after they rejected the Messiah, uh God is so patient. Um I don't believe I believe he still offered. I mean he the gospel was still going out. Israel still had a chance after they did all this As a matter of fact, that's what was in the uh early sermons by Peter, he says, You put to death, right? That group came to faith. But it it What was it, thirty or about forty years after Christ died, the when he finally destroyed, God is patient. He's not uh destruction is not his goal. Just only those sheets that are called are gonna come, unfortunately. So the shepherd came to Israel first in his effort uh was to unite his people uh back to God. I had this quote from Matthew, uh Jerusalem, Jerusalem. Uh this is Matthew 23, 37, 39 Who kills the prophet and stones those who are sent to her? How often are one to gather your children together, the way a hen gathers her chicks under her wings and and you were unwilling, behold, your house is being left to you desolate. It's telling them again, right there in front of them For I say to you, for I say to you, from now on, you will not see uh excuse me, you will not see me until you say, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. This is the second coming, right? They're gonna say it. But we're talking what two thousand years already, and and we don't know when he's coming back. Then I annihilated and cut off the shepherds in one month. I I think if you notice here I I have in the notes uh all I'm quote this I of to date there's at least 40 interpretations Who these three shepherds are. And that was when uh Unger wrote this, which was I believe I'm not sure when he first wrote the book sixty three or earlier, so you know, we could have a couple dozen more by now. So here here I think it's uh again, Ungers follows Henderson's uh I I think the the only clear meaning in this context, there's three classes of rollers or shepherds during this time of crisis Right, his first advent. I think this is logical. The rulers of the Jewish people during the time of Jesus were priests, right? Teachers of the law, which were kind of the Pharisees, those they were trained, uh, and then your civil magistrates. These are the shepherds. Uh I I don't say again It's what lies behind. It's the ruling class, those in authority, those who are leading the people, those who have responsibility. With leadership comes responsibility. We forget that. Uh look what our leaders are doing today. Are they being responsible? I mean we're we know our nature. We're selfish. Without Christ, we're we're self we're just selfish people. That's who we are And that's exactly what they were doing there. So I think that's the three classes. The priests, uh the teachers of the law, and and the civil magistrates, right? Judges things Things like that. Um these are the men who influence the Pretchkeys. They were also the ones who took advantage of the Warfan uh Warf There you go, combined it. Contraction, the widows and orphans. Uh the one the best uh understood uh the time prior to Christ's crucifixion when the leaders of wickedness uh uh boiled to this point uh plotting to put him to death. You saw what happened And c and you if you look at the gospels, look at how Christ was pushing them right towards the end. I mean he was he has stopped that you know, the final weeks uh or in in the week before his crucifixion and he was going directly right at 'em with with bold lights. You know, Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees and and uh just speaking directly to their nature. He was bringing things to a head. You're either for me or against me. Let's let's cut the metal stuff. Let's die let's quit paying playing the the politicians, you know what I mean? Yeah yes or no. Um and and and but you know, you know what happened? They said no. Um See that in John where they said, We gotta get rid of this guy. Everybody's gonna come to him after he raised Lazarus from the dead and and the uh Sadducee says, yeah, we gotta get rid of Lazarus too, ma'am. We remember we don't believe in uh resurrection here. Verses nine through eleven. Then I said, Uh, I will not pass to you. What is to die, let it die. Oh man And what is to be annihilated, let it be annihilated. And let those who are left eat one another's flesh. I took my staff favor and cut it in pieces to break my covenant which I had made with all the people. So it was broken on that day, and thus the afflicted of the flock who were watching me realized it was the word of the Lord. Again, I it's not just being poor, but when you when you got nothing, you it takes away the pride, you know what I mean? You start looking for what is real, what is um Again, wealth is a hindrance. It's a blessing and a hindrance. It blinds us uh to be uh dependent on God So Zechariah's message of the people of the Lord will turn the nation over to the enemies when the Lord says, I will not past through you. Excuse me. Right? Um that's what the shepherd did. He's past through he's he's protecting them from the wolves. He's taking them to places where they can uh To lead up the food to uh to eat, uh water, still waters, right? The the sheep can't swim With the get that wool coat wet and they're done for it, right? So they have to go by quiet waters, you know. Uh uh rushing water scared 'em. Uh the Lord will turn his back on a nation that has rejected him, uh like sheep uh who is injured, he will not bind their wounds carry uh to carry uh it to protection. Um you know uh so really's gonna let him over to the predator. Twenty minutes. That's not too bad. So that which is being cut off, we will let it be cut off. The shepherd is no longer protecting the the flock. Let those who are left devour one another's flesh Um uh so this is probably the most graphic. Uh the only thing this could be is the cannibal g there was cannibalism during this siege. Uh it's been written about. You know, when you're starving to death, it's amazing. I took my staff favor and cut it in pieces. Uh uh to break the covenant which I had uh made with the peoples. Um I had a quote here. Yeah, Deuteronomy. Yeah, you know how the Lord's coming into this isn't Deuteronomy, right? He's telling them, they're getting ready to go into the land The Lord, uh Deuteronomy thirty one, five and six, the Lord will deliver them up before you. And you shall do to them according to the commandments which I have commanded you. Be strong and courageous, do not be afraid, and tremble at uh at them, for the Lord your God is the one who goes with you. He will not fail you or forsake you. Tell him right now, just the opposite, isn't he? I'm done. I I'm not going to protect you. This is the opposite when you came into the land. You forsook me Now I'm going to turn you over. Again, this is a difficult thing. Ultimately, he will restore Israel. He's he's not given up on them. He has a remnant. He always always has. Remember even uh Elijah was complaining about that and he's going, No, I I've got how many thousand? I don't remember either. Something like that. I was gonna say five, seven, I don't know. Anyway, he has several thousand, right? Yeah, I've got a remnant. But you're right. I mean, you know, the whole world looks like it's turned his back So it was broken on that day, and thus the afflicted of the flock who were watching me realized that it was the Word of God. Yeah, it's great, isn't it? The Lord opened the heart. The remnant of the few who were broken in spirit were listening and following the word of the Lord. Uh they realized the message was true and the Lord uh The Lord has his remnant and he always will, right? He's gonna save Israel ultimately. Verses twelve. Uh 12 and 13. I said to them, It is good in your sight, give me my wages, but if not, never mind So they weighed out there to shekel the silver as my wages. Then the Lord said to me, Throw it to the potter, that magnificent price which I was valued by uh by them So he they took the thirty sh uh so I took the thirty shekels of silver, excuse me, threw them to the potter in the house of the Lord The last uh prophetic action de uh demonstrates a reaction of what the faithful shepherd has done Uh what is the assessment of the shepherd? That's really what he's saying. What am I worth to you? What are my wages? Give them here Uh i if it's good in your eyes, uh pay for my services, but if not, don't bother. Uh one of the commentators says that If you don't want to, don't bother. He's not not saying d demanding his wages, he's saying to him, What am I worth? Am I worth anything? I'm serving you? Give me wages. What do you think I'm worth So it's like judge yourself by what you pay me. That's what he's that's what he's telling them. Uh the shepherd does not require payment. No, I just kind of went through that So they weighed out thirty uh shekels of silver as my wages. This is incredible. This is the most insulting reply they could have responded with. Uh like I said, it would have been better had they not given him anything. Thirty shekels of silver were the wages for a slave who had been gored by an ox It's not even the price to buy the freedom of a slave. That's what they thought. That is total mockery. I didn't really realize that. I assumed it was the price of a slave, it's the price of a gourd slave. That's incredible, isn't it? By this statement the nation's declared uh itself ripe for judgment as the completeness of the Amorites of the Is Remember when uh in Genesis fifteen sixteen he he's making a covenant with Abraham Abram and he walked through the pieces by himself and he told him I was gonna give him the land and he said, You're gonna go down to E uh Egypt You're gonna be there for what 400 years? The iniquity of the Amorites is not yet complete. It's the same thing. Their iniquity is going to be complete when they reject them And he even gave them a chance afterwards. I think he gave him I say it looks to me like he gave him forty years to come around. But this is what happens when he re they rejected him I mean and remember when they conquered the Amorites, so you say, Well how could you know, when you when you go to that, how could you kill women and children and children that are innocent? You know, he gave them four hundred years For their iniquity. Their iniquity was not yet complete. But it was four hundred years later and it was ripe, God said, You're you're judge, and you are going to be the nation's judge. Then the Lord said to me, Throw it to the potter, that magnificent price at which you have valued you. So he took uh thirty sep shekels. Um So this ill-treatment of uh Zechariah, who was impersonating the Messiah, the Lord uh spoke uh through him to mock that magnificent price they paid for Wow, you gave me a great wage. The phrase threw it to the potter's house. So this is difficult. Yeah you have a literal uh acting out here, if you take it literally, that Zechariah did this, acted this out It was in the house of the Lord and they throw it to the potter. So um the the best explanation of this seems to be that this an in It's kind of an idiomatic. It's kind of like throw it to the potter. The potters uh were the low class. Um they were just a working class, they were uh Uh they were considered low on the totem pole. Uh it was kind of like throw it to the poor, is is basically what he was saying Um it's kind of doubtful that Zechariah would have done this. I'm gonna paraphrase what I've written here. In the house of the Lord, this would have been uh uh So it would have been a mockery to a a Potter to to to literally carry this out, to throw that money to him, is what uh Unger wrote. Um So, you know, what happens? We know that Judas actually took the money and threw it in the temple. He did. And of course they said We can't take this money. This is blood money, right? And so what did they do? They bought the potter's field. It ended up in the potter's hand, did it not? 'Cause the pot the potter sold in the field obviously. So I I just think it's it's uh And you know, to get lost in the details and to to make all this out. I mean these are these are difficulties that uh uh And you want commentators and and those that are looking at this to wrestle with. It again is called exegesis. And we we talk about these big words. It means to draw out what This text, whatever text you're in, is literally saying. Okay? Not w what this text is saying before you jump off to other passages. When we start jumping off the other passages, now we're getting into well it it the Bible does ex uh you we do use scripture to explain scripture, right? But at the same time what we get into is a is what we call a theological, right? We're taking this big picture and what is the theology of this and drawing the um uh meaning out of that theological meaning. Now, I know that sounds like a lot, but I but I still um as we teach this has been taught to me, I want you to realize why these commentators sometimes wrestle with this. Um w I if I confused you, remember we talked about the Ezekiel twenty eight passage, is that talking about Satan or is it talking about The king of Tatar. Right? Isaiah 14. Right? Is he talking about immediate contact or is he talking about Satan? Right And this is what the uh commentators will do. And their job is not necessarily they are trying to get out of the passage what the passage is saying And then if you wanted to then okay, what are these words saying uh grommatically? Uh you know, what are the definitions defining the words And I only tell you that because that's why you you you'll see this sometimes you're thinking, Well, why didn't this guy realize it's Satan, right? Because he's trying to t he's being literal and taking it out of the text for us. Which is nice because we're building all we're I I'm using these men's, these are scholars. They're Hebrew grammarians and they they they know the the languages. So yeah we want to build we want them to do this literally. So sorry to go off on that tangent, but it's important to know this Um 'cause you will read these commentators sometimes think, why in the world is he saying that? Well he's trying to literally take what the passage this particular passage is saying So, verse fourteen. I cut the pieces of staff, uh union, and embrace it. Um Again, I'm gonna have to rush because I wanna f I do wanna get to fifteen. So he he's taking union. So remember he took graciousness and unity. Graciousness is an act to bind, to actually uh heal unities again god builds nations god brings people together god gives us uh uh uh agreement without it Well go our selfish way, no society can sustain it on that, you know. Uh we we have to come under the authority of something. And it's God So, fifteen. Again, the Lord said to me, Take again the equipment of a foolish shepherd. So what he's taking is The equivalent of a shepherd. He's dressed as a shepherd, is in he's in that kind of clothing. What's he taking? Taking two staffs, right? They would have known that. One staff was a beat away, maybe uh uh wolves and said predators. The other staff had a crook or a hook to it, right? It would pull them out, would save them. So d you know, these are things, uh things to bind up uh uh sheep's uh wounds, that kind of thing. Well this shepherd's gonna have the opposite. He's gonna have Maybe a a may side of nine four. Exactly. Yeah, that too, right? Well played. Because then he even really gets to that in here. For behold, I am going to raise up a shepherd in the land who will not care for the parents. I want to stop right there. For behold, I am going to raise up. Now talk about this a little bit, for behold, um It's not so much that he's going to spiritually or morally uh persuade this person, but all he has to do is is present the right circumstances Right? And and who is going to ra and also pull back who is going to raise this person up? What what force is going to raise this shepherd up? Yeah. Yeah, it's the battle we've been in from the garden, right My s uh her seed, right? Can have enmity with your seed. It's a battle that started from the deception. It was a battle before Eve fell. Satan went down to deceive her. There's the battle. She was in a war, she didn't know it. Right? We see that war played out. This is a culmination of that war. This is and this is why I want to spend a little time because uh think about it. So we had the war, my seed against your seed, right? Genesis 3, Genesis 6, what do we have? We have a flood Whether it's spiritual or whether it was physical, Satan contaminated all the seed of the earth Right? So what's he trying to stomp out? That seed is always that's the battle. He doesn't know which seed it is We you right we have it with Esther. Remember? It's over and over and over. This is a battle that's been raging all the way through The i and that's why when we pray, we remember the the we're not warring against flesh and blood. These people are made in the image of God. They are already already in the camp of the enemy We're not they're lost. We it's so hard though. We see them in firm, it's like, man, uh you know what I mean. I don't have to go. You all have to fill in the blank there But we were n they're a conduit, they're being used, they're th they don't even know where their destiny is. They're going to the house, they're going to slaughter and and eternal separation So I just wanted to put that out. This is the shepherd that he is going to raise up. And he'll do it by, again, allowing the the circumstances, and then Satan will move his man in there And Satan's going to empower that man too, is he not? He's going to have a power that's supernatural. God's going to allow that also So he would deliver the flesh of the fat of the sheep and tear off their hoof. They're gonna devour them. This this shepherd is gonna He's gonna use them for his own gain. He's he's he's gonna kill 'em. Uh and and the the imagery here again, uh tear off the hosts. He's the uh Um one of the commentators, I guess Unger had this. I don't know if it was on his own, but it it the idea is to even um not to let to waste any meat. He's gonna eat every meat. He's gonna tear the hooves off and eat the you know what I mean? He's gonna totally devour the people. And it it's uh t tearing the hooves off is a bad w is a Graphic enough we yeah, exactly. It's it's uh it's like a crunch word or you know, it it just defines itself. It it's horrible. And that's where they're headed for Daniel. Got five minutes. Remember Daniel in nine twenty-four? Listen to this and and just look at the uh this is actually uh I don't know if I have time to do both. You'll have to read um the ten horns on your own. But Daniel's prophesying this. The ten horns out of the ten horns, one's gonna appear It's the Antichrist, right? And he's he's gonna he's gonna be in charge for a times, times and a half. The last Three and a half years of the r uh tribulation, seven year tribulation, that's when it's really gonna be bad Okay, Daniel 927. This is what I wanted to read. And he will make a firm covenant with the many for one week. In the middle of the week He will put a stop to sacrifice and grain offerings, and on the wing of abomination will come one who makes desolate. Even until complete destruction, one that is decr that is decreed is poured out on the one who makes desolate. This they are going to make a covenant with this shepherd. And Zechariah is telling them the same thing. You Jesus told him the same thing. You won't accept me when I come in the name of the Father, but you'll you'll accept the one who comes in the name of Him. You're gonna make a covenant with the shepherd. And I just I'm assuming that there's gonna be a calamity, it's going to make sense Israel obviously is going to be under pressure. W I mean we see it now. W we can imagine. I don't know what kind of pressure will be, but that's why th they're going to accept this guy. This guy, this antichrist is going to be uh talented beyond belief. It's gonna be if you uh read any of the prophecies and and you know, David Jeremiah and those who go go through a lot of this and Daniel and Revelation. So uh this guy is gonna be He's gonna be smart, he's gonna be a politician, he's gonna be good at economics, he's gonna have things gonna get the uh you know, the economy moving, he's gonna do all this, right? Gonna make sense. Oh, it's it's gonna be logical And in the middle of the week he's gonna tear the hooves off. Yeah. Uh woe to the workless shepherd who leaves the flock. A sword will be on his right arm and on his eye, and his arm will be coded with her right eye. So the Lord will judge and punish the wicked shepherd So he's going to enable the Antichrist, right? But we know what happens to him, right? What happens when he comes back? Revelation 19. What happens to the Antichrist What? Legal fire. Yeah, he's gonna be go right in. Yep. I I think this is just incredible. And I and when you think about this, you meditate on this, think about the all these words and what we've talked about. We've gone from the New Testament back, but then look at it when you start to read some of the gospels and think about he was telling them this, right? Um five hundred years Before it happens. Yeah