Good morning, good morning, good morning. So we're Zechariah twelve. Uh huge verses. Um It's easy to get lost in this. I mean, it it's the time frame and and and kind of what's going on And Zechariah goes in and out. I mean he's talking about uh the time right there during what the people he's ministering to, and then all of a sudden we're looking at a conclusion. the results. They have to be end time prophecies because we're looking at uh a world without sin oftentimes, he he points to. And so you we have this kind of confusion. So Uh let's let's just think through it, right? Uh first eight chapters pretty much dealt with all those visions dealt with the historical events that were there. They were being being encouraged by Haggai and Zechariah to start building the temple again. They'd stopped. So most of those prophecies were, well, uh primarily were particularly for those people at that time. But as we said, oftentimes he'd finish and the and he'd point to the r end result, and that's kind of God's uh perspective on things. This is where it's going, it's gonna end up here, you're gonna end up in a kingdom where there's uh you know, no more trials or that so it has to be the end of the age. But chapters one through eight are primarily the historical setting And then we switch, or God switches, and he gives us, right, nine through fourteen. And really they talk about um nine through fourteen being the end of the age, but I look at what we look at what we're doing and where we're going. I it's really I think to me it's more specific than that. It's 9-14 is the first advent of Christ, the first coming, right? We read in chapter 9, right? Let's read it real quick. 99. Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion Shout and triumph, O daughter of Jerusalem, behold, your king is coming to you. He is just and endowed with salvation, humble and mounted on a donkey, even on a colt, the foe of a donkey. First advent. This is huge. Remember again. Put yourself in their place, not our place. Th they're looking forward. We're looking back. So right? It's easy for us. Oh yeah, yeah, we know all that. Then the Gospels. No. But it's again, put yourself in their position. Uh they this is l light for them that I'm sure they didn't comprehend. Obviously, you you could see what happened in the gospels when they encounter the uh Messiah. They didn't they didn't understand him. Uh but okay, so the Messiah comes. That's what we have going on in nine, right? But the first section, 9, 10, and 11, they rejected the Messiah, didn't they? Right. They m they rejected him. And if you remember at the end of eleven He says, not only did they reject them, they rejected the good shepherd. Remember, he uses that motif of the shepherd. But they accepted, and again, this shoots you all the way to the end time, they exit they accepted the false shepherd. Right? And so that is the difficulty. And you can imagine the people during that day, the audience during that day, the original hearers, I th they I'm I just can't believe they would have comprehended this. They may have had they uh they may have had signs that they could look back on, but at this time I I seriously doubt they grasped any near uh uh the amount of revelation that we got, again, we get to look back We know he came, he's gone, now we look forward to him coming again. Remember, they hadn't seen him come the first time. This is still hundreds of years away. So and that just gives us a a perspective of where we're going because i I you know, when we're looking at the detail some of this stuff, we get lost in and uh in the woods, so to speak, we we'll forget what forest we're in. Uh this is uh uh critical I think. So uh we'll try and uh flesh out some of this Still kind of deciding how I'm going to do uh chapter uh verse 10. I I think what what I'll have us do when we get there is we'll we'll look at uh uh Isaiah 53 So verse 1, the burden of the word of the Lord concerning Israel. Thus declares the Lord, who stretches out the heavens, lays the foundation of the earth, and forms the spirit of man within them. So it's this burden and and remember we talked about that burden uh before in in chapter nine it was uh Uh right, the burden of the word of the Lord against the Gentile nations. Remember the Gentile nations we talked about. Now he's got the burden of the Lord, but this is primarily for Israel. Um There there's uh there's gonna be a uh there gonna there's gonna be a big siege that we're we're gonna uh experience here. So the word of the Lord is stating that the message is one of judgment and woe concerning Israel. This twofold declaration It's the word of the Lord. He repeats us, right? He he says a couple times. The word of the Lord. He wants us to know who this is from. This gives the credence and the strength of the message of the word from the Lord who stretches out the heavens, lays the foundation of the earth, forms the spirit of a man, right? It's the Creator. He's stating that think about when you read through this, sometimes we read to this and we don't contemplate what's he saying. He goes, Look, the one who's delivering this message to you, this is who I am He says it twice. I'm the Lord, right? The burden of the word of the Lord. Thus declares the Lord. The one who creates everything. This is who the message is from Pay attention. This is not this is Zachariah is just the medium, right? He's just the uh the one who's who's speaking, but it's God's word. It takes salvation for us to believe that, right? That's that's why the world doesn't get this. If you don't believe this is from the Word of God Y you're already in trouble because you're questioning everything. Uh we don't believe intellectuals. We I you know I I keep harping on that, but we forget that. God's spirit won't open my eyes. Uh a lot smarter men than us have uh uh looked at this word, dissected this word. Some of them have even read uh written uh uh lexicons on this word, they still don't know the Lord Behold, I am going to make Jerusalem a cup that causes reeling to all the peoples around when they see uh uh when the siege is against Jerusalem It will also be against Judah. It will come about in that day, and will make Jerusalem a heavy stone, for the peoples and all who lift it will be severely injured, and the nations of the earth will be gathered against it. This is the end of the age. This is in the tribulation. Okay? The nations are going to come. All the nations are going to come and surround it. I think in my notes here, let's see uh well let me get to it. Behold, uh can i it can be uh taken s uh uh in a way that Yeah, uh I think what Unger was suggesting in his commentary, he's what he's saying is I myself will make this happen. It's behold, is it's the the way the words can be uh translated in in the thought pattern in the uh verse. The Lord will make Jerusalem a cup that causes reeling. Uh to all the peoples around. The Gentile nations who come to seized it will be as drunken and staggering in confusion. Uh think about this. It's kind of like when Gideon, right? The Lord is going to fight for. And that's the point. It's not their strength. It's God's strength that's going to win this victory. And he keeps saying that over and over again. As a matter of fact when we look at this, the people will start to realize it. Uh but i it again, it's like when Gideon went out to battle and God kept telling him, No, you got too many men I and that's what the you know say it it was It's kinda like too. Remember when uh uh uh the Egyptians were coming after 'em and and they went through the uh the sea, they uh when the sea was parted Remember the chariots and everything? And they were saying, our chariots are being hindered. We need to they some of them realize we're in trouble. We need to go back. It's the same thing. God uh w will put confusion on this that will not succeed I will make Jerusalem a heavy stone for all the people. All who lift it will be severely injured. So uh Uh apparently Chambers and in Lang's commentary says that this weight there was a late w uh w uh excuse me, a weight lifting sport during these times Yeah, much like any Olympics even back in this age, uh we're talking uh what, five hundred uh BC And um the idea is is is they're going to strain themselves. They're they're so engrossed with this, they're going to strain themselves to the point where they actually uh tear their muscles Uh okay they're gonna it's it's an injury, it's not just a strain. They're gonna really hurt themselves. That's the imagery here with this. It's a stone that they can't lift. Uh the what it is is the word that uh where they injured this is Hebrew word uh, it actually means laceration or tearing. So the uh it's gonna be severe And and that's the uh idea here, that's the image. All the nations of the earth will be gathered against it. Uh This cannot be the destruction of of Jerusalem in 70 A. D. Thank again, this is why I keep harping with this Read the word. What do the words say? Read the facts. Sometimes you have to think of the facts. They don't necessarily always come to us. But the details are even in the scriptures without going to the commentaries. Um it can't be if it's all the nations it can't be seventy AD because who crushed uh Jerusalem seventy AD? Rome And and it seems like a small thing, but it the Bible is full of these facts. And it's funny, if you can remember them, the Spirit will put them together as you read other scriptures. The the explanation is in the Bible oftentimes. I stress this all the time. It's one of the things we we was talking with Ellen's about seminary because uh uh her dad taught at uh Capitol Bible Seminary and um One of the things Dr. Edgar kept telling us was, read the word, study the word. We'd ask him in class, what does that mean? He'd go, what did it say? Yeah we'll be going, oh wait a minute, you know, it's kinda like, oh there's gotta be some Greek answer or some, you know, it's what did it say? He kept saying. You know, it's amazing Uh and if you if you read it you will be surprised and I tell the the people all the time, it's not easy sometimes to say focus and say, what did it say? You you read it and you're going, what did it say? And I have to reread it. And and I assume some of you these are Bible studyers will read a passage another time and you go, I never saw that before. Tremendous detail. Um so the it's not uh seventy AD. Uh it it this has to be the end kind, okay? Uh and that's All the nations are coming. Jerusalem a cup that causes reeling and heavy stone, it uh injures it, uh they'll try to move her, it's not gonna work. In that day We'll talk about this here. In that day, declares the Lord, I will strike every horse with bewilderment and his rider with madness I will watch over the house of Judah, and I will strike every horse of the people with blindness. Let me just say this. It could be literal horses. That's not the point. The point is uh think of uh of uh the horses is power, it's military Obviously when we move forward in in the the end times, who knows? We we we don't know what the situation will be. Maybe God will have a catastrophe and we'll have to go back to horses I know? I mean the way society's gonna allow us tear each other down to the point where it's like, well we gotta go back to horses, you know The the point is is that it's power. Horses always uh especially during this time, it always meant armies typically. Um Israel was told not even to collect to have horses. Of course Solomon couldn't resist it, but um You know, horses have powers, horses chariots. So typically that in that day's mind it would have meant armies coming out. So whatever armies they are That's what he's referring to here. In that day. In that day is an escatological eschatological, that means is end. So it's an end times uh phrase. Uh and it's typically you if you read any the Old Testament thing, the day of the Lord uh Jacob's trouble. These typically refer. You have to take them in context, but typically this is those types of phrases will point you to end times, the end of the age. Uh and of course the end of the age typically means uh a lot of catastrophic things going on. But it means end time, the end of the age, the end of the period. So we uh uh So this is what uh Onga wrote. Um and I I I took the time to list just to show you. This is what happened, look at this, in that day, sixteen times. From chapter twelve, right, up to thirteen, he uses this phrase. So he's telling us something here, right? This is your time. This is your time. This is the time this is happening at. Sixteen times he mentions that. In that day. Ungar wrote, the future period when the Lord will openly manifest his power in delivering Israel from her enemies and establishing her millennial peace and prosperity. I would you know I said as I thought about this, I I would add it's also gonna be the time of Jacob's trouble. We see victory in this chapter as we turn the page next week uh and and look at chapter thirteen. We're we're gonna see uh uh again the the tribulation and uh um really partial dis big part destruction of of uh Israel Israelites during this time It's gonna be horrible. So uh it's also a time o of trouble. The horse, again, equated with power and army, uh Israel would not boast the military outfitted with horses. Uh again and you think of a literal what whatever it looks like in the future, I mean look at Israel now. You see them surrounded by these smaller uh nations that that are coming at 'em today. Look at it in the news. Imagine and went the if the nations do descend on 'em. The Russians uh the Chinese element, uh people coming from the South, Egypt, the West, uh a unified uh European nation. You're talking a little area here. Uh they would be surrounded. Overwhelming um So he uses these again these phrases, bewildering, uh uh the horses, madness, uh and really it it it's You kinda you you can just add the soprolis on there. They're dumbfounded. They're they're confused. They e they're even struck with blindness. Um there's no way they're going to succeed Again, i if it is a military thing, uh you can have all the weapons in the world. Again, somebody has to operate these to some degree. If uh you know, God can God can make everything uh uh inoperative, useless almost. We we have a powerful God. And these kind of things you can again Think about it. This takes meditating. You have to uh contemplate on some of these ideas for a moment. It's easy to just say, oh yeah, God's in control and he can do everything. Uh but you know how it is, when we're in our own situations, uh uh and imagine the situation these people would be in. They're about to get crushed And God's in control and he says he's got this faith. He's gonna that you you you're gonna have to depend on him In your own strength isn't uh Yeah, when they walk around the uh oh actually when the spies went up, right And they and they went up to spy out the land. They said, we can't take the land. Well that was true. They couldn't. You're right. You can't Right? It was a lack of faith. If God didn't take it, there's no way. They had uh he uh Jericho. It was a huge fortress Now we give him a hard time. I can't believe he did that. You know what I mean? Well, you know, it really made common sense that without faith, there's no way Uh you know, the walls on that uh JRPL I think were wide enough they said they could they could ride chariots on the top of the wall uh uh it you know, the my history s is serves me correctly. Um the point is that there's no way to take that. And and this is the kind of situation. Think about that. That's this is the God that we have though. Uh you know, this is what I need to claim. Which helps me get rid of my pride. I'm in the way Right. That's my obstacle. Right? I gotta get me out of the way first. And that was Israel's obstacle Right? They had rejected the Messiah. And again, um That's not a battle of time, but remember they made a pact with the false shepherd. Remember the end of 11? I mean, obviously some kind of turmoil was happening that would motivate them that we talked about this, it would seem logical for them to make whoever this false shepherd is, he was bringing some kind of peace and some kind of control. Uh and we think it's the an you know, it's it looks like the Antichrist, right? Uh and he's gonna be a powerful, he's gonna be good at economics, he's gonna be good at political, he's gonna be a good talker Uh and he's actually gonna get things done. Uh so there's there's going to be that peace and it's gonna seem logical to him I I think there'll be a remnant to do this going. I don't know, we're making you know, this is not, you know, something's wrong here. Uh but again that that that's God opening the the remnant's eyes, right? Clans or chieftains, let's see, let me read this. This is where we are, five through seven. The clans of Judah will say in their hearts a strong support of For us are the inhabitants of Jerusalem through the Lord of hosts, through the Lord of hosts their God. In that day I will make the clans of Judah like a firepot among the pieces of wood and a flaming torch among the sheep, so that they will consume on the right and on the left all the surrounding people. While the inhabitants of Jerusalem again dwell on their own sight in Jerusalem. The Lord also will save the tents of Judah So that the glory of the house of David and the glory of the inhabitants of Jerusalem will not be magnified above Judah. Kind of interesting here. So the clans, this could be chieftains, they talk about thousands uh leaders of thousands uh who will rule and lead the clans uh in their hearts and that the the Lord of hosts is with us. Uh the leadership wasn't and uh a good comment uh uh one uh I forget, I think it was uh Ungar who was saying this And and we see that even in a secular thing. uh people that really stand for something or uh uh have a conviction, uh people tend to follow. Uh I think intuitively no we even even those that follow uh a bad shepherd kinda know that they're they're dishonest. Uh our conscience bear witness with that But they do not speak superficially uh with conviction but with convictions of the heart. And and I'll say this a little later, but to me, if you look, it looks like A little kind of a a softening of the heart, you know, you you almost see uh faith here, right The inhabitants of Jerusalem are are strong support for the people. They are trusting in the Lord of armies. So the the Judean witness uh witnesses uh They witness the strength of Jerusalem and their faith in the Lord. This in turn inspires them to live outside of the city. to have those who live outside and say to have faith in their own uh Lord of the armies and the strength of his shield. So Mm let me go ahead give through this, they're jumping ahead. Because of their faith in the Lord He will protect Judah from the surrounding uh enemies in a miraculous way. Judah will become a firefight, a ready uh to set the wood on fire that surrounds them. What a great image. You can see that these nations that look so strong are actually what the Lord is saying, they're gonna go up in flames. Uh Judah will become a fire pot ready to set the wood on fire surrounds him. Uh Judah will become a flaming torch. Uh and it's like think of dry sheaves, how fast that stuff will go up So the surrounding nations, the Gentiles, uh continue to the power of the Lord of hosts, and this uh mighty destruction of uh Judah uh will remain steadfast to the faith uh uh of their own dwelling sites. I and I had originally here uh as if they are unaffected by this calamity, but I uh I think it's a faith But if we turn it again, it's the chap to chapter thirteen. Uh there's gonna be a lot of death. Uh a a lot of the Israelites are gonna die What I think God is saying is, and think God always kind of uh a lot of times his words kind of looks to to me, when you look at prophecy just kind of looks, this is the end. Uh uh uh sometimes you you the calamities or whatever uh in the interim are not so much stressed as but this is going to be the final result. And I think what we have here is those that are steadfast Because there is going to be a purging. I think that's the this is what we're talking about here in this time. In that day, the day of the Lord, Jacob's trouble Israel is g is gonna h receive a purging. Is there's gonna be a judgment for unbelief, really. And it's Looks like what is going to happen is when we get to verse 10, it's going to turn to belief. And we can start to see that in these verses. They're trusting in the Lord. I mean, these are signs of faith, right? Again, it's not, it's kind of it's couched in the text. It's not really right there in, you know, uh in commentary form, but uh it's faith The Lord will deliver the tent of Judah first. So uh the people living outside the walled city uh do not have they they didn't have the uh fortified or the strategic situation, you know, Jerusalem's up uh on a mountain, right? The city. Uh and it it ca it's a somewhat of a protection. These people are out in in the lower lands in the plains, the surrounding area, Judah of of the which is here Sharon uh Jerusalem. So God's supernatural protection defends them living outside the city Uh and you you would think it's inevitably that's what's gonna be attacked first, right? If you get to the city, you're gonna go through the surrounding areas, you're gonna crush that The glory of the house of David and the glory of Judah are not magnified. The Lord of armies, the one who stretches out the heavens and lays the foundations of the earth, with what he put out in verse 1, and forms the spirit within a man. This is the one to get the glory for the victory of all of this You notice too I says that um well he he's really gonna uh put out that yeah he doesn't want uh Judah also to become uh more proud of itself. uh is uh it's not that they're superior. Uh and that's what faith does. I mean it uh it really It breaks down the classes, uh, it breaks down the uh ethnic well these these are ethn one ethnic group, but i in general faith breaks down the ethnicity boundaries and w we start to see each other as one. We're one body in Christ, right? Uh That's what they're starting to get. And it it takes that for us to get over these worldly um you know, kind of rating systems or class differentiation or really what it we're what we're doing is puffing each other up. Uh i i the only reason to have a a superior class to another is and Tyranicus, right? Which has nothing to do with with uh faith in the Lord. So the glory house of David and of Judah. Verse 8. In that day the Lord will defend the inhabitants of Jerusalem and the one who is feeble among them in that day like David, and the house of David will be like God like the angel of the Lord. Uh angel of the Lord before them. So the again the phrase in Eddae is repeated twice in this verse. It's used to highlight the time reference to the end of the age. uh the culmination of the uh the Lord displaying his power and authority in and uh defending his chosen people and judging the world uh will also be seen in that day. In that day uh he will defend the inhabitants and the Lord will provide for protection around Jerusalem. The people are feeble that are feeble will be made like a mighty warrior like David. David was uh, we know David's feet David killed his ten thousand, Saul killed his thousand. The angel look at how it says the angel of the Lord. And um David will take uh will be like God uh for the angel of the Lord, uh the preincarnate Christ will be before them. So God manifested himself to Israel uh in the wilderness, right Now he returns to defend them as a glorified Christ. He will return as King of Kings and Lord of Lords. So he's going to defend Israel and judge the world Also the we talk about this, the the angel of the Lord You see how the the gods w and we say that this is the pre incarnate Christ or uh you know, a theophany uh of God And we do that i if you look in in the context of the ones that that the angel the angel of the Lord is is stated, typically God i is always close by in the passage. He almost defines it like he does here in verse eight. Like God, like the angel of the Lord before them. And that's kind of the uh idea, the theology of of how we get, you know, this is a preincarnate of Christ. This is this is God in and uh Yeah, in form. W what he he manifests himself several times. Um I will pour out, and here we are with verse 10. I will pour out on the house of David and on the inhabitants of Jerusalem the spirit of grace and supplication. So that they will look on me whom they have pierced, and they will mourn for him as one mourns for an only son. And they will weep bitterly over him like the bitter weeping over a firstborn I mean this is huge, is it not? I mean this is they are going to recognize the Messiah Again, we saw in verse in chapter 9, verse 9, they rejected him. And now they're going to mourn over him, whom they have pierced. Look at this though. I will pour out on the house of David, on the inhabitants of Jerusalem, the spirit of grace and supplication. It's we use this term elect- it's election. God opened their hearts. God poured the Spirit out. The spirit of grace. Grace is a gift. It's a gift of something. It's a gift of illumination here. Right? And supplication. These two words are are uh have kind of the same root and and uh That's what he poor at what he's uh putting out here. Um Let me read what I wrote. The transition from the physical salvation to spiritual transformation takes place in verse 10. God is not content with just physical well-being, but looks for the truth in the inward parts, right? There was no sense in God setting up his kingdom in the king the first time if they're going to reject them because they weren't going to be in the kingdom Right? It's not about where the kingdom is, it's about uh our relationship to the king It's not about the streets of gold. I I'm sure those things will be nice, be honest. I don't know what you're looking for. I'm looking forward to s I d uh we imagine we're gonna see Christ in his glorified body. I know. And to me we're gonna see each other without any of the stuff between us. The r the fellowship and the relationship w will finally be connected the way we like, the way we experience from time to time, right? As brothers and sisters in Christ But even so, even now with salvation, we still have obstacles, though. We still get stuff in there. All this stuff is gonna be gone. All of it No pretensions, no pride. It's incomprehensible, really. Um I'm less proud than I used to be But I got but when you look sometimes you go, Wow man, I'm still all known to this. I'm worried about what people think. I need to be worried about what God thinks, right? The transition from uh so uh Of course, it's Joel 218. Remember Peter's um sermon in Acts? He said that you know the spirit can be poured out on your sons and daughters that all prophesy. He's quoting Joel. Joel was uh prophesying of the same incident Romans 11, 25, 27. We talked about this before. All Israel will be saved. That's that's what he's this is his prophecy right here. This is when they're going to be saved. Again, we look at 13. There's gonna be a lot of death before all Israel saved. They're gonna lose a lot. But that's what he said. He goes, remember there's a partial hardening of their hearts. Um and it's not so much well when we study this prophecy, again, I don't want us to to take away and get puffed up and fight, oh we know this or we know this about God's word and but The reason I do it, and I hope the reason that the the ultimate reason, he God's showing us the the plan. Hey, this is where we're going. And that gives us confidence. He's in control. He's told us Especially when we look at this, right? Think about this. This is 500 BC, thereabouts, uh maybe 530 by this time. I've kind of lost track of the date where we are. Uh maybe five third, I can't remember. But anyway, this is 500 years before Christ comes, right? Or thereabouts Never mind the end of the age, and he's telling us all about both. Spirit of supplication. God gave grace to Israel to look on their Messiah with favor and not with uh contempt. Contempt as they had at the first advent. God's chosen people were able to relent and confess their rejection of Him in grace. It is further heightened by this other form of the verb grace, supplication of Him. Whereas grace opened the hearts to see and confess their rejection of the king, supplication allowed them to embrace and love the Messiah. So it's kind of like the great you know, um Maybe the the uh writer who who uh uh took this from is overdoing it, but he he's using kind of two forms of grace here. And it's uh you know how it is, when you first come to Christ, it's like, wow, it's so neat. And then we as we grow, we learn to love him, don't we? And it's hard to get to know him. It takes work. We have to really be uh uh diligent about uh uh uh opening ourselves and applying ourselves to having God's word work on us God does the work, but he asks us. He goes, Are you reading my word? Are you meditating on me? I've given you uh opportunities. Are things getting in your way? Wha what were your what's your priority? Um I uh I confess myself, right? Uh On Sundays, it's easy to mark off this time for us because I I but what about Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday? Well how do I When I have to go about and do some of these details of life it gets away. My wife goes, Have you done that I need to say God with me though, because that's the challenge there, right? Like, all right Lord, I need your help, you know, Lord help me with this and I oftentimes I I forget to stop and pray. And consider him. I've got a uh there's something I I want to do, I want to accomplish it. Lord, help me. Um And you know, when we do, it's it's incredible. Um he answers prayer, doesn't he? Yeah I've gotten some things done, I look back and I'm going, that had to be God. I mean, yeah, I worked hard, I put the effort into it, but it got done and and it's uh it it got done well Quicker than I thought it would. They will mourn over him as one mourn over an only son, and they will weep over him bitterly. And this is where Feinberg, I I've kind of written this out. I I think what we and I thought about this, I kind of paraphrased what he did And a th and and a number of them picked up on this. So th they were thinking of Isaiah 53. And y and so you may say to yourself, and and as uh Why would they go to Isaiah 53? Why would they even think of that? How does the commentator know? Because it's not in this passage. Um a and we don't we can't say a hundred percent for sure, can we? But at the same time I would I would put this to you. These types of things, if it's not Isaiah 53 in the in their own way, uh maybe something very similar Verse 10, I will pour out on the house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem the Spirit of grace. The Holy Spirit, right? The Holy Spirit. Who? Who inspired? Who helped these writers write this book? The Holy Spirit. He uses His Word. He brings to mind things in this Word, which is why we need to read the Word. Don't read what's it mean. Start to get the word into you. It's amazing. The Holy Spirit will bring back things to you. And He'll bring him up. Um I know when we did jail ministry, we were going down and we were doing Bible lessons and um Once it's funny, once we we got going the the friend of mine, Richard and I that we would take turns and uh it's amazing. Uh W both of us when we were teaching things and of course these guys would ask questions all over the chart and uh oftentimes you get off. But it's amazing how many times the the Lord would bring verses to our minds And we'd comment on that and go, I didn't even know I really I knew that I remembered that verse. And it was just like he'd bring it up and I might not remember verbatim but I I'd go, Oh yeah, it was back and and uh and I would turn to that Uh that's and that's what the God does. These people this is uh a Jewish nation that they heard some of this, but God's gonna e even if they haven't read it, uh God's gonna bring this these types of things to their mind. Because this is what God says he's done and is gonna do. So let's read it. I'll tell you what, somebody read Isaiah 53, if you're not already there, please turn to it. Isaiah 53, somebody uh volunteer to read verses 1 through 3 Who has believed our message? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? For he grew up before him like a tender shoot, and like a root out of parched ground. He has no stately form or majesty that he should look upon him nor appearance that we should be attracted to him. He was despised and forsaken of men, a man of sorrows And acquainted with grief, and like one from whom men hide their face, he was despised, and we did not esteem him. And they may not be quoting this, but don't you think that's they're gonna look on him whom they've pierced and they're gonna they obviously realize, ooh You know, our ancestors, we know. We rejected this Messiah. And they know I mean th they don't know they rejected them, but try talking to s some of the uh Jewish people about the Messiah. Some will just And I used to witness to several uh Jewish people uh several came came my way. I guess God kinda brought 'em to me. So Uh at a shop and uh automotive re repair shop and several Jews and I'd get into conversations with them and one of the things I'd always hear was, well I'm not really religious. You know, I don't think you will but you're Jewish, right? And they go, Yeah, and I go, Well, you know, kinda what does that mean you're a cultural? Uh what does that mean? It's kinda like your God chose the people, that's what kind of makes you Jewish in a way, but They they know they rejected him. I think they're going to be asking these questions like, wow, we didn't esteem this man. We didn't recognize him. No, his appearance uh didn't attract us to him. Now think about this, this this grief that that's going on. I mean these people are struck to the heart, and we're gonna see this as as this passage moves on, right? They will look on him and pierce. They mourn as one mourns for I mean this is a deep mourning And again, uh it is getting close. Uh you you see the passage you probably read. Uh he's just gonna go through what almost looks like a monotony is gonna go the Alpha David will mourn, Nathan, and he names all these things and and and their wives will mourn. And and and it's so I guess Wha well what I'm trying to say what and what the what the I the passage is trying to say, you're gonna have this national morning, but it's not gonna be like, well, we're gonna have a day of of prayer or we're gonna have a national morning Each individual is going to be like a broken person, right? Like a prodigal son, like whatever you want to however you want to imagine it, who's cut. And it's going to be on a national level and they're all going to be doing this individually. Not like, well, you know, my dad did it, you know, I think I'll get uh you know, I think I'll that's my religion. I was raised in the church. Uh yeah, I'm a Christian or whatever. You know what I'm it to Try to imagine that. On a national level these people are broken, cut to the heart. So verses four through uh let's see, well I'll read to seven. Surely our griefs he himself bore, and our sorrows he carried. Yet we ourselves esteemed him stricken. They did, didn't they? What did they say? Kill him. Crucify him We don't want this guy. We read this last time. Remember we talked about that? Who was their king? Remember what he said? Caesar is arguing. We ain't got no king but Caesar. And remember we talked about that last time. He goes, yeah. I'm going to send your king. Your king's going to come and he's going to crush you And he did. Rome, right? That was their king. Seventy A. D. crushed him Smitten of God and afflicted. But he was pierced through for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. The chastening for our well-being fell upon him And by his scourging we are healed. All of us, like sheep, have gone astray. Each of us has turned to his own way. But the Lord has caused the iniquity of us all to fall on him This is like the gospel and you can't read this too often. Yeah, it's just amazing, right? And and this is what he did. And these people are this is what This will be a tremendous scene. They're going to be weeping bitterly. Running short on time There's one other thing I'd like to like and it's hard to I don't want to say too much But at the same time, I think it says they're gonna look on him whom they have pierced. It looks like With the timing and everything, Christ is going to come back and defend them. We'll see this later in Zechariah. He's going to come back. Stand on Mount of Olives, he's gonna split it, they're gonna escape through that. So they they are gonna see him. And again, we saw the the the seeds of faith there But they're good they're they're going to see him, but more importantly, they're going to see him. Uh it and that takes that spiritual, the pouring out of of the spirit on them, to open their eyes. It's not um you know, w we just can't you we just have to move beyond. It's not a miraculous thing. We saw that with the with the uh first Advent, all those miracles he did. Even in the Old Testament with the parting of the sea, faith comes by God opening their eyes. But they're going to see him and they're going to realize this is the one we pierced. If we're right with with uh the the rapture, uh we get raptured uh uh right before, woo We may come back and we may be witnessing that because Christ's coming back. We will come back with him. What an amazing, amazing scene, though, to see salvation like that. Well, let's finish up with these verses Uh let's see. Would somebody read uh seven through nine for us? I can read. He was oppressed and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. He was led as a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before its shears is silent, so he opened not his mouth He was taken from prison and from judgment, and who will declare his generation? For he was cut off from the land of the living, for the transgressions of my people he was stricken. And they made his grave with the wicked, but with the rich at his death, because he had done no violence, nor was any deceit in his mouth. And yeah, it's uh amazing, isn't it? How the uh incarnate God could allow simple created beings to put him to death like that. Without without uh i i i you know, without saying a word, really But the Lord was pleased to crush him, putting him to grief, if he would render himself as a guilt offering He will see his offspring and he will prolong his days, and the good pleasure of the Lord will prosper in his hand As a result of the anguish of his soul, he will see it and be satisfied. And his knowledge By his knowledge, the righteous one, my servant, will justify the many, as he will bear their iniquities Therefore, I will allot him a portion with the great, and he will divide the booty with um uh with the strong. Because he poured out himself to death, and he was numbered with the transgressors, yet he himself bore the sin of many and interceded for the transgressors. So that's where they are. The Israelites are going to see him come back. They're going to look on him whom they pierced. They're gonna mourn over him. There's gonna be weeping. But those we know that that those tears are gonna be turned to joy, aren't they? Again, uh what a blessing that uh God has given these. So we've kind of moved along fast through a lot of this. Um Any questions over the last any of these last couple of chapters? Any thoughts, insights that you've gotten from this? I hope that you're uh again read this uh read this word. It doesn't matter if you understand what it means If you can rema if you can get into your mind uh what it says, that's that that's a big first step. It it is the critical first step Any thoughts, anything on uh anything you want to comment on Again, you can see if you read through each of these families and their wives. Again, it's an individual thing. It kind of represents all classes, the kingly class. uh David and Nathan. Uh depends on how you look at that. There there's some question they talk about Nathan the prophet or n uh uh Solomon's brother, Nathan. Uh W again the point is so much, it it's the leadership, the class, then you go to the priest, Levi, right, Simeon, uh the Shemites, um Right, you have the the the prefect class, all of these, and then every family, and again to each one individual. So aga the the the point is and it's re sounds redundant you're thinking why is this just going on? It's individually None of this corporate stuff. No it's not the Mosaic Law. Mosaic law included everybody. If you're going to be part of the camp, you had to obey obey the law. But it didn't mean you had faith, right? But you had to bay the law or else you were put out of the camp. So it's it's none of that. Kind of reminds me of uh the passage in Acts where Uh Paul was uh at the prayer meeting by the river and uh Lydia's in attendance and uh other women are there too. They all hear it. They all hear the message. But uh but Lydia responds in the passage, the verse says, And God opened up her heart to understand. It reminds me of, you know, like this. Yeah. uh God poured out a spirit and without God opening a heart, allowing somebody to open up their hearts, we can tell October blue in the face. And we try to convince somebody. Sure. We try to convince the truth and the gospel we need to do that. But unless the Lord Right. Um gives light. Uh just dependents on the horror. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, great point. You know, fellow it takes a lot of love and patience, you know, when you're uh witness to someone that's gonna say you And uh knowing you know that uh if you're not saved, uh you spends up making God. You want to face all that's how I'm a toy that. And um the fact that you're aren't seeing always bothers you to see. Oh yeah. uh as women. You know, and um I have a lot of feminists, you know, who were homosexual, uh who checked God. What you do is continue to pray and uh be witness to him and love and kindness. Because we want to have a pure common. Right. And sometimes I separate myself to a certain extent. Right. I know. Right. unis or holidays. And my daughter sometimes I don't want to expose her to what I know. You know, she's twelve, you know, the lifestyle that other emigrants are living. It can be a real real bother. No question. And also verse uh 10, Eric. Yes. This speaks of the Trinity too. You know, when uh said uh um So they will look at me whom they have pierced and they will mourn for him as one more only his son. And they will be bitterly When you when Zachariah was saying, they will look at me as God. Also we know this is all about Christ. This is showing, you know, uh Trinity, you know. They pierced other words, God said you pierced me. You know. Right. Right. God is just making it known now that Uh Jesus is God and there's no way around that. So we think that he didn't Jesus, they actually joined the God Yeah. Uh uh you know, when I'm doing my study and I'll look at that and look okay. Mm-hmm. It's like David. He said, I have sinned against you. Uh U Uriah died. Not funny. I mean he basically killed him He just because he didn't do it, he basically killed him. But he s he recognized I sinned against you And you know, you made a good point, and this is one of the things I so appreciate by having the opportunity to do all these years jail ministry. It's it right now COVID, we're we're we're not really i allowed in there and And I'm afraid but that that's another story. But the point is, is that when you when I when we first went in there we had the Same thing that most people think. Well you're in a you're in an environment, you know, the first time you go in you're like, where am I? What are these people here? But you know, it's like anything after you become familiar with it. They're just people. Oh after a while, you especially if you get into a Bible study with them and you have some that are engaging Y you strip away all that exterior stuff. 'Cause you mentioned like homosexual this and that. They're not homosexuals. They're people that are practicing. They're made in the image of God. And that's the thing, um W we need to you can lose it. We need to grasp that, especially with the stuff that's going on right now. They're people. I don't care. They may say this or that, but when you scratch all that and get down to the surface, they want the same thing we all want. We all want to be loved. You know, we we have these we're we're made in the image of God. And it's so easy to forget. It's so easy to get lost in that It takes a while to build bridges to get beyond what all that surface stuff is. It it does take time and Owens will tell you that. Boy, it's like he go over there and we're gonna save the world, you know, and I got a seminary man, we're gonna go blah blah blah. Like you said, the God you can do everything you want. God changes the heart. It's his timing. But at the same time though, it's good to have that attitude. I I I know that God uh and I'll finish with this. I know that God somebody's predestined I'm not gonna change that fact. Uh God's the one who opens the heart. But at the same time I don't know who's predestined, so we have to go after him like These are they're a possibility. I'll let God worry that's not my problem. That that's the beauty of it. It's like if you don't get saved, that's that's God's problem, not mine. He doesn't need me Hilly Fallet