This passage, I don't know if you read it before or uh prior to this class or I guess we ought to go through it if um uh we can uh uh read uh let's see it's seventeen so would somebody volunteer to read uh Zechariah nine one through um See where a good stopping place is. Well let's uh uh nine one through ten and somebody pick up from verse eleven through seventeen. Thanks. When you read through that it's not easy. You're like, what are they talking about? W is and I thought we'll go through it, but here's the overview. It's a it's a historical lesson. The first part of this, what he's doing, he's talking about Alexander the Great's conquest. First he's in Assyria. He comes down to Phoenicia, Philistines. kinda I don't know how you separate the two, they're very close. And that's what he's talking about, these lands with tire And then all these these things that he mentions, uh, we won't get into detail with some of these ekrons and everything else, but that's the military That was his path. That that's how how Alexander came down and conquered that whole region. Now think about this. We're under Persia, right? That's what they're paying tribute to Alexander's gonna come down, three thirty th three BC, I think is one of the dates we get. That's when he really started his campaign. Battle at I ISIS, so it'll be in the notes. But so he's up north. I probably should have had a map in here. But if you know, uh vision that the northern part up in Syria, so uh if if you're looking it's it's uh uh It's in the northern part of the Mediterranean. It would be kind of like the land bridge. It would take you over to Turkey. So that's the Assyria That's where the original power was. That's where he really defeated the Persian army. And he and after that he comes down Damascus and and K and that whole region, that's kind of the Assyrian thing He comes down to Phoenicia, uh the Philistines, which were all all these are uh Israel arch enemies. These are the ones that Egypt was too, but these are the ones that brutalized them the most The next section he gets into um is he talks about uh uh he gets into the Maccabean Wars and and when Greece uh the the second section. And I'm just giving you the big overview. It's a it's a what he's doing is really detailing the Maccabean War and how they uh the Maccabees were were in this is the intertestimal period were gonna stand up against um uh a tiger's epiphanes really. He'd he'd uh uh desecrated the temple, he did pigs in there and he just w went after him. It was after the the Jewish race, like so many others. And the Maccabees w through uh warfare stood up to him. It's it's where we get Hanukkah from Hanukkahs when they uh uh finally get the temple back they needed a precious oil. They didn't have it for the lighting of the of the lamps. It was a certain oil that had to be refined. Um the miracle was that the little bit of oil they had lasted longer than it should have and that's kind of what the celebration of Hanukkah is. But that's a Mactor that and that's what he's detailing here. Zechariah has given the history of this uh hundreds of years before it ever happened. And I What the original audience knew and and uh e even us, unless we study history and somebody uh unpacks this for us, uh we have no idea. No, I just wanted to give you the big picture, so uh that's the way I think. I I I like to know where I'm going. I get lost in the detail Uh so the here's the introductory. The book of Zechariah is divided in into chapters one through eight and nine to fourteen. We moved from night visions, uh right, we we went through all those, eight uh visions, right? Uh Uh the burden of the word of the Lord. That's the phrase with it opens these two sections. So it's what happens in nine and uh and and again at twelve Right, uh first verse uh verse right there in verse nine, the burden of the word of the Lord is against the land and and it kind of divides. It's it's uh the message to Zechariah uh uh they just divide it in two uh we'll see you'll see this as we go. Both chapters one and excuse me. Chapters one through eight and nine through fourteen have the same themes uh and uh uh I got that. And the later chapters often elaborate on the message it was first presented. We saw that in uh one through eight. Uh you know, return to me and I'll return to you. And he and he kept talking about that theme Uh even when the uh uh delegation from uh Bethel came, right, and they go, Do we have to do the fast? And he I need your heart. I don't need your fast. Uh uh I want you to return to me. Uh So uh chapters nine through fourteen of the same period extended to the end of the age. Uh and that's what we see with all most of these. We'll see these little things we'll look at today uh he's talking about a contemporary time and all of a sudden it has to be something that's totally future. Uh Dale and I were talking about this before because uh how is this the end of the age? Well We have to look at the signs. Is does is what he's describing almost a utopian or or heavenly uh stage? I mean is is it something that's gonna happen in uh the regular world events and and that's what you look for. That's why you you it has to be at the end of the age when when uh Christ sets up the kingdom and righteousness reigns So the overthrow of uh Gentile world power is presented in both as well as the King Priest as the crowning of uh Joshua the high priest Right? Remember we saw that in one of the visions. He put the crown on there. He was crowned. A priest was uh crowned That's just that's not the two offices in the Old Testament in the Old Economy. The king and the priest were separate offices. Remember there's a crowning in that really symbolic. It pointed to the Messiah. It's all fe its future. Um you notice that it it uh when we went through that that he took the crown off they put it in the temple as a memorial Uh chapters uh nine through eleven, the coming of the Messiah is presented and rejection of the shepherd king. That's what you have in We have here the the presenting of the Messiah. We're going to look in nine through eleven. We're going to look at the rejection of the Messiah. The shepherd king, right? It's detailed, right? And chapters twelve to fourteen is the second advent pretty much. It's its feature. It's gonna be when Christ comes back and this is gonna be millennial or end of the age uh prophecies. So the second advent, the acceptance of the Messiah, the shepherd king, we'll look at some uh really uh tremendous passages on that. So verses one and two. The burden of the word of the Lord is against the land of Hadrak with Damascus as its resting place for the eyes of men, especially of all the tribes of Israel toward the Lord, and Hamet also, which borders on it, Khar and Sidon, though they are very wise. So this is a heavy burdensome message because uh from the Lord through the prophet uh Zechariah, the land of Hadrach and Damascus uh the resting place and this is for the burden of the Lord. He's going to deliver to this region. It's it's going to be a consequence. He's going to use uh a a secular person, but remember uh what we're gonna see is God working and and really empowering this person Um Hadrak has been identified as the ancient city. Uh Hadarika uh mentioned in the uh annals of Assyrian kings. This came out archaeological later, some of the early commentaries had um different uh uh meanings for this. Uh but I I think it's just referring to a city and that and that seems to be the evidence here. Uh people during the ancient time wouldn't know that a city Uh let's see. Uh so the uh The Assyrian kings of Hadrach, Hameth, Damascus, uh they make up the region occupied by the Assyrians. Uh these were Israel's enemies. This is Uh you you're looking at their power from around 900 to 721. 722 is when the northern kingdom got totally crushed. Assyria was the ones who who did that Uh they when the two kingdoms were divided, all right, Judah, uh and Jerusalem and and then the all the tribes of the northern kingdom, this is w they were the ones that were were went down first in seven twenty. too. And it was from the Assyrians. Um yeah, th they were brutal. They they more than they they kinda tortured the people they conquered. These are Israel's enemies again from nine hundred to seven twenty-one. At the Battle of Isis in uh Southeast Asia Minor Uh and this is October uh three thirty three BC. Uh Alexander the Great began the downfall of the Persian Empire under Darius the king. Obviously this is another Darius they just They tend to name 'em um not these Kingly Mays. Um Uh this victory opened up the Syria and Palestine for Alexander to conquer on his way to Egypt as Alexander was conquering uh Hadrak and the surrounding cities of Damascus And Hamlet the the world of uh all over uh the world and all Israel received eyes of men, the hand of the Lord, the instrument of Alexander the Great And and this is what he's saying. Uh uh uh I quoted Ungar in this. Uh this is what he's saying in this phrase. What is this, the eyes of men Well, because the eyes of men, whether they realize it or not, they're seeing the hand of the Lord through the instrument of Alexander the Great. Uh Unger writes, Alexander was simply God's servant for judgment and chastisement And then compare, look at verse four, which we'll get to, where the Lord Himself is said to have dispossessed tire When Alexander is known to have done so. History's no we know Alexander, it's well documented. We'll look at this. This is really interesting how he overtook this city. And and um But we know that he did it, but God's word, we know God's word, is true. We don't have to deal with well this is true. We can move beyond that and say he's telling us right here God has possessed that city. So you have to think about that. That means again, this is huge. Alexander is God's instrument He he uses all i all. Uh yeah, uh who is it, uh Caiaphas, right, when he prophesies it's better for one man to die than the whole nation You know, he he prophesied God uses people, good and evil. We remember he lifted up Cyrus. Cyrus was his instrument. He allowed the the reason they're back is because Cyrus was put on his heart to send the Jews back with money. So here we are with uh Tyre and Sidon. They are very wise. Tyre is singled out in this prophecy Because of her prosperity and arrogant pride. Ezekiel wrote about the pride of Tyre. Son of man, Satan the leader of Tyre, thus says the Lord God, because your heart is lifted up and you have said, I am a God, I sit in the seat of God in the heart of seas, yet you are a man and not God. Although you make your heart like God like although you make your heart like the heart of God, by your wisdom and understand You have acquired riches for yourself and you have acquired gold and silver for treasure. By your great wisdom, by your trade, you have uh increased your riches and your heart is lifted up because of your riches. Riches. Therefore, thus says the Lord God, because you have made your heart like the heart of God, therefore, behold, I will bring strangers upon you the most ruthless of nations, and they will draw their swords against the beauty of your wisdom and defile your splendor. They will bring you down into the pit, and you will die the death of those who are slain This is uh the King of Kara's word, how great he is and His wisdom and how he's done all this. Kinda reminds you of Nebuchadnezzar, right? And then the Lord took him and said, Oh yeah. I'll send you out, you'll live in the wilderness like an animal. Uh so Again, Tyres uh King of Tyre. And if you're familiar with this passage and you know uh hesitate to do this. Maybe we should do it. It's for those of you not familiar, turn to Ezekiel twenty-eight. Most of you are probably familiar with this is a um Uh he's speaking um about Satan here Well no, this is in Ezekiel. These are two passages. Isaiah fourteen and that's um But this is another passage. In both of these, Isaiah fourteen and uh Ezekiel twenty-eight, uh there's debate uh uh among uh scholars, uh uh Bible commentators of whether this is actually talking about Satan or is it just the king of Tyre. But this passage, more than Isaiah, has a real problem because of Uh Ezekiel twenty eight, verse eleven. Again, the word of the Lord came to me saying, Son of man, lift up a lamentation over the king of Tyre and say to him, Thus says the Lord God. You had the seal of perfection. And this is where we think he's moving from talking to the king and he's kind of talking beyond. He's talking to Satan, the the power behind the king. Um and this is why we think so if you look at some of these verses. You had the seal of perfection, full of wisdom and perfect in beauty. You were in Eden, the garden of God. Every precious stone was your covering. The ruby, the topaz, the diamonds The barrel of the Onyx said Jasper, the last is uh uh lazuli, uh the turquoise and the emerald and the gold and the workmanship of the setting of the sockets was in you. On the day that you were created they were prepared. You were the anointed cherub who covers, and I placed you there, and you were on the holy mountain of God, and you walked in the midst of stone and fire Verse 15, you were blameless in your ways from the day you were created until unrighteousness was found in you. By the abundance of the trade you were eternally filled with violence and you sinned. Therefore I cast you as profane from the mountain of God, and I have destroyed you the covering uh O covering sheriff from the midst of the stones of the fire. Your heart was lifted up because of your beauty, you corrupted your wisdom. By reason and splendor I cast you to the ground and put you before kings that they Um that they may see you. And I'll just stop there. But if you notice in verse fifteen, you were blameless in your ways from the day you were created. Psalm fifty one, right? He said uh David, you were created in iniquity. Um that that's a stumbling point if somebody wants to say this the point is is that um we believe uh Um uh that this is the power behind tire. And look at look at what you got here. You've got i i it you've got really two contrasts, right? You've got um Alexander coming down, he's powered by God. And you got Tyre, who's kind of powered by Satan. Here's the war. It it's uh It just that was my conclusion. I mean that it's i that's what you see in contrast here. Uh but they were uh There is a spirit that's working in the sons of disobedience. Ephesians 2 1. 2 2 Um and we think that's what's going on here. So Tyre built herself a fortress and piled up silver like dust, like gold and iron in the streets. Behold the Lord will dispossess her and cast her wealth into the sea, she will be consumed by fire. So Kara built for herself a fortress, right? This Hebrew word is g it's kind of a pun, um Uh Hebrew uh God likes to do this. Uh the plan of words, this word uh Matsor has the idea uh or meaning of siege. So he they built a tire uh a tower Uh, but it could actually be a siege, right? See the God saying, Okay, you built yourself a tower, but you actually uh what you did by doing that is I built a siege against you that's exactly what Alexander's gonna do. He's gonna Bring a siege and knock down their walls. This word is used in a military sense as a no siege work used to destroy and breach the walls or of uh fortress. Tower was built uh some distance from the mainland. Um uh they said seven hundred paces one person uh had it say was about half a mile out in the ocean. It was a good distance Uh regardless. Um uh Centar's wealth was extravagant, uh having accumulated silver and gold as the dust of the streets, uh which is they were they were just really wealthy. The walls of the city were a hundred and fifty feet high. Uh 150 feet high. That's huge. uh uh she possessed a stronghold and a naval fleet. Uh shall Shao Menever, uh this is the Assyrian uh at the time Uh uh they came down to try and besiege the city. They tried for five years and weren't successful. Never defeated her. Nebuchadnezzar, right, Babylonian. He came down. He had a campaign for 13 years against Tyre. He was not successful The Lord will dispossess her and cast her wealth into the sea. Alexander took the ruins. What they had was they had an old city, and as these tribes these warring nations came down, they deserted the old city and they went out to this this island. And uh they had Tar had as I said, they had a a uh one of the navies of the time So Alexander took the ruins of the old city, he built a causeway out to the city. Uh he amassed a great navy from the nearby city states. As he was conquering the states, he took all their navy, so Uh I obviously he controlled the the waterways, I assume. He wouldn't have been able to build a causeway if their navies were active. Uh uh Uh let's see. Alexander aided by supernatural wisdom and strength conquered the city in seven months. Now you God's hand was at work, and that's what he's saying back there the eyes of man will be able to look at this and see something's going on here. For those that can see, it's amazing though. We can be blind But note that the uh word of God says the Lord has possessed the city. Alexander was the instrument, again, through which the Lord accomplished his purposes. So in verses five through seven, Ascalon uh will see it and be afraid. Gaza too will rise in great pain. Also Ekron For expectation has been confounded. Moreover, the king will perish from Gaza, and Ashgon will be inhabited, and a Mongol race will dwell in Ashdod I will cut off the prize of the Philistines. I will remove the blood from their mouth and the detestable things between their teeth. They will also be a remnant of our God. uh and be like a clan of uh Judah and uh and like Ephron like a Jebusite and Epron like a Jebisite So let's unpack this. Any questions during this time? Please interject or any thoughts These are some of the major s uh cities of uh Philistia, right? Again, he he's outlined Alexander's uh battle plan. Uh again, remember this is 200 years before this happened Uh 'cause this happened in uh three thirty three was when he took the with the Battle of ISIS and and this came after that. Um So these are some of the major cities that have been the great conqueror. Zechariah prophesied was captured two hundred years before it took place. Uh in the angles of uh Uh Alexander, the conquest of Gaza is fully recorded. Gaza was a well fortified city. It was dependent on its own strength. uh to resist. Alexander even after the destruction of Tyra, the city held out for five months is uh uh It was overthrown as King Phil. So think about it. Gaza saw what had happened to Tyre. They knew Tyre's repu repuz uh re uh reputation. Uh These are not that far apart. News travels, especially when uh somet something that major happened. They saw Alexander coming. And yet they held out So the phrase uh uh the uh after the surrender of Ga uh Gaza, tens of thousands of people were slaughtered, the rest were sold into bondage, the king was reported to have been dragged to death behind a chariot Alexander used to go into rage uh what both the historians were saying. When somebody wouldn't uh open up, I mean he just he was uh furious. And I remember reading some of those comments as we look at Daniel and Alexander was uh prophesied on the scene The the phrase the Mongol race, uh it's believed that uh this refers to a blending of races and marriage and thus mixing of cultures Uh, so that the people will not be identified as a single nationality. Uh don't make too much into it. I think it's just a it's just a blending, you know, they're not uh all Italians, they're not all English, they're not all whatever. you know, ethnic group we have, right? You know how that can be. Uh y y uh we have a certain commonality, uh w when you have a culture like that Uh w they just got blended. They become like like America. It's like w well you know, we don't know we're we're Americans. But uh I I think that's all he's really referring to. But it would also take away, you know, you also kinda lose without it you kinda lose a a a national identity too. So it it was the Assyria practice when they conquered a land. that they would come in and they would take away about half of the local inhabitants and then send the other half of the Syrian people in and cause them and create a mix for That's probably what you write is probably what it's referring to. The Hebrew word there is a very strong word. Mm-hmm. But the that was their practice. That's why the Jews and the Samaritans never got along. Right. They considered the Samaritans to be the model of peace. Right. Right. Right. Yeah. A and and really uh uh other nations practice the same thing too. I mean, uh, you know, Nebuchadnezzar, I mean you have to make when you conquer people you can't put everybody in submission. You have to get 'em The idea is uh what what do they call in Greek? They call it what, Hellenization, right? They they're trying to get 'em to your to embrace your culture Uh you allow them certain independence, but you want them to embrace Hellenism, Romanism, you know, whatever uh you know we see power of the day Yeah, you're right. And it was uh a a lot of practices very thin. So God will remove the blood and the testicle things from their teeth Um did I skip something there? Oh. The pride of the Philistines was uh proverbial. Uh apparently uh uh even the uh ancient historians, the Philistines uh pride was obviously uh uh well known. Uh this pride of self-confidence that led them to resist Alexander was a result that they would be a broken instrument of God. We saw what Ezekiel wrote Uh he he would be guide who prophesied about this before. You know, he he tells us oftentimes these same things over and over and over again to the different prophets. Um Right? And and what are we doing? It's the same old thing. Our pride puts us in the place of God. We don't recognize God as having provided for us. And and it's all different levels. It's same today as it always was. God will remove the blood and detestable things between your teeth Uh this statement is referring to the adults as practice of idol worship, the sacrifices, uh sacrificial foods, the eating of blood were uh uh an abomination to the to God the Israelites. Uh Nemarry told him, he says, You can eat the meat, but do not eat the blood, right? Uh a lot of the people during that time. Where Paul says, uh what is meat sacrifice to idols? What what's from the Lord is good as long as But if you have eyes where you see a sacrifice to idols, maybe you should should not eat it. If it's gonna tempt you, right? Uh but that's what he's talking about here. Again, it's idol worship And this is interesting. God will raise up a remnant out of the idolatrous nation and make them as a clan. uh of Judah, like the Jebusite in Israel. Uh God redeemed a portion of these people, uh will bring them to faith in the Lord and and they will have uh apart with the nation Israel. That's what he's saying. You're gonna have some of these people will be all ultimately redeemed. So, you know, again, think about this too As God is allowing this, God is not happy to put that anybody should perish. Uh he said that in Ezekiel. He goes, Do I do I want to slay the wicked? No But you know, but um just, I will. Uh God this is part of God's grace. Think about the slaughter that was going on during that time. It's just it's unimaginable Uh, we think of these people I do, you know, you can look at oh they're wicked, they deserve to die, but yeah. Yeah. Not you know what I mean? That's not a right attitude, is it? I mean uh I don't deserve grace, but I got it. Um so think about the slur they went through, but God is showing us grace here. He's he's telling them, Look, I'm gonna redeem some of these people. They will be uh with you Uh the ancient Jebisites uh occupied uh Zion with David. Uh when David took the city, uh the Jebisites had had it, right? A remnant uh remained and dwelt among the Israelites. Uh I don't know how you pronounce this. Uh Arahna maybe is probably pronounced uh ancient languages they probably pronounce these the vowel separate, but around was pronounced Offered to give David his threshing floor. Uh right, remember David uh was uh convicted and he wanted to go sacrifice to God the the uh plague was on the nation because he numbered the people And uh he went to this threshing floor. Uh Arana owned it. Uh David was told uh built an altar there uh the remnant in that day and the future remnant of uh uh that Zechariah is referring to became followers of the Lord in the land of Israel. So David the point is that this Jebusite uh Is saying, Oh, you want to offer to the Lord? You know, uh he's kind of obedient. He goes, Here, take it. And David says, No, I want to pay you for it. I can't take anything For free. But the point is is that uh the Israelites would have known these Jebusites were living in peace with them. Um and that's what he's referring to here in his prior verse uh this verse up here that they they're gonna be like Jebusites. They will be uh w uh worshiping and and I assume some of 'em will come to faith. Um so God God is showing grace. But I won't camp around my house because an army because of him who passes by in return, and no oppressor will pass over them any more. For now I have seen with my eyes Joseph, uh they all quote uh Josephus about this. He uh he wrote in uh antiquities of the Jews, Alexander uh came to Jerusalem, demanded that Jerusalem pay a tribute The high priest, uh Judah, uh uh he refused to uh offer or to pay the tribute because he was paying uh tribute to Darius the Persian So Alexander said said to him that I'll deal with Jerusalem after he had dealt with God. So he's going to go conquer the nations around. He's going to return there. The people fasted and prayed to uh and uh Judua uh received a dream from the Lord that he should go out and meet the army on their return. The high priest went out in his fest uh festive robes, and the remaining priests all went out dressed in white to meet Alexander and his army Alexander saw the high priest, he saluted him, and he told him that he had seen such a person in a dream. uh Diog in Macedonia. Alexander treated the Jews kindly and granted the city and the temple the people favor So Alexander had gone away. He said, I'm gonna crush you guys. He went out, defeated the lands around them. He comes back And the uh high priest and and the priest went out to meet 'em and I it uh Alexander had had a dream years before in Macedonia, right, back in Greece or th in that area. about um about this very thing. And he said, I won't touch you. Again, God's sovereignty And what did he say? This is Zechariah 200 years before saying this is going to come down. He's going to come to uh Jerusalem, he's going to leave, and he's going to return. But I wouldn't camp around Bible college and history class. Mm-hmm. He said the BCM Bible and he read the story out of the Bible. Mm-hmm. Let's see if he goes, is that true? It's in the Bible Yeah. Uh secular history will will kind of fare this out because this is uh Alexander's campaign down through this area. Zechariah notes is the Lord who encamped around the city. The Lord orchestrated all these events to protect the city and the people The second part of the verse jumps to a prophecy. And this is where this is why this is so difficult. And think about it. Again, think about the original audience They're talking about a time that's that's uh the time in a lot of these prophecies is not defined clearly. You have to look at uh especially for the group that is looking feature to any of this. Um you know, the the that's of Alexander feature for them, for the original audience. But all of a sudden, i especially in the Old Testament, he'll jump to the end of the age. And this is exactly what he does here The second part of this verse, Jones and prophecy, the end of the age, right? And no oppressor will pass over them anymore. Now obviously uh this has uh not been the case up to this point. The city will once again be dis it's gonna be totally destroyed again in 70 AD Even now, right? There's tur tur uh turmoil in the present. This would not come about till Jesus is declared Lord of Lord and King of Kings in the millennial age Again, we don't have to deal with is this true? Is God's grace, God's Spirit allows uh lets us know. We know God's word is true. He's going to do what he says. It's it has to be in a future time. Again, no oppressor will pass over them anymore Okay, you it's important that we pick up the details. For the immediate audience, they had no idea what this time period is. They have They do not see the first and second uh coming of Christ. It it's it's not visible. I am running out of time Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion. Shout aloud, O daughter of Jerusalem, behold, your king is coming to you, righteous and having salvation. uh uh salvation. Is humble and mounted on a donkey on a cold of the fold. The uh this is uh think about the exuberance over this. Look at this uh this pronouncement. And think about it in light of what Alexander has done Chris uh the again the media people don't recognize this now. Uh future generations might, but rejoice greatly coupled with the direct dire uh address of Zion. He's talking right to 'em Rejoice you people. The Lord is coming, right? Your king is coming. Shout, O daughter of Jerusalem. Conveys the excitement of a personal address. Your king is coming to you. Uh think about the immense spiritual uh significance, the announcement of a long-awaited Messiah, expression, joyful emotions. This is what they're looking for. They want their conquering king to come back They're back in the rubble, they're looking for their king who and they they want to go back to the uh the days of Solomon and even better. So there's we're going through some of the descriptions here of uh the king is righteous or just The opposite of Alexander. Uh the coming Messiah was righteous. His government is chief uh virtue is the chief virtue of a chief. Uh Alexander wasn't righteous, uh he was ruthless. Uh he did set up a certain kind of uh uh peace or uh coherence to him that they were he didn't have But it was oppressive. Your throne, O God, is forever and ever. The scepter of your kingdom is the scepter of righteousness You have uh loved righteousness and hated wickedness. Therefore, God your God has anointed you with oil of blackness beyond your companions. This is that's Psalm 45, 6 and 7 Your throne, O God, this y your kingdom is righteous, it's upright. You have loved righteousness. The second aspect of the key character is he showed himself a savior Again, this is uh other gives reasons uh this translation, uh having salvation or he is salvation Uh the essence of the verse is that the Savior and the Messiah dispenses salvation. It's not passive, it's active. This is an active sense. He's humble and lowly. We see this in two places. This is a description of him, humble and lowly. You know, it's the outworking of his mind, of of his heart. Uh he he he he's approachable. Uh Uh Jesus allowed himself to be approached when you think about it. Uh uh in a way that people wouldn't recognize who he is, but uh There were certain aspects. He gave them light where he they they knew he was holy, but he was approachable as as a as a just a regular person. Um Could be we could meditate on that for a a tremendous amount of time. Yes. This is sort of the description before the uh crucifixion I'm sorry? Sunday. Isn't it sort of like Palm Sunday? Okay J uh John quotes it. As I looked at that, uh yeah, John quotes it. The other ones have allusions to it. Uh Matthew does. Um, but not all of them do, I was surprised. Yeah. Um Uh it's funny, you know how you read something like that and you say, Oh yeah, they all said that. But then when you go back and recheck yourself, you know it's like, No, they don't. Uh they have different points of view But you're right. Uh again, and th there's so many ways we could look at this. Uh this was a signpost, was it not? And when he came and and entered the the uh Jerusalem on that day and he was seated on that donkey and they were shouting Hosanna and the highest. Um They didn't see it. It even says in John that if you look at the John quote on it, uh I think it's around fifteen, twelve I I d I don't remember. I think I wrote it down. Twenty-one five, I think it was, and that's Matthew. Uh twelve fifteen is what I'm thinking about It says later the disciples didn't know this. After he rose from the dead, they go, oh yeah. Again, um uh you can have the the miracles everything right in front of us and last guy it just amazes me Uh well I you know to comprehend how blind we are and what do I have that I did not receive? And if I did receive it, why do I boast as if I had not received it It's the pride. It was the pride of of uh you know Tyre, of of Gaza. It's our pride. We're we're missing it. Uh God is everything. I I got you know, and and because of our my nature, uh the sin nature, uh you know, I really have to work at get new spiritualizes to remember that But yeah, uh is that where you were going with this, Suzanne, before I went off and then Yeah. Uh it's used light And yet they didn't see it. Because they were looking. Remember, look at the the the verse eight, that's why it said, and no one will overtake them. anymore. No, they'll have the you you they go right to the end because remember even in the gospel you said look they were trying to make him a king, right? They wanted that power, they wanted to become separate, they wanted to become Israel again, separate from Rome, Greece, anybody that was gonna come He was more so looking for earthly came. Yeah, that's what I mean. Sounds right. Again, what before earthly came. Uh that's the basic thing. And that's uh thank you for saying that because and that's my whole argument. That's why we believe the millennials are gonna be an earthly kingdom. The Old Testament certainly indicated it was going to be earthly, didn't it? And we believe that. And that's what that's separates our theology from some s uh some others. Uh godly men nonetheless, but they don't they don't s see that. They don't believe in that thousand year here. We believe in a earthly kingdom The Jews were certainly looking for it. They asked him in Acts, are you going to set your kingdom up now just before he w was taken up into heaven? He goes, not for you to know the times You're gonna be witnesses for me. But yeah, he didn't say, No, it's not gonna be an earthly kingdom. The income is back. That's what the angel was told. had produced and shown that was evidence that he was from heaven. And that this went over our head Yeah. And those signs were for a purpose. So they can see God anyway. That was the old purpose story. Uh remember when John the Baptist s was uh in prison and he sent some his disciples they and he said to ask Jesus, Are you my b are you the one? Are you the Messiah? Uh So he said, tell John, uh uh the lame walk, uh I opened the eyes of the blind, right? And he exactly what you're saying. He goes, this is what I did What did the Old Testament say, right? And it got to a point that they only watched his purpose. Like, okay, well that showed you this show you that. Mm-hmm. Like really? And that's the heart. The heart is of you know of It was the heart of the people that uh uh contingency, the delegation we read that came from Bethel. So we have to do the fast Yeah, you're looking at the wrong thing. You're looking your earth, your your vision. Again, that's the uh the the blessing we have. We have a heavenly vision I got ten minutes. I'm gonna try and get you out on time, whether I'm done or not. But yeah, you're right. And again, it's the same lesson, i over and over and over again, isn't it? It was different uh events and different stores. Some of this some of this is near Eastern V and some of this is a feature of me. That's how it's working. So you're saying like yeah Christ came to the king two thousand years ago, but this two thousand years later we had it was the money of the kingdom. Right. Right. Well I don't know about two thousand but three thousand. Yeah, whatever. Yeah. He's gonna be king and priest. Because he became high priest after he offered the sacrifice, right? And that's what he came for. He came I mean and again, the gospel's so huge. How can we everything in the Old Testament points to the cross and everything in the New Testament points back to it. Without the without that sacrifice, without the redemption, all those other things, none of this is is means nothing. Well good. I guess that's what he was saying really in a lot of ways to the uh his hearers at the time, the the the priests and the Jews, I set my kingdom up Without salvation you're not going to be part of it. Right? Without faith, you need faith. You need a redeemer. You need to believe I need to pay for your sin. And you need to believe in this. I will cut off the chariots from Ephraim and the war horse from Jerusalem Uh and the battle bow shall be cut off, uh he shall speak peace to the nation, his rule shall be from sea to sea, river to river. Again, look at how he jumps right after the presentation of the coming of Messiah. We know this is the first coming. We read about this. We know this. Our our Christmas story uh during that time. And look at what he jumps to right at the end of the age. The rule shall be from sea to sea, from river to the ends of the earth It's gonna be he's gonna speak peace. We know that's not gonna that's uh that's not until the second coming. But you see how they are for the original audience? They're right next to each other They saw no time gap here. So the it so uh here we have the transition from the first advent, verse nine, the humble Messiah who brought salvation to the establishment in the millennial kingdom uh when Christ a and right to the millennial kingdom really, uh when Christ will reign over the whole earth. Thousands of years separate 'em Chariot and his horse, the battle bow. Uh Messiah will return to judge the world destroy Uh he will establish his kingdom and righteousness. There will be no more war. But you know th think about it in Revelation nine uh 19 uh 11 through 21, he's gonna come and judge the world first. Horrible judgment. Um uh but he has to. He has to judge sin Uh then there will be uh righteousness. But he has to cleanse the world first. Speak peace uh this is not a uh command of peace upon the world. It's effectual both uh externally and more important internally. Think about the millennial kingdom. There's gonna be peace. Ga he's gonna rule Uh but also there's gonna be that internal peace, which is what we really need, right? Which is what we have as believers. The world is is not at peace. I don't think it's gonna get more peace. Well, I think it's gonna get But our peace doesn't come from externally, it comes internally. circumstances but right we have peace because our hope is in heaven. So uh and think about during the millennial kingdom you're also gonna have a tremendous amount of salvation there Uh there will be a generation that's raised up that uh will not uh come to faith, uh baby, even though Satan is bound and Christ is there. Um But there'll be peace, inward peace, outward peace. Roll from river to uh uh to the end of the earth. Uh I'm just gonna paraphrase this. It looks like the covenant uh he made with uh Abram uh uh it the the river typically then in the this audience is mine, the original audience, this would have been the Euphrates And this would have brought up to them the idea of the Millennial Kingdom or the uh not so much they wouldn't have made a called the Millennial King But we would have brought up the kingdom. It was the kingdom promise. The kingdom promised in Genesis fifteen, uh uh w when God made the covenant with uh uh Abram and he walked through the the pieces by himself and then he told Abram what the covenant was. The the boundaries were from Egypt Not not the Nile, the river, so the uh eastern part of Egypt, all the way to the Euphrates. That was that is going to be the millennial kingdom. That's what will be I don't know what you what you'll call it, but it that'll be God's land, so to speak. The other nations that will be his nation That's what he promised Abram and it will be fulfilled. But it's also going to go to the end of the earth, right? So we know this is the end of the age Uh SEU because of the blood of my uh of the covenant uh which I have set before your prisoners and your water the in waterless pits. I like what the uh New Living Translation says for for Zechariah 911. I put this in later, I'm sorry. I I uh Last minute edits. Because of the covenant I made with you, sealed with blood, I will free your prisoners from death and a waterless dungeon. I like the way he translates that and that's he interprets that because that's what it is really. These are more literal words here Because of the blood of my covenant. But he made God made the covenants. So I think we almost have to end there I think I could finish this up rather quickly before we get into the next one next week. But This is the second part is is what he's gonna do. It's the Maccabean revolt. And he's gonna show he's gonna talk in here a little bit about Again, not easily discernible uh for us even and certainly uh the the original audience wouldn't know, but historically uh Maccabeans uh Again, the Greece. The Empire started to get broken up and then chaos happened again