This section was uh pretty much what we read is is what we see, right? Um so we are transitioning either next week or the following week I think we'll we'll kind of do a review. Uh what were the visions we saw. Uh because we do train we're transitioning here now. We're we're in an application uh uh section. Uh The the the prophecy is there's the it's he's addressing the situation, right? These people from Bethel come and they have this question So really what I want to do is I th like I said, I think it kind of is is obvious uh what this is. I'm not gonna spend a lot of time. Uh I I wrote down some notes. I don't think there's anything in here that's that's uh uh uh you almost can't tell from the text, a few things. Uh but the point is I I really want us to kind of interact and discuss. I've been doing all the talking more or less. The situation. For those of you who read this, what is the basic situation in this chapter? What what are these what are these people's problem from Bethel? If you had to sum it up. And you know, we're not looking for th we're looking for, you know, a broad answer, a big idea. What were these people looking for? What was their issue here Well then we'll go through it. So that's it. And again, uh I I'm just we're just gonna kinda read through it. I'll make some comments uh and and then then we'll we'll discuss it. I uh it's very practical. Alright, so in the fourth year uh verse one, chapter seven. In the fourth year of the king Darius, the word of the Lord came to Zechariah on the fourth day of the ninth month, which is Chisleb So we're two years later from the visions, right? Second year Darius, now we're in the fourth year. So two years have passed. Now town of Bethel uh had sent uh Shar Shar and uh regmet um reghem. I it's actually hyphenated there. It's uh regem malech. And and they're meant to seek the the favor of the Lord. Alright, so we have a uh A group, these people are representative, there's some people with them, but these two guys are the representative of of Bethel, right? Um They come and they're seeking the favor of the Lord. So let's see what they want. Speaking to the priest who belonged to the house of the Lord of hosts. And the prophet saying, Shall I weep in the fifth month and abstain as of I have done these many years? So you see how they kind of use it as a first person thing. So they're speaking for the they're they're united in this. The whole town wants to know, shall we weep and mourn uh in the fifth month? So what's going on in the fifth month? It's I think it's uh if I recall, it's the commemoration, the fifth month is when um Jerusalem was destroyed It was dis destroyed in the first month. So they instituted this uh this fact. Um Again, I'm not going to go through all the notes because really what I want to do, I want to discuss this. You can look at some of the things later. Uh these are I have it in the notes, but in case I don't mention it, these are man instituted fast. God did not ordain this. And really I I make a note later and we I I may repeat it, but eve the only fast that was really maybe mandated by God was the da uh on the Day of Atonement. And even that is questionable. It it doesn't say specifically fast. It's It's uh uh they're supposed to like prostrate themselves and and I forget what the word is used offhand, maybe but we'll look at it But uh really they interpreted that to mean a fast. And a fast is just that. It's to let's big idea. They're trying to humble themselves before God. That's the idea of a fast. So let's see what the problem is. It's a it's it's the same problem, it's the age old problem we have Yeah, it's it this is fundamental to our sin, our relationship with God. It's the same old problem. Uh we'll see it here Um by the way, the way this reads, um, I think I brought this out in the notes, uh Uh of course obviously the commentators helped me with this, but the way the Hebrew reads is, shall I weep in the fifth month and abstain as I've done these many years? And really My interpretation on this, my uh summing up, these guys are whiners Shall we we do we have to continue the fast we've done for all these years? You know what I mean? And it's true. Look at what God responds. Alright? Then the word of the Lord of hosts. Look at how you and he used that. Remember we talked about that before. You could put in hosts, you could put in armies there. Okay, so I mean we're looking at power. Okay, this is a this is the Lord who is a uh the Lord of armies, the Lord of hosts. Uh Uh he's gonna judge. This is a graceful uh merciful and graceful God, but he's also a guy that judges and we've been through that. These people have been judged And that's what they're whining about, isn't it? Why are they fasting? Why because Israel was judged, right? Uh so then the word of the Lord uh host came to me saying, Say to all the people of the land and to the priest, when you fasted and mourned in these fifth and seven months These seventy years, was it actually for me that you fasted? I mean, look at what's in there. There's a lot in there. Number one Make note. Look, he says to all the people. Now he's not just talking to the con this uh delegation from Bethel. It's all the people. And he mentions the priest Right? Because look at where the people came. Where did the delegation come? They came to the house of the Lord of hosts to the pro uh I'm sorry They uh speaking to the priest, right, who belonged to the house of the Lord. So they uh and they were right, this these were the God's representatives The priests that were ministering in the house of the Lord were ye the high priest and everything else was there. It was the order. But look at what the Lord says. He says, say to the priest. Obviously the priest needed to hear this word And the people. Because they weren't thinking right. They're thinking like we always think. Right? Do I have to do this? Right? They're punching a card. Let's be honest. Right? They're going through the legal motion. Um and that's what we're gonna unpack today. I mean this goes on, right? This is kind of our what we do. We have to be careful I have to be careful, you know. Uh I we might dress it up a little bit better today and and and uh I'm getting ahead of myself. We'll we'll talk about that The word of the Lord came to me saying, Say to all the peoples of the land and to the priest, when you fasted and mourned in the fifth and as he mentioned the seventh month Apparently th that was also the month of the Day of the Atonement, but that's not what they were fasting for. I think he what they're referring to here was a um I think it was Gedaliah was murdered just before uh the destruction. And if you go to that history, the kings were where Babylon had already attacked uh Israel pretty much had taken him over. Remember he had the captivity, you had Daniel, that was the first the the the city hadn't been seized. That was the first time Nebuchadnezzar showed up. He took the uh the young uh intelligent uh youth and took 'em back to Babylon because that was Daniel and his crew. Then he came a second time, uh uh I think it was uh was it nine or uh Uh five. Huh? Loss of dates. Anyway, there were three times that he came. Uh and then they finally destroyed in five eighty six is when they finally destroyed Jerusalem. But the the the point I'm trying to make is here is um Uh what they're doing is commemorating this. You're commemorating this this other uh governor at this time So again it's too it's too man-made fast they had and of course they are broken up about this and they should be But remember, God has told him before to all the prophets, look, this is what's going to happen. Okay, well, and we'll we'll look at some of the uh verses in this Look at Isaiah and Jeremiah. So, when you eat and drink, do you eat and drink to yourselves, or do you or uh oh excuse me So when you fast and you mourn these seventy years, were you actually don't uh fasting from me that you fasted? Was was that was the fast was for verse six When you eat and drink, do you not eat and drink for yourselves? Uh I I don't know but ya I thought the first verse that came to my mind is uh So you know, uh probably a lot of you know this. What what is it? No matter what you do, whether you eat or drink, right? Do all to the glory of God, right And what were they doing and again that's what were they doing it to? They were trying to do uh a ritual of a legalism or whatever But if you know, if our relationship's right with God, we're gonna we're gonna do what? We're gonna be obedient to God. And and that's the hard part. Um right? We we know our nature. It it's not to be obedient. Uh we We we need God's grace, we need his spirit, we we need to discipline ourselves to do that. So this is what's going on. Uh God's saying no, basically no, uh you did not eat and drink to me. That's the the answer there is is written in a way he's expecting a negative response. No, you didn't do it to me Okay, verse 7. Are not these the words which the Lord proclaimed by the former prophets when Jerusalem was inhabited and prosperous along with its cities around around it? uh in the Nagave and the foothills were inhabited. He's hearkening them back to when things were good He goes, this was the problem when things were good. Okay, and this this is what Zechariah said in chapter one. What did we start off? What was the first sermon we start off with? What was the one line everybody remembers? Return, return to me, and I'll return to you They they'd left the Lord. And that's what he's reminding them. Look, they weren't prosperous. I was prospering them. W why are we in this situation now is what he's asking though. Hebrew, Greek, a lot of times, especially the way they write, a lot of th a lot of things are assumed They'll mention something and they'll assume you know what came before. Uh it's in we tend to in our language today we tend to Uh don't do that. You have to go ahead and write where are you uh uh w who are you referring to, uh what incident were you referring to So even though you might assume y you know you're writing to to somebody, you always mention it. But back then a lot of times in in their their i think about it, uh language is thinking is It's the way their culture thought. He this is what he's doing. So he's putting them back in that situation. Remember, they were blessed. Why are we here now? That's what he's asking them. You know why we're here. And now you're up here whining to me about do I have to fast on the You know, you're getting it's a wrong question, right? It's totally the right. You're missing the point. You're going right back to what they were doing Then the word verse uh eight. Then the word of the Lord came to Zechariah, saying, Thus has the Lord of hosts said. Do you see how he keeps mentioning this? Because he's about to read the the commentators really do a good job help bringing this out. He's about to rebu rebuke them. So he's telling 'em basically why these These uh titles. Thus came the word of the Lord, thus says the Lord of the hosts of armies. These are not my words, guys. This is a word from God. I am just the messenger. Thus has the Lord of hosts said, dispense true justice and practice kindness, compassion, each to his brother. Do not oppress the widow or the orphan or the stranger or the poor, and do not devise evil in your hearts against one another It's the same thing, right? Don't talk to me about fast. Where's your heart? What are your actions? Your actions prove where your heart is, right? Uh so as a man thinks, so also i is he, and uh you know, out of the heart comes the well springs of life, right Uh we tend to curse and devise plans that comes out of the heart or you know hopefully God's changing our heart and the good things come out. That that's God's grace working through us But this is where their heart was. And y it's it's um again, do you notice how he doesn't answer the question about the fast? He says, This is what you need to be doing. Are you doing this? Kind practice kindness and compassion. You know, are you being legalistic? Are you up here whining? Oh, do we have Look, I I get it. I mean I I catch myself judgment judging, whining, you know what I mean? Oh, I don't like this situation But it is what it is, right? God's not surprised by our situations, is he? Wow, I didn't know Carrie was in that situation. He's not saying that He goes, how are you going to respond to the situation? That's the question, right? And that's what he's saying here. Alright, will you dispense true justice? Yeah, think about it. I mean, is are is your truth based on opinion? Is it based on the facts, the evidence? Are you uh i is your judgment impersonal are are you looking at uh uh again what the situation, what the reality of the situation is and judging accordingly. Uh We talk about that when we interpret scripture. We talk about our our biases. That's the first thing uh we have to get over. What our presuppositions they call So what really what's what's on your heart? How you start you have to be careful about reading into the scripture from where you're coming from. What does it say? If if it doesn't line up to what I what I'm thinking then I then I need to look. It it myself and and what scripture's saying. So to today practice all this. Don't oppress. Look at he's saying verse 10 These are the weak ones, aren't they? Don't oppress the weak ones. The widows, the orphans, the stranger, the poor. Devise evil in your hearts against one another. Are you plotting? Are you manipulating? Yeah, it's it's the it's the essence of uh Of life, right? That's what he's saying. So let's go on. But they refuse, verse they they transition. Here's the contrast But they refused to pay attention and turned a stubborn shoulder and stopped their ears from hearing. This was good. Uh I definitely wouldn't have got this without a uh commentator showing me to the the word. Um interesting here, the stubborn shoulder is is uh Um they would have gotten uh easily a word picture of uh excuse me, oaking, uh yoking, harnessing and ox Okay? Uh you think of Jesus, right? Uh the one class is even studying uh gentle gentle and lowly. I think the uh key verse of the whole book is uh take my yuk upon uh take my yoke upon you, right? I'm gentle and lowly, you know. Uh so it's to be yoked. You we are we are yoked to something. The question is what are we familiar with what we're yoked to Um that's probably the biggest lesson I continue to learn. I I I grasp the idea. I'm really either yoked to uh the world, the enemy, the devil, or to God. There is no real in-between there. There's an illusion like I've I've got this little tiny pattern Um and I need to remember that. I could be a and and I'd like I know there's a knock against Mother Teresa, but I like what she said. She said one thing, she goes, I'm a conduit. And that's true, I'm a conduit. Whatever I do, I'm a conduit for God. If anything good comes out of this, I'm a conduit We're going to see they conduit in these verses. There's some excellent verses here in 12 and 13. But the the they were stubborn. They wouldn't pay attention. They wouldn't be yoked to the Lord. They turned their shoulder. He's gonna he's gonna uh uh listen in verse twelve. They made their hearts like flint, so they could not hear the law and the words of the law The words of the Lord of hosts had sent by, listen to this, by his spirit through the former prophets. Therefore, great wrath came from the Lord of hosts. Jerry? Yes. Uh where does he what is Zachariah and Malachi? How do they how do they conform to time frames? Malachi about the same time as Zachariah Uh yeah, two months before. Because uh uh a lot of the prophecy of Malachi has to do with uh The what just exactly what we're talking about here about the offerings uh uh bringing shoddy offerings, not the best of offerings, and being hypocritical basically in what the what they called worship. They weren't bringing it they weren't bringing it out of a dissociative to the Lord. They were bringing it out of just to look good as opposed to the mindset Yeah and that's what we think. We think if we do the right things, uh You know, uh and that's what I'll that's what I want to get us to discuss. I want to get through this because we do the we we do it today, okay? We have a different set of of things we do it with. And there's a couple things that came to my mind uh just this past week of of things I was doing. And and I think they're obvious and and I think we can see the subtlety We act like um gods in a box or you know like like okay, the Ark of the Covenant. Remember when they took the Ark of the Covenant out there and the and Samuel To defeat the other armies? God's going. What are you doing? You're not with me. You know, when you think I'm gonna box I you know, you're gonna take the box out there and now really? Wasn't that what they were doing Rainers of the false dark. Did any of you see that? No, they took the lid off and the guide comes out or whatever. You know fire and it's like he's trapped inside. Let's move the lid, he can't come out. You know, but we laugh at that, but we do it on a much more sophisticated and subtle basis. Are we trying am I trying to work to God to please God? Um hey what he wants, he wants the truth. He wants us to open up, bring myself to him And he cleans up the messy part. And that's the thing. I think uh the Christian walk is is is is radical and I also think it's it's difficult because God partners with us. He draws us to him to do this. But we have to be At least in my life, I I find I have to be radical and go, okay, what are the points that I'm really and I bring that to him and I go This is I this this is. I I'm I'm falling here. Uh I'm impatient and this is the things I I see or whatever. I mean Trust me, there's a whole list of things. And you know, you you go through them kinda as layers. You can't God doesn't have me work on them all at once. I can't But he but brings things in my mind. But I gotta be radical and bring that to him in the light. That's 1 John. That's my passage. God is light, and then there's no darkness at all You know, if we say we have fellowship with him and walk in the darkness, we're lying. We're not telling the truth. But if we do walk in the light, he cleanses us from all sin The whole passage, five one five through ten. It's God doing the work, but our work is to walk in the light, to be honest. But ten what we tend to do what these guys are doing is whining. Don't we have to do the fast we've been doing it all these years? That's not doing you any good. You haven't done anything. Matter of fact, you're probably they're probably they were going the wrong way. They're hardening their hearts, aren't they? And don't even know it. So I I hope that ramble I got off on there answered your question somehow I know it was but then that's the thing, when you unpack all this, it just gets the the the essence is there. Uh there's a myriad of ways we we can work this out. It's legalism But they're not bringing a sincere what is God what does he say in Psalm fifty one, right? David, right? He finally gets to the point. He goes, A broken and contrite heart, you will not despise. You know what sacrifices? You want my heart. You want my honest heart brought to you And before that he he kept that sin with Bathsheba, he didn't confess it for a year. And look at Psalm 32, his bones were weary from it He was aching inside. He was trying with concealing that sin. So, look at this in 12 though. Here's inspiration of scripture right here. The Lord of hosts has sent by his spirit through. Here we are, we're conduit The prophets were conduits. The Spirit. When he spoke that word, if it's the word of God, it had to go through them. It wasn't their word. It wasn't their character Their character gets c our character gets cleaned up as as we come to the light. God works through through his spirit. But that look at it, the word came through the former prophets It's the inspiration of scripture, right? Right there. This is why we believe this word. If this isn't true, how can this word be true It couldn't be. Yes. I I think of that too, like uh I was I have to remember the Lord did not load them for response. They were they came as you said, you know, sort of whining about something that the Lord just could have been silent. Yeah. He he condescended his grace to offer them okay. you want to know what to do. I don't feel like your father's choice wanted the same thing too. And basically they just said I I gotta I know basically when we do it that the way they were doing it, that's my way, right? I'll do it my way. I'm in control and w why we do it my way? Because I'm in control. It's uh it's a sa it's uh elementary things is over and over in the Word of God. And we see all these stories are elaborated on it. But it's the same story. It's the same story all the way back to the garden. They wanted to be like God. Oh control the action. Reminds me of the game they had when I was the kid doing TV, it was Christmas time. Yeah, these cars, you control the action. You want this game. Tell your parents, drive them nuts. I want it, Mom. Verse thirteen, uh and just as he called and they would not listen, so they called and I would not listen What's that? Yeah. What is this that he's talking about here? Prayer, right? Look at uh I got it on the screen here. Jeremiah 11, 11. And it these are just a couple examples. This is all through scripture. Therefore, thus says the Lord, behold, I am bringing disaster on them which they will not be able to escape, though they will cry to me, yet I will not listen to them. Now think about this, Jeremiah, this is just prior to the captivity So this is definitely uh uh within you know their their time frame, generations kind of a thing It's not very far removed. Can we chip before the captivity? He's not going to live in their prayer. Prayer is a talusized. Well look at Isaiah 1. 15 So when you spread your hands in prayer, I will hide my eyes from you. Yes, even though you multiply prayers, I will not listen. Your hands are covered with blood. Um if we don't get much discussion going and uh well we don't have a whole lot of time, I hope we do. Uh Isaiah 1, he goes through the whole litany. He goes, you know, an ox and a donkey, they know who their master is, but my people don't know Um you know he says, I don't I I abhor your sacrifices, your feast days. I don't want any of that stuff But the Enoch God is so merciful. He said it later in that chapter, right? Come. You know, let us read together. I'll wash you as well. scarlet or I'll wash the scarlet away, I'll wash the blood away. You'll be as white as wool. Right? And he says Take care of the w the uh orphan, the widow, right? Do justice, the same thing that Zechariah is saying here. God Jesus is repeating the same word. Take care of the uh Uh the vulnerable people. Do justice, stop lying, be honest. So verse uh fourteen But I scatter down with a storm among the nations whom they have not known, thus the land is desolated behind them, so that no one went back and forth For they made the pleasant land desolate. So uh Israel was referred to the pleasant land. And he's talking to the people that are looking around and they go It's still kind of desolate. Uh by this time maybe the temple's halfway built. This and they're just speculating, because it was done in four years. So we're two years into the building project, right? since Zechariah and Haggai first preached to him. So the temple is something's going up. But the land is still it's not like it was And even the temple structure I'm sure it's not like Solomon's temple, even the base of it, you know. Um so The here's the evidence. He didn't listen to me, the land's desolate. So this is a couple of things I was thinking about and hopefully it sparked some discussion. But uh two things this week. Uh number one I did uh worship in the chapel. Uh several of us have been and uh or volunteering to do uh chapel uh for Hope Academy. And you have to do it from young age all the way up to it's it's one chapel, so I've never done that uh not even really childhood education at all. I don't I haven't been trained, I don't know. So I'm thinking so how do I talk to 'em and how do I how do I talk to both people? But it's it the the theme was worship. And Worship, a lot of them uh w what we think about worship, the first thing we think is, you know, we're gonna go into the sanctuary, we're gonna do a praise song, and if we feel right, maybe we're worshiped, right But really, uh New Testament has like five different words for worship that are translated, we translate into worship. And they all have different aspects to it. But in essence, there well there's two major aspects really. It can be the emotional response. feel when when God works in our hearts and we're praise and we're thanksgiving and that's typically what we think of. But when we speak for God and when we're we honor God and and we believe these words about God That's worship. We're honoring God. To glorify God it's kind of very similar thing. Most people think of glorifying God again with you know hands in the air or whatever. But if we're if we honestly uh uh witness to somebody or we stand for the truth, we believe the truth, it glorifies God It gives him honor. So if we it again think about it, if if we if we have a false uh view of God, what's in the scriptures, we are not we are not glorifying God And worship kind of the same way. So the worship is is a sincere worship. I can get emotional over some music sometimes, but may not have anything to do with God Um and and it's just again, uh what's the intention of the heart? Um are we lifting God, are we glorifying God? Is God um in the focus The other thing that happened to me this week is we were uh we're doing uh baptism class. And um Uh I've done it with Sean uh for a couple years now. Uh Sean's obviously no longer with us, so uh but but basically we we use a book that Pastor Leek initiated. It was really good. kind of goes to it. And w what we do is we're trying to tell them, really, well what baptism isn't. Okay. Zach knows he went to to my baptism class a little while ago and um We see baptism as as it is uh a kind of a sacred uh thing we take on. But it's only sacred to the point that the person being baptized is thinking through or doing what they're doing for God It certainly doesn't have anything to do with that pasture in the water and it doesn't have anything to do with the water. And we have to really, you know, put that on them. You may have an experience from this. There may just be like another day. Just you know, you just don't know. That that's between you and God. And you spend really the time telling 'em this. Is that that's the main my main point, especially when you get uh younger uh people in there but raised in a church, they know all the Bible. Uh you know, uh are they really saved? But think we can make it into I don't know, you know, something more, can't we? It's I got baptized. How many people are you here? That's what that's probably our biggest fear If we baptize somebody that didn't save, it's it's not really in the scheme of things gonna hurt that person. It's not gonna hurt this church or anything else. What we're really afraid of is that they think they're okay and they're not. That's the biggest thing. That's our biggest fear. And you know, sometimes uh younger people aren't aren't really sure. They could have a an emotional thing I th you know, or we read 'em uh Simon. Uh there's a story in uh Acts chapter eight about Simon the magician and And uh if you look at that story, he believed. Uh Philip came down there and he believed. Philip baptized him, but he went saved So and that's what Sean always used to joke about, because I'm glad that that uh in the church that they baptize people that weren't saved, so if I do you know, um Baptism doesn't save, does it? It's it's really it's the it's that person's confession. Isn't that the same thing we're talking about here? That fast is not doing you any good at all. You're not fasting for me. I mean can you think of anything that's legal uh what are some of the things we do that are we can put out there that are kind of legalistic? Um Uh those are those were kind of the two things that popped to my mind this week. And uh there's even other things, subtle things. It doesn't even have to be uh a sanctioned um you know thing we do in church or something else. We can we can also be kind of legalistic when we approach God Trying to placate God or I'm trying to please God or When I was in college, this one girl had a uh mixes about everything. She ever wore pants and you couldn't touch her. This is fine. I I've never So we're not pushing into all the time. Push me into you. Sorry, didn't it so this is an Obama college. Good to show you, man. We're all sinners. So I why do you have all these convictions? What what you're asking that question? And she found this as well when she was younger. She used to wear pants and trap boys and she wouldn't do anymore. Yeah, I can't I mean you don't know our convictions, I thought I'm having this conviction. Right. But I just came off the street face to buy that was they all have these convictions. the the teacher said he was he was pure and he was God he doesn't know the movements. What are you saying? He held up on the movies? I just thought that was kind of strange. How do you how do you get how does the world work now? It's just it is constrained. I mean how the stride all the people I And I'm like, you know what? I think that's a good I don't know, I just uh you know, we have freedom in Christ. Mm-hmm. But what what kind of are you gonna see or you know what's all this kind of thing tied into that too, you know, not just you know, uh it's just kinda weird experience for me. Yeah, a whole set of or rules. They had rules for everything. You know, the one Lizard church addressed, had a airband of button, then the Lizworth seeds to church. Mm-hmm. If you follow those things, you're okay with God. The other thought those things you're not okay with God. Right. Only that's I'll tell him because he's like who it's just in the possible factors to be bad happy. Unless you're hard like what you look like. Right. Right. Right. I don't do a lot of that as a new Christian life. Right. Is that what you're talking about? Yeah. Exactly. And, you know, uh I know uh you can you can argue either way and and and but again it it's like you said, it's it's not just 'cause you do that doesn't make you right with God And we practice the same thing. Why is it a pastor can baptize somebody? The Bible doesn't say that. Why is the pastor always going to give bacon? The Bible doesn't say that But there's no command of the Bible that you have to be redeemed or to get communion out. Well it's tradition. That's fine. But you don't no one talks about it. Mm-hmm. Well talk about that. That's that's sacred thing. We have a communion We can't communicate. We can just you can do our own community. They don't have to have capacity with us. I don't know. I just I mean I mean that's a gratified deal for the screen. Yeah and yeah there's a girl in there, communion. What is communion? And can can people take that with uh growing house? Sure And so you know and what does it mean unworking takes me? Well if you look at the context it's people that were rich had food people that are poor that need to eat. Then it's share the food with them Is that that was unworthy about it? Or was it that person wasn't saved? Right. Yeah. Anyway, I'm sorry. No. No, I know what you yeah. Yeah You're right. And and again, it's w what is our heart, what is our intention? Um Yeah. What are we what are we doing? What are we doing when we take communion? It's in the Bible Remembering Christ until he comes again. Remembering, yeah. Yep. And again, that's where uh I say we worship if 'cause we actually believe he's coming. again. And we're recognizing that. And that's honoring to God. When they're worshiping the Bible, they got down on their knees to worship when the Lord is somebody, can you back the Bible? He got on his knees to worship them Lord I think my scriptures are prostate for God, worshiping God. We stand up and like look at God. No, no, no, that's the opposite of what God thinks. That's what I think. We should be well and humble worshiping God. Yeah. I I agree it's uh it's a it's a prostate uh prostrate attitude. Um I'm glad we don't get on our knees. My knees are killing me. But uh yeah, it's and again it's it's it's an attitude, uh are you really humbling yourself before God. It's a heart thing, it's not so much a an external thing. Sometimes the practices help us do these things, uh help us think correctly. Any other thoughts of uh uh legalism? Is there any questions you have on this passage I have a question. Verse 19. It says, What the the fast of the fourth, fifth, seventh, and tenth month? Do they fast every month? And those months were just a special kind of fast, or was it It just passed with those particular months. Again, none of these w uh the only facts uh and it's in the notes, uh I you know, I didn't go want to go through on the each each time. There really wasn't a lot of uh controversy or or or things that the only fast, like I said, what they they thought was instituted was and again uh think Uh was uh the Day of Atonement, that seventh month and um That was not even a fast. uh uh drawn from the text. It doesn't say fast on this day. So yeah, it's mm, there are man-made things that that they did. Um Uh they typically, you know, it's like the seat. Every time uh Jerusalem was had something happen, uh uh you know, Hanukkah uh they they got their freedom from the uh the Maccabeans uh revolted. They got their freedom from uh the the Greeks and um Um they they have a feast. They institute a feast. That's okay to commem. God wants us to remember, but again, it's not God ordained And even if it was, i i again, it's it's like the Lord's Supper. He says, Do this uh, you know, as often as you re remember me. Uh just because the instituted we do it doesn't mean that the Okay, right. It still, where is your heart, where is your mind? Uh uh have you confessed your sins? What wha wha what is your relationship at that time and and What are you saying to God? It's an individual thing. Gary, uh am I am I reading this right? It looks to me like This is the first time in this whole prophecy of Zechariah so far that the people have come to Zachariah and and asked him why they are in the situation Well really they came to the priest. Yeah, but I mean the this is the point. God sent Zechariah with this message and said say to the priest that this is critical because obviously the priest should have had it's in the notes, the priest should have had the ans right they were the ones that should have been able to answer these men And said, Look, y you're you're you're focusing on the wrong thing. Yeah, well 'cause the priests need a correcting, that's the whole point. Yeah, but it looks to me like this is the first time when they are actually questioning why things are happening to them that they don't like. I mean uh it in the up to this time everything we've seen has been this uh comparison of what is and what's going to be. But it looks like now that that uh that someone is being sent to them Uh to to to the priest and to Zachariah to ask why they why are these things happening to us? It looks like they're beginning to wake up Yeah I'm not I don't know. I I I I think really they they needed to be woken up. Yeah, I agree, yeah No, I think they were common to unburden themselves. And that's what legalism does. It doesn't free us, it burdens us. And that's what Jesus was saying He says, Take my yoke. You got these Pharisees that got all these rules and regulations, and you can't keep 'em. They can't keep the law, and then they've added to 'em. He goes, There's no way. They're not keeping them either. They they're And that's what he said, take my yoke. If this needs to be the first chapter of Zechariah, we see the Didn't give no positive Yeah. I guess the positive note is going to come in the next chapter. It looks like it is, but uh up to this time there's been despair and then hope But and that's what he was telling them again, and that's what we'll we will review, the uh visions, right? 'Cause some of the visions and a lot of them uh were difficult because they really looked at the end of the age when when Christ was going to set up his millennial kingdom. He's gonna call it the Holy Land. Uh as a matter of fact he's gonna say that in chapter eight. But again, when's that gonna happen? He g and he tells you is a the preview of chapter eight a little bit. He says when the Lord is present in the land, not until. It's not gonna be holy, it's not gonna be righteous. But y remember the the uh you had both in the visions. You had words of comfort, but you also had uh Um remember the the EFA? He was uh big picture. EFA was never mind the detail, okay. W uh I I tried to point out that it was a commercial uh uh idol that they were worshiping, but it was the big picture you want to see it was purged from Israel. Remember, the two women carried it off. They carried it off from Israel back to Babylon So that was God's picture of of purging them of that sin. And then in uh uh the following chapter, uh what was it Is it uh six? No, no, no, five. Um the nations are being purged Yeah. Okay, and that's what God's gonna have to do. That's what rev uh Revelation, the apocalypse is all about. He's gonna have to purge the nation. He has to judge the nation When he gets the scroll with the title D to earth, he has to he's he's taking it back. But he has to he has to remove sin. And that's what the process is. So you have both in there. And yeah, he he's he is reprimanded. But he he uh and to all this it it's the same story. Uh man falls, God gives him some grace, some mercy, but you have to repent, right? And there is judgment. And then you see it again, man goes on and falls. And we see it. I mean look at look at the book of Judges Oh, we sinned against you. Send them a judge, they're okay for a little bit, and they sit right, because that's our nature And that's why I say that's what we have to look at because that's what we're we're in the process is sanctification and maturity. We're we're dying to our old nature We're putting it to death. Well w I can't do it. I have to go to God. God puts it to death. My responsibility is to bring it to him and say, here, take this, put it to death Yeah. I have to confess, I have to agree. Yeah, this has to go. That's the hard part. Who likes to look at it? from seminary, went down to a church and it was kinda like a church plan. It was an older church. It was turned it over and uh had a lot of new members. A lot of the people coming in were brand new believers and I remember Well, this one woman saying, uh, you know, I read every time I read the Bible I I just I get convicted. And we're going you know, and she was like, uh you know, am I kind of like am I saved? Uh and I And we're yeah, because when you weren't there's still a lot of stuff didn't bother you. That's God bringing it to us. It never ends, does it? Not until uh we're we're finally glorified. Yeah, good question. Yeah, please. This this whole chapter really reminds me of of Colossians two and three. Um probably because that's what we're studying in the small group as well. So fresh in my mind. But just thinking about there in Colossians Paul talking about latching onto the shadow. You know when you're you're studying up the these third day regulations about how your faith should operate, um and how your religious practice should work. And then in three, temptivity to say, like, you know, stop focusing on shadow, but actually Christ himself. Right. Um and the things that are above and not the things that are deserved. Right. And and just thinking about the picture of that. And you don't be so fascinated by the outline And think we know the person. You know you can't know the person from the shadow. I know. And that's the f that's the battle, isn't it? That's what we're trying how do you communicate that to young uh kids when I was in a chapel, it's like this isn't a religion or I I wish we could give you God. That's what we all want, right? But we can communicate with him by Like you exactly what you just said, and that's the method, isn't it? And it's a hard method because we need the Holy Spirit. And and He opens I'm open to my eyes. I see more of him. I know He more Um and I just want to add to that that um in terms of discipline kids or children, um you know I kids are trying to memorize scripture right and I'm trying to teach them that well that's great. I mean I didn't I didn't have that I wasn't discipled like that as a child. And That's great, but they it can very easily be taken into well I look at me, I've memorized I don't know how many verses and and there's always this like it can be the competition. And it's always becomes a look how much I know but what's in your heart. And so it's you know, trying to say, yeah, well that's great because you know, test me or you know you know which I know. Yeah, yeah. But but is it in your heart? What what is that what What does that say about God? What you know what what are you learning about God? So that's a thallen as well. It is, and you know uh Uh look too, but and I know as you're parenting, think of it this way too. Have you ever had some scripture come back to you and you think, Wow, I didn't even remember I'm Remember that. That's what the Holy Spirit does. So it's good to hide that scripture in there. They may be I don't know where if I don't know if your children are saved or not, but you know, if they're not, uh, you know So things will happen. Um lot of times it takes a face plant to meet God, but when it does, the Spirit can bring that scripture back to him and go, Oh yeah, you know I remember this. Uh it's hard because we don't that's what I other thing I told the children. I said if we could save you, we'd save every one of you I mean I have fa you know, I have family members. If I can save 'em and and I uh I tell the story all the time. That drove my family nuts. I I I I came to faith later and my wife still wasn't saved and driving them nuts. You want this. You do. But I can't give I won. I'm gonna drag you in World War I know What's that? Just bad buttons. Yeah, really. Isn't that the truth? Yeah. Uh well, we'll get out of here early today