We are in Zechariah chapter six, and we are going to cover the whole of chapter six today. I'm very much intrigued by the study that we've had in Zechariah. I have learned a I have learned a lot. I always knew that Zachariah was a p was a prophetic book, particularly prophecy of end times. But I never really got into study of it until we started this this quarter with the study. We even had a pastor in the previous church who on on Sunday evenings uh preached from Zachariah uh and I still didn't I still didn't catch it, but I'm really beginning to enjoy the time that we spent studying Zachariah studying this book. And if you have not been here for the whole time, I encourage you to get the notes that are in the in Hope Book. They are they are extremely good. And uh I I wouldn't normally our teacher normally has them on the screen up here. I do not have the adapter that goes with this television set, so so I couldn't put them up there Uh I will be using basically the same length the lesson plan that uh Carrie set up and uh so it it will I will follow the notes that are in Hope Book To some extent, I won't be following it completely, but to some extent. And I hope this time is meaning is as meaningful to you as the study has been for me as I put into it. I want to start first of all by reading not the entire chapter but the first eight verses. And I'm going to I'm going to ask John Best if he will read those first eight verses for us. Could you do that, John? Sure. First uh chapter. That one through eight, correct. Zechariah chapter six verses one through eight. Now I lifted up my eyes again and looked, and behold, four chariots were covered Coming forth from between the two mountains. The mountains were bronze mountains. The first chariot were red horses, with the second cherry black horses, with the third cherry white horses, and the The fourth chariot strong daffled horses. Then I spoke and said to the angel who was speaking with me, What are these, my lord? The angel replied to me, These are the four spirits of heaven, going forth. after standing before the Lord of all the earth, with one of which the black horses are going forth to the north country, white ones go forth after them, while the daffled ones go forth To the south country. When the strong ones went out, they were eager to go to control the earth. And he said, Go patrol the earth. So they patrolled the earth. Then he cried out to me And spoke to me, saying, See those who are going to the land of the north have appeased my wrath in the land of the north. Okay, thank you. Thank you. This is the eighth and final vision of the prophetic word to Zechariah. In the first vision, we commit we met these horses and riders Earlier in the first vision, back in chapter one, verses eight through eleven. We'll not turn there right now. But uh this was uh When they send these out like that, when it talks about going to and fro on the earth, it usually means that they're trying to it's like a scouting mission. And they want to find out what the what sort of the situation is before uh before something happens, something different happens. Now he uh the according to the according to what we just read, the nations were found to be in verses one through eight, the nations were found to be at ease That means they were comfortable in their situation. And some of them the situation was not all that most of them their situation was not all that good But uh they they did su that's what it this what it's talking about. Now Hegai had predicted that the Lord would overthrow the nations and establish his kingdom among the people And the references are hagg and in the book of Haggai, which is the one just before Zechariah, and they were contemporaries. They actually started their work about three months apart, according to what what the scripture has to say And so in the book of Hagiah, chapter 2, verses 6 through 7, it says, For thus says the Lord of hosts Once more, in a little while, I am going to shake the heavens and the earth, the sea also, and the dry land. I will shake all the nations, and they will come with the wealth of all the nations, and I will fill this house with glory says the Lord of hearsts. And then verses 19 to 22, uh I'm sorry, twenty to twenty-two, then the word of the Lord came a second time to Hagi on the twenty-fourth day of the month, saying Speak to Zerabbul, governor of Judah, saying, I'm going to shake the heavens and the earth. I will overthrow the thrones of the kingdom, the thrones of kingdoms, and destroy the power of the kingdoms of the nations And I will overthrow the chariots and their riders, and the horses and their riders will go down, every one by the sword of another. If you have not done so, I recommend you go back and read the whole chapter of Haggai. It's only two it's only two chapters of the whole verse, the book I mean. It's only two chapters, and you'll find this it runs right parallel with the Book of Zechariah. Now, in chapter five, we read of two visions of judgment primarily directed at Israel. Do you recall what these were? Can you remember Um no from in Zechariah chapter five. There were two visions. I'm sorry? Was it the flying scroll? Um I I'm sorry, I'm having uh the flying scroll? Yes, the flying scroll was in there, yes that's correct. Well what was their what was their purpose? I think if I'm not mistaken the other one was the c was the crown was I have to go back and look myself. Oh the woman in the basket. Yeah. Okay. Well what was the what was what do you think the purpose of these two visions were in the first time? How about the idea of clean the cleansing of the nation and the people before uh Mm my my my theology is before the coming of the millennial kingdom and I know that doesn't agree with everyone but that's uh that's that's uh I think that's what's being taught here The in chapter six the judgment is directed at this is the cleaning of the Jewish nation and people. In chapter six now is directed at the cleaning of the Gentile nations who have oppressed God's people. And the judgment of the the judgment on Israel and on the nations or the Gentiles must take place before the establis before the reign of Christ can occur upon the earth. Now let's go look in depth at chapter six Verse 1, now I lifted up my eyes again and looked, and behold, four chariots were coming forth from between the two nations, and the mountains were bronze nations. Two mountains and the mountains were bronze nations. Hem who in here has been to Jerusalem? To Israel. Nobody Well, you know, if Jerusalem itself itself sits on a hill, in fact uh the Bible often talks about going up to Jerusalem. It means it literally Jerusalem Jerusalem is up on a hill Uh but Jerusalem has mountains on the north and on the east. And one is called Mount it's called other things now by the uh Mount Zion is is one way of looking at it and the other one is the Mount of Olives, which you was this on the east. And the Mount of Olives figures greatly in biblical prophecy. Uh and here we see I think these are the two mountains that are being talked about here. And the mountains were bronze. Why bronze? What's bronze here? What does that What do you know about bronze? Okay. Well one do you say it? Uh this one uh one twenty sixteen. Uh the speech of judgment, that's what I got on today. Uh Joe two created valley adjustment. Okay. Uh but drawing this uh representative uh pitching judgment Okay, exactly right, exactly right. In fact in Numbers it talks about the bronze serpent that was put on the pole. When that w that was because the Israel is being judged because of their sin and they were they were infested with serpents, but if you wanted to if you wanted to be healed from the serpent's bite, you were told to turn your eyes on the serpent on the pole. And what did Jesus have to say about that serpent And uh I believe it's in the Gospel of John, he says, If I'm uh even as a serpent in the wilderness was lifted up, so must the Son of Man be lifted up. So the the the idea of judgment is here. Uh exa exactly right. The idea of judgment is here. And my and um in j in um That's John 3. 14, by the way, that says the Son of Man must be lifted up. And whoever believes in him will have eternal life. Though what is the altar made of? The altar was bronze, right? Uh the sacrifice was made on a brazen or a bronze altar So the divine judgment upon nations will go out from Jerusalem in the area of Mount Zion and Mount Olivet, and particularly to the north Most of the threats to Jerusalem would come from would hit would come from the north. It could come from the south But the real powers were were at this time were in the north. Babylon w was would they would have had to come in from the north. The eastern side of Jerusalem is desert You couldn't cross there in the western side is water. So the the only only two ways in from the north and from the south. Of course Egypt was to the south At this particular time when Zachariah writes, Egypt was not a threat, but Babylon was. So it's important to remember that these mountains are on the north, and we're talking about the northern things and let's read what it says about the first with verses two and three. The first chariot were red horses the second chariot black horses, the third chariot white horses, and with the fourth chariot strong dappled horses. Now the number four uh indicates universal universality. You know the Bible talks about the four corners of the earth and the winds from four directions In fact, Isaiah 11, verse 12 says, And he will lift up a standard for the nations and assemble the banished ones of Israel, and will together the dispersed of Judah from the four corners of the earth. And in Zechariah 6, verse 5, and Jeremiah 49, 36, and in Zechariah 6, 5, it also talks about the number 4, using this to be an all to show an all-encompassing number. Now the meaning of the colors of the horses. These horses, the colors are significant. You'll also note that in Revelation chapter 6, where it talks about the four horsemen of the apocalypse There was four separate colors. The same except for one, I believe, uh what we call what's called a dappled horse here in Revelation is called a pale horse if I'm not mistaken Yeah. Uh so then these these are significant. What do you think the red horse might be a symbol of? War in blood. Okay, bloodshed and war. Very good. Very good. That's that's right on target. Uh the red horse is the symbol of bloodshed and death. In fact, in Revelation 6, 4 it says A red horse went out, and to him who sat on it was granted to take peace from the earth, and that men would slay one another, and a great sword was given to him. That's from Revelation chapter six, verse sword. How about the black horse? Speaks of famine. Famine? Death. Death? Right. Exactly. Revelation 6, 5. When he broke the third seal, I heard the third living creature saying, Come, I looked, and behold, a black horse And he who sat on it had a pair of scales in his hand, and I heard something like a voice in the center of the full living creature say, A quart of heat for a denarius, and three quarts of barley for a denarius, and do not damage the oil in the wine. What's going on here? Famine. Because this uh uh it's uh in fact it looks like terrible inflation, denarius was a day's wage And uh to pay a day's wage just for a quarter of wheat, that would be in pretty pretty dire straits. So if you were if you were a working person like most of us are, things would have been very, very bad for them And this threat the black horse then was representing death and uh particularly in the Revelation passage is death by famine. The white horse Exactly. Victory and triumph. Revelation 6, 2. I looked and behold, a white horse And he who sat on it had a bow and a crown was given to him, and he went out conquering and to conquer. And then the daffle horse symbolizes death by sword, pestilence, and wild beasts This is also in Revelation 6, verse 8. I looked and behold, an asher and horse, and he who sat on it had the same, had the name Death and Hades uh was following with him. Authority was given to them over a fourth of the earth to kill with sword and with famine and with pestilence and by the wild beasts of the earth So these four horsemen each have a different purpose. Now notice uh the In verses four and five, it gives us some indication what the meaning, what the purpose of these horses are. Then I spoke and said to the angel who was speaking to me with me, What are these, my Lord? The angel replied to me, These are the four spirits of heaven going forth after standing before the Lord of all the earth. Now, uh do any of your Bibles say anything other than four spirits here? There is uh the the word the Hebrew word ruach, which is what's translated spirits here, uh can mean air or wind or breath As well as spirit. So you have this with the the the translators had to take in this into the context here. And one of the things they thought about was uh winds don't stand So it that kind of uh eliminated the wind portion of it and of course the breath is always a moving air, so that it was it is translated as spirit and most likely That would be and since since we believe that the Lord guides translations also, it pr it most likely, I'd say it's about ninety nine point nine percent guarantee that it's correct Oh low in uh oh back in way back in Genesis. uh talks about and when it creation and it says and the spirit of God moved over the waters. Well you know it could easily just be the breath of God The it would be the same idea. In fact, when we die, we gave up the ghost, we give up the spirit, we give up our breath. Most people die uh uh when they expire. Occasionally someone will die as they breathe in. Most people die when they expire. So they're giving up the ghost or giving up the breath just They're synonymous terms. So it's understandable that this this could be. In verse five, we have a messianic reference. The Lord is called the Lord of the whole earth. I don't I you I'm probably telling you something you already know. But when you see the words the Lord in your Bible and it's a capital but large capital L and three small capital letters O R D It's talking about uh what could easily be tra it's the the term Yahweh or uh some some language, some Bibles uh the old American Standard Version translated as Jehovah Uh but this case that's not the word that's used here. The word that's used here for Lord in verse uh I believe it's verse five Yeah, in verse 5, that's the reference to a political figure or to a king or to a power figure, not not of not a divine figure. Okay So and and the the Hebrew word if you're really interested is Adonai. Strange thing is when a Jew reads his when a Jew reads his Old Testament and he comes ac he comes across the tetragrammaton, which we call Yahweh, he also says Adonai for that. Because they're so specific about not taking the name of the Lord in vain, that thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain, it says in the Ten Commandments, they won't even say Yahweh, they will say Adonai instead, even though it's it's a different a totally different word in the Hebrew language. So the words the Lord the words the Lord here are the words for an earthly ruler or a king, not the Hebrew term term for the sovereign Lord. The Lord must first put all of his enemies under his feet, which will be fully accomplished at his second coming In Revelation 19, 16, he has a name written, King of Kings and Lord of Lords, when all the earth will be judged, and he sets up his rule over all the earth. The vision to Zachariah is a view of the judgment of the nations prior to the establishment of the millennial kingdom. Any comments or questions so far before we go on? No, no, you're too quiet. You didn't just didn't talk. I know if my I know if my w if my wife were teaching, she would stand here and wait for you to say something I'm not quite I'm not quite that patient. Those of you in the ladies' Bible study know what I'm talking about. Okay, let's look at verses six and seven With one of the with uh okay, so it goes back up to uh um uh sixty-seven it says one of the black horses are going forth to the north country and white ones go forth after them While the dappled ones go forth to the south country, when the strong ones went out, they were eager to go to patrol the earth, and he said, Go patrol the earth, and they patrolled the earth. Now that's reading from the that new American Standard version, the revised version of it that uh Curry uses. Uh so which ones are going north? The black horses are going towards to the north fronty and the white ones are going forth. after them. So what's the significance hi Kara, what's the significance of the black horses going north and the white ones following? What's gonna happen Come on. Okay, exactly. Well famine or famine or death of some kind, exactly, exactly. And then And then it predicts the victory afterwards, the victors going after him. That's what it says. The horses represent judgment It's going out over the earth and the chariots represent the angelic spirit. Spirits carrying out the judgment. We're talking about chariots, so this is forces with uh pulling the chariot and the right and uh they would have people own them. In this c in this case uh angelic angelic uh forms So they go to the north country where Israel's greatest foes and most ruthless conquerors come Many see the North Country, and I agree, as Babylon, and especially in the light of Israel's recent light and John's prophecy in Revelation chapters 17 and 18. Now there's some And you go when you go into Revelation 17 and 18 and it talks about Babylon, Babylon has fallen, has fallen. There's there are different uh different thoughts about it. The vision John saw, which is what we have to w what we have to go on, is is Babylon. And what do we know about Babylon Back way back in Genesis what happened? We're gonna build a tower that reaches up to God. Okay? And God didn't like that. So he caused he caused confusion and that's the word, that's where this word babble comes from Well when you hear someone speaking in another language just like a babble to you. That's where it comes from. But in my in my thinking, okay in my thinking, Babylon represents uh the epitome of evil. And when when uh w so so whatever whatever is the biggest problem that Israel is facing is the is Babylon Okay. And it may it may be physically the nation Babylon or it may be it may be some other nation. But I think we can characterize it as Babylon And that's what we're talking about here. Babylon is going to fall. In fact, uh this whole book of Zechariah is kind of an Old Testament version of Revelation Because it's talking I think I think personally I think it's talking about the same thing. So when we're studying Zachariah, we're just studying a little easier version, I think, of the than what than what the the apostle John saw in in the book of Revelation. The Dap the Dapple went forth to the to the land of the the Dapple went forth to the land of the South In S Israel Israel's ancient enemy, Egypt was to the south, but like the chariots were to the north, the ultimate destination is where? The whole earth. Remember it's talking about the four corners, the four winds? The Pardon? Global. Global, exactly. Global. And of course in our day and age, global is much easier, isn't it, because of worldwide communication. I mean we think nothing getting on an airplane today, winding up in in in Europe tomorrow mornings, finishing three days there, and then flying back, you know, it's it's that people people do that in business world. So it's much easier now to to visualize than it would have been would have been for the people that Z that Zachariah was writing to because they didn't they didn't have seven forty sevens to take them those Okay. Now of course uh I'm su I'm sure Zachariah is is questioning, concerned, uh as we are when we first when we first hear something like this. So uh in verse eight, uh we get kind of get an answer. Then it then he cried out to me and spoke to me, saying, See those who are going to the land of the north have appeased my wrath. in the land of the north. Now who's talking here? Who's speaking to Zachariah? And my my version of the Bible has the he capitalized, which indicates they're talking about God. There's some there are two opinions here. Some s you you wouldn't be wrong in saying it was one of the angels because we really don't know. But it it's uh the the translator of the Nasby and uh uh he he the the translators I should say. Uh uh are are pretty much convinced that this is actually God speaking to Zechariah. And this is the first time that if I'm if I'm not mistaken, this is the first time God has spoken directly to Zachariah In the book. I may be wrong, but it seems to be correct. And what did he say? They have appeased my wrath in the land of the north. Babylon is fallen, is fallen. Remember what John said in the book of Revelation? So this is preparation for getting getting the kingdom established that it's talking about here. Uh so uh in the first vision Zachariah saw the horses zone control over the whole earth to determine the state of the nations, and they were at rest When I said they were at rest, I think I mentioned it earlier. What does that what was that what does that imply? No? No answers? Come on When the nations were at rest, at ease. They weren't they weren't right. They were comfortable in their situation. Everything was going well as far as they were concerned. Uh and usually when you get that situation some it's just it's it's the calm just before a storm. So, anyway, he saw the horses on patrol. And let's look at uh let's go back and look at what it says in verses 1, 15, and 16. So the angel who was speaking with me said to me proclaim, saying, Thus says the Lord of hosts, I am exceedingly jealous for Jerusalem and Zion, but I am very angry with the nations who are at ease, for while I was only a little angry they frustrated the disaster Therefore, thus says the Lord, I will return to Jerusalem with compassion. My house will be built in it, declares the Lord of hosts, and a measuring land will be stretched over Jerusalem. The Lord's Spirit was not at rest while the nations were sending and mistreating his chosen ones. The angel who went out to the north to bring judgment on the land appeased the Lord's anger with the sin of that land. Leopold, or whatever however you pronounce his name, he writes, the idiom to quiet God's spirit means that they have caused God's anger to cease. Now, how is God's anger going to cease? How are we at peace with God? Clarity? Through Christ? Right, but how but how are we personally are at peace with God When we're obedient to him, right? Yeah. Yeah, yeah. When we're obedient to him. So so these people are going out to conquer this the these these uh Chariots that we see here going out to conquer the nations that are uh in opposition to God. Okay, and and uh and in opposition to God The concluding night vision to Zechariah ends the overview of judgment on the nations and more specifically confirms Babylon and Egypt's judgment for their treatment of Israel over the centuries. This must have been good news for the Israelites during Zachariah's day, knowing that the Lord had not forgotten them, and that his justice will prevail over all the earth. This may be a reference to the destruction of Babylon as told in Revelation. Babylon on more than one occasion has been used uh as being in opposition to Israel and thus in opposition to God The destruction of Babylon may be symbolic of the restoration of paradise because the opposition to God is gone. I my favorite saying is paradise Paradise lost will be paradise restored. It talks about it in Isaiah where it talks about the child will play over the nest of the adder and the lion will eat grass Uh and it's a pretty good picture of the world turning turning back to becoming identic like it was when it started out. It's not God's fault that we're messed up. We did it to ourselves Okay. Can't wait and speak to Adam. Pardon? Can't wait and speak to Adam. Yeah. Yep. One of these days uh we're gonna get one of these days we'll get straightened out. You know what? We will when the Lord comes back. so uh deceiving when when people you know uh up any you know we'll say you know uh the world's gonna get better. Right. Yeah we gotta make that better. Yeah. That's that's just a lie. Yeah. Is it going to get worse Well what just just for the sake of the recording I'm gonna kinda repeat what you said. Larry saying that people are believing that that the world's gonna get better. Uh that's the b that's a common belief among people. I can remember when I was a kid the preacher talking about Preaching on this very thing. He says people are saying the world is getting better. And then he went through a whole bunch of things that were happening happening back in the early 1950s that were ex that uh in those days we thought were disastrous. They had nothing compared to what's going on nowadays. But yeah, but they they they thought they were disastrous. Most of you don't remember the early 19th fifty so let's move on that ends the visions okay Uh after having judged the nations and purged sin from the earth, Zechariah 6, 1 through 8, the manifestation of the Messiah is seen in the symbolic crowning of Joshua the high priest. Okay now, Zechariah six verses nine through fifteen. And Larry you got your Bible open. Six nine through fifteen. The word of the Lord also keeps me saying take an offer from the Excel from uh I I don't I don't Yeah. Heldai, Tobaijah Tobaijah and Jedi Jediah. Jediah, right. And you and you can't and you go the same day and either the out and enter the house of uh side and side the son uh stephanie stephani i zephani zephani yes uh where they have arrived from that one uh Take silver and gold, make it uh on it and crown, and set it on the head of Joshua, the son of Josiah Jehosadak. Jehosedak. The high priest. Then say to Nel, thus say the Lord of hosts, behold, a man who is name is branch from he will branch out from where he is and he will build the temple of the Lord. Yes, it is he who will build the temple of the Lord. And he who will bear the honor and sit and rule on his throne. Thus he will be a priest on his throne and the council of peace will be between the two officers. Now down to what Well read the end of the chapter. Okay. Alright, now the crown will become a reminder in the temple of the Lord to uh Helen. Uh Tobih. Tobidah? Tobaih? Uh Jedi. And we got it right in hand. And the son of Zephaniah. Those who are far off will come and fill the temple of the Lord. Then you will know that the Lord of hosts has sent me to you and it will take place in your in you completely obey the Lord if you completely obey the Lord Okay. Uh now uh uh Cherry Alfin Cherry Alfin, I'm sorry Uh Kerry often quotes uh Merrill Unger, and he has a quote in the notes, if you have the notes, he has a quote in uh he writes about Unger and says, Unger writes that this is the usual prophetic order of the first judgment of the day of the Lord followed by the full kingdom blessings. Uh and that's a pretty good idea. The Isaiah passage from ten through thirty ten thirty three through eleven ten is very similar in the intent to Revelation 1910 through 26. So if you've got a pencil, write these down and go back and compare these two these two passages. That's Isaiah 1033 through 1110 1033 through eleven ten and Revelation nineteen ten through twenty-six and look at the comparison. Both talk about final judgment And then the establishment of the heavenly rule. And that's exactly what Isaiah is saying very succinctly here. In verses 9 through 10 The word of the Lord also came to me, saying, Take an offering from the exiles, from Hildai, Tobijah, Jediah, and you go the same day into the house of Josiah, the son of Zephaniah where they have arrived from Babylon. Now why have they just come from Babylon? I'm sorry, speak up. King Darius let them go back. Yeah, that's right. They were they were these are people who are coming from remember remember the Southern Kingdom was exiled into Babylon It was carried off into Babylon. And these are people who have returned from the exile in Babylon, and they came back uh to restore the city of Jerusalem and to rebuild the temple And uh Zerubabal got credit for building a temple because he was the governor of the land at the time, but these are people who had come back Now, what are we saying here? He's saying the word of the Lord came to me, no longer in a vision, but the Lord Himself is speaking directly to Zechariah to perform the following events to take or receive and accept the gift from the exiles. The returned captives have God honoring names Heldai means the Lord's world. Tobaja means Yahweh is good. Jediah means Yahweh knows, and Josiah means the Lord supports. All three, all of these men are mentioned somewhere else in scripture. Tobaja is en mentioned as being a Levite And Jediah as a priest, in fact Jediah is mentioned several times in the Chronicles, Ezra and Nehemiah. So it was a name that would have be would have been very familiar to Zachariah. So all these things probably would have been And he's told that these men have arrived and they are in the house of Josiah, having come from Babylon. You can see the providence of God working in these in these uh events. Uh Zechariah has just had vision visions Of judgment of God prior to the return of the Messiah. These men returned to Israel with gifts which Zechariah is to use as a symbol for the return of the Messiah. Messiah who will be both king and priest. And we'll talk more about the Messiah being king and priest in a minute. We'll get to it in a minute. Verse 11: Take the silver and gold, make an ornate crown, and set it on the head of Joshua, the son of Jehosadak the high priest. Now, silver and gold, precious metals. Uh the word crown by the way here is plural and I don't think it's talking about making two crowns. I think by pluralizing it it's making a uh let's say a multipurpose crown and or an eight crown uh a different crown from what would be normal but but uh you're not it you only got one head you're not gonna put two crowns on one head So it would boldly mean that. And since the Messiah is going to be both both priest and king It would be m make sense to have uh the the crown of this type or a multifaceted or a multi purpose purpose crown, uh if you're in if you are worshipper in one of the more uh uh structured type of worship like the Orthodox or the Catholics who wears a crown. Okay. The the they they they call them the they the Catholic, not the priest but the higher ups. The bishop wears a crown and and the cardinal would wear a crown Crown. So the crown would not be not unusual for in religious purposes but to speak of a crown also. So that would that would be an understanding of this, that you have a crown that's made of two materials, a different one For the double purpose of priest and king that Messiah is going to say. Now they crown they are crowning Joshua, the high priest here, but it's only a picture of what's to come with the coming of The prophet of the Messiah. Look at verse 12. Then say to him, Thus says the Lord of hosts, but behold a man whose name is branch, for he will branch out from where he is, and he will build the temple of the Lord. Uh behold a man, behold the man. Sound familiar? Who says, Behold the man Pontius Pilate, exactly. Uh did he know what he was saying when he said that? Probably not. But he certainly was big prophetic, wasn't he? Pontius Pilate quoted this prophecy unwittingly when he called to the crowd who sought to crucify him, behold the man. Unger comments that it was as a man that Christ wore the crown of thorns. Who's whose the the term whose name is branch uh is a symbol for the coming Messiah I'm going to read to you now from John Psalm versus chapter the second psalm verses four through six He who sits in the heavens laughs, the Lord scoffs at them, then he will speak to them in his anger and terrify them in his fury, saying, But as for me, I have installed my king upon Zion My holy mountain. Number one, King, Psalm 110, after setting up the Messiah as King, giving him the scepter in verses 11 1-3 and verse 4 it says, The Lord has sworn and will not change his mind. You are a priest forever, according to the order of Melchizedek. Priest and king. Any questions or comments before I go on? Kara. This also says those exact same ones in Hebrews one when it's talking about Christ It in both those same passages. Referring to Christ as both the king and the priest. Yes, yes. Uh I just the my purpose was to point out The the scripture backs up the idea that we have that Christ is to be priest and king. In fact, sometimes we say prophet, priest and king, because he was acknowledged as a prophet as king From his tender youth he would grow up from poverty and obscurity before God as a shoot or a branch. So Jeremiah Jeremiah 3315 says, In those days, and at that time I will cause a righteous branch of David to spring forth and he shall execute execute justice and judgment I'm sorry, justice and righteousness on the earth. The Messiah will grow out of the fallen trunk of David in his own land Isaiah 11 1. Then a shoot will spring from the stream of Jesse, and a branch from his roots will bear fruit. No doubt that the branch is the coming I think that's pretty solid that's pretty solid evidence to that thing And it says he will build the temple of the Lord. This is not the present temple which Z Zerubaval had already begun At least that's that's my understanding of it. Jesus when he came in the first advent cleansed the temple, which was destroyed shortly after his death and resurrection. And I think the temple referred to here is a millennial temple, as described by Ezekiel in chapters 40 through 42. I think Zechariah is just echoing that That uh thing. In fact, uh I'm one of those who believe that there's gonna be a terrible thing. I believe in the I believe in the seven seven year revel uh tribulation period and at the end of There's going to be a the sacrifice of a pig on the altar by the Antichrist and that uh is a repeat of what was already done uh during the during the Inter Testamental period when one of the Greek kings I believe I believe it was Antiochus Epiphany's, but I'm not sure, sacrificed a pig on the temple altar that Zerubabel had uh that had built. So and I think that this is good I think that this is going to happen again. That's my that's my thinking, okay. So I'll always I'll always be very careful if I'm up here and I'm telling you something, if it's my thinking, I'm gonna let you know that. I'm not gonna I'm not gonna tell you that that's the way it is if I if it's something that I that I That I think I will be very careful about this. So it sounded like we sounded uh giant giant Okay. I have a I have a hearing problem, okay, and you have a quiet voice. So so sometimes I have it has to be repeated. Verse 13 Yes, it is he who will build the temple of the Lord and he who will bear the honor and sit and rule on his throne. Thus he will be a priest on his throne and the council of peace will between will be between the two offices. The officers are priest and king. He will be the honor. He will bear the honor. The Hebrew word for honor denotes majesty splendor, beauty, and is used almost exclusively for the divine splendor of the Lord. In fact, my King James Version of the Bible says that uses the word glory instead of honor And so we have to be very careful when we talk about glory because one thing is for certain the Lord will God will not share his glory with anyone when Moses was ch was chastised for striking the rock when he was told to speak to the rock. Afterwards immediately he said to he said to the Jewish people, Wilt do must we, meaning Moses and God, do something. And uh he was he I think he was taking God's glory. God's glory. And my personal belief is that's the reason Moses was punished. Not because he disobeyed, but because he tried to claim the glory. That's my that's my belief, okay? Not not uh uh not written in stone. Okay. All right. So but be very careful when we talk about glory, because only God is very jealous of his glory. He says that. I will not share my glory with anyone And if this ruler on the throne is glorious, what does it mean about him? We have God in the flesh, right? Exactly. All right. He will bear the honor uh he will rule on his throne and he will be a priest on his throne. We already talked about in scripture references to the office of priest and king Now they were up until this time they were always they were always separated in Israel. Uh in fact uh There were some of the some of the ruling kings tried to assume some of the priesthood glories and and some of the judges tried to assume some of the priesthood glories, uh see priesthood responsibilities, and were severely punished for it. This is uh something that's going to happen. This is going to be a time when we have priest and king in the same office in the same person. And this same person has to be, cannot be anyone except God And the flesh, the Lord Jesus Christ. In Psalm 110, 4, I think we read it already. It didn't hurt to read it again. The Lord has sworn and will not change his mind. You are a priest forever, according to the order of Melchizedek. In Genesis 14, 18 it refers to Melchizedek as visiting Abraham, and it called him the king of Salem, and he brought out bread and wine, and now he was a priest of God most high. The Messiah is to be a priest like Melchizedek, in that it was a priestly order that was without beginning and without end. The scriptures look forward to the time when the Messiah would unite the two offices in order that the council of the peace will be between the two offices. We can only imagine what that will be like to have both our faith and obedience in the Lord be in perfect harmony with the government rule and practices in everyday life. Man, what a glorious day that will be The you know the remember any of it I remember an old TV program called Slattery's World. I think it's called Slattery's World. It was a TV program that was on for a while. Well maybe nobody in here is old enough to to remember that. But Slattery was a representative of the state government where he was in the minority party Uh but the opening of the uh program was uh a statement that there Uh I believe it was a quote from Winston Churchill. I'm not exactly sure it can't quote it exactly, but it what it said was democracy at its best is a very poor form of government But may I remind you that all the others are worse. Yeah. So the perfect government is a benevolent dictator. Okay. And I that that's probably heresy for me to say that as far as politics are concerned. I'm not the only one who said that, believe me. And when when Christ comes and establishes his rule on the earth, we will have the perfect benevolent dictator. Well, I'm gonna have that before then. As long as man is involved in anything, something's gonna be wrong because man is a sinner. He may be a sinner saved by grace, but he's still a sinner. Yep. And we have to we have to remember that. And we're talking here about what's going to happen. I can't I I cannot visualize what what things are going to be like. When when he when he comes back. But you know what? I'm looking forward to it. I I'm closer to it than most of you. If if I go home before he comes back, I'll get to I'll get to see it quicker than you will. Let's put it that way. Okay. Now the uh let's go look at verse four fourteen Now the crown will become a reminder in the temple of the Lord to Halam, Tobijah, Jediah, and Him, the son of Zephaniah. Zephaniah's son hen, uh I forget what it was, uh Josiah was called in the earlier verse. But it was def is both places identified as the son of Zephaniah. So they are talking about the certain uh uh the the same person the crown was symbolically placed on the head of Josiah and the crown was destined to be a memorial in the temple This apparently was a sign and reminder that the Messiah was coming and had not forgotten Israel. Jewish tradition has it that the crown hung in the window, that the crown hung in the window in the height of the temple for many years That's like I say Jewish tradition. They've got few they get a few things wrong. Okay, now In verse 15, we see something a little bit different. Those who are far off will come and build the temple of the Lord. Then you will know that the Lord of hosts has sent me to you, and it will take place if you completely obey the Lord your God. What are we talking about? Those who are far off? Gentiles. Gentiles, exactly. In other places uh it talks about the being f uh being far off. There's stories about um I'm and I'm gonna go into something here that's really, really very vague in my memory, but I I recall reading about the story about a rabbi who was approached by uh a non-Jew and said, Help me to draw near, meaning they wanted to wanted to become a part of the relationship. uh they wanted to get closer to God. And uh in I believe it's in Ephesians it talks about those being far off, meaning non-Jews. So when the Bible talks about people who are far off, it's talking about it's talking about non-Jews, okay? And uh drawing near means that uh is a real is a statement of coming to know uh coming to a relationship with God. Uh in fact one of our old hymns that we used to say, draw me nearer, nearer, blessed Lord. Uh I forget. I I've got to sing it but I can't say the words. And you don't want to hear me sing it. So uh drawing at so these this is telling us then that uh they will the those who are far off will come and build the temple of the Lord. I don't in Jer in Jerusalem today there is a third temple society. And they think they are going to build the temple. I think, according to what Zachariah says, they got it wrong. According to Zechariah, it's going to be those who are far off who are going to come and build the temple. That who cares? As long as the time comes, then you will know that the Lord of hosts has sent me to you, and it will take place if you completely obey the Word of God. Now In Isaiah 2 verses 2 and 3 it says it will come about in the last days the mountain of the house of the Lord will be established as the chief of the mountains And will be raised above the hills, and all the nations will stream to it. And many people shall come and say, Come let us go to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob, that He may teach us concerns concerning his ways, and that we may walk in his path. For the law will go forth from Zion, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. Now there some of that's from Isaiah and some of that's from Malachi also. The word of the Lord will go for the law will go forth from Zion and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. What do we know about this term word of the Lord? In it personified. In the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God, and the word became flesh. And dwelt among us, full of grace and truth. I think that does not leave any doubt as to as to the divinity of our Lord Jesus Christ. Now there are a lot of people who don't believe in an earthly reign of Christ, nor do they believe that a great number of Israelites will be saved in final days. think they got the things mixed up and a little wrong here. The word of the Lord is saying that when the witnesses when they witness these things happening, then they will know that God's word holds true. Now there is a there is a caveat to it. Here is a caveat to it. It will take place if you completely obeyed the Lord your God. Now, this is not a conditional statement based on the obedience of the Jewish nation. Because it's he's prophesied here, it's going to happen. God says it's going to happen. If God says it's going to happen, it's going to happen. We may not see Uh but he says it's gonna happen, it's gonna happen. The condition lies with the individual In order to participate in the blessing of God, we have to become obedient to God. Now, how are we obedient? Do we do everything right? No. We don't do everything right, do we? Anybody in who do everything right? What does that mean? That means you need somebody to to f to to substitute for you, right? And the perfect Lamb of God is our substitute through our faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. And only through our faith in the Lord Jesus Christ do we hope to have access to God the Father. Father. Now we're on we got a little bit of time here. Uh if you got some you haven't said you haven't said a lot. I've heard some uh and some agreement and I'm I'm glad that means I might have said something wrong. Right. But uh any any particular comments you want to make now about what we've studied in Zachariah thus far I've really enjoyed the the the study. I I've enjoyed uh I uh am doing some outside study as as well as we're going through this. And I really enjoyed it. But I I Uh I mean I can't I can't think of anything that that's gonna be better than when the when uh this then this event actually takes place It's just it's just a great thing. It's really it's really a great thing. Something that I'm very ex This morning I'm excited about it. You know, I'm not always excited about it. When I read about it and I study about it and I try to teach it, it gets me excited about what's going to happen And I cannot think of anything better than knowing through the word of God that I'm going to participate in this. And if you don't know, if you're not if you're not convinced in your heart that you're going to participate in this, you You need to talk to me about it or talk to somebody about it. Because the Bible, it's true. The Bible says it's true. And uh uh so we need to be very, very certain of our relationship with the Lord Lord. With with it we have the promise of his coming, we have the promise of his kingdom, we have the promise that we're going to participate in it. We are those who are far off. And I don't know that we're talking about the physical construction of the temple. of the Lord here when he talks about those being far off. But certainly we're going to participate in the building of the temple through the the through through our presence and our relationship with the Lord Lord Jesus. It will take place if you completely obey the Lord your God. If you if you are not in obedience to his word, then you won't be a participant, but you won't stop it from happening. This passage has shown us that Christ will grow up in Israel, will build a millennial temple, will be revealed and honored in glory. He will rule as the king. King priest, he will make peace between the officers of king and priest. Gentiles will be brought in to participate in his in the kingdom. By his coming he will prove God's word, and he demands obedience to his word. The the first step in obedience is putting our faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Any any questions, comments? We got time. I'm gonna have you running around the hall so you don't belong Okay? Alright, let's pray together