The son of Barekiah, the son of Edo, as follows I saw at night, and behold a man was riding to a red horse. And he was standing among the myrtle trees which were in the ravine, with red, sorrel, and white horses behind him. Then I said, My lord, what are these? And the angel who was speaking with me said to me, I will show you what these are. And the man who was standing among the myrtle trees answered and said, These are whom the Lord has sent to control the earth. So they answered the angel of the Lord who was standing among the myrtle trees and said, We have control the earth and behold, all the earth is peaceful and quiet. And can somebody pick up twelve through twenty-one? And the angel of the Lord, O Lord of hosts, how long will you have no compassion for Jerusalem and the city of Judah? with which you have been indignant these seventy years. The Lord answered the angel who was speaking the truth with me, with gracious words, comforting words. So the angel who was speaking with me said to me, proclaim saying, Thus says the Lord of hosts, I am exceedingly jealous. for Jerusalem and Zion. But I am very angry with the nation who are at you. For while I was only a little angry They furthered the disaster. Therefore, thus says the Lord, I will return to Jerusalem with compassion. My house will be built in it, declared the Lord of hosts, and the measuring line will be stretched over Jerusalem. Again proclaim saying, Thus says the Lord of hosts My city will again overflow with prosperity, and the Lord will again comfort sons and again choose Jerusalem. Yeah, I'll finish up. Then I lifted up my eyes and looked, and behold, there were four horns. So I said to the angel who was speaking with me. What are these? And he answered me, These are the horns which have scattered Judah, Israel, and Jerusalem. Then the Lord showed four showed me four craftsmen I said, What is uh what are these coming to do? And he said, These are the horns which have scattered Judah, so that no man lifts up his head. But these craftsmen have come to terrify them. to throw down the horns of the nations who have lifted up their horns against the land of Judah in order to scatter it There's a lot in here obviously. There's a lot of detail. We we see these The focus uh uh I'm gonna try and uh focus on is the first section, this rider, the red horse. The angel of the Lord. The other important thing is what we just read, the the other difficult uh the last from 18 through these uh four horns and four craftsmen Uh we're gonna have to read some other scripture because really uh that's what I think you're gonna see with Zechariah. Zachariah is uh relying on images, he's he in um Previous prophecies. Uh well I think a lot of this is you if you've looked at the notes you'll see that Daniel is prevalent. Uh we're gonna have to go through some of Daniel just to be reminded what Daniel prophesied. And remember Daniel is somewhat of a contemporary of of Zechariah, right? He was there when he read in in Daniel nine, he goes, the seventy weeks, he's reading in Jeremiah, the seventy weeks will will expire. So he was uh alive during the time when when Cyrus and all took over and and uh he did the the decree for people to come uh back to uh Israel, to Jerusalem So having said that, so some of this uh I the uh these were notes. I tried to turn them into sentences. I did go ahead and give them to you instead of just giving you v you know like a verse so Um hopefully it reads okay. Anyway, uh so first seven. Uh on the twenty-fourth day, the eleventh month, which is the month of Shabbat In the second year of Darius, the word of the Lord came to Zechariah, the prophet, the son of Barakiah, son of Edo, as follows. Again, we talk about this week one of He he's telling you who he is. He's also to again, Darius is the king and and we made a lot to do about that last time. It's not the king of Judah or Israel is a Gentile king and he and uh they typically dated their prophecies through a king, but they didn't have a king of Israel This would stick out uh greatly to uh people during that time. So starting in verse seven, a series of eight visions comes, is given uh the first exactly five months after Haggai. So remember Haggai is a contemporary, right? It's just a few months before you you get these these prophecies Haggai 114. So the Lord stirred up the spirit of Zerubel, the son of Sheelteel, governor of Judah, the spirit of Joshua, the son of Jehor Jehosadak, uh the high priest, and the spirit of the remnant of the people, uh they came and worked on the house of the Lord of hosts their God So three months later Haggard delivers two messages. Haggai's a short book. There were two short messages in this uh his second uh vision or or uh prophecy. Uh one was the exhortation of Israel, uh uncleanness uh uh in the Lord uh uh uh excuse me before the Lord. Uh but from that day on he will bless them. So basically what he was saying was in that first prophecy you haven't read it, he was saying uh Yeah, you you're to you could you're disobedient. You you're like Zachariah said, your father's the reason you're here uh because you've uh trespassed the Lord, but the Lord's gonna forgive you from now on. He's he's gonna be with you. Um Uh it's a promise to restore them. The second message, uh which we'll look at too. Uh uh we'll actually read it a little bit later. Uh the second message the Lord declares he will shake the heavens and the earth, the kingdoms and the thrones and nations, uh with a view to restore uh the nation is Israel. So it's it's uh uh these promises they came on the twenty fourth day, it's exactly uh w whether this uh uh put a thought in the mind of the hearers, I don't know, but I mean make no mistake. I mean it it is kind of a flag Uh I saw that uh I uh he saw it's not a dream, it's uh uh mental or spiritual faculties were awake and alert. He could respond and reflect to what he saw uh he was able to interact with the angel with whom he was speaking. So the three questions, who's this man and the myrtles, right? Who is the man? What do the myrtles represent? And the significance of the color of the horses. So the man on the red horse is an angel of the Lord, right? We see that in verse eleven. It comes out again. Later. He is called the angels of Yahweh. I I wrote that out for you because that's what Lord, capital L, Capital O R D In your Bible, if your Bible does that, that's what it's it's telling you it's translating. That's the proper name for God. Um Where am I at? Angel of Yahweh and in verse thirteen he's called Yahweh Uh this mayor may he may this angel when we get to verse thirteen he may have been actually speaking or the he may have been hearing from Uh the Father in heaven. It gets confusing, right? Uh who's speaking at this time? Uh we'll we'll talk about that a little bit later too. Is he speaking with the angel of the Lord or is this an interpreting angel The point is uh sta stay focused on the big pictures. We know it's the angel of the Lord. Uh the angel of the Lord is said to be the uh theophany or manifestation of God in bodily form. uh before the incarnation. So if you're not familiar with it, here's some passages on the angel Lord. This is just a few examples And I I gave us judges because judges is pretty clear. Uh uh virtually every time the answer the Lord You know it's you know he's talking about God because God is referenced usually typically close after that reference to the angel of the Lord. And here it is in Judges. Judges 13, 20 to 22. For it came about when the flame went up from the altar towards heaven that the angel of the Lord ascended in the flame of the altar. When Manila and his wife saw this, they fell on their faces to the ground. This is uh Samson's parents, right? Now the angel of the Lord did not appear to Manoah and his wife again. Then Manoah knew that the angel of that it was that he was the angel of the Lord So Manoah said to his wife, We will surely die for we have seen God. And that's typically what you get in these passages. He makes it clear. Hagar, uh, when she was out in the wilderness, said the same thing. I've seen God. So the angel of the Lord is uh it's a pre it's uh uh pre incarnation of Christ And that's what uh that's that's why uh you get uh you think uh as we look at this later and I and I bring up some of these versions, you say, Well, why don't we just do Daniel? Because Daniel had a different aspect. Daniel was telling 'em about a lot of the times. Lo look at Zechariah's prophecy. And and God I mean this is God's thing. Building on that Just like he we we talked about for those of you in covenants class. You start with a covenant and it wasn't like you forget the first covenant. You kinda expand on it and God gives more detail to the covenant. And that's what we're getting here. We're getting We're especially as we go through this, we're gonna see Christ uh manifest in in a clearer picture than Daniel ever uh got to portray So standing uh let's see. Notice a man riding on a red horse is is mentioned. There's no mention of the other riders, just the colors of the horses. Pay attention to the literary things they're doing, you know. But remember packing in these details, these short little sentences. This is why Preachers that go on and commentators and other people that study it. You start to expand it out and it's like all the stuff you you can derive from this. So but but pay attention to to what's going on. The other riders aren't mentioned, right? There's the rider on the red horse and then it's just the other horses. Uh standing uh among the myrtles. Uh myrtle tree was common in Israel. Uh Isaiah uses the myrtle tree in the millennial uh context This passage is is uh I'm throwing you right into a verse. You don't have the context, but it he's he's talking, he's giving aspects of the millennial kingdom. It has to be. Uh because uh well even even in this you'll see some of the detail. Isaiah forty one nineteen. I will put the cedar in the wilderness, the acacia and the myrtle and the olive tree I will place the juniper in the desert together with the box tree and the cypress. Okay? The myrtle branches uh with uh Palms and twigs were used to construct booze, booze of feast rife in the ta for the tabernacle, the feast of tabernacle. Uh it's broadleaf and the myrtle represented Israel. Most people agree with that. It's just a common kind of motif. We don't want to make too much of it, but the people would have gotten the illusion. Uh uh they certainly would have sh gotten the illusion with with all these other uh like the tabernacle and those kind of things Um the Myrtle Tree and the ravine. Uh the word here uh uh It it means more the ravine really. The the root of the word uh the meaning uh is deaf, deep, striping. Uh it is doubtful, it means just r ravine Here's the word used here in Exodus, uh, when they're uh uh they sing out, this is after uh Uh the Lord had just buried the Egyptians in the sea, right? Uh and this is what they sang later. This is One of the verses, ye blew your wind, the sea covered them, they sank. This is the word here, the same word we had for uh ravine, uh like lead in the mighty waters. uh the image uh of uh is that the remnant who had returned and were living in low places uh as if they'd sunk in the depths in the shadow of their enemies. The riders on the red horse The angel of the Lord is among them. Look at 8, 10, 11. Granted, he's given more information, but he repeats this phrase, right? Standing among the myrtle trees God is with them. He's not forsaken them. We're going to see as we go through this. This is what they feel. I mean, they looked at him Right? God their temple's torn down, they're not worshiping anymore. Trying again, put yourself in their place and in their circumstances. W what is the setting here? You know God has forsaken us. Uh blah blah blah blah. The colors of the horses and their meanings varies among commentators. A lot of them say Well you know y we can't tell anything from this. Uh David Barron, who's written a commentary on this, uh he sees the uh red horse uh signifying judgment and blood That's common. Unger does the same thing. Vengeance. He sees the horse uh about to embark on a mission. Uh Revelation 6, 4 Okay, this is obviously not something that uh the people at the time would have would have heard, but they they would have seen this uh horses and uh especially back in that day were associated with armies, uh military. Revelation 6, 4. Another red horse went out, and to him who sat on it is granted to take peace on the earth, and that men would slay one another, and a great sword was given to him. Uh the sorrel horse or uh however your uh uh your translation that you use uh uh translate that word. Sorrel is in the New American standard. It's a multicolored. It it's uh they think it's a mixture of the red and the white. Uh Barron sees this as judgment and mercy as both Uh the white horse represents triumph, victory, that's common even in pagan cultures. Again, w you we don't want to make too much of this, but uh these horses in colors represent common image imagery. It's acknowledged, particularly in light of the following verses. It's helpful in that it describes kind of the environment, the setting, anticip uh the anticipation of the events of the prophecy, what's what's about to take place. So um trying to rush through this so we can get get to some of the major pieces here Verses 9, 10, and 11. Then I said, My Lord, what are these? And the angel who was speaking with me said to me, I will show you what these are. And the man who was standing among the myrtle trees answered and said, These are whom the Lord has sent to patrol the earth. So they answered the angel of the Lord, uh He was uh standing among the myrtle trees and he said, We have controlled the earth, and behold, the earth is peaceful and quiet. Verse 9. This vision is given and then the question is answered. We see that over and over again, right? Zachariah gets a vision, he asks a question, the angel uh answers it. The vision is given the angel of the Lord. David uh Barron goes into detail who this angel is. with the with the issue of his argument, uh it's his his conclusion uh is sound, he reasons through this, it's it's long and detailed. Uh he he proves his point. But this is a different angel is to answer Zechariah. Okay, this is like an interpreting angel. Not that it's it's that critical because we're hearing the angel Lord's voice, but it seems as though this angel who's speaking with Zechariah is what they re uh the the term they refer to as an interpreting angel Okay, it gets kind of confusing. Who's speaking at this time that switches? Verse 10 The angel of the Lord answered, these are those whom Yahweh has sent to patrol. This has a military sense to it. The uh commentators use this word as reconnoitering. I was that's something I would use in my vocabulary, but apparently it's it's a uh it means really just that. It's a military word. Uh Uh uh it's military surveillance of the earth. Uh they're checking the state of the affairs of the earth. Uh uh I look at Job 1 7. It's kind of the same thing. The Lord said to Satan, From where do you come? And Satan answered the Lord And said, from roaming about on the earth and walking around on it, right? Our adversary is the devil like a roaring lion going around seeking who he may devour, right the is kind of that that theme that that's just running through here. Um uh so obviously God is is omniscient, uh the angels are on horses. So the image here is more of a spiritual battle. uh a visual picture of the prophet uh in his here. Angels don't really need horses, do they, right? So again, these images are for uh our understanding, the the prophet's understanding, the people would have understand this as as a you know, horses are battle, uh primarily Verse 11. We have patrolled the earth, and behold, all the earth is peaceful and quiet. So the earth is tranquil and at rest. This is bad news for the prophet Okay, because the people are are looking for the Lord to restore the uh Israel as a nation. Uh at present they're like a vassal state, right? They're under the hand of the Gentiles Uh they were looking for the promise. Look at m this is uh Haggai, this is from that second prophecy, uh second vision he gave there. Uh Speak to uh speak to Zerobul, governor of Judah, saying, I am going to s uh I am going to shake the heavens and the earth. I will overthrow the thrones of kingdoms and destroy the power of the kingdoms. And I will overthrow the chariots and the riders and the horses and the riders, and will go down every one by the stone But and their writers will go down, every one by the sword of another. See, and this remember, Zechariah's prophecy is just three months after this one Okay, so this is what they're expecting, and then this prophecy comes along and the whole earth is at peace. They're not at peace. Why what? In one respect it is good. But the people the problem is the peace is they're not in power. The Gentiles are in power There they remember you y what is their situation? We talked about that last week. You've got Samaritans, you've got all the stuff that's in Ezra. They're the they start building, they get opposition, they have to go back to the king, there's this back and forth. He again you can read that in in in Ezra, like first seven chapters are pretty much uh contemporary. with the history of this what we're talking here. Um they're not building. Zechariah, the foundation's been laid. Zechariah and Haggai are exhorting them to build the temple. Okay, so there's peace for the Gentiles. There's not really peace for them. They're not, they're under of their vassal state. They have no king. They have to go with with with what the dictates come from there. So yeah, that's And again, that's the that's the things that's so condensed in here you have to flesh out. What are the circumstances? What are the other books? What uh w w what is our uh history? Well what are the people seeing? Like to see it from their eyes. Zechariah is a post-exile prophet, right? Oh sorry? He's he's he's a prophet after the exile Right? Yes. They they've come back. They're they've been back in the land for depends on when they date it. Two P they date Cyrus from two either five thirty eight or five thirty six Uh this is five twenty. So it is sixteen, eighteen years after SARS allowed him to come back. Yeah. And so and and that's again w you as you can read these other Uh Nehemiah is is quite a bit later and Nehemiah builds the wall, right? Uh I think Nehemiah's I You have to check me? I'm thinking eighty years later. Okay? This is the state of of where the how these people are living now. They're in a ravine. They're down. That was the image there. And and what he's saying is, Christ is among you. That's huge. Because they're thinking that God has forgotten. He hasn't forgotten them, right? Return to me, I will return to you. We leave God, right? He didn't leave us Same same story over and over again, right? It's the same basic principle. And remember, all these comforting words that we're going to look at The key to it is what? What's the key to uh d them recognizing this promise? What's the key to them what I just said? What was it? What's the key? First six verses. Repentance. Okay. Come back to me. And again, the the other problem with these prophecies, we'll see this in Daniel, we're gonna have to rush, but um You st there are the they're gonna build the temple. The temple will be built, I think, in four years. Okay? But These prophecies is what God's given 'em, uh it really projects to the end. So you'll see some partial fulfillment all throughout this. But the the difficulty is and and it's a time thing and the and the Jews will see this more as we we go through. The Jews did not see The coming of the Messiah and a great big gap for when the kingdom's finally established And the prophecies don't really flesh that out. It looks like they're right there together. And and he's looking, he's talking about, yeah, you're gonna have your temple, but the the temple that he's gonna he's looking at later in here He's really talking about the conclusion. What is the ultimate conclusion? The Millennial Temple. But what is the ultimate conclusion for us? It's not here, right? It's salvation. And it and whether these people recognize this or not, salvation for them too. You're not going to enjoy any of this stuff if you're not saved. You're not part of the, right? And so r uh you we have to kind of balance these things. You have to you have to uh you think through it. Um again. Any other questions, or any you know what It it's it's prophecy is enlightening and It absolutely leaves a lot of questions to be answered, doesn't it? Because we see par God is this is God's plan. This will come. But what time, what people And he doesn't tell us all the details, does he? Why doesn't he save every you know, it's either these these old questions. Uh it is God's sovereignty, it's election. We're gonna look at that um Uh later. So where am I at first twelve The angel of the Lord said, O Lord of hosts, how long will you have no compassion for Jerusalem, the cities of Judah, with which you have been in dignity seventy years? This is huge, isn't it? This is uh w we're we're looking at the angel of the uh of Yahweh's prayer to Yahweh Uh I tried to point that out to to remind you what what that Lord we're reading in there, the angel of the Lord to to the Lord of hosts to the Lord is um It's enlightening and vision of the prophet and and his hearer. This verse supports the distinction of persons within the Godhead, uh the doctrine of the church of the Trinity Um I'll say one quick note. Um if you look at theologies, none of them will will tell you like Ryery in some of 'em, especially to get to the point. Uh Charles Ryeries, if you ever w want to look at a theology, basic theology is good 'cause he gives you kind of the meat of the heart of the things, but w it It's rather brief, so you're not wading through a lot of lofty uh uh issues. shall I say. But Ryan would say there really is no quote crystal clear um uh verses that that just spell out the doctrine of Trinity in the Old Testament. Is this a rhetorical question? Or is it we asking a question? Why would we gotta ask a question? Well yeah, and uh yeah, exactly. Right. Rhetorical. It's rhetorical and yet um There's that complex thing when he says, Not even the what did Jesus say, not even the Son of Man knows when the kingdom, right? Um Something that uh you can look into and dig into. It it's uh a and there's uh trust me there's opinion on on a lot of different sides on that. Um So but yeah, nonetheless, he's he's he's here's those let's let's go with the major thing here. It's the angel of the Lord, right The preincarnate Christ speaking to the Father, intercess intercessory prayer for the nation Israel It's great. It's huge. I want that. I want, uh you know, we're gonna look at that in Hebrews. Uh he intercedes for us, right? So the angel of the Lord is uh is praying to enlighten uh again, um this is somewhat it to us it points to the doctrine of Trinity, but again, we're looking all the way from the end of of uh revelation. We have all the fullness of the revelation that God has revealed to us in His Word. In the Gospel of John, we see Christ praying to the Father interceding on behalf of the saints Right? We're definitely not gonna go through that chapter, but you know it, right? God, I'm not don't take them out of the world, but I'll pray for 'em, protect 'em while they're in the world Hebrews seven twenty-three-twenty-five, the former priests on the one hand existed in greater number because they were prevented by death from uh continuing. But Jesus on the other hand, because he continues forever, holds his priesthood permanently. Therefore is able to Save forever those who draw near to God through Him, since He always lives to make intercession for them. Right? What a comfort, right? We have uh it's a comfort to Israel that they have the angel of Yahweh interceding for them. Remember, they think uh the Lord is left and and Well we'll look at that a little bit. Um Ezekiel had prophesied about that. We'll we'll look at uh one Ezekiel's excuse me prophecy How long uh Israel is still a partly under Gentile power? Many Jews are still scattered around the world and there's still there's still no temple Uh it's it's important. Uh uh more importantly, uh they're still in unbelief, aren't they? Uh again, they're looking for their millennial kingdom, but who's gonna enjoy that millennial kingdom? The saints, those that are going to be saved. Uh the immediate contact, it has uh the seventy years and the circumstances Uh uh the circumstance does not look as if uh God even notices Israel. And that's what they're saying, you know, again that the there's peace on the earth. We don't want these. We want you to shake the earth. We want you to shake these Gentile powers and restore Israel. Verse 13 The Lord answered the angel who was speaking with me, gracious words, comforting words. So the Lord answered angels. Um So this company words I put down there, this may uh this may be the uh the theme of the visions of the prophecy as a whole Again, but the key to the blessing of these promises is repent. Return to me, I will will return to you. The Lord is assuring Israel with these words that those who follow him will be established and fulfill his covenant promises. Verse 14. The angel who was speaking with me said to me, and see, you can see how it goes back and forth. I believe that's what we think. This is the interpreting angel So the angel who was speaking with me said to me, Proclaim, saying, Thus says the Lord of hosts, I am exceedingly jealous for Jerusalem and Zion. The Lord of armies, right? Lord of hosts, Lord of Armies. The one who reigns over the earth, the rule of men, literally, I am jealous with great jealousy Uh it's the same thing we we saw I am I am angry with anger in in uh in the first six verses Uh he's repeating it. He's to he's jealous, he's angry uh with uh with the uh nations around him. Let's turn to this real quick. I hope we're ki I l I think we'll you you do you look at this on your own time because I really want to look at these Daniel passages. We have quite a bit to read Yeah. Uh I am very angry with the nations, right? Uh who are at ease. For a while I was only a little angry. They furthered the disaster. So God has used these nations and um to discipline Israel. They went too far and they were cruel and abusive. And of course you they're pagan nations, that's typically what they're gonna do. Uh but nonetheless are accountable to God. Like the final fulfillment of Israel is yet teacher, so is the wrath of God and his judgment against the nations. uh that have abused his people over the centuries. Uh and I just thought, you know, here's some of these uh Antiochus uh Uh Epiphanes, Hitler, Mussolini, there's it and Haman. Remember Haman was gonna wipe out all the Jews, Esther ends up on his own gallows. Um but it this it happened over and over again. It repeats itself. Genesis fifteen fifteen, the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet complete. God's patient, right? Uh 1515 that's a covenant to Abraham. He's telling them, look, I'm gonna make you a nation, I promise. They're gonna go down to Israel. Going to be there 400 years. And he says the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet complete. 400 years. That's patience. Alright? God gives people. It's not like he's quick to judge. And judgment is just. People say, how can a God be so angry? Well you know, generation after generation you you you uh stored up wrath for yourself Verse 16, therefore, thus says the Lord, I will return to Jerusalem with compassion. My house will be built in it, declares the Lord. Of hosts, and a measuring line will be stretched out over Jerusalem. So the glory of the Lord had departed. Look at Ezekiel. I've got it here for us. Ezekiel 10, 18 and 19. Then the glory of the Lord departed from the threshold of the temple and stood over the cherubim. When the cherubim departed lifted their wings and rose up from the earth in my sight with the wheels beside them, and they stood at the entrance of the east gate of the Lord's house, and the glory of God of Israel hovered over them Ezekiel had written his prophecy, right? He had been taken captive. He was one of the early captives. The glory of the Lord had departed the temple. They knew this. This is what their these people had it had and of course when the temple got destroyed they knew the glory had departed, right? Somebody had said um I can't remember who it might have been uh Feinberg, yeah, was in this reading and He made a comment, he says, uh, and I think it was talking about the millennial temple. He goes, uh the house of the Lord is not the house of the Lord if the Lord's not in there Right. Right? You can build a house and you can you know a and and that's that's Kirkle is it it's uh It's so true too, isn't it? The promises to rebuild the temple, an immediate promise w would come in completion in four years. The prophecy also had in view the millennial temple uh which is top of prophesied in Ezekiel's chapters uh forty to forty two. Really, uh Ezekiel forty to like forty eight, talking about the millennial temple. And all the activity that will happen inside that temple. This is this is and if you look, um We looked at this uh uh a little bit in the uh covenants class. The temple's difference. Is is definitely there's a difference between the how the priesthood works The measuring the size of the temple, some of the feasts that are missing. It it's obviously not the temple of any of the um temples of this time, not Solomon's, not the rubbable, which is what they call the one that's about to be built, or uh Harry's temple. In Ezekiel 43 verses 2 to 5, and behold, the glory of the God of Israel was coming from the way of the east. And his voice was like the sound of many waters, and the earth uh and the earth shone with his glory. And it was like the appearance of the vision I saw Like the vision which I saw which came to destroy the city. The vision uh was like the vision I saw with the river Kabar And I fell on my face. And the glory of the Lord came into the house of the way of the gate, facing towards the east. And the Spirit lifted me up and brought me into the inner court And behold, the glory of the Lord filled the house of uh the well, just it filled the house. After the glory uh departed in Ezekiel chapter 10, uh we read of no other instance in God's word where God's glory filled the temple other than here in this millennial Kingdom. Doesn't mean that God really wasn't present, but the i i the the idea here is that God fills that temple with his shekana glory uh i it's a s it's a presence that uh they won't will not experience, have not experienced, and will not experience until uh God builds his millennial temple But see again, think of the time frame. The Hebrew mind is not is is looking for that and has been looking for that Um the Jews today are interested in building a temple again. Um it's a it's uh a big goal of theirs I understand you hear little bits and pieces, I'm not that much up on it, but you know you hear they're preparing for that temple even now Then I looked up my eyes and looked, and behold, there were four horns. And this is where the prophecy He he's relying. We gotta rely on on what came before. The second vision uh the focus on the four horns There are animal horns, but the beast, the the bore the horns, is not in view. The focus is upon the horns. the symbol and the symbolic meaning. The horn typically represents strength and power. Here's a couple of quotes. The horn of Moab has been cut off Yeah. His arm is broken, declares the Lord. Um I don't know why I put the uh l let me read um uh this chair of this lamentations doesn't have horn in the air The Lord is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer, my God, my rock in whom I take refuge, my shield, the horn of my salvation, my strong Again, this is these are common deeds, not for us, but for remember, this is the people were steeped in this in their literature. Horns meant power Um we'll we'll see uh we'll see a lot of this um really pointing it out pretty uh clearly in Daniel Uh so the horns obviously represent kings or kingdom. I'm gonna move through this. Uh the nations are dispersed or scattered. The idea there is it could be windowed. crushed like chaff. Uh you know what they did with chaff, right? Uh they would kind of crush it, they threw it in the air and the wind would blow away the chaff, the seed would fall back down. So there are four kingdoms. So let's run that time, but let's let's let's look through at least some of these. Well uh turn to Daniel Two thirty seven to forty five. Again, Daniel is not that far removed. Um Again, the spirit of guy who gave Daniel this prophecy, right? Remember who is Who the author is, it's it's Daniel and Zechariah through the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit, they are the conduit for for the Holy Spirit, right? Did you say that? Daniel chapter two verse thirty seven. Yeah. Uh and I I have to c we have to kind of speed through it, so I can't give you the whole context. I hopefully you're somewhat familiar with Daniel. Maybe Kennezar has had this dream, he's seen this great big statue, it's a head of gold, silver, bronze, iron. Okay? And and you're gonna see uh as we read this what the statue is. You, O King are are King of Kings of whom the God of heaven has given the kingdom, the power, the strength, and the glory And wherever the sons of men dwell, or the beasts of the field, or the birds of the sky, he has given them in your hand and has caused you to rule over them all. You are the head of gold. I've I take it I hopefully you all are familiar with this this statue that Daniel has seen. Uh if not you can go back and and look at this later and spend some time. But um He interprets a dream for Nebuchadnezzar. And he's telling them what they represent. After you there will arise another kingdom. So you can tell that these these uh arms and silver and gold and uh bronze and s and uh They'll represent kingdom. He's telling you here. After after you there will arise another kingdom inferior to you. Then a third kingdom of bronze will ru rule over all the earth. Notice how little time he spends on these, right? Uh his his this is maybe Kidnesar's view. He gives some detail about his kingdom. Look at what he spends the time on, the fourth kingdom. Then there will be a fourth kingdom, strong as iron, inasmuch as iron crushes and shatters all things. So like the iron that breaks in pieces, it will crush and break all these in pieces. And that you saw the feet of toes, partly of potter's clay, partly of iron, it will be a divided kingdom, but it will have an it uh the toughness of iron, inasmuch as you saw the iron mixed with common clay. As the toes and the feet were partly of iron and partly of pottery So some of the kingdoms will be strong and part of it will be brittle. And in it that you saw the iron mixed with the common clay, they will combine with one another in the seed of men But they will not adhere to one another, even as iron does not combine with pottery. In the days of those kings the God of heaven will set up a kingdom which no one will ever will Which will never be destroyed. And that kingdom will be left will excuse me, will not be left for another people. It will crush and put to an end all those kingdoms, but it will itself endure forever. Inasmuch as ye saw the stone was cut out of the mountain without hands, and crushed the iron. uh the bronze, the cl uh the clay, the silver, and the gold, the great God has made known to the king what will take place in the future The dream and its interpret and is is true and its interpret interpretation is trustworthy So, sorry we had to run through that quickly, but again, you can see he's he's using these metaphors for these kingdoms. Uh this is uh So much common to them. I don't know if I'm gonna have time to get to uh Revelation. But you're going to see in Revelation, if you look at these verses, number one, it's the Antichrist. You're going to see that the dragon empowers him. Okay, in in chapter thirteen. I see y'all turning there, so let's do it real quick. Someone wanna read me Revelation uh thirteen, one through six? And the dragon stood on the sand of the seashore. Then I saw a beast coming up out of the sea, having ten horns and seven heads, and on his horns were ten diamonds. And on his head were blasphemous names. And the beast which I saw was like a leopard, and his feet were like those of a bear, and his mouth like the mouth of a lion, and the dragons gave him his power and his throne. and great authority. I saw one of the heads as if it had been slain, and his fatal wound was healed, and the whole earth was amazed and followed after the beast They worship the dragon because he gave his authority to the beast, and they worship the beast, saying, Who is like the beast and who is able to wage war with him? There was given to him a mouth speaking arrogant words and blasphemies, and authority to act for forty-two months was given to him. And he opened his mouth and blasphemies against God, so blaspheme Disney, and his tabernacle, that is, those who dwell in heaven. So you can see, uh did you s notice the imagery uh uh and the overlap? Uh ten kings, right? Uh Did you notice the bear, the mouth? We're gonna look at that a little bit. Again, the e uh the kingdoms. When we were going through Daniel, uh one of the Commentator said, it remember it it's kind of a a strange uh uh kind of a thread you see through this. As these kingdoms would overtake one another It's like anything. The culture kinda remains. And so what he said, if you see in God's Word, you you kinda see the threat of the culture, right? You see uh uh Persian, Babylon kind of moving into to the Greek culture because they they start to encompass one another. You see the Greek culture moving into the Roman culture. And and so you don't stop you you you come over a people but you don't stop them out. You you you you have this the spirit, this thread to go through there. And if you notice he he says, this beast overcame all these cultures. And the idea is that it kind of carries on even into today. And I I think that's how they kind of view this Roman Empire. We don't see the Roman Empire uh per se, uh but something is gonna uh come back again. It's the fourth empire. There is not mentioned in this this prophecy another empire. And the difficulty is that people try and put too much oh, I know who's gonna be the head of the empire or something Uh i it's kind of a it's look at it as a as a broader theme. Um it's probably gonna be in that area. The other thing I would notice when you look at Daniel, each of these empires controlled different places. Babylon was mainly more east. You know, you stood so with some of the Greeks and the Romans, you you you tend to get more west, but they all have one thing in common. They all Every one of those kingdoms, if you look on a map, you can look it up on a on a map, you'll see, you know, they'll give you a nice color thing and w what areas they control. They all c they all cover Jerusalem Israel, Judah. That's the key. It's the focal point. God's land is there. This is where the battle is is going to focus. Uh so we we look at all these these things and again the battle, the spiritual battle is is in this the physical battle, it all seems to focus, right? This is God's Land, this is God's nation. He says I this is where I will reign. So I'm not going to be able to go through all the others, but the interpreters, so what the interpreters see is um uh these kingdoms, right? We see the kingdoms as as being um Babylon, Medo Persia, Greece, and Rome. And and uh I think that's what you're seeing with the four horns here. Now some interpreters would go, no, you know And they're they're not looking at this. And of course, uh your theology is really gonna uh base this. You see uh Israel and the church separated and and uh the other thing is is is uh Someone said uh no, it's it's contemporary, right? So it would be Egypt, Assyria, Babylon, and Persia. So who scattered them? The difficulty is, and and and the uh one of the arguments is, is all the other all these other visions that we're getting into, they're all future Every one of them has a it it something that may be starting to pass, but the the the the goal of the visions is all future, it's prophecy, it's forward. That would make this contemporary. This one vision would not be prophecy at all. So I I think that's a a strong argument against that Also, uh uh uh I look at Daniel. Um I mean in Daniel 8, let me read this real quick because we're out of time If you look at the verses in eight, but but look at the uh this is the interpretation. He sees these beasts. And he tells them who the beasts are over in verse 20. Okay? Uh the ram which you saw with two horns, right, representing the kings of Media and Persia, see Illusions, right? Horns, power. He tells you who they are. They represent medium Persia. The shaggy goat represents the kingdom of Greece. Right? The look at that. The broken horn and the four horns that arose in its place represent four kingdoms which will arise from the nation, although its power would not be as great. When Alexander passed off, Alexander was on there for a break time, he had four generals that took over Okay. Uh he's telling you here. I mean it it's kind of uh so I don't think it's a stretch, especially here. I think we're talking he talks four horns. He's not giving us any detail. I think we have to look at uh and again this is uh prophecy that happened during this time. Uh it's not like it's it's it's far removed. Uh Again, it's God's word. One thing that struck me really strongly in this whole looking at the first chapter of Zechariah and even going into the first, every time somebody does something bad to Israel Israel and and that's God's punishment to Israel for their their misconduct. Somebody comes along to punish those guys because they punished Israel. So but the Jews never caught it I never realized that that was what God was doing. They were being punished for their sin. But God was looking out for him by punishing those people who came out and punished them. Yeah. Well we have so I didn't want you didn't want to be a part of the kingdom that was punishing Israel because you'd punish Israel just look for Germany after the Second World War. Right. And again, I mean again that's that's the the view down here, right? We're on the ground But we have spiritual eyes and and remember this a sp ultimate Bible is a spiritual book. He's telling us who God is. God is spirit. He's also telling us in his What's going on behind the scenes? I've I've given you some look at Daniel A when you get a chance And he and if you're not familiar with it, uh Daniel had prayed, he he he's waiting for an answer for a prayer, an angel comes, he says, I've been trying to get to you for twenty-some days. I was in a war, right, with the Prince of Persia. It that's an angel, right? But no that he notice he says the Prince of Persia. He also says to Daniel, Oh yeah, by the way, the Prince of uh Greece is about to come. Okay? So there's a what's behind the power? So we don't know exactly, we we try and make it too specific, but we know There is something behind the power. Isaiah uh forty-four twenty-eighth Three few verses. It is Isaac says of Sareth, he is my shepherd, and he will perform all my desires. And he declares, of Jerusalem, she will be rebuilt. And of the temple and your foundation will be laid. Thus says the Lord Desirus, this is in five 45-1, uh, is anointed whom I have taken by the right hand, to subdue nations before him, and to lose the lines of kings, to open doors before him, so the gates will not be shut We we are getting a vision what's going on. Cyrus was accomplished much. Who else could do it? God enabled him to do it. God we we need to see his hand and s and he's in the details. It's not just the Cyruses and the major kings. That's the major powers that affect us all, but even in our daily lives. See y w we've all seen it where there's times where it's like something happened, you're going, God did that, right? God opened that door or God you know, it's funny. Somebody showed up or something happened just at the right time. Hmm, what a coincidence. You know, God is in the details and He's working in these powers. He's also this revelation Without the Spirit, you're not going to understand this, you're not going to believe it. It's a revelation to us. See, and he's and he's telling us what his plan is. The difficulty is and the the thing that's we have to guard against is you you get uh oh yeah I got you know, you're just like I got it. No, he's telling us aspects of his plan, you know what I mean? This is happening over long periods of time. This is happening uh w we we try and make it too specific to our day or or Even with salvation, you're thinking, uh, and I and I uh talked about this, we'll end with this because I'm really out of time. And uh uh covenants class, after all that uh Israel been through, the ups and downs and Deuteronomy, uh uh They're getting uh their their last lessons. You know, they've been disobedient, you know all the things. They've been idols who God said I might have to lay low in the land. But and here's the thing. Here's the dis the tension, the difficulty if you if you think we got God's plan mapped out in our lives. After all that, uh Chapter 29, verse 2. Moses summoned all the Israel and said to them, You have seen all that the Lord did before your eyes in the land of Egypt to Pharaoh and all his servants. Excuse me. The great trial which your eyes have seen those great signs and wonder. Right? They think, oh yeah, so they're they're going to be able to do this, right? But listen to t listen to verse 4 Yet to this day the Lord has not given you a heart to know, nor eyes to see, nor ears to hear. It's God's sovereignty, even with all the stuff that he does. All this we see on the ground. Ah, it's training. Um God God has to open our eyes to see it. Yes. That's uh Deuteronomy uh twenty-nine. It's and it's it's right there. It's 29-4 So it's right there. Moses is is reminding them o of all these things. He he's been this is actually Deuteronomy goes to the whole book is reminding them all their journey, right? But he hasn't didn't election. Which is what look through the notes. I had to skip over some of this. Um God has chosen. There's election in in in here. God has chosen um to build his temple. God has chosen these people That's what a election translate the word chosen a lot of times. Uh God chooses. Heavenly Father, Lord uh