Chapter thirteen. I apologize for you didn't Yeah, I turned it on early. Um, I apologize to you. I got the notes out late. Uh it was a Laura and I had a lot of things going on this week I thought I was gonna be able to do it nonetheless. We even had I'm just giving you excuses. I I tried it in It it's not like uh it's funny. I spent a lot of time in the word. It just I d didn't get to notes down on paper. There were l lots of issues I was wrestling with. There's some there's some different um ads uh sections in here. Uh and I just give you that up front. And and I'll tell you what the one is verse six. And I don't have a lot of notes on verse six And you have we'll we'll see when we get there. Uh the interpretation of it is uh of w what he's referring to there. Verse seven is nice and clear. We n we know. And and again Uh and I just want to give you a heads up. All the commentators, remember chapter, verses, all these in all scriptures were put in well beyond the writing. Uh the Hebrew Uh uh the Old Testament, the Greek New Testament, it had no breaks. Things just ran together, punctuation, chapter breaks, verses. They're good But they're arbitrary. They're man made. They were put in afterwards. This there's uh this is a questionable break between chapter twelve and thirteen and that's uh and that's what we're gonna uh look at real h here real quick So this chapter break is seen as artificial and somewhat out of place. The conclusion of the Messiah's second advent And the conversion of Israel is brought to a climax in chapter twelve. Now remember, chapter twelve, one through nine, the prophet reveals the future siege of Jerusalem and God's ultimate protection from total annihilation. You if you think back what we studied last week, remember the house of uh Judah, uh Jerusalem, remember he was gonna there were gonna be a fire pot He was protecting them. But he was only introducing that. And that's why I said, um we'll we'll see in in the latter part of this chapter that they're gonna go through some some serious trials. And if you read through it, uh y you will you will know that. Um let's see, where'd I stop there? Uh in in twelve uh uh one through nine the prophet reveals the future see of Jerusalem, uh God's ultimate I read that uh following uh by the pouring out of God's spirit on Israel with the spiritual illumination that they crucified the Christ, the Messiah Uh, they are convicted of their sin and repent and mourn over the crucified Savior, right? Remember, twelve uh ten through fourteen. Remember they looked on him whom they had pierced, right? And then he goes through that whole litany of s David's house we would would repent and mourn and and they did it individually and we talked about that. It was a uh uh oneness of a nation repenting, but i what he wants to point out was it was each individual. It wasn't one of these collective things where we gather up people and they go, yeah, yeah, uh that's I'll go with that. You know, you know how we can get. We go with the crowd and and sometimes uh we think we believe, but we actually don't. It was an individual national uh repentance all at the same time. Uh an amazing thing really that we we may uh witness as we come back with Christ Israel's national repentance has prepared the way for Israel's national cleansing. And that's where we begin in this, right? So we talk about in in verse 1, uh chapter 13. So the connection of these two ch uh chapters 12 and 13 is seen as the same time reference. And we you have we have to think about this. And I talk about this all the time. We may not know what the passage means, but again, I can't stress this enough. Try to know what the passage says. What are the evidences? Um I I came up with this late, but um In that day, which is I'm getting ready to talk about, I I didn't have time to to scrutinize and make sure I got everyone But I I've posted that and you can get this. What I've done is I've given you every one of these verses within that day. And the reason I do that is because when you can read them in succession like that Okay? And then in that day. And then each of these passages will will give you uh some description of things that happened in that day. That's how you define it That's how theologians define. Okay, you're grasping all these facts, you put it together. We I've told you before, uh we did this last time or we uh came across in that day, we said it points to the end of the age, the millennial kingdom. The day of uh The day of the Lord. Okay? It's trials. It's it's wrath, but it's also Christ's second coming. It's the culmination Eschatology end times. It's the end of the age. It's when everything comes together. And all this stuff happens, I mean t as we see in our society now, things pick up speed. And think about this. Most of this uh tribulation, if you've read or uh gone over Revelation at all, uh it's a seven-year period It's split in half. So really, uh it's the first three and a half years of of this tribulation. But the real uh it picks up speed. The last three and a half years is when a lot of the uh wrath and the trials and Satan and the demons and just everything's happening at once. So you can imagine what they're uh they're immersed into So in that day is the same person in the house of David. It's the same time and the same persons, right? And the house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem. Let's read chapter uh ver chapter thirteen, verse one. In that day A fountain will be opened for the house of David and for the inhabitants of Jerusalem for sin and impurity. So he's telling you, if even if you don't know what that means, he's think about you this is what I I want you to try and get The habit of. Okay, I don't know what it means. What are the facts? He pointed out it to me. In that day, that means something, right? We may not know what it means, but I want to make a note. That means something And then he tell what is he telling us, right? Uh to who? The house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem. And that's how you s this is how, trust me, as you can get these facts and remember 'em You may not be able to d I trust me, there's things I I forget all the time. Uh uh but the point is is that They're in the back of your mind. It's amazing. The Holy Spirit, when you read some other text, you're going, Oh wait a minute now, I remember that. And he brings it forward. It's it's incredible. Uh but that's what you do. Note it. Put it in there. Um I can't I can't harp on that enough. So that will also guard you against some interpreters that you're thinking, wait a minute, I remember reading these facts and what he's saying does seem to line up with the facts He's talking Hebrew and whatever and he's technical, but something's not lining up with the facts I read Okay, just because we're scholars or anybody, these men that they write these commentaries or scholars doesn't mean they're right, right? Because they have different opinions. And we know that somebody has to be wrong. So uh get off that horse now. Repent. Repent, uh let's see. Repent Israel, who looked on the one whom they appears, will be washed by the fountain For their sin and impurity, right? The fountain is Christ, for I will take uh you from the nations and gather you from all the lands and bring you into your own land Then I will sprinkle clean water on you and you will be clean. I will cleanse you, uh I will cleanse you from all your filthiness and from your idols. Right? Ezekiel 36, 24, 25 It's a h it's uh one of the clear passages. There's other ones, Isaiah, uh you you talk about the new covenant in thirty-one. Uh you see it uh uh in prophecy. Uh He is cleansed. Let's not make too much of this whether he's sprinkled and he uses that term in this or a fountain. The point is they're being cleansed And we all and we know that he says it like he does, I will take. It's the Lord speaking, right? The Lord is speaking to Ezekiel. The Lord is speaking to Zachariah now. Right? It's his doing. He's the one who's going to cleanse. We can get some uh don't get too lost in the detail. Again, in that day. In the millennial kingdom. I mean, we've talked about this time. This t this in that day has to refer to some time Again, that's why I wrote out all those uh phrases for you, all the verses with that phrase in there in Zechariah. Read through it and just kind of read through it and uh just keep reading it. It starts to put a picture together for you. Uh especially when you look at the things that are happening. Uh when everybody's saved That seems to be a special time, regardless of whether you define where it is, read the fact that the text is actually telling you. And I think you common sense brings you to a uh conclusion We do not believe that this uh uh is going on now. I'm opening up something that's this big. Um Let me forget that statement. It is going on now. The the spirit did come out, right? But Israel's not Really experiencing this on a national level, right? A remnant was saved. The early church was all Jewish If you uh know your your Bible you tell you think of Acts and um uh Peter went to uh Cornelius is out. You're talking ten years after Christ rose from the dead. And maybe if you remember that was a big Gentile thing. They said to him when he w when Peter went back to the church, they're going, You went to the Gentiles' house and you ate with them And then he had to tell 'em the whole story and they go, Oh, Gentiles are gonna be saved too. It's ten years afterwards and just to give you a reference, it was a Jewish thing. But it was only uh again, a small portion of the Jewish population Um once you once you start getting into X, you could you you you'll see the Jewish is really b there f you can see the separation between the church uh and the the Jewish state at that time. Um so, um where am I So this is uh let's see the fountain's open, uh right? Uh thus the fountain of Israel, they rejected on the national level, the first coming of Christ will be opened uh for them in in order to fulfill God's covenant promises. Uh this is why we did the covenants class. God made these covenants. He started with Abram, remember the nation of Israel God said, I'm gonna make you a uh a father of uh many nations and and the a nation of Israel was one of them. He made the uh Jews, right, find their origin in Abram Uh and this was a covenant. If you look at the covenants and follow it through, uh he had these promises and it and God's promises they had eternal aspects to it. They have not been fulfilled, but God will fulfill them. So the nation will be cleansed from sin and impurity. Only Christ could satisfy the seventy per sin. Israel is guilty for not knowing about God's righteous righteousness and seeking to establish their own. They did not subject themselves to the And of course they they can't. Um he talks about this in nine, ten, and eleven. So they're establishing a r and that's isn't that what all religions do They establish some rules, some regulation. Uh to be right in any cult or any religion you follow their rules. They're establishing their own righteousness Whatever that may be. There is a remnant who will put their faith in Christ's redemption, but the nation as a whole has rejected the fountain of cleansing for sin and impurity And then w there's a remnant now and there will be a remnant all through uh until the the church is taken out I spent a lot of time on this because uh Unger did, and it also it kind of enlightened me. Verse 2 it will come about in that day because declares the Lord of hosts, that I will cut off the names of the idols from the land, and they will no longer be remembered, and I will also remove the prophets and unclean spirits from the land Uh I've got to check my time. It depends on what I do with this. Uh so this is verse two, right? The Lord of armies, remember, Lord of hosts, Lord of armies, will cut off the names of the idols. So the names of the idols have the you know, it's the idea the Lord will finally uh cut them off, but they will be remembered. They they won't e we won't even say, Oh, I remember uh th even that the the memory of them will be taken out. The point is they're not going to be thinking about that at all. That's almost heaven. We're we when when you we're in the millennial kingdom, we're not in heaven, but that's that's that's uh that's we're getting closer, aren't we? We we see righteousness uh the Lord himself will remove the idols. The Lord will also remove the prophets and the unclean spirit The prophets are obviously false prophets in this passage and are associated with idolatry since they are so uh in association with unclean spirits. The unclean spirits do not refer it's not to a pervading principle or a s uh of spirit of the age The term idol here is speaking of demonic activity which empowers and energizes the false prophets. Alright, in 1 Corinthians 10 20 through 21, Paul talks about this. Paul equates uh idol worship to worshiping demons. But I say that the things with the gent which the gentiles sacrifice, they sacrifice to demons, not to God I do not want you to become sharers in demons. You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons. You cannot partake of the table of the Lord and the table of demons. Um let me keep going. The unclean spirits are a uh collective name for demons who drive their victims into sexual and other types of impurity But are also energized the false prophets to misguide their devotees into false doctrine and unclean practices. Ultimately ultimately they lead those who practice unclean behaviors into worshiping demons Unger writes, idolatry, false prophets, and the spirit of an uncleanness, uh, inspiration by uncleanness Clean spirits or demons always exist together. So idolatry uh saw a peak in the reign of Ahab. That uh and Jezebel uh they w they uh when they had four hundred and fifty prophets of Baal. Uh they were under the inspiration of dynamic uh di uh uh demonic influence. The Bible speaks of a time before the return of Christ when the demonic outburst will permeate the earth, resulting in immoralities and violence of the crudest types. Demonic uh idol-inspired worship will be rampant in Israel and the world will be uh uh excuse me, in which Israel and the world will be participant. Paul speaks of the end times of 1 Timothy 4 1 through 3. Let me read this and now But the Spirit explicitly says that in latter times some will fall away from the faith, paying attention to deceitful spirits and doctrines of demons. By means of the hypocrisy of liars seared in their own consciences as with a branding art. Men who forbid marriage and advocate abstaining from food which God has created to be gratefully shared by those who believe and know the truth. You know, a lot of them, and uh we'll we'll look at this uh a little bit more Um think that you know when Israel went into Babylon and came back and they stopped idol worship Uh in in a sense they did. They did I mean th they uh had um figures and figurines and statues that they were worshipping. They were in the high places Uh if you read some of your Old Testament you saw the they had 'em in the sanctuary, different errors. Uh they they went the whole gamut A lot of that um uh the blatantly outward idol worship when they came back from the Babylonian captivity, they never went into again. as far as having the statutes and all that. But the point is, I think we missed the point. And that's what Paul was saying. And and uh and uh uh Unger uh uh kind of Well Unger when I looked at some of the works he's done, Unger had written a book on he's done studies on on uh demon possession, demon uh uh a and w what the demons uh have as far as influence. I have not read it. Um I'm thinking about it. But th the point is this I want you to get the idea of again, uh it's easy to look at ourselves and say uh Um, you know, um either walking with God or you know, there are times or you can see people that are walking with the demons. But again, I and I said this There's always that little middle ground we like to pretend like we're kinda neutral between the two. It's not true We're either i it's a clear razor line. There is no straddling that razor. We're either really work walking with God Or uh we are influenced by the world, which is uh the w under the power of the world is Satan and demons The reason I stress this is because I think if we look around at our times and and uh I even thought about uh it kind of motivated me. I don't know about doing a class or something on language along this line. I don't want to get in you know, but th it it's hard because it's a it's a topical class. I don't want to get into, you know, we can get into little stories of specifics and things. If we see the big picture These demons are energizing. We see this in our world today, and that's what I want us to observe. I think a lot of these things, if we look at These poor people are being d driven by demonic things. And whether they know it or not, and some I would say that really get involved with this Again, uh I've given you my testimony, you know my life. I was forty something in my uh younger age. Uh uh So you know, I purposely imbibed in the world. I mean uh uh what Those that imbibe deeply in some of this stuff, that are caught in this stuff, I don't care what it is, alcoholism or you know what I mean? Doesn't it doesn't matter. Uh uh uh sexual uh things that are going on, they kinda intuitively know that it is demonic And they actually they actually kinda see this. The point is is that uh it works with our our flesh a and they it becomes a a an addiction or something that that's hard to stop. Uh it's multifaceted. They're worshiping demons and that's really what the demons want to get to We are looking at the outward drug of choice, if you will. Okay? But the demons are that's only the uh medicine that they use to the ultimate is worship. His ultimate is right, and and their their father, Satan, that that is ultimately where this is going. And that's why I said the i when you think about this there are only two lines. We are either worshiping God or we're ultimately worshiping him in uh of the enemy We're born in sin. We were born in Satan's world. And and there's a lot of things we can flesh out about this without getting into, you know, people like to get sensational and and you know We don't need to hear the details of somebody's sin, but we do need to look at s some of the elements and and the knowledge is is power Well we understand this, right? We're a church. We we we need we don't need to placate these people but but the the feeling i is is we have the the the words of life So th there's a lot of elements to understand about this i i if we if we are going to help uh and to stand against this. It also gives us a a uh It gives me as I get look at this, be careful this stuff. Do not we mess sometimes with little sins, but in fact It's as powerful as anything. We're messing with something that's beyond us. That's the point I want us to realize And that helps us to walk, right? It helps us because let's face it, uh uh it's hard It's a lot easier to walk in the world than to walk in Christ, is it not? It's easy to sin. That's our na you know, it's our nature. This is a difficult walk And we are in a battle. That's what he's saying here. This is what this is. It's a battle. Uh we're in a war. So we have to be uh again armed with all that. So So that was kind of you can see that's where I spent a lot of this week uh looking at this and and um uh considering it, meditating on this Israel will make a covenant with the false shepherd. Remember that? The Antichrist. For they have rebelled and rejected the good shepherds. Jesus told the parable about the man who had cleaned his house. Remember that? The man cleans his house and uh and he so gets it all clean, the demon leaves, and he goes, Man, I think I'll go back to that house And he brings with him seven demons more wicked than himself, Matthew twelve, forty-three to forty-five. So Israel would be without the Spirit of God residing in them during the end of the age, unprotected against the onslaught of uh demons. I'm not gonna have time of what I really want to do. This is a good passage to look at. You know Don't have to again just read it, go verse by verse, think about what he's saying. He's giving you a time period here of uh what's going on. And God turns, you're gonna see in this if you read the Second Thessalonians 2, 1 through 12, you're gonna see God gives them over to it, gives them a deluding spirit. At a certain point God says, Okay, and you and allows them to be s that's not good. Romans 1 If you're familiar with Romans 1, God says they worshiped idols, right? They made images of the creatures, they worshiped that, they worshiped the creation. Three times he says God turned them over. And when God does that, I mean y you say, well how can these smart, rational people do what they're doing? Because God turns you over when when we give ourselves way too much credit Our credit is thank you, Lord. He gives us the wisdom, the insight to to discern this this stuff. How can people accept the stuff that's going on now? Even secular people they've sat down and looked at it going, this isn't gonna work But ye uh again that's what I'm saying. Do not underestimate the power of of sin and don't o overestimate the power of our our Our independence, our will, our choices, our rationale. It's all from God I will cut off the names of the idols from the land. So the thought here is completely and permanently uh permanent elimination of idolatry by the Lord Himself The demons will no longer be remembered. Uh that is the people will not think about them, even from their memory. Ugger notes that this is the only place in scripture that mentions the removal of demons during the millennial kingdom. We know if you're familiar with Revelation 20, 1 through 3, uh if if you're not read that uh that chapter. Satan is bound for a thousand years. Um this is why we say there's a millennial kingdom, millennial, thousand, that's what we're talking about Six times, he says, a thousand years, and I forget how many verses, not many. It's a thousand years I don't know how people can go by this and say we're in the millennial age now and then they go, well it's not really a thousand years. Six times he says it. Oh But Satan is bound. The only time in scripture it says that demons are bound or refers to that is right here in this passage in Zechariah Um interesting. Um because uh I I kinda wondered that myself as I was thinking too. So, you know, it's funny, Satan's been out, what about the demons? And uh lo and behold, here it was, counts in Zechariah Yeah, I've looked at this before but I I missed that detail. And again, it it doesn't come out rather obvious, does it? Um, you know, y you have to Uh uh think about it. Um I will cut off the names of the idols of the land, right? And again we unpack. Who are the idols? The idols ultimately are demons. So uh they're they're gonna be cut off. Many have written that Zachariah excuse me, was referring to past idolatry because they have been cleansed from that from Babylonian captivity, but this cannot be the case uh uh for uh the idolatry is cut off in that day. Remember? The events that take place are in that day. He stated that at the head of this section. Okay? In that day. We we have a time frame here All points to the millennial kingdom, scripture prophecies, that idolatry, and demonic activity Again, I've given you these these references. Uh uh First Timothy we read. Again, I would is the You have to uh take the time, look at this uh Second Thessalonians, especially in light of what we're studying, because when you put all these together, remember God has written these over Well five hundred years plus were the separation between or five yeah uh between Thessalonians and the Zechariah passage But he's he's giving you the pieces with where he's giving us the time frame. He's filling in details. That's why we call it progressive revelation because he gives us more detail. Verse three And if anyone still prophesies, then his father and mother who gave birth to him will say to him, He shall not live For you have spoken falsely in the name of the Lord, and his father and his mother who gave birth to him will pierce him through when he prophesies. Seems uh harsh, doesn't it? But think about this. The reality of this statement portrays the presence of holiness of God in the millennial kingdom environment. People love the people's love for God will be so great uh in his presence that even if in their own siblings w uh wickedness I don't know if I'm worded that's the right uh will not be tolerated. Again some commentators see Israel's idolatry, a thing in the past, but as Jesus uh was recorded in Matthew twenty four twenty four saying Many false prophets and false disciples would abound at the end of the age. Remember, he warned them that. Verse four. uh when he prophesies and they will not put on a hairy robe in order to to deceive. So you remember the the garments of a uh prophet. Not only will false prophets be killed uh by others, but uh uh even their own parents, but prophets will feel the uh shame of a an internal conviction from God. The vision is either referring to a false or imagined vision or a ecstatic inward vision. It is not from uh uh the Lord. Prophets will put on a hairy garment, they will not, uh which is frequently associated with the office of a prophet. Remember Elijah, he had that mantle Uh and he gave it to uh Elisha. I always thought that was funny. Elijah to Elijah. Um right? Remember, uh he gave him the mantle and he was gonna take over the office of the prophet. when uh I Elijah was taken up. So uh this is something they they will not do this. So and this is the thing that the scene is kind of of going on. Um In verse five, uh, but he will say, I am not a prophet, I am a tiller of the ground for the uh for a man sold me as a slave in my youth. Uh so many commentators take this verse to mean that it Yeah, that this false prophet uh who is denying his trade by claiming he is just a simple farmer who has nothing to do with dreams and visions, of greater significance uh to the verse is that Israel will abhor false prophets excuse me and idolatry to the extent The people will feel internal conviction and if any is prone to such a profession, he will hide it from the rest of society And that's the point. See you w and this is where we're we're getting into verse six, it's it's so difficult One group of commentators sees this now as these people that are hiding this. They're prophets, but they uh this period will be against them and they're saying, Oh, I was sold as a slave I I'm just a common person, I'm not a prophet uh w we'll we'll see this in six w uh further w w what this uh is talking about. Is it difficult to uh uh uh determine. Is this a false prophet? It's prophecy. You know how sometimes they just transition like On a dime, like I thought we were talking about here and now we're talking about the end of the age, right? We s we saw that. This is one of those sections. Uh most see this as a continuation of verse 6 The point I want to make is the the don't i i is that the uh nation is going to be against this. They're going to abhor this. Uh It will be if the if the commentators are reading this correctly, if anyone does this, he will uh do it in secret. Um So the point is the change. I remember where they came from. Especially towards the end of the age because Again, remember they made that uh covenant. We saw that, right? Remember they they in um They killed the the the good shepherd, right? Him who was riding on a donkey, he said but they they wanted the false shepherd, right? We saw that That false shepherd is the Antichrist. It's what Daniel is talking about in Daniel 9. It's what we see in Revelation Uh if you know, number one, let's use common sense here. If you're making a covenant with the Antichrist and and and Uh uh I don't have time to get into that passage, but it seems as though some w it says it seems to open a door that some well m some of the Jewish nation and we see the remnant, right? We're probably thinking, this is not a good idea. Something wrong with this guy, right? But the majority will be taken in by it If that's not idolatry, uh they're loss. Okay? Again, remember, uh, let's not get into specifics like Get the demon here and we see him talking on your shoulder. It's okay but it uh it but generally uh this is this is the um The forces and the spirit of the age that's coming from these forces is bringing it. They are in idolatry And this what the what I'm trying to do is show you the contrast. There will be a ta this this stage, right it's it's this millennial kingdom, right at the cusp of this when there gonna be so against us. That's a huge transition. So that's what we're trying to picture here. Uh we can get lost in the details. Who said, you know, who's on first? Yeah? Okay, verse six. And if and if one asks him I I use the ESV here just to show you some of the um Discrepancy. And if one asks him, what are these wounds on your back? He will say, the wounds I received in the house of my friends Hi, so I I didn't write a lot about this, but let me show you uh w what the differences are. Uh this verse has been interpreted in two ways. Some see this verse as an abrupt transition speaking about Christ Others interpret the verse uh to be the denial on the part of the false prophet uh from verse five, who had claimed to be just a farmer, now he uh is denying the cuttings onto the body. So I don't know if that was clear. What they're saying is is that this person that they were referring to in in verse five uh is the same per person at six and now we're looking at um cuttings on the body. I I uh I gave you uh ESV. That's uh somebody read, does somebody have Nazbi or New King James? Doesn't matter. Would you read verse six Zechariah thirteen six Okay, do you see the difference there? Look at this. He got wounds on the back. So I don't know about you. What do you think of when you read that? Right. Yeah, I that's what I think, right? When he was the uh with the whip, right, before so reason I'm pointing that out is again, um um I'm trying to you know this is his interpretation, isn't it? Because that's the thing. It's between and the word there does seem to be hands So i it's between his hands, it could be on his back, could be on his stomach, uh, it could be in the hands. It's very difficult to pin this down emphatically and say It's the hands, the back, the stomach, whatever. That's that's the point and and that's part of this this problem here. But again you can see when he puts the wounds on your back Um I don't have the commentary that these interpreters have or w w what they're thinking exactly, but it sure seems like they're leading leading in that direction Does that mean they're right? No, not necessarily. That's my point. And and we'll we'll yeah. Let's see. Others interpret this verse to be a denial on the part of the false prophets, right from five, who had claimed to be just a farmer. Now he's denying the cutting Feinberg interprets uh this verse as a denial by false prophets who has been cutting himself in an ecstatic state uh as the false prophet the Baal did, right? Remember when Mount Carmel they did that. Remember? This is a t this was a typical thing. It was an ecstatic thing. Somehow uh The idols got 'em to do this, I would assume it with the pain in the body, somehow they coupled I I don't know how that works, but you'll you'll see this cutting over and over again even in secular archaeology or anything else. It was and even today uh that's it's still around. Um That he received the wounds in the house of his friends is his excuse that he was abused by those under whose authority he presided. So um yeah uh these right, uh they sold me as a slave in my U. So that's what he's picking up there I hope I'm not confusing you with this. Uh I to be honest with you. Both sides of the arguments make sense. I I am And I would I would need to study it further. Uh I'm not sure which way it goes. Um when I say Unger on one side, Feinberg on the other, then not alone. There's There's a group that believes follows Seinberg, he follows them. Same with Unger. So Unger interprets this as referring to Christ, uh, not as a rejected prophet, but as a a a cleanser from a dollar. He states that the Messiah was not wounded by his friends, which is which is a a good point. He's not wounded by his friends. He's wounded but in the house of his friends Unger states that those who loved him were of the house of Israel did not wound him. But those uh of the house uh But those of the house wounded him, put him to death, right? So in other words he's referring to the house of Israel, the house of of David. The Jews, the religious people, right? His house, his belief. Um again Uh Ungar would say this hearken back to uh Zechariah twelve ten, when Israel look on him whom they have pierced So what he's saying is in that day they will ask him what are these wounds I to be honest with you, I'm not sure which way it goes. It both makes sense. And I do it I would agree if if it is a switch, it's an abrupt change. But let's look about let's look again at the what is the the Verse 7. Awake, O sword, against my shepherds, and against the man, my associate, declare the Lord of hosts. Strike the shepherd that the sheep may be scattered. And I will turn my hand against the little ones. So if the contrast between the false prophet and the Messiah was uncertain in verse six, it is evident here. The Lord is the speaker And the Messiah is the person spoken of. Jesus himself quoted this verse, right, on the night before his betrayal, if you remember that. Matthew twenty six thirty thirty one. Await those sword against thy shepherds, strike this shepherd. The Lord himself is the one issuing this command That the shepherd sh shall be struck. The sword had to be awakened, right, or alerted to action. Became active against the Lord's Shepherd according to the law. Lord's will. And I would say timing. Satan was permitted to strike the shepherd, but he was nothing more than the instrument of the Lord For without his permission, Satan would not would have no power over the shepherd. Satan manifested his hatred uh for Christ through his filling of the scribes and the Pharisees With their diabolical plans to put the Messiah to death. Again, they missed it. Here's the Messiah right in front of them Uh again, there is a clear line there. You're either uh uh for Christ and remember uh it was it in John eight forty Remember, where he says he was arguing with the scribes and the Pharisees and he goes, Why don't you why don't you understand this? He goes, because you're Uh not uh you're not of uh Abraham well he s he said we are Abraham's children, he goes, because you are of your father the devil The Old Testament verse is an unmistakable text referring to the deity uh or the coming of the Messiah Uh it says a weight, my shepherd, and against uh the man. My associate is what New American Standard has. Um first the Messiah is designated as my shepherd, and and that is the shepherd of the Lord. The passage goes on to define the relationship with the phrase the man of my union. It could be uh another way to translate this word. Uh the term associate or union is uh a myth in Hebrew and it can mean relation uh of the same family. Unger says it is a human uh uh a human being closely conjoined or united to I I I uh capitalized me because he's talking to his crite, right? He said, Against the man, my associate Um the Lord tells us of his of the Messiah's deity, uh trust me, uh uh an unsaved person, you never can convince them with a verse like this, they don't have eyes to see. Uh they don't. And and God does it that way, doesn't he? For us to have eyes to see, we can see. He's telling them there Uh for those who believe this Messiah is going to be deity. Right? And that's what Jesus said. I and the Father are one. And uh scribes and Pharisees picked up stones to stone him. You say, How come you're stoning me? He goes, Because you make yourself out to be God. They got it. I need to leave promptly. We're uh close here. I will turn uh my hand against uh the scattered ones. Uh I'm gonna paraphrase this because I want to get in eight and nine. Here's the difficulty with God's plan. He doesn't turn he God is not going to when he says he turns his hand against him, he Paraphrase it, he is gonna allow them to go through the persecution. You you see this in the end. Uh even when he says the little ones, he's talking now to believers. He allows us to go through these things. It's not easy. We don't know the mind of God fully. We know what he tells us. We have to have faith. Right. We saw what happened to the uh the apostles. They didn't protect them through, right John was the only one who who may have uh survived the whole ordeal and and just died of uh he was put on an island, but the elders were all put to death And uh that's what he that's what he's saying here. I in that verse. He will allow his hand to do it. Again, these these are tough things, but um this This is right. Uh uh Carrie, uh Owen uh last week told us in the he said, right? He said we're allowed to suffer with Christ Well let's not read that verse. Right? Philippians. Hmm. Verses eight and nine. I will come about uh in all the land declares the Lord that two parts of Uh and it will be uh cut off in parish, but the third will be left in it. And I will bring the third part through the fire. Refine them as silver is Refined, test them, as gold is tested, they will call on my name, I will answer them, I will say they are my people, they will set uh and they will say the Lord is my God Because of time I'm gonna paraphrase this. Two-thirds. How literal this is I would say twice as many people in Israel. They talk about Palestinian now. Right, we're we're talking about in in that day and we're talking about remember what people Right? We we read it in 13. 1, right? The house of David and and uh the inhabitants of Jerusalem, right? This is the audience twice as many people are gonna perish as are saved. This way right? Two thirds, one third. This and that's why I said when we looked at twelve, uh it it talked about protection, right? And then you look at this you go, What kind of protection is that? Um so again, if you could i i This is what God wrote, so we have to see it. See, we can see the mind of the Lord looking for his protection for those he the his elect. Uh th they will not perish. They they will continue on. We are already saved. We are the elect. If we perish here, we continue on, right? And I think that's what we see in the prophecy and I think our mindset, right? Our hope is in heaven. It's not here. Right? Think on things above, not on things of the earth. Colossians three Our citizenship is in heaven. Ephesians, Paul tells us, we're already there. Just doesn't feel like it, does it? We don't have that glorified body, do we? Can't even sleep at night. What the fuck is that? Anybody should be able to sleep, that's easy. So that's the paraphrase. Uh uh, we're out of time, uh baptism, I need to to kinda get out there. But y I mean, think about it. God is going to redeem. God does redeem, He's faithful. And it's it's to his elect. Again, it's God's plan. Right? And it's hard. We have to subject ourselves to God's plan, not ours. Uh heavy father, Lord