The gospel's spreading. And we forget that. Um there is a lot of persecution, but there's uh there's also in places in the world uh uh Um yeah, come on here have a seat. Uh there's places in the world where this um You know, we're again we're we're uh there it's increasing. Uh so we forget that. Um God is God is bringing his his people uh to salvation Where do you have to finish up? I can't talk sir. I can't uh get on my stool too many times today. And preach. I have to go through the text. We didn't finish uh chapter nine. Um So chapter 9, right, we had the presentation. We had this real transition here. We've come out of these uh nightly visions. Uh we had the presentation uh uh Chapter 9, verse 9 is rejoice in the Lord. O daughter of Zion, shout in triumph, daughter of Jerusalem, behold, your king is coming to you. He is just and endowed with salvation, humble and mounted on a donkey, even on a colt, the foal of a donkey. We know this. We our old uh New Testament uh writers quote this. Uh uh uh w what a light that they they had. Of course uh again, try and put yourself in their position um and uh how they're seeing the gospel to the original audience. Uh verse ten goes right into um uh Really an everlasting thing. You know, he says, Look, I will cut off the chariot from Ephra Ephraim and the horse from Jerusalem, uh, and the bow of war will be cut off And he will speak peace uh to the nations, uh and his dominion will be from sea to sea, from the river, uh from the river to the ends of the earth. Now the river uh would've probably I mentioned this last time, probably would have been uh they would have recognized this as a Euphrates. This was the original covenant. Uh uh uh the land uh in Genesis fifteen was gonna extend from the eastern border of of uh Egypt all the way to the to the river, the river Euphrates. That was the land that the uh God had promised to them in in the covenant in uh Genesis fifteen to Abraham They would have recognized this. They would have seen this probably as a covenant message if they had eyes to see. Okay, just again, you know, you got unbelievers in this land. Uh they they're not necessarily gonna see everything. Remember we just had this delegation from Bethel, right? Just in uh chapter eight, and they came and said they were through saying do we have to continue these fasts. Uh again they were missing the point. They weren't believing in God. They were going through legalism, like the fast was gonna help 'em. Um We we know that's not the case. And yet uh my point is w we we tend to do those things ourselves in a way, you know. But kind of I do good, God's gonna bless me. You know, it's kinda like instant karma. I do this, I get this. I do this, I I do bad, I get bad. It's not necessarily so, is it God withholds a lot of the things we we do bad. He doesn't give us the karma. Thank the Lord, right? It's his mercy. So we're going to pick it up in verse 11 and 12. As for you also, because of the blood of my covenant with you, I have set your prisoners free from the waterless pit. Return to the stronghold, O prisoners who have the hope. This very day I'm declaring that I will restore uh double to you. So again, we see the presenting of the Messiah. Most of these passages in nine and ten are really partially are going to be fulfilled at this time because uh God is blessing them. But if you look to the ultimate, if you look to the end No more bow, no more war. We know that doesn't happen until the millennial kingdom. It's not going to happen until Christ comes again and sets up some purp It hasn't happened. Uh Israel's had trouble. They're having trouble today. They're gonna have uh actually if we look at Revelation Their worst persecution's gonna come just before the Messiah does return. So these have to point to an end time. These have to point to a time that that is yet future. I mean Israel's fighting to this day. I think every what is it? Everybody in Israel has to be part of the army, right? No choice. Nobody does it. So let's go to these verses. Because of a covenant I made with you, sealed with blood, uh I will free you from your prisoners, uh, from the death of the worthless dungeon So this is uh Zechariah 9, 11 and 12. So the grace of God is based on the blood of the covenant. They're probably thinking about the Mosaic Covenant But the shedding of blood seals all covenants, right? And of course the death of Christ enables the ultimate fulfill fulfillment of all the covenant promises Uh if if God was going to fulfill these covenants that he made with Abraham, uh with and Abraham and he continued and and he expounded on 'em They're gonna have this land, there's gonna be peace, uh, they're gonna be blessed. We uh read in the end of uh uh Chapter 8, uh people are gonna grab the Jews, they're gonna go up to the kingdom. Uh But for those blessings to come, i i it has to be fulfilled by the blood of the covenant. It has to be fulfilled by Christ. He has to pay for sins You know we do we again when you think about these covenants and everything else, remember what's ultimately uh he could have this perfect kingdom, but if we're not part of the kingdom, what good's it gonna do us, right? We are saved, we are chosen, we get to enter into the kingdom. Same thing with Israel. Remember, without faith, you it's impossible to please God. Hebrews eleven six, right? And we have to believe that he is who he says he is, a reward of uh of those who believe in him. So There's material blessing and and a literal blessing, yes, but there's also the it's a spiritual to inner blessing Lord will set the prisoners free from waterless pit. I mean the first thing uh I think of is Joseph or they throw 'em in the pit. And of course the Hebrew mind would have thought the same thing. The implications, uh they stretch over history, Israel uh will be uh until it establishes a millennial kingdom. So Yes, ultimately God's going to take away the bow. There's not going to be any war against Israel. But remember, Israel's been projected all these years. They've been try I mean, they've been try to be wiped out by uh several people. I mean our most recent one was uh World World War Two and Hitler. Uh so Yes, things are bad, but he has ultimately protected them. God protected them. Uh like we saw with um Uh Alexander the Great. I mean he thought he conquered it, but God was the one who gave the the land uh into his possession. Return to the stronghold, O prisoners, who have hope, who have the hope. Stronghold is uh most certainly a reference to God, Joel 316 Um the Lord roars from Zion, utters his voice from Jerusalem and heaven, and the heavens and earthquake, but the Lord is a refuge of his people, a stronghold to the people of Israel. Say they would have recognized this a reference to God. Their their stronghold was not in their fortress. They saw that. I mean that that got crushed. They were in the captivity when they crushed the fortress Uh it was a f it was a strong fortress when uh Nebuchadnezzar came, right? So those who have hope and faith in God, the true faith does not look for circumstances, uh the peace and security, it stands on the promises of God. And I had a Hebrew eleven six in there. So uh those whose faith is in the Lord receive double portion So the reference here is is uh uh double portion but probably would have brought to them something we don't typically think of, the firstborn Uh we don't think of that, but to them, inheritance, who gets a double fortune, the firstborn. Israel's the firstborn, Exodus 422 Then you shall say to Pharaoh, thus says the Lord, Israel is my son, my firstborn. They're going to get a double portion. We saw some of that that in Uh well w a the end of of chapter eight when it w we talked about how the Jews are gonna be blessed, the Gentiles are gonna uh ten Gentiles are gonna cling to the code of a a Jew to go up to the temple They're gonna see the blessing. Yeah, it it it's not like you just hear the Jew and we do it. You know how it is, you see somebody, they're gonna recognize something's gonna be different about them. Uh they're they're gonna be blessed The people are gonna want it, they're gonna gravitate towards the the Jew For I will bend Judah as my bow. I will fill the bow with Ephraim, and I will stir up your sons, O Zion, against your sons, O Greece. And I will make you like a warrior's sword. Then the Lord will appear over them, and his heirs will go forth like lightning, and the Lord will blow the trumpets And will march in the storm of the south. The Lord of hosts will defend them, and they will devour and trample on the swings them. And they will drink and be boisterous as with wine, and they will be filled with the sacrificial basis, drenched like the corners of the altar. So the Lord will bend his bow, and Judah will be the instrument uh of the bow to fight against Greece. Again, most of it uh all the uh conservative commentators uh they look at this this is a Maccabean. Again, this is remember where we are Uh this is still future. He talked about uh Alexander the Great. Uh but there's gonna be a a Maccabean revolt and uh and this is a year, these vary but um Biblical scholars say 175 to 163, uh y you'll get uh some various years, but that's the heart of of the rebellion Uh and this is in you can see this in the Apocrypha if you've ever looked at any of those books, 1 Maccabees, 2nd Maccabees It's not inspired, but it is a good history. It it's the inter Testm testament period. Okay, it's the end it's between Malachi and and uh uh right then uh then the New Testament, the New Covenant. And it is good for a history. Uh Josephus and others pick up on this and write about this. But he says, I will stir off your son uh O Zion against your sons of Greece. This prophecy is a spiritual dynamic uh to empower the Jews to gain a victory against a superior army. Uh because he says, I will stir up your sons. Remember, look at the dynamic here. It it's God's hands behind here. The Lord's hand from heaven will enable the Jews uh to wield the sword and the campaign and gain victory. Um they will devour and trample on the sling stems. Um I don't know if I skipped it. But this mm I didn't write a lot on this. You can you can look at some of the history. Uh it's kind of interesting the Maccabean revolt Because c out of this uh you have a couple of things that that kind of emerge and we can't really put our our finger on it But these were kind of the religious people. Some people thought these were the Hasidim, the the real Orthodox religious Jews, these came f kind of stem from this Maccabean Others think th the Pharisees kind of spun off from here and they were the ones that were were righteous. And my study for Daniel, I remember reading something by Josephus. I didn't go back and look it up 'Cause he's also refers to uh this uh desecration and it's Antiochus Epiphanes during this Maccabean revolt, he uh uh made the temple unclean uh purposely. But what Josephus wrote was interesting before because the Jews like it's uh and just like any culture, they kinda embraced the Greek culture that was going on. And and before he desecrated this temple, he had the games and everything else in Jerusalem And uh Josephus seems to indicate that it was close to the proximity of the temple. When they practiced these games it was full nudity. I don't know why the athletes did that, but that's what they did The the idea here is is that it went along with this while things were fine, you know, while the economy and everything uh uh was was fine. But then what happens is typically When you vibe into this false system, next thing you know the system's against you and now you have to fight the system. Which is where what happened. Uh uh Antiochus uh one of the Jews, he it wa it was that Hellenism. They want he they w the Jews were always held on, they had a always had an element that held on to the belief in God. Uh and uh this is what he was trying to stomp out. That's why he desecrated the temple. He wanted to eliminate this this uh religious belief. Okay? God always has a remnant. And uh so it it's kinda interesting. This is this is kind of what stems out of here, this this ma uh Maccabean revolt He there's a a lot more to be uh read on this and and that'd be some of the sources. Either Josephus and some of his writings or uh first and second Maccabees But he will devour and trample on the swing stone. Uh th so the Lord will uh the Lord will direct the uh battle, enable the Zionists to have success. He will hinder the Greek forces and the They trample on sl uh slingstones. Apparently it's kind of a reference. Again, this is this condensed kind of thing. The obviously the stones miss the mark that they're gonna trample on top of these sling stones. Again it's kinda how you think of uh David. David hit hit uh Goliath and yes he had practiced it and everything else, but He was smart enough to say the Lord's going to give Goliath into my hand. I've done this before, but If I miss, I'm in trouble. I gotta hit him and it's gotta be right. He trusted in the Lord. The Lord enabled it So the lightning and the storm winds uh from the south. This is just a reference to nature. God is going to move nature uh uh again, he's going to be the protector for Israel's foes against Israel's those. Verse 16, And the Lord their God will save them in that day, in the flock of his people, for they are the stones of a crown, sparkling in its in the land. And this ties into again what I I was reading you l uh uh somebody read me uh uh Zechariah uh eight twenty-three. I think I said eight seventeen, but Um Zechariah eight twenty-three Yeah yeah. Zechariah eight uh chapter eight verse twenty-three. Thus says the Lord of hosts, in those days ten men from all the nations will grasp the garment of a Jew, saying Let us go with you, for we have heard that God is with you. They have heard and they have seen. I mean again and this kind of p again, he repeats himself over and over and over again. He say he he does this in the Bible all the time, but And even within this book, if you remember, these scenes, if you look at these scenes, a lot of the time we're dealing with themes that he addressed, he introduced in chapter one and now he's kinda elaborating on 'em. Well look at this. Uh This to me just uh picks right up off of that verse we just read. And the Lord their God will save them in that day as the flock of the people, for they have stones in the crown, sparkling in in his uh land. Uh the time just spoken about the prophet concerned the Maccabean revolts, but the shift takes place in verse sixteen. And and see that's the thing with this prophecy. You go We're unpacking it and saying this is uh gonna be uh a millennial thing when they're when they're finally recognized. So if you think about it we're going from, you know, what? Uh I don't know when Mac could be uh what I say, 175? All the way to whenever the Millennial Kingdom is, right? Here we are two thousand plush years later And we can do this in the prophecy looking back, but to the again, to the original audience, they're kinda lost in this the time frame, it's just not there. Not at all. So we have uh Christ riding in on a cold, we look at his we were looking future because his Maccabean revolt, and now uh in this time we're looking really uh in that day. This is uh uh dispensationalist, I hate to use that word, but uh it's easy to use. They kinda uh us that believe the Bible's literal, that there's going to be a literal millennial kingdom, that the Jews are going to be uh are God is not uh uh Has replaced them with the church. The Jews and the church are are still separate. Um You know, in that unsaved Jews, uh Jews that that are believers are part of the church, right? In this age. But uh I kind of look at it as three categories. Unsaved Jews Um saints in this time, church people, which which would involve Jews, some Jews, not many, but some And uh Gentiles and then unsaved Gentiles. I see three K you know, that's the way I see the categories That's my look at this to kind of give me a perspective on what he means between the Jews as separate between the church Because the church when uh uh age when we believe that the church is going to be taken out when the before before the tribulation churches that that's that period will be done. That's that's what we uh we believe. If we read this literally, the church will be done. His assembly of this particular group There there will be a lot of people who will come to faith in in the in the tribulation. It's amazing. We won't think about that either. Which is why it's fun I was talking about that today. We see all the persecution. If you look at the tribulation It most of it talks about the wrath and the bold and yeah horrible stuff. But you also see a lot of people come to faith. Jesus and Gentiles Bad time to come to faith, but you know what I mean? There's a lot of memory to be martyrs be is gonna be very difficult, but Um so in that day refers to the tribulation or or to the end times. So in chapters nine through fourteen the phrase refers to the end times and establish of the millennial kingdom The Lord will deliver his people from the destruction during the tribulation, but more importantly, he will save them from their sin. Again, this it's salvation Our circumstances everybody wants good circumstances, but the fact that we will be have an eternal relationship with the living God, with each other We're already in a good place, regardless of what happens. The term flock involves Israel's status of sheep under uh the good shepherd Uh we'll see that again in this in chapter ten, which I have to do. The nation is presently Loemi. Remember Hosea talked about that, he named them Loemi Not my people, they will become a me, my people. Romans describes this. Again, uh I'll bring this up several times Uh Romans eleven describes this as branches of olive trees that have been broken off because of the disobedience. Gentiles, we are wild olive branches that have been grafted in until the fullness of the Gentiles has come in. Then all Israel be will be saved. Again, I I uh you should be familiar with that passage, Romans eleven, one through thirty-two. Really nine, ten, eleven start to talk about Israel. In that day, uh Israel will become a flock and uh of a good shepherd, Psalm uh one hundred three. Know that the Lord Himself is God. It it it is uh he who has made us and not ourselves. We are his people, the sheep of his pasture. Israel would be the stones of a crown sparkling in the land of So again, the stones for they're precious jewels, right? It's what you put in a crown. Uh uh one admirers and it we're drawn to that. The contract between the stones and a crown and the stones and a sling You see how he's kind of dumb excuse me. Setting the two up to one gets trampled under, uh right? Israel will attract people in the millennial kingdom like one is drawn through precious stones Excuse me. The evil, the warrior and the stone and the sling that is meant for destruction will be done away with in the millennial kingdom. The crown is given to one who is set apart uh from others. Israel will be restored to high priestly nation, uh full fellowship with the Lord. They're finally gonna be sharing in his glory and draw men to the Lord. Uh this is God's plan, right? There's gonna be a kingdom of priests. Verse 17. For how great is the goodness and how great is beauty. Grain shall make the young men flourish, new wine the young women So the testimony that the redeemed and restored remnant will sing the praises of the Lord, for only He is good and His beauty is to be praised for all eternity. Uh this is the rejoice and the praise of the millennial kingdom, on into eternity when the Messiah is God, God on earth He shall make the young men flourish with new wine and the women the millennial prosperity is both material and spiritual. Again, salvation which results in praise and honor and glory. Uh this also may have the uh aspect of uh think about the uh situation at the time. There is a spar sparse remnant that came back, they're gonna flourish. We'll look at this in in um Zechariah ten. If we can read this 12 verses, we should be able to get through it. I hope. Somebody read me uh Zechariah 10. Um Um, let's see, where's paragraph rate? Well Somebody read uh one through eight and then someone read nine through twelve for us. I'll read one through late. Ask rain from the Lord at the time of the spring rain. The Lord who makes the storm clouds. And he will give them showers of rain, vegetation, and the field to each man For the terror things speak iniquity, and the diviners see lying visions and tell false dreams. They comfort in vain. Therefore the people wonder like sheep. They are afflicted because there is no Shepherds. My anger is kindled against the shepherds, and I will punish the male ghosts. For the Lord of hosts has visited his flock, the house of Judah, and will make them like his majestic horse in battle. From them will come the cornerstone, from them the tentbeck, from them the bow of battle, from them every ruler, all of them together. They will be as mighty men, treading down Yeah they will be as mighty men treading down the enemy in the mire of the streets in battle, and they will fight for the Lord will be with them and the rider of his own horses will be put to shame I will strengthen the house of Judah and I will save the house of Joseph and I will bring them back because I have had compassion on them, and they will be as though I have not rejected them, for I am the Lord their God, and I will answer them. Ephraim will be like a mighty man, and their heart will be glad as if from wine. Indeed their children will see it and be glad. Their heart will rejoice in the Lord. I will whistle for them to gather them together. For I have redeemed them and they will be as numerous as they were before. When I scatter them among the peoples, they will remember me in far countries, and they with their children will live I will bring them back from the land of Egypt and gather them from Assyria, and I will bring them into the land of Gilead and Lebanon until no road can be found to them. And they will pass through the sea of distress, and he will strike the waves in the sea, so that the depths of the Nile will dry up, and the pride of Assyria will be brought down. And the scepter of Egypt will depart And I will strengthen them in the Lord, and in his name they will walk in the prayer of the Lord. This he he's talking about their blessing. This is the words of comfort. Um There there is uh one thing that he does consider they they're uh he he talks about um and and I'm just giving you the the overview in case we don't get through it. Um They're deceived. It's the first party talks about it. They're being deceived. Uh Israel kind of went from uh uh overt idolatry. But you know uh We kind of don't do overt idolatry, but idolatry is really anything that that really replaces God. We put primary that we're that we're trusting in. And and that's kind of what he talks about in the first part here. And he talks about their restoration. They're going to be fully restored. Um the reason I want to tell you that is because if you uh uh chapter eleven is Uh again, not really clear, but chapter eleven i is going to talk about the rejection of the Messiah during the first coming. So and the deception will go on. Even though they're not into full fledged idolatry, the s this the deception will go on. Well not I mean look at some of the beliefs they have now Uh crazy stuff. Uh amazing. Uh I remember witnessing to some uh One guy in particular who came to my shop when I when I was uh working on cars and uh trying to sell me something, I was busy and uh I we got into a discussion I he had to starve David on and he he was panthe he believed in pantheism. He he said uh God is in everything we talk about God is in everything I'm thinking, man Well you got to start day with the world you couldn't be more lost, you know. Uh but yeah we don't necessarily have to sit down and worship them Uh I don't like it here, w w which uh we're gonna talk about a little bit. If we don't see God we are already deceived, aren't we? And and I need to keep pound preaching to myself. I need to keep pounding that to myself because really the vision I have of God is from him. When I take my eyes off of him, isn't it you know, I I'm not gonna lose my salvation, but I y you know, we can be I can get out there a little bit. You have to you have to keep your mind filled with what we're learning, what I know. And I have to go, yeah, I know this, that's appropriate. Uh it's not natural. It it's it's I have to do it. These people are lost. Um and the deception, think about it, they're gonna make uh a covenant with the Antichrist, that's what's gonna happen. Daniel chapter nine tells us that. Israel's gonna make a covenant. And I would suspect it's gonna seem very logical because I assume there'll be he's gonna bring peace. There's gonna be a lot of uh turmoil. There's gonna be a reason for them to make a covenant. But they're gonna make a covenant with the Antichrist. Daniel Daniel maybe we'll read it some other time. I don't have time today. But Daniel chapter nine, twenty seven. It's called Daniel Seventy Weeks. And he he talks about the Messiah being cut off and he makes a covenant for one week. In the middle of that week he's going to uh stop all the uh Uh he's going to make an abomination of desolation. He's going to go into the temple and he's going to stop all their worship. Please then do it. Because the Antichrist wants to be worshipped. Alright, so anyway, that's the overview. Zechariah 10. 1. This is considered a continuation in 917. It is in many ways an elaboration on the second advent of Christ This chapter also presents the reader with a description of Israel's deception, an opening command to ask the Lord for rain. should be uh you know that's a common uh motif for them, right? Um I quoted Deuteronomy. It shall come about if you listen obediently to my commands, which I am commanding you today To love the Lord your God and to serve him with all your heart, with all your soul, that he will give you the rain for your land in its season, the early and late rain That ye that you may gather your grain uh and your new wine and your oil. Um because of time if I won't read the Jeremiah. But think about it. Elijah did what? He said he he told him he says there's gonna be a drought Right? It was a terrible drought. Uh the Lord told them when they went into the land, if you obey me, you'll get the the dues at the proper time, the water, you'll get the rains. If not Uh so you know, it it was an indication they were gone astray. So verses one and two, as rain for the Lord at the time of the spring rain, the Lord who makes a storm cloud And he will give you uh give them the showers of rain, vegetation in the field to each man. Uh for the terraphins speak iniquity. Uh the people uh Yes. And the people wonder, uh and the diviners see lying visions and tell false dreams, they comfort in vain. Therefore the people wander like sheep. They are afflicted because there is no shepherd. Alright, so let's unpack this a little bit. Command the hearers to pray to God for rain. Verse 2 tells uh one who practices divination and speaks lies, who comforts in vain So God alone is the one is a source of lysosing rain and causes the crops to grow. Uh it's amazing how we forget that though. He brings the rains in spring when they're needed Uh he brings uh the food for the soul and nourishes uh with his word. The tarotham, this verse too, is a a small household statue or idols that would uh seek of bringing forth an oracle from the gods. God or gods, right? Oftentimes they'd have several of 'em, so I assume they had, you know, God of the rain and God of the sheet and whatever Israel was teaching idolatry before they were taken into captivity. Uh you remember Rachel, Jacob's wife, she spoke with Labans, uh her father's teraphims or idols Uh and he remembered it angered him greatly. Well according to this, I was reading from Ungar, he was saying that these uh newsy tablets the archae uh archaeologists found. Ha the one who has possession of household idols was equated with leadership and a family and the right to inheritance of the family property. So you can see why Laban was so upset. Whoever took the idols was basically saying, you know, they were gonna have the right to inherit his sheep, his property and and everything else And if you remember he was t curious about this. Uh Rachel took him. Jacob uh knew nothing about this Uh I thought that was interesting. Diviners uh such as uh Baalam were common in the ancient world. Uh uh the word for visions in the Hebrew is uh uh kazah Mm-hmm. And it means uh inner vision or a spiritual sense. Uh you know, so he he's not talking about, you know, what you see, it's it's this kind of you know, uh uh visions uh having a a s uh s another sense. Uh it has to do with the spiritual realm. uh these lies that uh either come from a demonic source or from false prophets and s the false prophet himself. Uh if you've ever looked at any of this it's it's it's uh kind of It's not a fun study necessarily. Uh uh look at some of the archaeology and things. Uh Uh the the occult had certain practices that were kind of consistent all throughout. Even today they practice very similar things to to conjure up the occult. Um Read a good book that a missionary had brought uh uh to a church who was told, I think the spirit of the rain for us And um it was very similar to some of some of the things the practices we saw. Uh we had a archaeology book we had in in seminary. Uh it's you know The the gateway tends to be the same thing. In um you know, like in Galatians and all, it talks about uh sorcery The word there for sorcery is pharmacia and typically, you know, it's it's uh hallucinogen, drugs of some type, uh tend to be a gateway for the occult. Uh uh particularly those that are uh uh actively seeking that. So I I just say that to say that there is some reality to this. Uh there is some supernatural things that go on and uh it it's demonic. It's not good John to he first John he says, test the spirits, perceive they're from God. Uh these people were were practicing this. We're not really that familiar with it, but But you know, South America and and some of the uh Asian countries and Africa and th th they are familiar, they have seen this The people have gone astray as a flock of sheep, and they have listened to blind guys and are comforted by false prophets. So the uh the word here for wonder or to set out Depends on you know, gone astray or wonder how they set out, whatever whatever your translation. It it this is an intentional pulling away Um it's not so much passive. They they wanted this. They they were seeking this. They they were tickled by this. The word nasa, which is the the word there uh can be used to pull up ten page, thus it's intentional in nature, deliberately lead the prophecies of the word of the Lord. And for those falsely comforts. Uh it's funny how um it's not funny, it it's we have to recognize uh these worldly things are attractive. So we we have to be aware of that, we have to admit that. So they are afflicted uh as a result of strain. Uh this is an imperfect tense and and Unger and others will see this this is a continuation. They're going to be inflicted with this uh again, this deception until the end Really, and if we think about it we can broaden it out as we all are unless we have the the word of of God. I think of the Joel Wolsteins and the other ones. I mean these guys are freaking in the money. These people are giving them fortunes and and Uh it's incredible. And you look at look at the people they had in there. Thousands of people in there. You know, it it they he's giving them what they want My anger is kindled against the shepherd, and I will punish the male ghost, for the Lord of hosts is busy flocks, the house of Judah and He will make them like his majestic horse in battle. So the Lord's anger is is kindled and it burns against each shepherd. That's is kind of what it means there uh it his his anger is burning. Uh call them male ghosts. The shepherds mentioned here are referring to the nations who rule over the Israel and not the uh false or bad shepherds within Uh Barron sees this as like, you know, he thinks about the eight the Jeremiah and all wrote about you know these false prophets and things Um but he's talking to an immediate audience I think here and m uh majority of the commentators, Feinberg, Unger, uh a lot of the others, uh uh I I forget who else uh there was a list of them. Um I got Lang listed here. Uh they see this is foreign rulers So it remember, put yourself in there Israel has lost their king. Okay, they have no more kings than Depends on when you review it. I mean that uh temple was destroyed in five eighty six completely, but even uh some will say it uh since n uh like nine oh five, uh when the first or uh excuse me six six oh five. Uh when the first uh Daniel notes were taken, they really lost their they they lost their rule. Gentile powers were basically ruling them. So that's what the shepherds he's talking about here. Lord will visit or return to his sloth and will fight for them as a majestic horse in battle You know, Revelation 19, uh you see Christ coming back on his white horse. Uh he will lead his armies to judge uh Israel enemies to cleanse the world of sin Remember that he's also he it's it's not just the enemies as much as he has to cleanse the world of sin. Uh Israelites will be cleansed as well. Um again by faith you see. Verse 4. From him shall come the cornerstone, uh, from him the tenpe, the battle bell, every ruler of them will be together So the Messiah's second advent, uh, he's the cornerstone, the cure of Israel's deception, right? They're gonna believe in him. They're gonna look on him and when they fear. Uh we look at that in uh Zechariah uh twelve ten. Uh Isaiah twenty-eight uh fifteen and sixteen. Because you have said you have made a covenant with death and with heel and agreement When the overwhelming wit passes through, it will not come on us. For we have made lies our refuge And in falsehood we have taken shelter. Therefore, thus says the Lord God, Behold, I am the one who has laid the foundation in Zion, a stone, a tested stone, a precious cornerstone. A sure foundation. Whoever believes will not be in peace. So Zechariah has given them this prophecy prior He he he he mocked him because, you know, you've said that the whip's not gonna hit us. Uh we've we've made or we have made our lives our lives as our refuge, our falsehood, right? So he is talking about the false prophets within there. But Israel rejected the first advent of the Messiah and Christ became the rock of all offense for them, right? To the believers in Christ say he's a cheap corner stuff, the head of the church. Right? Ephesians two twenty in other places. Right? Uh the apostles and the prophets, uh they build on the uh the coin the foundation stone, Christ, right? The gospel Zechariah's message here is that Christ comes again with his revelation to Israel will be the foundation on which uh uh which will enlighten them with the truth of uh of God and will prevent them from falling into deception that has plagued them throughout the centuries. The tenth page This is interesting because really you think of the obvious one, the tent page that holds the tent down. But there's another. There's a a nail. They would have a center beam in the in a tent You know, because the ported up 'cause they were big tents. And uh a lot of times on that uh that beam they would have a nail and they would hang all their jewels, their precious household, uh all their jewelry. the bangles and the things and the necklaces and all the the gold that they had. Um they were hanging on these these pegs Isaiah twenty-two, uh, twenty-two and twenty-three. Uh I will place on the showers the key of the house of David. Uh He shall open and none shall shut. He shall shut and none shall open. I will fasten on him like a peg in a secure place, and he will become a throne of honor to the Father's house. So he's he's m these are all descriptions. He's he's gonna be the the uh pay, he's gonna be the honor, all the glory is gonna be on him Uh this verse is talking about Eliakim, but uh uh the allusion is to the Messiah who ultimately fulfills right. The the Messiah is gonna uh is gonna be David. He's gonna be the king. He rules forever. So obviously the genealogy of Jesus to uh David uh Messiah is a battle bell. The Lord will conquer all the earth. Uh John saw the vision, his glorified Messiah returned to earth to execute judgment on the kings and the rulers of the earth Uh again, Revelation nineteen, he heats all this. Uh David likewise had revealed uh to him uh that the day of the Lord uh uh The day of the wrath of the Lord will be poured out on the nations and he will uh fill the corpses and shatter the uh chief men among them Psalm 110 he talks about this. It's a messianic psalm. The Lord is said to my Lord, sit in my right hand, so put your enemies underneath your foot uh your feet But he says, uh you know, all these people I've quoted it here, they'll shatter the chief men. Uh they will they'll fill there'll be corpses Uh this is the day of the Lord. In that day. When you see those phrases a lot of times in the end, you're looking at eschatology, you're looking at the end the day of the Lord, in that day. But of course you have to read it. Read the context. To see if it is talking about that. It's like like anything. God uses word I mean we have words we can be used in different contexts. have different meanings. So all the rules will go out from them. So the revelation of Messiah as the cornerstone, the penthead, the battle bow, will cure Israel's blindness and put an end to the oppression of Israel's face. by these millennials uh these millennials by gentile rulers. They are that's what it said in Romans eleven, right? Until the time of the Gentiles has been fulfilled Then all Israel will be saved. We're in the time of the Gentiles. They've been in it since 600 BC They don't have a king, you know. They're not totally sovereign. Five through seven, they will be as a mighty man treading down the enemy and uh mire Uh the mire of the streets, uh they will fight for the Lord and uh he'll be with them and the riders on horses will be put to shame. I will strengthen the house of Judah and I will save the house of Joseph Uh and they will be as though I had not rejected them, for I am the Lord their God. Uh I will answer them. Ephraim will be like a mighty man. Uh the heart will be glad uh as if from wine indeed the children will see it and be glad. Uh what he's saying d w uh here with this is that They're gonna be a mighty man. He's treading them down, the enemies of the street. They're they're they are going to be totally victorious. Again, the points of the end The Lord will fight for them. The riders on the horses will be put to shame. Riders and horses at the power, it's always the are uh armies of the enemy, right? They g they come on uh horses Israel really was a they had horses, uh Solomon had, but if you remember the Lord told them that they were not to have horses. The Lord was going to be their strength He says, uh, and they will be as though I have not rejected them. Uh we'll look at this later, but remember, seventy AD they got crushed again. And they're scattered all over the world. He is re they they are scattered. Ephraim here, uh when he says Joseph and Ephraim, uh interesting uh uh Yeah, uh Joseph uh oftentimes is they'll use as another name for for Ephraim or Manasseh Uh if you look in the lexicon it it says they're they're kinda equal. So what he's talking about here, now think about it, the render came back Right? The remnants are back now. So we're look we're looking at Zachariah's time, right? The remnants really primarily the the the They're in Judah. Uh when you look at uh when you talk about Joseph, Benjamin, Manasseh, you you're pretty much you're looking at the the northern kingdom, right? When the two kingdoms split And you think about this, remember the animosity they have and you go through all the kings and the chronicles. I mean they warred against each other. And uh this animosity peace now they start to talk about 'em as one again. One nation, not two. He's also gonna bring them back. Just really baby, they're not really seeing this uh uh so much They they're they're they're getting a small picture of it, but they really don't don't not comprehending. He's looking toward the end when he's gonna bring everybody back, gonna be one nation again. And that's what he's trying to perve with the Um Joseph and and Ephraim. Right, they'll be glad. They'll be glad as if from wine Wine does make you happy at first, right? You get tipsy with it and and uh you know they'll be full of the spirit. They're gonna be glad, they're gonna be rejoiced. It's like when somebody first comes to salvation, uh and they And they go, Wow. This is great. You need this. A little joke between my wife and I. A job and nothing. You want this Uh so the Lord's gonna fight for him. I went through that. Let's let's look at eight and nine. I will whisper for them and gather them, for I will redeem them, and they shall increase as they once increase. I will sow them among the people and shall remember uh excuse me and they shall remember me in far countries. They shall live together with their children and they shall return. So he's going to whistle for him. Now, this this word is interesting because uh he uses it earlier here in Isaiah uh 718. In that day the Lord will whistle Uh for the fly that is in the remotest part of the river of Egypt and for the bee that is in the land of Assyria. This is judgment. This is not a good whistle. We're going to bring these people against them. Okay, and it's a screeching sound. But it th this this word also means uh a whistle, it's sort of like a band it could be a pipe, they use reeds, they use bamboos, and the shepherds would call their sheep Uh shirok uh was a word. And and they would use it to call their sheep. Uh it's funny, sheep hear a voice and and And uh they they become familiar with just like anything. They they know their shepherd's voice, you know, with uh John ten, right? My sheep hear my voice. Uh I did interesting I was going to uh Um they used to have sheep pens, uh common sheep pens, right? And and uh especially when they came back towards the city areas. Uh instead of everybody having a sheep pen, they'd be out in the field, they'd come back, they have a common sheep pen And they cherish. And of course they they look over, they take turns, obviously watching. But the shepherds when they went in, they all the sheep are just all mixed together. The shepherd when they went in is like calling a dog or something else. That dog knows your voice. That's what he said. And the shepherd would have these calls, you know. Um uh anyway, the sheep recognized their voice. Those sheep that were their sheep would come out of the pen. The other sheep would stay in there. So uh anyway this piping is for the flocks among the divisions of Rubin. There'll be uh a great searching of hearts. So Israel's deception will come to an end. Uh the nation will hear and respond to the Lord's whistling. Right? And we're going to see that over and over again Again, next next week, chapter eleven, we're gonna see the rejection. Right? Because they're gonna reject the Mason first time And think about it all all we can separate all this, but the the the original here, all this is stacked on one another. Messiah and they're not really sure who the Messiah's gonna be. We we we have so much clarity uh uh to them, they had to look for the sign God gave him the sign, but really must God open the eye if he didn't see them. For I have redeemed them. The redemption uh spoken of here is not just a return to the land. It it's a again, it's a regeneration of the heart and the forgiveness of iniquities. Um if you have a note I'll let you read this When I scatter them. Again, w Israel's scattered now. They're a lot back in the land. We we've we're seeing The first truth and coming back. But there's still a lot of Jews outside of the land. I'm not sure about this. I haven't totally in my initial uh thought is now hmm I don't know that they're all going to come back until the millennial came, to be honest. I don't know. But they are going to come back, and we're going to see this because they're going to be crowded Because I will bring them back, verse ten, from the land of Egypt and gather them from Assyria. Got a couple minutes, I will uh want to get you out on time. Uh and I will bring them into the land of Gilead and Lebanon until uh no room can be found for them. Listen to what he says in Isaiah forty nine, uh twenty and twenty-one. The children of whom you were bereaved will yet say in your ear, The place is too cramped for me. Make room for me that I may live here. Then you will say in your heart, Who has begotten these for me, since I have been bereaved of my children, and I am barren an exile and a wandering? And who has reared thee? Behold, I was left alone uh from where uh did these come. So the point is here, this was prophesied um Jer a couple places. Jerusalem is going to be so crowded, he's telling them up front, you're not going to have room. You're going to have so many people coming back. And this is an expanded Jerusalem He says there's going to be no walls and readers no walls because there's going to be so many people. They're not going to have room for walls. The Lord's going to make a uh and these are all end time prophecies for these people, but this is what they're trusting in. Yeah, uh those who believe. I mean, uh it's funny, even you know, even secular Israel now, you you ask them a lot and th they're still looking for the Messiah, they're still looking for the return, they're still looking for That promise. They they do believe in it. Uh uh having come to saving faith. Verse 11. And he will pass through, and I'll end with this, he will pass through the sea of distress and will strike the waves of the sea. So that the depths of the Nile will dry up, and the pride of Assyria will be brought down, the scepter of Egypt will depart. So Again, the the Lord is making reference. He they're probably harking back to uh Egypt when he had them crossing the sea. Uh you know, a dry land when he spl uh split the sea so that they could pass through But he's also i i he it's just a general uh uh call. He's gonna make it so that they can come back. There's not gonna be any hindrances for them to come back And we think about it, there's a lot of things that can hinder us from coming back. It's not just uh uh geographical, it's it's not just uh uh Uh it's just a lot of uh even our will has to be uh brought to light to want to come back The pride of the Syria, the scepter of Egypt, Syria's oppression of Israel uh for so many years. They were a they were an enemy for probably a couple hundred years Uh they crushed uh the Northern Kingdom in uh seven twenty two. But they were a problem even before that. Um So to them that is a blessing. A Syria was was cruel. They were wicked. Uh uh the scepter, that's the authority, right? The scepter shall not depart from uh Judah. Remember when he told him that it's a power, it's a kingdom So I'll stop there. We can pick up twelve uh next week. But I just hope you see the contrast here. This is a blessing. This is pretty much all he but he is telling them, you are deceived The deception's gonna be taken care of. I'm gonna bring you back. You are gonna have these promises. But it's really not gonna be to the end of the age