So we're on chapter eight. Um this is really a continuation. I mean, you know, chapter seven, chapter eight We saw in chapter seven really how um uh the delegation from Bethel came and there was kind of a rebuke to them Uh I mean they were missing the point. Uh we we talked about that last week. Uh they were looking uh a at legalism. They were wanted to know if they needed to perform this ritual. uh as if the ritual was really going to make any difference. And God had to tell him, just like he always has to tell us. Um look, false relig just religious practices is is not what I want. I want right, a broken heart, a contrite spirit. I want somebody who's seeking after me They obviously were weren't getting that. There there was uh the faith was was questionable at this time. So they get kind of a rebuke. This is a continuation. If you look at this, this is more on the positive side. And yet, uh, again, look at how things repeat themselves how it's it's kind of uh uh layered I s I would say. It If you're looking at the book and you're thinking about it and you're rereading it this is a fairly short book, so it's not like you can't go back and just kinda read through the the chapters and Right? He starts right off, return to me and I'll return to you. He says, look, your forefathers, where are they and why are they in the situation they're in? It's the same message over and over again. And he gives them mess and he gives them messages. Look, you not I'm going to bless you. God is going to bless them is the overarching message throughout this book, right? A lot of these visions. And a lot of these visions have an immediate response, but look at how I mean if you look at them and just read them for what they are, never mind getting all theological or Go into the commentaries or anything else. Just read 'em word for word. Especially at at the end of this is where I hope to finish up. Just read through the message and I'm gonna ask some questions To me, it just points to a time that has not yet been fulfilled. In a situation that has to be uh totally different from our worldly situations at the end of chapter eight here I call we'll we'll s we say it's going to be in the millennial kingdom, but I I think if you just read the English, if we have good translations, I think it it speaks to it, it's obvious. If someone were my point is this Sometimes we look too much to the experts. I've said this before. I had a professor who kept saying the same thing We'd read through it and this was in our Greek class and he'd go and he and we had r again, really intelligent people in there. They were much smarter than me Uh and but they would ask the question, well, you know, we th basically what does this mean? It would be a little more detailed than that, but that was what they're asking and it then he'd always say, What did it say? And we'd be going looking back, right? You have to read the words first. What did it say? What did it say? Get those words in your heart, get them in your mind. Then we'll worry about what it means There's a there's little details and and just it can turn on a word, a but or a then or whatever. But he'd always say Read the word, study it, go through it yourself, then go to the commentators He goes, look, a lot of these commentators are just plain commentators. He can lead us astray. And and look, a lot of these men are very smart, but it doesn't mean they're wrong. I mean I mean they're right Think about it. If you have really smart men with two different positions, they both can't be right. Right? That alone tells us. The point I'm trying to make is if you read this text and it looks to in in to your mind in plain English that this looks like it points to something future You can have somebody who's very good uh intellectually have a long explanation and lead you down a path where oh that seems logical But you need to question them. W is that logic based, you know, where what is the evidence it's based on? I know this is like a hermeneutic lesson, but really, you'd be surprised. We all we are saved by God. We have the Holy Spirit. He does bring us Y you would be surprised. We c you y we could call it intuition, it's a spirit. Kinda y he he g he kind of brings the truth forward a lot of times If somebody has a contrary thing to what it seems like it says in the English, question it. Verify it. Make sure it's true. Um I don't because really a lot of the people I I know I'm going on about this, but a lot of the people that look at the scripture do not see and these are good godly people and I mean they are way more intelligent than the average person. They know the languages and everything else, but they don't believe in the second coming in a thousand-year literal reign of Christ on the earth. That's and that's what all that's all I'm gonna say for now and then hopefully we'll we'll get to this uh at the end of of this chapter eight. I think the English words in here are are incredible and uh Again they they point to that. So verses one and two of chapter eight. Then the word of the Lord of hosts came, saying, Thus saith the Lord, I am exceedingly jealous for Zion. Yes. With a great wrath I am jealous of her. Um jealousy it's kind of a redness of the faith, it's it's it's passion, it's anger. I mean and again, remember what we said Think about this. He's repeat je he's re uh repeated the word jealous, right? Exceedingly jealous. Uh uh it's good translation with a great wrath I am jealous for her. Okay, so think about uh you know uh somebody harming somebody that's close to you, um a wife, a child, uh whatever, and how protective you would be. This is what we have here. And he's telling these people, remember their situation, right? They've come in back, they've just come back. Things are still in rubble to a good point. We're about two years in. We have maybe halfway up on the temple because they've been building for two years. It's two years after Zechariah first prophesied So but the things are still rough. And remember Haggai's word, we'll look at that a little bit later. Remember Haggai said uh things were difficult and Haggai's message was a little bit more harsh than than Zechariah's because he was trying to Hagariah uh Haggai Got that the yeah, the combo that show. And and remember his was kinda harsh, but he was they were both trying to do the same thing. Let's get Temple started again. We need to get going. And they said it in Haggai that it's not time to build a temple yet. So 3-6. Thus says the Lord, I will return to Zion and will dwell in the midst of Jerusalem. Then Jerusalem will be called the city of truth and the mountain of the Lord of hosts will be called the holy mountain. Thus says the Lord of hosts Old men and old women will again sit in streets of Jerusalem, each man with his staff in his hand, because of age. The streets of the city will be filled with boys and girls playing in the streets. Thus says the Lord of hosts. If it is too difficult in the sight of the remnant of the people in those days Will it also be too difficult in my sight? So let's unpack this a little bit. The promises for restoration assured by the word of the Lord, uh Lord of hosts, again, he's uh Uses that, uh Lord of armies. Uh he re he promises to return to re Jerusalem and dwell in their midst And remember, Ezekiel 10, 9, 10, and 11, you start to see the glory of God. He he writes about this. The glory departed from the temple. And this is uh kind of the culminating verse here in chapter 11, verse 23 This is when Ezekiel saw the glory of the Lord depart. Okay, and he watched it. He had a vision. He watched it go out. Uh the glory of the Lord went up in the midst of the city and stood on the mountain which is uh east of the city. East is that's um Olivet. It's towards the Mount of Olivet. It's where they think, yeah, that's where Christ is going to return. It's where he left, where he ascended, uh uh into heaven, where w he will return, it's where the glory departed Right, the glory is going to come back, and come back to the east. Uh Ezekiel uh look at this, uh Ezekiel forty-three, two through five. Behold, the glory of the Lord of Israel was coming from the uh the way of the east. Uh and his voice was like the sound of many waters, and the earth shone with his glory. And it was like the appearance of the vision which I saw like the vision which I saw when he came to destroy the city. And the visions were like the visions which I saw by the river Kabar And I fell on my face. The glory of the Lord came into the house by the way of the gate, facing toward the east. I mean he just repeats this. Um this is uh Uh this is a theme that runs throughout the scriptures. Um and the Spirit lifted me up and brought me to the inner court, and behold, the glory of the Lord filled the house. I'm not gonna read his Hosea passions. He kinda echoes this. This is when uh Hosea tells him that uh Uh you're gonna go away and return to the place, they're gonna be taken out of the land more or less. It it just kind of reinforces what Ezekiel and all of these prophets are saying Jeremiah, Ezekiel, you know, you're gonna be taken away to another land. They they told him that. Isaiah even told him really. Uh but uh So it's also look at this, the city of truth. The Lord will return to Jerusalem and will dwell there. The third promise of the Israel of restoration will be Jerusalem's exaltation. Uh right? Because it is uh we'll see where they were Kurt City. The city will be the center of governmental and religious activity in the Millennial Kingdom. Jerusalem will become the city of truth because the God of truth is going to reside there. He's not going to tolerate uh the things that are going on Today. Can we go back to this Ezekiel pastor just for a minute? Yes. Uh just in in the first one you mentioned in the eleven. The eleven where it talks about the glory of the Lord Went up from the midst of the city and stood over the mountains, which is east of the sea. That's the Mount of Olives. Right. And uh I don't think you pointed it out here, but when the Lord returns, He's going to return to the Mount of Olives. Yeah. And he's going to split the Mount of Olives in two. That's a s a symbol I think of seeing the glory departing and the glory returning to the same place. Right. And we're going to see that in Zechariah, because Zechariah's going to tell us this later in these later chapters. He's going to come back and the mountain's going to split. He's gonna split it because you're gonna save the people. They're gonna be destroyed if you're gonna do this. You're gonna come back. That's we'll get to that. I just thought it was No, I think yeah, and that's why I said and it's to the east. And he's gonna return to the east. And you'll see it in the um in uh Ezekiel uh Uh the chapters 40 through 48 are virtually the millennial temple when the the Lord comes back and he goes into great detail about the measurements of the temple. Uh they're different. Um Uh I had written something uh few uh the differences between the any of the temples and the temple described by Ezekiel were different The priest would have known Nassau is kind of like, okay, I'd have to go back and study it. But think about it, if you're a priest, that's what you do every day You're there, you're serving every day for 30, 40 years, and he comes up at these dimensions, you're going, that's not the way it looked Right? They would know. Uh but here's the point. Yeah, it's gonna be different. And he and he comes through the east gate M uh he comes from the east. Even in that millennial temple you'll see the same thing. When the Lord enters the temple, he comes from the east. So Um i it's I guess it's kind of a thread that the God has is kinda like you know the the glory will come and go in in that way, the part that way. But he's going to come in truth. Um it will be called the mountain of the Lord of hosts, the holy mountain. Um And it it's not going to be called the Holy Mountain. Uh again we talked about this before. Uh it's not gonna re it's not gonna be the holy mountain 'cause the Lord comes back and dwells there It's not the it's um Unger made a big thing about this w when we looked at this earlier. Um It's it's not it's not really called we call it the holy land, he says, It's not really holy right now. And it's not. If you it's uh well I have not visited there. I know several of you have that are here and it's Very secular as secular as any place when you get out of the the whole the part of the city. Is that not true? They're living just like the world, like everybody else. Uh again, um uh just to mention real quick, I mean it's that Babylon. Remember we talked about that, it's that Babylon and materialism The etho. It's materialism. It's it's wealth. Uh hard thing to control. Typically controls us. Uh maybe Isaiah 2, 3 Uh and many people will uh uh and many peoples will come and say, Come let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of God of Jacob, that we uh he may That he let me get it right, that he may teach us concerning his ways, that we may walk in his paths, for the law will go forth from Zion and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. Uh again, you're seeing these echoes of this uh we have not witnessed that today We didn't really witness it that in the past. Uh not to the degree he's going to be talking about, particularly at the end of this chapter. Again, old men and and women city and children playing in the streets It's safe. If nothing else, just think about it. We have a lot of inner cities now, nobody plays in the streets. It's hard, you know, really think about it. It's pathetic Especially in recent times. It wasn't this way when I was growing up. I mean, there were bad parts of Washington. But y you never felt like you know, your life was totally in danger even in the poorer sections, uh not like today. So they're able to play in the streets. They they live to an old age. That's what he's talking about. Also, uh we'll look at this and do when the crops and all do well and and he and he provides for them. But he he's just talking about peace and security. This is what's gonna happen Now think about their situation when they wrote. They didn't really have peace and security then, right? They had the people from the Samaritan and some of the others that were uh not friendly with them. They told us Americans you can't build with us and then they said okay and then they came back and tried to disrupt the building process. Read Ezra, that the first seven chapters will go uh tell you the history of that. Um he goes, uh behold, uh uh The Lord God uh God of all flesh, is anything too difficult for me? And uh in those days is what he says, the Lord of hosts, Behold, I'm going to save people from the land of East and the West. Um but in those days he's talking about the people and the remnant in those days we'll ask that question. Is it going to be difficult? Just prior to the remember the setting up of this millennial kingdom is going to be the worst uh tribulation that the Jews ever had We can look back and see this with a clear vision. The audience at this time, I would imagine a lot of this They did not understand. But there was an immediate response. Uh they r they remember uh also we'll we'll look at this The Lord is going to bless them because in Haggai He had asked the question, why aren't you prospering? And we'll look at that, we'll get to that Verses seven and eight. Thus says the Lord of hosts, Behold, I am going to save my people from the land uh of the east and from the land of the west. I will bring them back, and they will live in the midst of Jerusalem, and they shall be my people I will be their God in truth and righteousness. Again, uh East and West, excuse me, this is a universal Uh he's gonna bring them back from all over the world. When they come back typically they came back really from the east from Babylon And they tend to oftentimes they tend y you ever notice uh they get attacked from the north? That's because of the you know the topography. If you're gonna come to Israel, you don't you've got that uh uh Arabian desert to the east, so everybody comes up over the top of the whatever you would call it, the land mass, I'm I'm having the word. But uh you you travel north and then you come down south. So you go up uh really kind of to what would have been if you're familiar with this the area and all that. So they they w typically would have come from the north. But he's using this metaphor, east and west. As far as east is from the west. It's it circles the earth. He's gonna bring 'em all back from all over the earth Isaiah 43, 4 and 5, do not fear, for I am with you. I will bring your offspring from the east. I will gather you from the west. I will say to the north, give them up. And to the south, do not hold them back, bring uh my sons from afar and my daughter from the ends of the earth. This is what he's talking about. He's talking about total uh uh you know re gathering of the people of Israel. Well people say that happened in nineteen forty eight though? Well it's starting that's for sure. But we still have a lot of Jews all around the world. Um uh those who read this prophecy literally um uh see this as a future regathering really towards the end. Will it be uh just prior to the tribulation, will it be um after the tribulation's complete and he gathers them all uh in the millennial kingdom? That that may be the scenario that There. But they're all y the Jews are going to be gathered from around the world. And again, when prophecies uh a lot of times I know you hear the saying, what does all mean in great? All means all that's all Well I mean but you know really it uh i it could be um I I don't think we have to hold it that tight when we say all it's kinda like well when we say well everybody does that, we mean a vast, a huge majority. Um I I don't know that you have to carry it out to every single individual. Uh the point is you will know it. That's what's it there this is not de there are myriads of verses where we read this. Isaiah, Jeremiah Zeke, Zechariah, right, they're gonna be brought back. The prophets say that Thus says the Lord of hosts, let your hands be strong, you who are listening in these days. Hear it to these days, to these words from the mouth of the prophets, those who spoke in the day that the foundation of the house of the Lord was post was laid uh uh to the end the temple might be built. Again he's exhorting he's pushing them on. This is an immediate audience. the prophets of that day, I you gotta be talking about um Haggai and Zechariah. They just that's what their message was. Give build it. Go ahead complete. God has a promise for you Uh these are words of encouragement. Um and again, I think that we're we're also dealing with the uh uh delegation from Bethel, I I believe that the the two groups are there Um d he may be specifically, you know, have a word for those that are actually doing the building. But really, even Bethel uh They recognized that the priests were from the temple and they were the ones that they should go up and ask if they should do these fasts, right? So they were recognizing that In their own way, whether they're giving, they should be providing for the temple too in their own way. Just kind of like uh uh we do. know a lot of times you will min hear ministries. Don't forget to pray for us. That's important. You may not be actually doing the work, you may not be giving. Pray for us Um so uh I I see that them being included in this also. Verse ten. For behold, these days Uh excuse me, for be uh for before these days there was no wage for man or any wage for animal, and for him who went out or came in there was no peace because of the enemies. I said all men one against another. And this is what I was trying to refer to earlier. Remember, look at this. Uh look at Haggai 19 Uh you look for much, but behold, it comes to little. When you bring it home, it blows away. Why, declares the Lord of hosts, because of my house which lies desolate Which uh each of you runs to his own house. Well, excuse me, while each of you runs to his own house If you look at the context of that section, you go back and you read it right there in chapter one, he's talking about you don't have enough. You know, you you don't you don't have enough wine, you don't have enough oil, you don't have enough There's no resources. And he says, Why? You you're not building my house. We he's what he's saying is, I'm holding back. There is a fan or a uh drought Because you haven't built my house. And it also through memory says in there says, I know that you have paneling in your houses, but my temple is not being built. Okay, so he's harking back to this message. But he says look at he's changing this, but he says, But na uh but now I will not treat the remnant of this people as the former days, declared For there will be peace for the seed, the vine will yield its fruit, the land will yield its produce, and heaven will give their due See as w he was talking he he had a drought. He told him that with Hagar uh a couple years before. And I will cause the remnant of his people to inherit all these And it will come about, just as you were a curse among the nations, O house of Judah and House of Israel, so I will save you that you may become a blessing. Do not fear, let your hands be strong. For thus says the Lord of hosts, just as I have purpose to do harm to you when your father provoked me to wrath, says the Lord of hosts And I have not relented. So I ha so I have again purpose in in these days to do good to Jerusalem and to the house of Judah. Do not fear So, look at it a little bit. So the contrast between the former days, the way he was gonna he the way he treated the fathers, they were being disciplined. We read that all before. Zachariah pointed that out. Uh they they had hardened their hearts, they had uh their ears, remember just a chapter or two before? Uh they wouldn't listen to them There he goes, uh, but I'm not gonna treat you this way. Okay. They paid, I brought you back, I'm restoring you, I'm gonna start the blessing again Now you're gonna see an increment. They're you know they're not going all at once, which is what we all want, right? Bring it all back all at once. But they're gonna see a progression towards, okay, God's blessing. The Lord will provide peace. Crops planted and harvested Uh in times of war, right, what would happen? They would they would plant, the enemies would come and and take their crops. If they didn't take 'em, uh their harvest, they would destroy 'em so that they had no food. Uh He goes, uh you're gonna have peace. Uh verse thirteen, the word of the Lord reminds them that they were a curse among the nations You see this in Ezekiel, Ezekiel 36, he goes, you guys were a curse. He goes, I'm not bringing I'm not going to bring you back because of you. I'm going to bring because you Uh that they uh pro they made they took the l the Lord's glory and he made it uh odious to the nations. That's what he says in Ezekiel 36, uh where he says, Look, I'm gonna give you a new heart and a new flesh. He goes, I'm not bringing you back for your glory. I'm bringing bringing you back for my glory. It's the same message, what we should be doing. We're saved not to glorify ourselves but to glorify God. Now that was easy to say, wasn't it? But Right? It's the walk, right? We have to walk. We have to be a kingdom of priests. We have to be a light to the world. Uh we have to be a light to our families, our kids My kids know me, they remember that time you just Yeah. I I don't know about you but uh one of the things I said that I wouldn't do my parents did, of course my parents I I ch I my mom may have been saved, my dad definitely was and I said, I when I do something wrong and I I I'm gonna be honest with my kids and go, I messed up, forgive me, you know. I it one that drove me nuts. My parents Never mind that, you know, they would it I wanted to admit I did it wrong. That's what we need to do with God, right? Confess That's what these people need to do. That's what this delegation wasn't doing. Do we need to fast? Well, have you repented? Do you are you seeking God or are you just trying to get to me through a fast It's not gonna work. So I will make them a terror. Look at that what Jeremiah says in Jeremiah 24 and 9 I will make him a terror and an evil for all the kingdoms of the earth, as a reproach and a proverb, a taunt and a curse in all the places where I scatter them. This is what hap this is he's telling them. you do all the guy you're you're supposed to represent me to the nation and but you look like just all the other nations. So you're a curse. You're not a blessing So he says, do not fear, let your hands be strong. So uh Zechariah tells him, look, that's the way you were, I'm not going to treat you that way. You're you're Your your father, they took them off to Babylon, they they paid the price. Let your hands be strong. But now you need to get to work You know, God always does that. He goes, He gives us the blessing. He goes, okay, now walk. Right? Does that all the time in Scripture Gives us all the doctrine and uh uh the epistles, the letters, New Testament, most of them the front end is uh doctrine, all the blessings we have. Then he goes, okay, then then we get into uh Uh the application, now walk, you know, uh walk this way. Of course, based on all this. Romans does it, Ephesians, all most of them do this either Does this in the letters. And that's what he's done with them. He goes, look, these are the promises. Now get back and build the temple. Exodus 14 and 15. Uh the restate with uh the Lord has uh relented his uh punishment to the father, to the generations. He's been brought back to land. Um Uh he's gonna uh bless them. Verses sixteen and seventeen These are the things which you should speak, the truth to one another. Look at how you get practical. Remember I repeated this and uh he said this in chapter seven, versus the same thing These are the things which you should do. Speak the truth to one another. Judge with truth and judgment, for peace in your gate. Also let none of your none of you devise evil in your heart against another. And do not love perjury for all those for all these are what I hate, declares the Lord I have written the comments here, but e just look at this. Think about this. This is again this is you know what to do. Do justice, do peace. Don't divide evil in your hearts And um we know w when we've been wronged and and we have been wrong. Uh it's not that we should ignore that Uh but then give it over to the Lord. That that's the hard part. Um uh okay Lord, I've been wrong. How do I restore How do I respond in this situation to the wrong that's been done to me? And it's he gives us wisdom because he don't want us just to be sit there and take further abuse necessarily, right? But at the same time, we don't want to devise evil and get, you know, eye for an eye and get back at them because uh again, now we're taking the place of the Lord Same messages over. Also, this line, for all these are what I hate, declares the Lord. What the Lord hates, we need to hate. And that's uh again, it it's renewing our minds. It's it's what the Lord hates we need to hate. Uh we look at the the comparison, uh jumping ahead, but it just a thought just hit my mind. I mean, think about the Millennial Kingdom. This is just a little sidetrack. I'm thinking think about that w when when Christ is here reigning and it's gonna be justice and truth. And it and it will be in a world situation. It's not heaven yet now. We believe there is going to be a literal thousand years you can see that. Um uh things would be fruitful. Uh our work will well prosper But it will be people will marry, will have children, and as we know, some of the children will die. It says that even in Isaiah 65. So there's still there is still sin in the world, but think of the think of the truth that'll be there Well I mean that there there's gonna be long back during not back. During this time. It won't be like somebody will do something and they'll do it again. You do it once And then that's it. God is gonna rule with a rod of iron. When you see that? That's what he's talking about. He's talking about the millennial kingdom. He's gonna rule with there won't be any swishy warty stuff, there will be justice. And which will be healthy for the people that are uh abiding, right? Because who wants to live in a world of injustice? Who wants to live who wants to be they want your children to be able to play in the streets and not worry about it? What a blessing. And this is this is just a a a warm-up for heaven But there will be uh people in that time that that will rebel. See in uh Revelation chapter 20. Speak the truth to one another You know, uh Luke uh Luke six forty five The good man out of the good treasure of of his heart brings forth what is good And the evil man out of the evil treasure brings forth what is evil. For his mouth speaks from that which the loss And that's what this process of sanctification is. Fill your heart with the truth. But the truth. over overtake and and uh put to death the the things of our fallen nature. Uh wanting to get even, surviving evil plants, uh judging, jealousy. The whole game judgment of peace. Uh would result in uh peace because That i the judgments will be so fair there will be no argument as to the verdict. Somebody can argue, but you'll know that it was a just verdict based on the evidence, not on Uh I mean think about a blessing that is. Uh how many times do we see judgments go wrong, uh for good and for and for bad? Um I put down here Romans twelve, right? Be transformed by renewing of your mind so that you You may prove what the will of God is, that which is good and acceptable and perfect. Again, renewing your mind, renewing your mind with God's word All these or what I hate, I said that earlier. What the Lord hates, we need to hate. And this is the part I wanted to get to. Let's read somebody um Well I'm gonna have you read the whole eighteen through through uh verses uh eighteen through twenty-three. Will somebody read that for us? Read it um Then word of Lord of Holy came to me saying, Thus says the Lord of Host, the fast of the The fourth, the fast of the fifth, the fast of the seventh, and the fast of the tenth months will become joy, gladness, and cheerfulness. Cheerful feasts for the house of Judah, so love truth and peace. Thus says the Lord of hosts, it will yet be the people of God, even the inhabitants of many cities. The inhabitants of one will go to another, saying, Let us go at once to entreat the favor of the Lord and seek the Lord of hosts. I will also vote. So many peoples and many nations will come to seek the Lord of hosts in Jerusalem and to entreat the favor of the Lord. Thus says the Lord of hosts. In those days ten men will come from all the ten men from all the nations. Will grasp the garment of a Jew, saying, Let us go with you, for we have heard that God is with you. Okay, now again, from is especially from verse uh twenty through the end. I mean we believe that this scripture is inspired. We believe I believe it's literal Is there anything in here, in the these verses, w as you read it? Thus says the Lord of host hosts, yet the peoples will come, even the inhabitants of many cities. Right? The inhabitants of one will go to another, saying, Let us go at once and treat the favor of the Lord and s uh and to seek the Lord of hosts. So many peoples and mighty nations will come to seek the Lord of hosts in Jerusalem and entreat the favor of the Lord. Just even today's verses, does does that seem like that has happened At this time or at any time? I I don't you know. I mean maybe on a small scale people go to visit it but I I am seeing this happen. So the question is, and this is what I'm I'm just trying to flesh out, if we just read this literally, never mind what we know or don't know or Or I I mean w what is it what is the logic of this scene, e even with this? Is this literally gonna happen or is this all is he just speaking does this seem to you like it's just a metaphor? Um yeah I think it happens people go to Jerusalem like every year. They like some people go to Aj So Christian we do travel yearly to be killed. Mm-hmm. So do you think that that's And so they do. And do we does it look like that this uh word here is being fulfilled? Yes, because some want to know uh where uh Jesus is parents wife on earth and they want to you know be part of that story uh you know excited feel excited about those things uh places that you know she saw you know this Okay. Like a changing age, you know. So what about and like in verse 23? Thus says the Lord of hosts, in those days Ten men all uh from all the nations will grasp the garment of a Jew, saying, Let us go with you, for we have heard God is with you. I think if they did their job it might have happened. It might have. But you may guess in fact our history is kind of spotted. Every guy was with them. Bad things happen all the time The what like the the S kind of glory then we can go two days later and pick up things without uh fire, you know they to me it seemed like so if I was a Jewish for something and Why would I want God I don't know if they're good thoughts on that thing? Why would I want God God's here? It's much harder for me that he's here than he's not here. But it really is, because they When he was around them, he's so perfect. Remember the time that they they just built the temple, all those temple holy they all get out of the way, the two guys catch that strange fire, pffting think it shake it scar, think it totally spin a Mm-hmm. They get killed. Sorry, real quiet. You can't mess with God. You can't mess with the holiness of God. Mm-hmm. Right. So I I think you know, I in my mind I'd be thinking, well I love God, but I'm going to be mad at him because he'd been on like torture sometime, you know. Yeah, he he yeah. He said something though when he started this. He said if they did their job Wait, are they capable of doing their job? God equip them. What's that? God equip them. If he qu if he equipped 'em, they're capable, right? Yeah. But if he hasn't equipped 'em, are they capable? No way. And that's kind of where I I'm trying to get you to see what's going on behind all this You can be in a holy situation. You can be in a in a good thing, and they can be doing a lot of right things But it if if the Spirit of God i and me or for and for even for this period of time, if this if if God wasn't opening their hearts and their minds, they're not even gonna be able to do this. If they don't have a faith, do are we able to what are we able to do without a faith of with the with the church today? Oh nothing good. Nothing. Well even he did Josiah. He he took the law and think, oh this is the thing that he did right. But then said at the end it says still like the Lord didn't bless him because his heart wasn't there. Jeremiah talks about his heart wasn't upon the Lord really. It was a foreshadow Thank God you do that. Right. It because it's not capable of of being there unless God gives us that faith and opens our heart to see We we we read through this a lot of times and you and you they said they would know the Lord. You you know and he'll dwell there They were they were trying to have a right. Yeah. Right. Um temporarily broken off but the cheap job regarding back in. So it seems like all of the like teacher language is done the same way that the It was like in Revelation where John keeps saying, Like, like it was like this, it was like if this language is all in that day it's gonna happen. Mm-hmm. But again We have the spirit, so we need when we get as we look beyond this we start to get spiritualized and you see how the you know how you'll see something and you think I I know a lot of you probably experiences, but you'll see the Lord working and some you go, that was the Lord doing that. Sometimes there's sometimes he you know, light just goes on, we're just doing our test But he's in a sovereign over all these actions. But these these people, look at what they're saying. Read this Verse 23, Thus says the Lord of hosts, in those days ten men from all the nations will grasp the garment of a Jew. Saying, Let us go with you, for we have heard that God is with you. They're going to hear it, but they're also going to perceive it. Yeah, you be around somebody, you think, man, that person there's something about that person or uh Y you see this you see something working inside of them. You can't you can't really say what it is. There's a spiritual element going on. These people are seeking the Lord and they're going Why are they gonna just grasp the Jew? Just because oh, you know, I don't think it's just hearsay. It's the Spirit of the Lord working in there. Also these people are uh remember, these people want to go to the Lord Again, you're gonna have unsaved people in in this millennial kingdom. These people want to go. So they're being drawn, right? You're going to see the Spirit working in in this. They want to go to the Lord. They know that the blessing is there. And maybe I'm maybe you're not tracking with me, but I j I just want you to see if you look behind you see the Lord working on all this. Think about it. If they if God didn't open their eyes, they saw a Jesus right in front of them, all those miracles and everything else. And I just can't bring this I just can't be I can't make too big a deal of this. If their eyes weren't open, it just doesn't register It did miracles and they still and it's not that they were bad people, it's that this is our human nature. It could have been us if we were blind to it The Spirit of the Lord is going to be working during this time. He's going to be bringing these people there I this is never I I just to me when I see this maybe maybe I it's just my familiarity with going over these passages and the spirit working in me, but but this is this is what I want you to see. This is why you have to put the word in there Because if I see something, it's not me, it's the spirit working in me, if it's true, right? This one came to pass because this was before Christ. What's that? This book was written before Christ. Uh time did visit uh Jerusalem uh so there were so many people you know uh in the Jerusalem. I'm sorry? And then the book was received. I heard that it was right before Christ. Yes. And something you know visit Jerusalem. So many people. So I believe it they want to actually get fast. So many people were visiting Jerusalem. And Jesus was not going to be a very good thing. It says those days. What does those days need? Does any any some does the cemetery say anything about it says in those days Well it's gonna be with the it's gonna be the people that that are experiencing this. Okay Have people done this before? Have they grabbed, have ten people gone and grabbed a garment of a Jew and said, Man, take us up the city? By the way, Who are they going to see? They uh right, they're they're gonna go up. Right, they're gonna entreat uh the favor of the Lord. I don't think they have. Yeah, I don't know. Yeah, yeah. You know, uh a little earlier the question came up, was was this the beginning in Israel when Israel became a state again in 1948. Is this what we're talking about? And uh I'm one of those who believes that that's the beginning of it. And this the the scene is being set or the things are being prepared for this to happen. I've been drawn back to verses uh twelve and uh twelve and thirteen when it talks about yours if your version says the Seed, uh I believe it says the seed, uh let's see. There will be peace for the seed. Uh and the vine will move its fruit Well, if you remember, back way back in Genesis chapter 3, this talked about the seed of the woman, okay? And uh deceive the woman we believe to be the Messiah, the Christ, and is uh this could very easily be the sending of the land to get ready for is to get ready for the second coming. And also uh I was intrigued by the fact that it says the vine shall give its fruit But if you go back way in the early books of Isaiah, it says that the vineyard of the Lord of hosts is this is the nation of Israel. So that there certainly are there certainly is enough evidence here to prove point this this might be the beginning of the the beginning of the f of the last days. And that's speculation on my part I understand, but uh it's certain it certainly is beginning the Let me let me let me say the general principle of prophecy is that oftentimes especially like With Zechariah, you see a a an immediate uh fulfillment. Um again, r remember what Haggai had written just two years ago He goes, you're you're not producing your crop, you you're you're poor, uh any any s I render to you is because I have cursed you. You you haven't built my house Okay. And he says it's going to be the the blessing where even d they're gonna start to be able to pr produce uh during that day, during Zechariah's time. So there's an immediate. And and yes, prophecy oftentimes has has what they call uh the best analogy I heard is I heard something from David Jeremiah this week. Uh he's doing a really good series right now. You may want to listen to it. Um uh the i it it's kinda he's he's putting in a what's going on contemporary with uh with prophecy and he's he's drawing And and uh it was something he quoted from uh uh another man. Um the analogy is it's like Christmas, we know my Christmas comes There's all this stuff, there you know there's all this the lights and everything and we know when it's coming. He goes, uh but really Thanksgiving is really it just kinda comes Right? Um there but there's kind of a shadow is what they say for prophecy. Um To give you the ex example of what I'm talking about, I I know you probably sounds like I'm rambling, but think about Hitler. Did Hitler not look like the Antichrist? Look at the some of the things we're experiencing now. Um are these not kind of foreshadows of things that are actually going to be in prophecy? Um We are definitely the world is moving towards a one world government. And it's been doing for a while. Things are just picking up speed George Bush, whatever number he was, the senior, the first George Bush president, he was a globalist. Most people don't know that He believed in a global thing. This has been a prevalent thing. And this is look at Europe and and all these with with uh well so we see the shadows So uh God moves prophecy. Uh uh I think of um you talk about um some of the early prophecies with the the abomination Um the Jews would have thought that um Antiochus Epiphanes was the Antichrist. He did set up in the in the In the temple and he did blaspheme and everything else. So you'll see this ha these events kind of happen throughout history. Uh again, but The the the the thing has we have to be careful of is saying it's gonna happen then that we're supposed to live as if Christ is coming back at any time But yeah, I think we're in amazing times right now. I don't like them. If I could pull myself back and get to a safe island and just observe them, but we're gonna be in a mix of it. Yeah, I see things really moving. But God is patient. I mean it may be another hundred years. I don't know. But we see you can see the things coming in in the in the schools and everything else else I think if we don't pay attention to science at times. They are there's a doctrinization. The pol and j listen to the I I really recommend this. David Jeremiah's on a great series now, uh He doesn't get too uh sensational, which is good. He sees balanced. He doesn't get it's not f uh too detail oriented so you get lost. But he talks about um you know uh the socialism, the economics, the uh uh ep uh epidemics and all these are in prophecy and it's funny, uh was COVID nineteen Was that a shadow of some of the th think about it, that was worldwide. It hit it hit the world, did it not? With the how I don't know how many nations got hit with that Uh again, you don't want to get parent uh we we we're our faith is our hope is in Christ. Always was though I went to I'll close with this. I went to a funeral to um uh some of the people have been you you've heard me say before, we we grew up in a church that was unsaved We knew these people for years and years. Um uh one of them we just went uh went to a funeral just Friday, a memorial. We we knew the one. It was sad. It was so sad. I mean these are w I wouldn't say they're good. None of us is good, but they're they're nice people, you know, law abiding. I mean they're but it's uh you know that funeral is it's sad and they're so close to to the religious stuff They talk about Jesus and they didn't mention these scriptures and everything. But if you look, if you listen to the subtlety, it's always man-driven you know, they were a good person or they did this or they did. It's never about, you know, Jesus Christ and, you know, the the we're sinners and we're saved. None of that. They don't go that far. And it was really sad. And so uh again, but our that's our hope, isn't it So even what I'm saying my point was w w w w what I was trying to tie in is she lived well they she lived actually during some some tough time. She was ninety five, so Uh she lived uh through depression and war wars and World War II and all that. But uh in general, they had a pretty good life You know, we had the fifties and the sixties we were living large and you know, life was good, e you know, even up till now. But that's it So regardless of of any of this uh these things that are happening to us, this is not our home. Our hope is in heaven And probably the worst thing in the world is we can get comfortable here, right? Heavenly Father, Lord