So some people uh it's uh my introduction is kind of an overview of the COVID class that I just did. But the reason I did this is because To me, uh this is God's revelation and and these major Prophecies, covenants, uh the it's God revealing his plan to us. And it's not always easy to discern But if we look at the big picture, we can see God's plan throughout history. And he's and he shows us what's what is the control. His sovereignty will work out. And I think it's that that's why I want to review this, because there's a revelation history with this, and then we'll get into a quick historical what actually happened on the ground where these people are at this time. This prophecy and and Our difficulty is is we need to see it from different eyes, from different perspectives. We have Vision on the cross. We know who the Messiah is. We have revelation. The New Testament is revelation about what happened on the cross. It's the commentary. This message came to a specific people at a specific time. So we need to see it from their eyes. We can't bring back everything we have from our view. We have to look at it, okay, what were they seeing? And then going forward. It's prophecy for them. Not a lot of this prophecy was fulfilled for us already. And is still future. And that is that is the amazing thing with this book. Uh there is difficulty in interpreting it because some of these symbols and everything, and you're thinking, what in the world is he talking about? Uh but that's why I want to give this background and the and and lay the the kind of uh the framework, shall I be, the the the the mindset we should have as as we look at this So again, this this is I'm not stuck here, but this is but this is a revelation we got. This is kind of what we looked at uh when they did uh the covenants, right? So Genesis 3, right? Adam and Eve fall into sin. God judges the sin and curses them. Uh with curses against uh man, uh creation and the devil. Right? They curse all three Genesis 3. 15 tells us the battle between Satan and the line of men. And I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your seed and her seed. He shall bruise uh bruise you on the head and you shall bruise him on the hill. Okay? It's the battle. But he's telling us, he's telling now, and this is the the first uh idea we get that there's there's gonna be a a war, really, right? This is the battle and and he's he's giving us right here in the beginning of the revelation, right here in Genesis Man multiplied as God had commanded Adam and Eve with the result that the seed of man was corrupted by the sons of God. Genesis six, five, and eight reveal the issue. Um obviously we don't have time to get into it. However, you read this Genesis uh six passage, we're we're the sons of God. I believe it's angels. I I think it's it's pretty clear. Uh y you look at uh Job, he uses the same phrase, the sons of God. So it's angels. However, they corrupted men, and we're not going to go down that path today, but on time for that, something happened that they corrupted men. They corrupted the the the line, the seed. Uh God steps in, right? And the Lord saw the wickedness of man was great on the earth, and every intent of the thoughts of his heart was uh only evil continually, but no offense favor in the eyes of the Lord Right? So the flood comes, God makes a covenant after the flood. God makes a covenant with Noah. I establish my covenant with you and all flesh, and never again uh uh flesh will never shall never again be cut off by the water of the flood. Neither shall there again be a flood to destroy the earth. So God's plan during that time was to blot out all the wickedness. He found favor with Noah. So really when you think about it, you have Noah as kind of the new Adam in a way Right? All descendants really come from Noah, right, and his family line. But God said he's not gonna he's no longer going to deal with sin in that matter. He's not gonna wipe out man. uh particularly through a flood. The Lord choose uh skip the thing here. So men continue in rebellion, right? So the next big issue is uh Genesis 114, we read They said, Come, let us build for ourselves a city and a tower whose top will reach into the heaven, and let us make a name for ourselves, otherwise we'll be scattered abroad over the face of the whole earth. So here they are, men doing what Adam and Eve did, what we always do. We're trying to go around God and do things for ourselves. They want to build a tower to heaven, where they're going to walk to heaven, I don't know, right? But isn't this the idea, right? We'll do works to get to heaven. Okay? And and notice they're gonna make a name for themselves. Uh look at the contrast here, right? This is where the Bible, this is where revelation for us, and for really all believers, think about the brevity of all that history That happened from Genesis to Genesis 12. Genesis 1 to Genesis 12, right? Right? W when we get into Genesis later with the patriarchs, we have how many chapters for right? So it God's given us the detail He wants to give us what the focus is And and here's a here's a a plant right here. The Lord chooses a man uh which will form a nation to represent him to the world Right? Genesis 12, 1 through 3. Now the Lord said to Abram, Go forth from your country and from your relatives and from your father's house, to the land which I will show you, and I will make you a great nation. And I will bless you and I will make your name great. And so you shall be a blessing. And I will bless those who bless you. And the one who curses you I will curse. And in you all the families of the earth This is God's plan for redemption. He's showing us the signpost. It's not so much Abraham. Abraham is going to be a conduit or a vessel, right, or an instrument of God, just like we are today. Right? We're believers, we're the instrument of God. We are ambassadors for God. They're going to be blessed through Abraham, but not because of Abraham, because God is working through Abraham. The blessings are going to come through him And of course we're following that line. We see the line. The line, the seed, right? We started in Genesis 3. That seed. The Lord made Abraham's descendant into a nation, Israel and Egypt. Jacob prophesied over the twelve sons. The tribe of Judah is recognized as the kingly line of Israel. And this is uh Jacob's prophecy to uh Judah, the scepter shall not depart from Judah, nor the roller staff from between his feet. And so Shiloh come And to him shall be obedience of the people. So you see the Messiah is really we see the line. He's telling us it's going to come through Judah Judah is going to be the king. The scepter shall not depart. The king of Israel is going to come through the line. And of course we're obviously skipping a whole lot, but these are the major signposts. Think of the things, the events that are going on in between He he comes up with these uh big signs, man falls, he he brings us back. It's the same story over and over again. But this is God's plan The Lord establishes a command that people must follow in order to fulfill the covenant. Abraham, this is a Mosaic covenant. This is the law. This is what we we tend to have a difficulty separating. In Exodus 24, 3 we read, Then Moses came and recounted to the people all the world was Now let me give my tongue here. All the words the Lord and all the ordinances and all the people answered uh with one voice and said, All the words the Lord has spoken, we will do. This Mosaic Covenant, we we talked about this, it's really, this is what the uh the Mosaic Law revealed, God's holiness and righteousness in man's simpleness. If you look at this honestly, yes people came to the point where they they said I can't do this, if you're honest. Yeah I cannot sustain the whole law. And you know, that's what we found in in the we find in the New Testament, right? In Galatians. Right? The law was a tutor who was to bring us to our sin. Paul says it in Romans right seven. He said if it wasn't for the law I wouldn't have known what coveting was. As soon as I read about covenant, that's all I wanted to do was covet. And he said again, if it if to bring us to Christ, we need a Savior. We need somebody to intercede for us. That's what the law was meant to do. Again, the Mosaic law revealed God's holiness, righteousness, and man's sinfulness. It was never a means of salvation. But neither were sacrifices. We forget that. Sacrifice is never saved, right? Hebrews 10:4, right? I shouldn't know it. It's impossible, I think, is how it starts off. It's impossible for the blood of bulls and goats. Uh right uh Somebody get it right, because I'm gonna butcher it by paraphrase. It's such a short phrase. It would never save is what it says. Somebody have it? Let's see that And for it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats. For it is impossible for the blood of bull and bulls and goats to take away sand Take away sins. You had it almost word perfect according to ESP. It's funny how yeah you could throw in little twists though. But yeah so uh we we we we look at the Old Testament and this is what I've stressed and and what we tried to bring out when we were doing the covenant And that God would oof thank God. God would ne was never going to save them by this. It was to point to Okay, a Messiah. It was the point to a Savior. Uh you can't be saved by work You can't be saved by works. And and all these and yet there is a responsibility, there is grace, but we are also supposed to behave in a certain manner, right? And so I think that and I think that's why we s we kind of confuse uh the law And what had what the Old Testament people were under. And what we had which which really should amplify how much grace we have, how much light we have, how much revelation we have that they didn't have. But you are always saved by grace through faith. Abraham believed, Genesis 15, 6. Abraham believed God, and it was credited to him as righteousness. It was always by faith. It was by faith by the revelation that Abraham and the people had during that time. They believed the God who was the God of all the revelation that that they had was who he says they didn't have the focus on the cross and Christ and Christ was buried and died, uh Christ died, was buried, rose again on the third day, uh, which we can repeat. Uh but that's not salvation either, right? It's only when our faith God and and God is the author of our faith too, right? Correct. It's always sovereignty. It's God's sovereign will. And that is the difficulty with all of that Because when we read all this, especially in the Old Testament, we tend to think, oh, well if I do this, God will bless me. We will come under a even uh unsaved people will get a general grace, right, by by doing righteousness. uh deeds. Uh they will not save maybe experience as much as as uh somebody who's just flat out breaking the law and and trespassing against people and every other thing But it's not saving great thing. Is this not? But then I think the Abraham offered Isaac his son to There was another Abraham and to their back there. It was another when and we discussed this and we'll have to move on, but when Abraham when it says when Abraham believed God and was credited in righteousness The Bible tends to speak in in in like terms that remember before Abraham just believed God that he was going to have children, he had already done faith works already. He left the land Okay, he was obedient. His faith was obedient. And that's what James says. James says You're not saved by your works, but your works will demonstrate or reveal or manifest your faith. Some people don't have a lot of fruit, but every believer has some fruit. I think it's MacArthur said. MacArthur said some people you have to look pretty hard, but But they will have fruit. There is a result. And and uh just the we know this from our own testimonies, just a revelation. The fact that we believe that this word is God's word is fruit. I didn't believe this until I was saved. I read a lot of this and it was part of what brought me brought me to my salvation, but I was not saved When I got saved, I finally believed, oh, this is true. Now I look at it from why did God write it from that perspective, not did this happen or did this not happen Uh that's just one example. But it's there's always some fruit. I say that because uh w the reason I went through this is uh Remember, this is a revelation that these people had at this time. This is their revelation They didn't get the complete revelation that we have. But this is their perspective Next in Redemptive's revelation, the Lord reveals David and the line of Judah. That lion will be the seed of Messiah. But look at 2 Samuel 7. 14. He narrows it down again. I will be a father to him and he will be a son to me. When he commits iniquity, I will correct him with the rod of men in the strokes of the sons of men Vision's gone blurring, sorry. But my loving kindness shall not depart from him, as I took it away from Saul, whom I removed from before me. Your house and your kingdom shall endure before me forever, and your throne shall be established forever. And w this is an example. Do you see how prophecy can be see the difficulty almost here? He's in the flow of this sentence. He's probably talking about um David's son, Solomon, okay? Uh the or his succeeding son He says, right, uh the rod of man will stroke if he if he commits iniquity, and they will Right? The line of David, right? We will. Matter of fact, David wasn't too long after David got this prophecy, right? He has a problem. A big problem. It a you see that pattern over and over again. But remember this is God the reason we're looking at this, this is God's sovereignty working Man will come through and out of obedience of that sovereignty. But here's a plan. This plan will come to fruition. It will work be worked out. And we can see how he shifts here, and this is what I was talking about with the difficulty Your house, your kingdom shall endure before me forever. Your throne shall be established forever. There's that eternal perpetual aspect to it. He's pointing to a king who's gonna it it has to be referring to the Christ. But w w again, look at how much vision we have looking back. We could say, Oh yeah. But again, from their point of view, what does he mean this is gonna be forever? It's it's it's much uh clownier. It's vague, isn't it? And this is the this is the prophecy especially in Zechariah will get. I mean it's hard for us to interpret it. Imagine what it would have been for the audience during that time So finally in the era of uh Zechariah's time we have the revelation of the new covenant. Jeremiah, Ezekiel prophesied concerning uh the promise of the Lord. uh providing salvation for Israel. Okay, we're getting much more in Zechariah's time. It's uh Jeremiah is telling them, you hear them you get taken over Hey, there is coming. Jeremiah prophesies on both sides of the fall of Jerusalem before and then and uh after. So Jeremiah and Ezekiel prophesied concerning the promise. This is a new covenant. Jeremiah 31, 31 through 34. Behold, days are coming, declares the Lord. When I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and the house of Judah, not like the covenant which uh I made with their fathers in the day I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt. My covenant, uh, which they broke, although I was a husband to them, declares the Lord. But this is the covenant which I will make with the house of Israel after those Days, declares the Lord. I will put my law within them, and on their heart I will write it. I will be their God and they shall be my people. They will teach again, each man his neighbor and each man his brother, saying, Know the Lord, for they will all know me. From the least of them to the greatest of them, declares the Lord For I will forgive their iniquity and their sin I will remember no more. Okay, it's huge. You can see the difference Um let me finish with this and I want to make one one more illustration. We'll get into the historical background So Ezekiel, right, he gives us the real detail. Most of you are familiar with this passage? Ezekiel 36, 25, 27. Then I will sprinkle clean water on you and you will be clean. I will cleanse you from all your filthiness and from all your idol Moreover, I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit within you. I will remove the heart of stone from your face flesh and give you a heart of flesh. I will put my spirit within you and cause you to walk in my statutes, and I will be careful and you will be careful to observe my ordinances So all the people and all the ages are saved by grace, God's gift and doing through faith and not by works of the law. You notice these what he has here? I will cause you the walk in my statutes. So before we leave this, one big thing. What is the biggest difference? When you have the Mosaic covenant Right? All the people m make a a a circle, right? And put all all the people that were there, even the foreigners that were with them were inside of that circle, that covenant, right? Every one of them. And the ones that weren't, they were to be thrown out of the camp. So they were all in that covenant. Here's the big difference, right? But how many in that in that circle, how many in that covenant, all those people were had a believing faith? A remnant, right? What's the new covenant? Who's in the new covenant? Well, who are the participants Only those that are saved, right? That's a huge difference. Exactly. Well but it originally and it and it again when he most of these prophecies he these are he's prophesied, especially Zechariah. He's comforting them to His people. It's the immediate message is to Israel. We get grafted in. Romans eleven You guys should be familiar, read that chapter over and over again. It's so clear. Romans 11. We are the wild branch, the Gentiles. We can grafted in He but the the the it was a r you know in other words he has a a specific promise and uh promises that uh we don't we won't experience. Uh Not with that not with the the covenant promise he's promised with Israel. Israel's gonna have some experiences we want because we believe it's gonna happen in a millennial kingdom. There's gonna be a king back on the throne. The Messiah is going to be present. People are going to live a long time. Look at Isaiah 65, I believe. People will die a hundred years old and be considered young This will not happen in the church age. And and so but again, never mind all that. These th those are the details. Remember for salvation, this is the difference between the Mosaic Covenant. It included everybody. Everybody had to be responsible and was included in that covenant. But they weren't saved. In the new covenant, everybody who goes to church is not saved, right? We have a lot of people in a lot of churches that aren't saved. Yeah. So faith of those categories. That's that's it's a big difference. And again, he's telling him, I will put my spirit on you. Okay, we're gonna look at this in Zechariah as we're gonna be seeing a lot of these uh these promises. Uh we're gonna see because it the major uh all of Israel is gonna be saved. But after the tr after kind of through the tribulation, a lot of Israel is going to be be killed in the tribulation. We'll see that in Zechariah. Historical background. This is what actually happened on the ground So, real quick, 625 BC, Babylon, the Medes, they start to become a power. 605, Nebuchadnezzar. Uh the second emerges as a leader, he's a strong commander, he's uh taking all these places captive, he secures control uh Babylon Syria In the same year, Judah becomes a vassal state, Daniel and other youths are carried off to Babylon. 597, King Jehoiakim Uh is taken captive with Ezekiel. The 586 Jerusalem is destroyed. They crush it. Everything. Break down the walls, the temple, everything So, 549, Cyrus comes on, the Persian comes to power. Remember in uh handwriting on the wall, and uh this is when Daniel Babylon, the Chaldeans are are are finished here. Cyrus is uh I got five thirty-eight to five thirty-six. I'm not sure of the date, different people, I I'm leaning towards five thirty-six. It's two different dates when when this actually happened. Cyrus conquers uh Babylon ending the reign of the Chaldean power. The same year Cyrus issues an edict to rebuild the house of the Lord, Israel 1-1 through 3. Now in the first year of Cyrus, king of Persia, in order to fulfill the word of the Lord by the mouth of Jeremiah, the Lord spirit up the spirit of Cyrus Excuse me, King of Persia. So that he sent a proclamation through all his kingdom And also put in writing, saying, Thus says Cyrus the king of Persia, Lord the God of heaven, has given all the kingdoms of the earth, and he has appointed me to build out For uh build him a house in Jerusalem which is in Judea. Whoever there is among you of all the people may uh Excuse me. May his God be with him. Let him go to Jerusalem, which is in Judah, and rebuild the house of the Lord, the God of Israel. He is the God who is in Jerusalem. So approximately 50,000 people returned to Judah to rebuild the temple. The altar for sacrifices was built in seven months, foundation and temples laid Opposition and the surrounding people caused the work to stop and in 520 uh the work on the temple began again. Uh This is uh during the time of the writings of Haggai and Zechariah. Uh both of these prophets uh exhort the people to resume the work of the temple. So the situation is difficult. There's opposition from the surrounding nations. Only a remnant initially returns. Government blessings to rebuild are then rescinded. You have this Cyrus gives a decree, there's problems, the Samaritans come up, uh they question it, uh building stops In the book of Zechariah we read that God's sovereignty and blessing upon his people and his plan to rebuild uh Jerusalem. We'll finish reading that. Zechariah has been compared with Isaiah in importance. This is an overview of kind of regarding the messianic prophecy. The scope of the prophecy is so concise. little phrases kinda need to be unpacked and and again it's it's it's incredible what what he's done here. In this book that only the work it's only could only be the work of God Some of the significant uh messianic prophecies is some of the things we'll we'll see. Uh Yahweh or Yahweh's servant, the branch, we'll see uh that theme come up, the branch The man, the branch. Uh kind of indication it's gonna be uh God man. Uh the king priest, this is huge We we know it uh the king and the priest were two different offices, but this is going to be one office. The true shepherd, Christ, we're gonna see uh The false shepherd, the Antichrist. Again, this is does not have the depth and the uh elaboration we get with all the revelation we have Revel the re the book of Revelation, but even the prophecies later and and uh and before. Um uh they just did not have this this much of a Betrayal of the Good Shepherd will see that. His crucifixion is in him, his sufferings, and the second advent in glory. So that's the situation. They're coming back. Think about it. They've been in captivity. You only have a remnant. The place is in rubbles And some people, uh, which we'll see uh in in Zachariah uh Haggis probably saw the temple. He saw that he was alive and I these guys must have been pretty old, who you think about, they're in captivity for seventy years. Um Gotta be pushing eighty or ninety, right? But he saw the original temple. Some of these people did. They were still remaining. And so they know what The difficulty. All they have now is a foundation. Zachariah is exhorting them to build the temple. Work it stops. And and it's there's there's just there's pressure from all all around. Uh and just think about that. That's the environment we sort of Does somebody want to read us? Um let's start off with uh Zechariah 1 through 3. Does anybody want to read Zechariah 1 through 3? In the eighth month of the second year of Darius, the word of the Lord came to the Zachar the prophet, the son of Arichiah, the son of Edom, saying, The Lord was very angry with your fathers. Therefore say to them, Thus says the Lord of hosts, return to me, declare Thank you. There's a couple things here. Um Number one, he starts off right, he gives the uh the emphatic position of the date and the time of the revelation. It's it's more than just a chronology Uh obviously the the date uh he wants he always dated it. Uh typically prophecies did that. But they the dating was always by kings of Israel and Judah, right? Uh there's a big contrast here to the Jewish mind. This would have been uh huge. It's dated according to Darius So this message to Zechariah is dated to a uh a pagan king. Okay? Zechariah, um Dated it to a pagan king, his authority uh and rule over Israel and Jerusalem. This period is referred to by theologians as the time of the Gentiles God's covenant people were under the dominion of a foreign nation. And, you know, depending on uh this is a theological uh point of view. Some people do not um uh see it in this grid. I will be coming from a point of view that Israel uh Will remain Israel even during the church age. There is a separation. Believing Jews are believing Jews. uh the grid I don't want to use a w I'll have to throw it out there. I'm not this isn't uh uh you may have heard of theology dispensationalism. It's progressive revelation Uh uh I think that's how MacArthur you can say, I don't like the term dispensationalism because the next thing you know, now you gotta define that. And and it seems like we're always redefining what dispensationalism is It's progressive revelation. But the the Gentiles, the time of the Gentiles, I mean, it's scriptural. Again, that Romans 11 passage Until the fullness of the Gentiles comes in. Uh he's hardened the hearts. Um while I'm speaking, somebody wanna look at that, uh look at uh Romans, I think it's eleven twenty five. Somebody want to get that passage and we'll read it. But this time of the Gentiles, to me, some will define it as uh gentile dominion and role. I think it's broader than that. It is that, but I think it's broader than that. Israel doesn't have a king. They still don't have a king. Uh the but there the uh and I think this passage will bear that out. Does somebody have um yes Yeah, please. Yeah, maybe you better do twenty-six because I'm shooting from uh memory here. For I do not want you, brethren, to be uninformed of this mystery, so that you will not be wise in your own estimation that a partial hardening has happened to Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles has come to And so all Israel will be saved, just as it is written. The deliverer will come from Zion. He will remove ungodliness from Jacob. Can I finish point that up? This is my covenant with them when I take away their sins. Yeah, it's a you can see the covenant and and they call it the fullness of the Gentile. And to me, I think It's more than just I think you need to broaden it out. It's also God is working with us, the Gentiles. If you and again, read that chapter. It's so critical Because he takes the he he has some Yeah, there's another key in here that says that a partial hardening has happened to Israel. Right. Meaning that some Jews are going to be saved. And they are saved. So thank God thank God for that or else Danna wouldn't be in here. Right. Right, and and and again, remember it's not like And all the first b all the first believers Well yeah. You know, w if even if you're familiar w with that axe story when uh Peter uh is dealing with Cornelius You're probably talking ten years after the crucifixion. Just to give you an idea what what your time frame is. Ten years You know, when you read it, we read that's a problem with with uh reading through scripture. It just boom you know, flies by, you think, Oh, this event, this event, this event and you look, it was ten years. Look at Abram uh Uh how long you had to wait? I mean I I wouldn't have lasted Well, it's you know, I'm like looking at my watch, you know, it's ten, fifteen, twenty five years. Well, and no thing but to think about it, and uh and that's the thing. So But that helps us we need to put ourselves in these people's position. What you know, what pressures were they under? They they they were getting revelations, but you know, it's over a time period. Think of how I know how forgetful I am. Uh I gotta move because I I really do want to get through these these verses. Um I want to get through one through six. This is the time of the Gentiles. This was huge when he tells um when he dated this and he put Darius there. Darius, however you want to pronounce it. So Durance came to power in like uh It looks like 522 is the date that that most give. And he kind of saved the Persian Empire from a civil war, right? Things are starting to break up on after Cyrus uh passed away and his son came in. His son was a conqueror, but you started to have um factions happening all over. They they didn't have a a a a powerful government like under Nebuchadnezzar or uh Cyrus. So so Darius kind of comes back in and reestablishes that. And that's that's huge, really. It's g it's God's sovereignty, I believe, uh working uh you know, to create an environment f for his plan uh and the people to be um to work out their salvation or for him to uh provide the the nation back to the land. So Zechariah's uh Zechariah begins his prophecy 520. So it's sixteen years after Cyrus. The temple hasn't been built. They laid the foundation. It's in rubble. If you read um a history is uh if you want a quick history on it, go back, read uh Ezra, at least about the first have have book of Ezra will bring up to the history of of what's going on during this time. And Haggai, two chapters. Haggai is two months before uh Zachariah's prophecy. So they're contemporaries of one another. And Aggey is is is exhorting the people in a way, is uh he he's saying, Look, you're paneling your houses, but my house lays right. So they think the lumber at all For the temple apparently. Spruced up their houses, but the temple was uh you know, and that that's our nature, okay? Uh we go back to our our ways The prophet's name, Zechariah, means God probably the Lord remembers, probably Yahweh is is is in his name, remembers. Again, these are these are uh just uh etymology, so you can only waste so much on on these um these name. But the Lord Remembers is is is pretty common amongst uh most commentators Um he's a s uh he and he gives his genealogy, Barekiah is his dad, i uh Ido is his granddad, and it looks as though Um Barekiah may have the speculation is he probably died young because Ido becomes if you look in the the different books, Ido uh is linked to uh Zechariah. So it it seemed as though uh maybe his father uh they they're priests and his father may not have uh uh been old enough even I don't know uh to become a priest but yeah so just a little background with that So in verses 1 through 6, Zechariah states the theme of the whole book, which is the theme of the whole scripture, really, right? uh that is if we want to participate in the fullness of God's promises and blessings you must repent of your sins and see God. That's always the problem, isn't it? We need to recognize uh we need God Uh Israel, uh like other nations, uh even now, uh, with the revelation we have, we don't know we're not recognizing God. They are not dependent on Israel's uh but these promises, this is important, God's telling us what's gonna happen. It's not based on whether Israel fulfills this Again, these are God's promises. Whether Israel fulfills, that will be what people, what Israelites, and what time and what age uh actually uh get the blessings of this promise. But the these promises will go forward. That does not so God's people uh they tend to divorce themselves from the responsibility of turning away from sin and obedience to his commands in order to share the blessings. And here it is, return to me and I will return to you That's the message of the book, right? Some others, like uh MacArthur, MacArthur looked at this and and The other message is God is going to comfort Israel. They're coming back. They're under all this pressure. He says, I'm going to comfort you. And he tells them what the prophecy is going to be. But let's without salvation, without um returning to God, that comfort's not really going to apply to you. It's not gonna apply to us. It's it's this again, it's repentance. It's the same story, it's salvation Verse 2. God's divine wrath. So the Hebrew uh word, uh somebody uh let's see, read uh verse 2 real quick And it's interesting there because the divine wrath of God in the Hebrew words uh The Lord was angry was angry with anger. It's uh kind of a Hebrewism. They repeat things. And what he's saying is Very angry, which is what we played in English, right? It's that it's that repetition. If you see the same word repeat it twice and you and the in the in the Old Testament in particular, it's very important. And if you see it reported three times, better pay attention. Right, right. Well, uh really, and if he said it once. Absolutely. If you don't get the third time it's too late. Yeah, again, uh he's tell God is holy and just, right? Uh he means to to have grace, uh, but he's not going to leave the guilty unpunished. Romans 118 We see the same thing, right? For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness, of men who suppress the truth and unrighteousness It's the truth, isn't it? We're we're suppressing the truth. We all man knows what the truth is. And it's interesting in in that uh I love that uh uh Romans passage because they're suppressing the truth. It's kind of like you know that game, you ever see that game where you've uh Frog or whatever and it pops up and they keep you keep punching it down. Truth keeps popping up and look at us. We keep look at look at society today. It's just so prevalent. We see it. It's so obvious. They people are just it oh We're we're totally ignoring things. We're suppressing the truth. The truth keeps emerging and we keep making things up. We keep distracting ourselves Uh I I I'm just um uh I think it's incredible what we're witnessing during this time. It is we are in a tremendous pivotal stage I I just think. It's just I don't like it, but it's history at we're uh watching it on fold at a rapid pace. Amazing Verse 3, return to me and I will return to you. And the and in the verse, um I have new American standard. I assume some of you are using that also. Uh let me get my eyes out here. Therefore say to them, Thus said the Lord of hosts, return to me, the Lord of hosts, that I may return to you, says the Lord of hosts. Little grammar thing that some of the uh commentators help me with and is can be used in different ways, right? It can be subordinate or coordinate. Not that you really care or want to hear about that, but It's not subordinate here, he goes, return to me, and I will return to you. They're coordinate. It's not subordinate with In other words, there's no may. It's not subjunctive. It's like I may return to you. He's telling them, I will return to you. Okay? I this may is bad translation. I think. The American standard, which was the predecessor to this, has will return to you. Uh and it's good that's why it's always good to look at different versions. ESV, I think I think Newman Standard's the only one who translates it that way. I think uh New King James, as I recall, ESV, even the New Living Translation says, I will return to you after that. I think what I'll do next week, if y'all don't print out the notes, I'll try and have them printed. Do we do that? Yeah. So 'cause I know they're online, I know people don't download them. And really I I really pr want to print them out so that you can take notes. I'm not going to be able to uh because I haven't um had a whole quarter to work ahead my notes It's one thing for me to write my notes up, it's another thing to write 'em up in a way that they're edited and uh What in the world is he saying there? So uh I would like to do that, but I don't know that I ought to have time. So we got about uh ten minutes. So he he reminds his people, right that they need to return to him. He displays his grace. Think about how he displays his grace. He sent um Zechariah, he sent Haggai as a message But again, look at what he's done with the uh Gentiles. He's got Cyrus. Cyrus gave a decree. There he's uh He treated the Israelites well, even in Babylon. Look at look at the majority stated. They they weren't being persecuted. Things were things were okay. They had created a life for themselves, get fifty thousand, a little less than fifty thousand return. Majority stayed. Also if you look at the uh I think Reed Ezra, it says those it's again, God's sovereignty. The people whose heart God and passion God woke to come back. Again, it's God's sovereignty. You don't want a bunch of uh non committed people working on this this the this property, this New Jerusalem Also, Sosiris, he brings along Darius, and later we're going to see Arta Xerxes. He's got Gentile kings that are doing his service He's my servant. He can God uses uh non-believers uh to move his plan forward, doesn't he? Another phrase, look here, did you notice the Lord of hosts? How that's repeated through here I think it's five cot, if I count it correctly. Armies. Go ahead and put armies in there. Armies is is is uh the basic translation for this and uh uh it's the Lord of armies. What's he saying there? This is a God who is in control. He is going to do what he's going to do. He is going to judge. Right? He he just warned them. He said, You're fathers, right? He's going to move forward that. He's going to develop that as we move through this passage. Right? They disobey him. Again, return to me that I may return to you. Keep that passage in mind. It's it's the same in all generations, right? Right? Repent. Same word. Recognize your sin. Uh we're saved, but I know for myself there are plenty of times I need to stop, repent, whatever sin is being revealed. It's always in layers, right? I was uh worse centered than I am now, but I still have layers to get through, right? And God is refining us. Keep moving forward. Keep we have to keep that that sin in mind. It's uh if we're gonna grow. Let's look at verse four Somebody were to read verse four. Do not be like your fathers to whom former prophets proclaim, saying, Thus says the Lord of hosts, return not to from your evil ways and from your evil deeds. But they did not listen or give heed to thee, declares the Lord. Yeah this is I I this is the uh Uh you could say this is a disciple lesson here, or this is a counseling lesson here. Um That's what counseling is, it's discipleship. So Zechariah's message says to the people is a warning not to be like their fathers. who did not listen to the prophets. Again, there's a break of from the pattern of thought and behavior their fathers practiced. People look you know, most of us look to our fathers, our ancestors for something good. Uh something to you know, we we tend to forget the uh uh the negatives about things. That's why Andre you know, people go to ancestry dot com. What are they looking for? Some major hey, look who I'm related to. We kinda t pitch our wagon uh to that, don't we? But um uh th there's a couple of th look at what he says here. Uh Repent from your evil ways and deeds. The phrase evil ways is the idea of a journey, a direction, a lifestyle, a thinking, a philosophy. Right? It is the course, the the course and path of life and one's actions. What the world is imposing on us, what way we're thinking. Are we thinking biblically? This was always Pastor Leek's uh thing. He was so radical about that. He goes, yeah, yeah, a lot of people We do Bible, uh, but he said we don't really live and think and and act biblically You know, and and he was when you think about that, it's radical if you really do it down to the thinking we could seem like we're getting legalistic, but it's it's to be aware, half much the world creeps in to our thinking. We see this we see this in the church now with all this stuff that's coming up Um well I don't even know the names of it. I always forget. What's this called? Uh with the uh What's a theory that's the critical race? Critical race theory. I I have not I have no desire to even put this on my critical race theory. We got the biblical theory. Critical theory. It's it's to live biblically. It's it's you ke all of that is going to be in the realm of works. Again, it's not with grace. It's not powered by God. God is going to change us. And and these people, look at what he says. Your ways. It's it's the thinking. Are you thinking about me? Are you thinking about the world? Are you thinking about yourself selfishness isn't that where it all starts? Well this stuff? Critical race theory, Black Lives Matter. It's it's always selfishness. Right? It's kind of the the the the root of the fall. So th you w we need to think there and look at the deeds and your evil deeds We are going to practice Bodhi thing. As a man thinks, so he is. It's it's out of the heart comes from. And and this is where we need to expose ourselves to God's word. That's our responsibility. The grace is he changes us from the inside out I can't change myself. I'd like to. I'd like to speed things up. You know? It's a lot easier to get this word in this, isn't it? I mean we can study a lot and become intellectual But the the practice and the doing, that's grace. And that's it is a practice though. It is keep yourself in the light. Keep yourself, okay, in God in God's realm. That's what they that's what they left. He said, your evil deeds and your evil practices. And so what happens? Right? Where are they? Yeah. He right. Your fathers, verse five. Your fathers, where are they and the prophets? Do they live forever? Again, verse 5, he's trying to look at where your fathers are. Most of them have passed away. Look at what happened to them. We were in Babylon. Look at where we are now. We we got a we got the uh foundation but we got no uh temple. Nehemiah's way to uh still further down the road, we have no wall We're we're we're in the bushes really. We're we're in the uh we're they're hiding. They're not living up on the city mount They're being uh uh stressed on all sides. So there's a brevity of that, how fast it goes, is what he's trying to show them And the but and the prophets. The prophets is is uh w it needs to come at it from a different point. He's not talking about the prophets just pass away like your father's It's the prophets, it's the message. Think about how that we we we lose our prophets Uh our in our day they don't last. Okay? When we have a good word from somebody, somebody's really gifted by God, you can see God's working in them That's a gift. Don't underestimate that. They're not gonna be around forever. Uh I think of a Chuck Colson. I remember Chuck Colson passed away. What an apologetic that guy was. If you listen to him, heard any of this stuff. Pastor Leek, I came to the church. I mean I heard his message. We came for a uh a uh Christmas Eve service. Um my son uh said, Hey, let's go to this church. Uh we church we're going to have Christ Christmas Eve service. Heard his preaching, I mean it was on It was passionate, I go, This is it. I want to come to this church. This this he's on. God is God was working in these servants, but they're not always going to be here. You know, and I I can think of a lot um since I uh became of uh faith. I listened to Christian radio all day long and and I was listening to these men. A lot of 'em have passed away, they're getting old, John MacArthur. He doesn't have many years left. Um, you know, so God will raise up another generation, but Not always, right? And the prophets that were not there. Think of again it's a time frame. Remember the prophets weren't there in a continuous flow. Let's finish with verse six and then we're done. But did not my words and my statutes and my commandments, my servants, the prophets, overtake your fathers? Then they repented and said, As the Lord opposed prophets to do to us accordance with the way of our deeds, He is di He uh so He has dealt with us The Lord of Hosts, he's he said it. God is going to uh bring judgment on his people. Uh I was thinking of uh When uh Moses wanted to see God's glory and he goes, God is God of compassion and kindness and merciful and patient He says, but he will he will not neglect the sin of those, right? Judgment will come on the sin of those uh who have sinned Yes, he is gracious, he is compassionate, but he's also a God of judge. He's not just uh the church that Laura and I grew up in was God is love. Yeah. There's no judgment. God is law. Everybody's gonna be okay and you do more good than you do. No. So they threw about half the Bible waiting. Yeah. We had a guy and I said this before, we had a guy we had a man who was a I say a guy he was called a minister, a pastor. He from the bulk he said, there's no help Why and you would think the church we went to had a lot of I don't know how to put this. You know. These were smart people. We had physicians, um, ph physicists there, we had physicians. You know, I mean these are You know, but blindness is blindness. They remember it. And that's what I want us to remember. These people, you had faith in this time Our vision is not an intellectual, it's a gift. So we can see this in these prophecies. It was a gift to them, those that believed. Again, the whole of Israel was in that covenant, but you only had a remnant that had faith, who had eyes to see and ears to hear. Heavenly Father, we lift up this uh