I was kinda talking before s some of you arrived. It uh we're obviously on the last chapter fourteen, we were closing this out. But uh we just When you look at at a lot of the things that are presented today, uh standing on the Mount of Olives, these uh uh the first verses, Israel's under persecution. Uh All of this has been cat has been um presented really from nine all the way through. In chapter nine we saw the again the uh Right, the uh coming of the Messiah on a donkey, but particularly chapter 11, we talk about the the Good Shepherd. Uh they rejected the Good Shepherd Uh they were gonna make a uh they were gonna accept the false shepherd. We saw that in chapter eleven Uh we and all of these these are are the same uh issues from different times and different points, but within a short time And remember that phrase, in that day. He keeps repeating it. In that day. And then he tells us specifics about in that day. In that day is m his feet are going to touch the mount of alms. It's going to split. Uh yeah, and and uh we'll look at several of these in this chapter, in that day Um you know water's gonna flow out of this this this uh out of uh the really the temple. We'll we'll look at that Uh well the other point I'm trying to make is he's in t in chapter twelve he talked about um their kind of Israel's victory over uh So it was in that day, but that victory really comes at the end. We saw in chapter 13 where he says two-thirds are going to be cut off Right? But so these are the same events from different points of view. It's not necessarily chronological, but so you w each time you approach these you you're kinda plopped down into the event and you get the detail for that event. But it's not laid out in a nice chronological this is what happened on day one. And it's just you know God just elects not to do it that way. Uh it's God's word. Zechariah wrote it, but uh remember this is if it's not God's word, he how would he know if it was true, right? So I I all that I said is is um Chapter 14, we're gonna we like I said, we're we we have twenty-one verses here. I don't know if we're gonna get through all of this in this time. Uh but a lot of it we've covered before. I and I I want to If I feel like I'm running out of time, there's a few things I I'd like to hit on that are really high points. Um uh Uh so and that's probably the way we'll approach it. But I I want you I want you to think back and and and okay, we'll we'll you know s As we go through 14, so a lot of these issues have been addressed in eleven, twelve, and thirteen. And that's a w I I just want that to kind of be brought to your mind So chapter 14 presents the fulfillment of the kingdom of God and its blessings in verses 8 through 21 But first he gives a more detailed account of the last siege of Jerusalem, right? He gives us some some things there. And the second coming of Christ. So both of these episodes have been presented in chapter twelve, the siege and deliverance uh uh twelve one through nine, the second advent, right? We saw that. They looked on him who they pierced, uh twelve ten But from a different point of view in a slightly different time. Again, when we say the day of the Lord, we're not talking about one day. It's kinda it's kinda like a a a period. It's a very short period really. It's condensed. But i it's it's not it's kinda like, you know, the day of enlightenment or the day of you know, it it's it's an age or a or a or a period. It's not so much it's just one day Uh a lot happens on on the on these times and it it is condensed. But uh look at this over uh uh multiple days Uh really, um three and a half years uh i is uh we we talk about the tribulation being seven years, three and a half years is when the majority of of the uh real uh curses and and uh you know sky being darkened, those kinds of things. That those are the that's the period that these happen in The siege of uh chapter twelve is presented at the end when God uh will protect Israel. Because if you remember, they said, remember Israel and Judah they're gonna be like a firepot, they're gonna be like a torch Rem if you recall that? This is kind of their victory, right? But he didn't really talk about the two thirds being cut off in that chapter, right? And that's what I'm trying to show you when he i uh when he presents them sometimes it's the way he got elected. He just plops you down at a certain point uh of that uh of that period, that uh in that day period is what was referred to So the siege in chapter 12 is presented at the end uh when God will protect Israel. Chapter 14 begins gives the details at the beginning of the siege when right uh in more detail when two thirds will be cut off and killed. Uh all looks hopeless The Messiah will return on the Mount of Allah's coming in grace and salvation for the remaining elect of the Israelites. So that's what we're going to kind of look at here. So verse 1. Behold, a day is coming for the Lord when the spoil taken from you will be divided among you. Now the day is coming is is it's uh it's kind of idiomatic, but it really what it is, it's it's uh equivalent to the day of the Lord. It's a reference to the Old Testament text That are rendered by the phrase the day of the Lord. So many commentators have tried to interpret this phrase as an event that is going on today in the church or present age Grammatically uh this Hebrew phrase can be translated, a day is coming, uh the Lord's, i. e. distinctly and preeminently his. was uh Unger's kind of uh definition of it. Uh the context verifies the interpretation uh for the day of the Lord is the period immediately before the second coming of Christ when he will publicly show his power by taking back possession of the earth and will judge both men and wicked angels who oppose him. He will deliver the elect remnant of his people And establish his kingdom of righteousness and peace over the whole earth. We'll look at that, uh believe that's in here. Later. This is precisely the subject of Zechariah fourteen one through three. So look at this. When the spoil was taken, it will be divided among you So he what he's referring to is they're going to come in and take all the spoil, but typically right when they take the spoil they carry it off. What he's saying here is they're going to divide it right there in the city They're they're gonna be overwhelmed. They're overrun. It's it's a uh God has given us that detail. They're gonna be crushed. They're gonna sit down leisurely and divide the spoil And so really what you should think about it, put yourself in their place. They feel devastated. I mean there are. They're under control And remember he said that that earlier in these chapters that Israel was going to stand and all, right? You see what I'm saying? He he's looking, he's giving us, yes, Israel will stand, Jerusalem will stand But he in that when he's looking towards the end. Now we're seeing what's going on with the the the two thirds and uh w when the armies are are uh put against them. Uh i it they're going to be uh they're gonna be without hope is what it's gonna be To verse two, uh I will gather the nations against Jerusalem to battle uh and the c uh um to battle and the city will be captured, houses plundered, the women ravaged or raped and half of the city uh exiled, but the rest of the people will not be cut off from the city And here's the promise. See the remnant is ultimately going to be secure. But At the time it looks like it is, it looks like total devastation. For I will gather all the nations against Jerusalem to battle. In verse one we read that uh the booty will be divided in the city and that uh not because of superiority of opposing forces, but because of the providence of God The the hand of God is in here, for I will gather them. For the Lord will gather the nations against Jerusalem. God's purposes and plans are not only sovereign But will be carried out by wicked angels and wicked men. Even the rebellion of angels and men against God are used for his glory. The Israelites will uh be judged for their rebellion and their wicked behavior when the Lord gathers the nations against Jerusalem Again, we're going to see this over and over again. God judges sin. They are a chosen people. But that doesn't mean Right? He's not going to judge him. You we will all be judged, right, for what we've done on earth. Fortunately for us Christians, us believers, we will be judged, but not in a way that we'll we'll be judged for what what we're what rewards we get or lack thereof that we could have gotten. But God is going to judge. He's righteous. He's holy. We forget that. We become familiar with him. Maybe you don't, but I it it's a it's a problem that I have to fight with uh you g I get intimate with God and and he's holy though. It it's kind of a t a twofold thing. I I think I need the and I've been looking at this, uh the fear of God With the security of God. It's both, isn't it? I need both. It keeps me uh reminds me of my flesh. Don't walk in the flesh. I need you. It it makes me depend on grace. All the nations are those who are distinct from the Jewish people. Right? He goes, All the nations Uh let's see, and I've got a quote here. Uh remember when Balaam uh was commissioned by Balach to curse the Israelites? Look at what he prophesies in Numbers uh 23, 8 and 9. How shall I curse whom God has cursed, whom God has not cursed? How can I denounce whom the Lord has not denounced? As I see him from the top of the rocks, and I look at him from the hills, behold a people who dwells apart, and will not be reckoned among the nations. God even to uh Balaam, Balaam had saw this through God's eyes. God enlightened him. God is separate. The Jewish people are separate from the nations. We're usually when we talk about the nations, we're referring to anybody non-Jews, Gentiles That distinction y i i it's incredible if you're especially in these um uh prophetic passages, end-time passages, that we keep the two distinct I've talked about this before. Uh I look I I this and this is this is my little theology thing or my way of looking at it. Uh so take it with what it is. I look at um Jewish people. I look at Sayyid people, Christian Right? And then there's Gentiles. So what the Jews are ethnic Jews, uh not saved. The church, the Christians, could be it can be Jew and Gentiles, right? Small remnant, but still Jew and Gentiles. That's the church So I look at the three categories. And then you got Gentiles, okay? So there is a distinction in categories with all these three. So and and I think that's what makes it so difficult with us now, which is why some Really godly and I mean uh intellectuals, uh uh scholarly people look at the church as the new Israel Uh and we don't see it that way. Um and and I think when we read through these passages, uh we see a distinction. And the city will be captured, and the houses plundered, women ravished, half of the city exiled, but the rest of the people will not be cut off from the city. This is the time of Jacob's troubles, what he prophesied. Jeremiah 30 verses 5 through 7. For thus says the Lord, I have heard a sound of terror, of dread, and there is no peace. Ask now and see if a male can give birth. Why do I see every man with his hands on his loins as a woman and childbirth? And why have all the faces turned pale? Alas! For that day is great. There is none like it. It is the time of Jacob Jacob's distress. Some translations will call this Jacob's trouble. But he will be saved from it. This is what Zechariah is talking about. Veiled uh somewhat somewhat obscure because the Jeremiah doesn't give a specific. But it i it's a time of trouble like no other. And and this is what we're gonna see a little bit here. Uh uh there's g it's it's gonna be There's gonna be it's not gonna be like any other day. It's going to later he calls it a unique day or uh n no day like it Verses 3 and 4. The Lord will go forth and fight against the nations as when the fights on a day of battle. In that day his feet will stand on the Mount of Oves, which is in front of Jerusalem on the east. And the amount of bowels will split in the middle from east to west by a very large valley, so that half of the mountain will move toward the north, the other half toward the south. Think about this. This is the Lord, okay? Uh it is the Lord who will fight against the nations trying to eliminate all the Jews from the earth, right? Joel 3-2 prophesied concerning I will gather all the nations and bring them down to the Valley of Joseph. Um some people think that this valley is when the Lord stood on this mount He creates a valley for them to escape. And this is where we think the the final battle's gonna be, the battle of Armageddon, right? Uh but this is the valley of Jehoshaphat. Then I will enter into judgment with them there on behalf of my people and my inheritance, Israel, whom they have scattered among the nations. And they have divided up my land. We Joel looks like he's prophesying the same time when the nations and remember Who brought the nations against Israel during this time? Yes, the Lord. God brought them against them God's working out his plan. All he ha he doesn't he doesn't have to all he has to do is tell them, allow them to go. They will go. Right? They hate those people. I'll just allow you to go. They'll take care of it, right? God uses um God's sovereign over all things. It's amazing. We we forget that. How can these bad people do this? God's allowing them to have it Okay, he he's not punishing him. He's he already has a people that will punish his nation for him. W you saw that in the Old Testament when uh it remember the uh Uh two nations were were divided, right? Israel in the north. Assyria came down. He allowed Assyria to come down. Remember uh Jonah went off to Nineveh He goes, I didn't want to do it. Well, yeah, eventually Nineveh, Assyria did come down and crush but why did they do it? Because they were sinning. They had they were They had evil kings all the time. Same thing here, that at the end of the age. God will judge sin. That's who he is And you know as bad as we think about this is remember, uh and I don't know about you, but I was thinking, okay, this is bad But this is just on a worldly sense, right? This is what's what's bad? Heaven and hell. I mean for eternity Uh it's one thing to be wiped out in a in a short time. I mean that that passes, but I mean remember, this is ultimately etern uh eternal separation. So this this is a picture of how just a glimpse of how bad uh hell can be, separation from God In that day his feet will stand on the Mount of Olives. Again, there's one of your time markers. It's in that day. What's going to happen? Well, one of the things We're gonna you're gonna see Christ stand on the Mount of Olives. Now think about this. We just read uh you see in verse three here it states that uh uh Who's going to fight against Israel? The Lord will go forth and fight against the nation. Verse 4, in that day his feet, whose feet? Okay, look do you see the connection there? Then the Lord will go forth. Fight against those nations. as he fights on the day of battle. In that day his feet. So who's that his referring to? The Lord's. Do we know who's coming back? Who left from the Mount of Olives? Yeah, Jesus Christ, right? Christ is he's pretty much saying right here, Christ is deity, right? Again, you ever notice how God always gives people a uh a gap there, you know, so the unregenerate have a gap to reject 'em. Nah nah, that's not what it says. Uh it it takes uh it takes uh salvation for us to see the connection here. But he he's saying right here. Christ is the Lord, right? I will gather all the nations and bring them down, right? I read that. His feet will stand on the Mount of Olives in verse three. It states that Yahweh will fight against the nations, verse four. We have the statement that his feet will stand on the Mount of Olives. Uh I say, how can the Lord's feet stand on the Mount of Olives as the resurrected Christ is being referred to who was taken up uh As as the disciples looked on. Remember Acts 111? Angel said, Why are you staring up in his face? Thus Christ is referred to as deity here in Zechariah, he's referred to as Yahweh, the Messiah will return to earth in his glorified body Uh the same spot uh he was seen ascending into heaven. In that day is the timing of the earth transforming event Uh the details are given here in this chapter. They cannot be the events that have occurred over the centuries, uh with the beginning of the church age, as some would interpret So w w I know w we're in this church or immersed in this church, but if you read a lot of commentators, reform theology, things like that They're saying that all these events are occurring during this time now and will occur in this age. But it it you know it's it's hard. illusions out of these and not interpret them literally. We believe in interpreting literal, grammatical, historical. uh w that the time period it was written, uh according to the grammar of the of the text, uh uh and also uh literal So this is the only place that this talks about the Mount of Olives in the Old Testament. 2 Samuel 1530 talks about the scent of uh of olives, uh which may be a reference to that mount. Um the cherubim are uh lifted up let's see what is this uh Ezekiel So uh uh I guess honor here, and I was talking earlier with with Mel about this. Um Apparently uh this mountain is 200 feet above Mount Zion, 300 feet above uh above Mount Moriah. So this mountain kind of And again these mounds are not huge. They're not that far apart. I think these talking about two miles distance total or something, somebody uh somewhere around Um visible. Uh Mount of Oves. Right. Uh probably less than a mile. Yeah. So it's right there, it's visible. I mean when you look out the east gate you see Mount of Olives Uh and and that's what we're gonna look at here. You it's always to the east. It's at the east gate of the temple. Well when you when you use when you stand on the Mount of Olive. You're looking you you look down on uh what's believed to be uh Moriah which is where the uh Which is where the dome of the rock sits. Right. Right. They saw not that much. This I have a I was looking it up and it's two hundred and thirty six week difference in elevation point. And the Mount Mount Moriah is the same elevation as the city of the city of Jerusalem. Jerusalem is sit it sits on the heat Right. And there's several little valleys and then these little hills surrounding Jerusalem. But uh Mount of Olives, you were right, Mount of Olives is the tallest, at least as tallest I've been able to find. Right. The topography, we're going to read about this, we can get to it. It's going to be changed totally changed. Jerusalem is going to be uh preeminent because the the when he stands on here and he talks about this being leveled to a plane, uh uh J then Jerusalem uh m uh is going to be the uh prevalent uh mountain It makes sense. Uh people are gonna go up uh to worship. They're gonna see it from high and lift it up So let's see. Ezekiel saw the glory of the Lord depart on this mountain. This is uh uh Ezekiel eleven twenty two and twenty three. Then the cherubim lifted up their wings with the wheels beside them, and the glory of God of Israel hovered over them The glory of the Lord went up from the midst of the city and stood over the mountain which is east of the city. Talking about Mount of Olives, it's east. Ezekiel also had another vision during the temple. Ezekiel 40 to like 48, really talking about the millennial temple. So and the glory of the Lord came into the house by the way of the gate facing toward the east. And the Spirit lifted me up and brought me into the inner court, and behold, the glory of the Lord filled the house. So Ezekiel saw the glory depart uh and return from the Mount of Olives in the east of Jerusalem. And this is what what we'll see. We see this. We keep talking about to the east. The Lord enters apparently in the millennial kingdom through the east. Think that's it. The mountain also makes way of escape uh difficult because of the narrow brook it prevents uh one from traveling. Is that right, Mel? When you look down and in the back of Jerusalem or the brook to get across there, it's not a way of escape. Um apparently uh w when this uh when he splits this mountain, the mountain of Owls will be split in the middle from east to west by a very large uh valley so that half the mountain will move towards the north, the other towards uh the south. The Lord appears personally, bodily to deal with Israel's uh enemies. During the last days there'll be a great earthquake and the Lord Lord's feet will touch the Mount of Olives. It will create a large valley. This valley will aid Israel to escape. It will also set Jerusalem apart from the surrounding region, Millennial Kingdom So five uh verse five, and you will flee by the valley of my mountains, for the valley of the mountains will reach Azelle Yes, you will flee just as you fled before the earthquake in the days of Uzziah the king of Judah. Then the Lord my God will come and all the holy ones with him. So the Lord's gonna not only was gonna split this mount, he's gonna provide a way of escape. Remember he said that if we're in there, he's not gonna cut off the remnant Well that's that's who's going to be allowed to escape. The Lord will provide a way and means to escape for the remnant of Jews who survived the onslaught of the nations They will be spared. The devastation of the earthquake will be will provide the valley. They can flee from their captors. The Lord will provide this valley when he descends and stands on the Mount of Olives, causing the mountain to split in two. So the valley uh uh will make a Zelda, perhaps uh the same as in Micah uh 111. It's a close by city, we're we're not really sure. Uh uh exact location or what it refers to. Um it's for it will be made ready for a refuge for Israel And uh, you know, apparently it was a major earthquake. Again, Amos one one talks about this. They'll be able to flee in those days, like apparently it was a a huge earthquake then. Then the Lord my God will come, all the holy ones with them. This statement here is that God will come. It is clear reference to the Messiah's uh deity along with verses three and four. Now they'll speak to the Lord, uh seat standing on the Mount of Olives, a reference to his seat. Uh he points to the humanity of his deity uh his feet will stand. We're we're looking at the uh glorified Christ. He does have a body. Glorified? Yes, but it is still a body The Lord uh will come and return to the earth. So it's a scene of rebellion, he delivers his people from total destruction. All the holy ones with him Now, the holy ones refer us to angels, but it also includes the holy saints. New Testament speaks of the coming of the Lord with all the saints in 1 Thessalonians 3. 13, Jude 14 also writes of the saints. the that the Lord will come with ten thousands of his holy ones. New Testament saints are promised uh glorification with Christ's second advent, Colossians 3, 4 When Christ, who is our life, is revealed, then you also will will be revealed with him in glory. When he comes back in glory, it looks like we're going to be revealed with him in glory. The glory for the saints is a total transformation of person when the saint receives a mortal, incorruptible body 1 John 3. 2, beloved, we are now children of God, as not yet appeared what we will be. We know that when he appears, we will be like him, because we will see him just as he is So look at Revelation 19, 7 through 9. John writes to the marriage of the lamb to his bride, the saints will be clothed with a fine linen. Alright, and then you see in Revelation uh 1911 when Christ is coming back, he's seated on a white horse, he returns to judge and wage war with the earth, the inhabitants Then verse fourteen, his armies are with him clothed in white linen, seated on white horses. Those who were clothed with in white uh linen in the marriage of the lamb must be part of the army that returns. to earth with Christ. He uses saints there, uh and even in um holy ones in in the Old Testament. He could have used Moloch, which is messenger, which is Don't get me wrong, holy ones could be a term for angels, but it can also be a term for uh believers, holy ones, separate, set apart, which is what we are. We believe, uh emphatically, that we are going to be returning to him when he comes. Uh uh we'll be a witness to it, it looks like What a tremendous. It's incredible. We will witness all this. Glorified bodies. Uh it just it it's a ma it's a ma it just kind of uh bottles the mind, doesn't it? Um especially when we're down here in this in this light But even again, as again, we we kind of read through this, it sounded almost academic. Try and put yourself in their place. Imagine I mean they this is the time of Jacob's trouble. They're gonna be really uh a lot of them are gonna be crushed We we'll we'll talk about the uh we'll we'll see some of the the judgment. He he he comes back to it again. In that day there would be no light, the time or age in which this takes place has already been established in verse one. The day of the Lord. Uh when the Lord shall stand on the Mount of Olives, verse four, and return with the saints, verse five. The prophecy of the day of Behold, the day of the Lord is coming, cruel with fury, burning anger, to make the land a desolation. And we he will exterminate its sinners from it. I mean he prophesying, he said you know he's ta he's warned them. Think about this. Isaiah's writing what? 700 BC, somewhere thereabouts. The sinners are going to be judged This is a theme we see. God's word tells us over and over and over again. God will judge sinners. For the stars of heaven, their constellations will not flash forth their light The sun will be darkened when it rises, and the moon will not shed its light. Joel 3, 14-16 speaks of the darkness Uh Matthew picks up on this. Jesus, right? Mount of Olives. He come they come out. Remember he talked about the temple and he goes, I tell you what, not one stone is going to be left upon another and he he tells them these end time prophecies. He's giving 'em uh really a a a peg of of what's gonna be happening. He he picks up Daniel, as Daniel the prophet, he quotes Daniel, and he dovetails right in w with what's going on in Revelation. But immediately after the tribulation of those days the sun will be darkened and the moon will not give us light, and the stars will fall from the sky, and the powers of the heavens will be shaken And then the sign of the Son of Man will appear in the sky, and all the tribes of the earth will mourn, and they will see the Son of Man coming on the cloud. um excuse me of the clouds of the sky with power and great glory. Now think about this. We saw this. All the earth, all the tribes were mourned Now we saw Israel, right, the remnant is left. They will mourn, right? They will mourn over him whom they appear. But all are gonna mourn. Some are gonna mourn because we see like in Revelation they the when when the things are going bad and and uh they say uh They don't they don't repent. They say, boy, we want the mountain to fall on us and hide us from the judgment of God So they'll all mourn, some to repentance, some will mourn because of and still be angry at God Uh God saves and and uh so it looks like you know all will mourn though. It's going to be dark. I can uh it seems seems like with this picture uh all will see you. The glory of the God is going to appear MacArthur says I he says it's he thinks it's gonna take a couple of days, but in other words, he's gonna give him time and it's just like the the whole world's gonna lay up from God's glory. It's not going to be day or night, it's going to be something totally different. They're going to be gone, uh oh, and some will rejoice, right And there will be saints, uh there will be gentiles too, right? We're gonna have you're gonna have both uh saved. Not all the Gentiles, but you know when we look at the nations going up, it's kind of a a the whole world uh a representative of of all the nations, but but not all the people will go up For it'll be a unique day which is known to the Lord, neither day nor night, but it will come about at the evening time. There will be light. And and uh kind of what I I just what this verse is saying is what I just mentioned here. But unique day is really it's it's kind of it's a ordinal number, one, two, three, four, kind of a thing. It's just one. It's the one and only. It's unique. It's it's uh uh this day is is It's gonna be the one. It's not gonna be a null one. And that's that's what you're referring to here. So you can see the different translation Um again I had I wrote this out. I said you may think about astronomers and people look at signs and everything else. This is out think about they're using nature to try and figure out when God's going to do something. When you think about it, it's absurd in itself. If you K can even hypothetically believe that God there is a God and he is gonna do it because he's this is outside of nature He just shut nature down, the lights are shut down. That how can they look at nature to find out when he's gonna do something miraculous you need to think through and process. This is the absurdity of man though, isn't it? And it's funny. It we are drawn to that. Many of believers, uh I can't tell you how many If you hear uh the stories of people saying um uh the this is when Christ is coming back. Uh I've heard commentators uh when they go through revelations and things like that and they list some of the groups. you know, that have done it over and over and over again. Because it it's kind of a desire. It's like, well when's it coming? It's it's it is natural, isn't it? It's it's hard to say, okay guys, your time Uh what's he saying in uh I forget it ch it's uh the twenty four or twenty-five, not even the son of man knows the hour in which he's coming back, right? Um When when when God's ready, he'll come back. Um But you who fear my name, uh oh, this is uh Malachi wrote this. Um but for you who fear my name, the Son of righteousness will rise with healing and his and So he's kind of predicting this this son of righteousness appearing. Psalm uh ninety-seven uh this seems like uh uh the fire goes from him and burned Up his advers uh his adversaries around about. His lightnings lit up the world, the earth saw and trumble. Again, these prophecies dovetail with each other So so we're looking at this and then now we're transitioning, right? We're talking about uh uh uh the trials that are going on, Israel will the remnant will be saved. He's gonna touch on the mount now in verse eight And in that day living waters will flow. So we've now we're talking about uh the provision, aren't we? And again, boom. We just transition. So think about where you are in in this time. It's obviously uh uh this would be after Um all these trials after the Lord has judged the nations, after the nation should say after the nations have judged Israel, then Israel judged the nations. Right? Uh the The mountains have split, and so now in that day living waters will flow out of Jerusalem, half of them towards the Eastern Sea, the other half uh towards the western sea. And it will be in the summer as it is in the west winter. Uh you know, things dry up in the summer, right? No, not this not this one. Ezekiel wants uh is really uh uh Again, this is a millennial temple. Ezekiel forty seven, one through twelve. He talks about this. If you get a chance, read this. He talks uh gives you some detail, but look at uh uh uh the final verse, uh uh Ezekiel 4712 By the river on its banks, on one side and on the other, will grow all kinds of trees for food. Their leaves will not wither, and their fruit will not fail. They will bear uh every month because uh of their let me give my eyes here. Uh they will bear every month because of the water the their water flows from the sanctuary, and the fruit will be for food and their leaves for healing. Now that to me sounds like um I think it's uh Revelation twenty-two. He talks about the river flows, right? And it'll be for healing. And it's there's life there in that. And that's what it we have here This is going to flow out of the sanctuary. And this is in the millennial So this will be a thousand years. This is not Revelation 22, because that's when the new heavens and the new earth come down, right? This is before this is uh this is during the millennial kingdom And think about it. We can go off a little bit and speculate. And that's kind of where I'm doing right now, but think about it. The millennial kingdom is going to be different. Uh if you have you've I've said it before, you Isaiah 65, if you haven't read it, look at that part. People will live to be a hundred years old. A lot of you are familiar with that passage Think about that. This we're gonna have kinda have the Garden of Eden going on here. Um I mean Christ is gonna be reigning here Healing waters. Imagine how pure this water is gonna be. If you read in uh again in in Ezekiel um you you will see that even the salt sea uh Uh uh that's where it's gonna flow to. That's gonna become fresh water. But he leaves part of it marsh, he says, so they can get salt. Joel three eighteen. In that day the mountains will drip uh with sweet wine and the hills will flow with milk. And all the brooks and uh uh uh all the brooks of Judah will flow with water, and a spring will go out from the house of the Lord to water the valley of Shitham. Again, he's prophesying that it it's the same Verse 9, and the Lord will be king over all the earth in that day. The Lord will be the only one, and his name the only one Again, think of just think about that. Especially what we're looking at now. All this division Oh, these nations, you see the nation starting to rise up again. You see turmoil everywhere you look. China and Russia are seem to be rattling their sabers, so to speak, to use a metaphor uh you know. It it's just One king. And also we'll look at this i i if I don't get to it. There's also gonna be one religion, right? know all all these philosophies. Think about all the stuff that's even during this millennial time is going to be wiped out. And they're going to know the king. Trust me, there will be generations coming up. Some of those generations will be lost. You'll see that you read Revelation 20. They come up to uh against Jerusalem and God rains down fire. He he released Satan. Satan gathers them all up. Okay? Again, Satan's doing God's bidding. God releases Satan. Satan gathers all the unbelievers and uh he brings down fire. But there's gonna be think about the different economy. It's not gonna be all this different philosophy. They're either gonna buy it or reject him. Uh Uh there's only going to be one religion. We're gonna look at that. Um uh people will go up uh to the mountain. Uh And th they will come back for the Feast of Tabernacles and and uh probably will have to jump to get to it. I think that's a really important section. Uh uh Hunger taught me a lot about that Isaiah 2. 2. Now it will come about in the last days the mountain of the house of the Lord will be established as the chief of the mountains, and will be raised above the hills. All the nations will stream to it. And that's why I said this pre this preeminence, prey you know, right now you have these others. uh uh Mount of Olives. Uh Jerusalem's going to be the preeminent mountain. Twelve through fifteen. Um I'm just gonna paraphrase it. Look at this though. The plague. See now he he talked about this provision But now he kinda goes back to again the judgment, right? We're jumping back to the judgment. So you can see he's not look he's not putting this out in this nice linear fashion Because look, he says, look, the plague which the Lord will strike with all the peoples who have gone to war against Jerusalem, their their flesh rots on them while they're standing. And y'all see the Raiders of the Law Start and uh they open the box, the guy comes out. But you remember remember how they they they Maybe the maybe the guy the writer r uh read the you know and he goes, Oh yeah, I'll use that. But you know, think about it. I mean, that's judgment. And it it is graphic, isn't it? Again, it to me it it makes me uh re remember the separation, uh uh being separated from God for eternity. That that alone is hell. There's no life apart from God. There is no life apart from God. God is life There was nothing. And then God created this. There was nothing. All life comes from God. Satan has his has the world blinded and we think, you know, we go into evolu what we're doing is life emanates from us really or you know, we're the life. Now all life got is life. Yeah, and I don't know. Uh you know, I've speculated about this. Uh I think I I've I'm God's look if we think we can be fair, God is fair, right? I'm thinking some people are gonna be judged worse in hell than others, but I don't know that But separation is separation. You there's darkness. It's you're outer darkness. Hm. Fraternity is uh So we talked about Judah. Again, you you can look at that. I don't see uh I mean it it's uh it goes with the the I don't see that as anything too difficult to uh talks about panic. Uh how many times does God do that? Uh we you remember you talking about Gideon Uh the nations will the nations are gonna they're gonna do like they did in the days of Gideon, right? He's gonna have the nations fight against themselves. They're gonna be in a state of confusion. And that's what he's saying here. He's just gonna turn 'em over, they're they're not gonna know who the enemy is. Really the Lord fought the battle. Right Um Jew will be strong. You know, they they're gonna be wealthy from this, but again, salvation is the wealth Uh it's nice to have provision. We are definitely blessed here. But w w without uh I I wanted to get in this and this w probably one of the last things I really get to hit on Then it will come about that any or left of all the nations that went against Jerusalem will go up from year to year to worship the king. the Lord of hosts, uh, to celebrate the uh feast of Booth. So before we get into Feast of Booth and and I I copied this, we're we're not gonna have time to go through all these these scriptures Look at this and because what you're gonna get is a nice picture. Remember all those Old Testament were were word pictures and and uh um uh uh actual cult cultic kind of things that pointed to redemption, right? And the plan of God. These are all these feet, everything pointed to Christ and salvation And if you look at these and and uh look at the uh scriptures, uh ru read the Levitic Levitic Leviticus text And um and then compare them, right, to these tests. Uh all this is online if if you know if you the notes are there. So um And you'll see what the picture of these these different uh feasts were for. And it helps, especially when you're starting to go back and read the Old Testament and say, well what was this pointing to So, um look at this though. So obviously there's gonna be Gentiles, right? Left from those nations that did not go up. It says in from the nations that digged up. It doesn't mean these individuals did, right? Regardless, they're saved at this point. There's salvation here. When the Lord sets up his millennial kingdom, Jews and Gentiles that are still on earth will be saved. Does what what I the succeeding or the the generations that that follow uh is when you're gonna start to have unbelievers. But they're gonna start off with with all believers. God is totally gonna judge the world. So these feasts. The Passover was fulfilled at the death of Christ, excuse me, the Redeemer. 1 Corinthians 5. 7, 1 Peter 1. 19 Again, look at read the uh Leviticus passage. The feast of unleavened bread is being fulfilled in the wholly separate walk of believers. uh uh fellowship with the savior. Uh unleaven, right? We we always talk about always had that thing, right? They were always taking the leaven out and we we uh oftentimes there's a picture of what? Sin, right? So they're trying to get the sin out. The the Jews do a a thing today where they They put leaven in the house and the the kids will go find it and they get the leaven out of the house. It's a picture of of getting sin, dealing with sin. So we have that now with fellowship, but it'll be uh uh obviously much more during the millennial The feast of first fruits was fulfilled with the resurrection of Christ, right? He's the first fruit from the dead. See that in Colossians, too. Um actually they call them the firstborn, but uh first fruits is uh what's used in First Corinthians. Feast of Pentecost, right, was fulfilled And the formation of the Church of Pentecost that he gave us the resurrection of Christ. Right? We started that Uh Feast of Trumpets. So this will be fulfilled really in the future regathering of Israel at the beginning of the Millennial Kingdom. So it hasn't been fulfilled yet, but it will be fulfilled when r remember. A vast majority, a lot of people are back in Jerusalem, but you still have you will have people all over the world when this day of the Lord comes. They still will have people Jews scattered throughout. They will be all be called back, according to the scriptures, during the millennial reign. They will actually go back and dwell. So the feast of trumpets. So the trumpets will be completed at the beginning of the Millennial Kingdom. The Day of Atonement is prof as prophetic. Feature will be fulfilled in the conversion of Israel at the second advent. So remember the atonement was for Israel. And they'll see it when they look on him who may appear Again, we believe uh uh that that this is probably when they look on him is when Christ, I mean the glory of Christ, what we we talked about Uh when the darkness comes he puts his feet on the mount of olives. He allows them to escape. We believe that uh uh Uh I do and I follow some others, uh uh not everybody, but um I believe that's when they're gonna look on him who they appear. I think uh salvation i is going to be um uh fulfilled at that time. And the Feast of Tabernacles, right? The Feast of Tabernacles a points to what? Tabernacling with God tabernacles or tents. Right? Tense with us. It's it's uh the presence of God. That you w w that's what we're gonna have. It is the only feast that will be fulfilled throughout the millennial uh uh i throughout the millennium. Uh in that Israel and the nations will enjoy the kingdom rest, uh and they're gonna come back and and and have the feast because Christ is going to reign in Jerusalem. So great picture. Take some time, go through these. Men kind of uh meditate on 'em or on on what some of these say. It al really helps enlighten kinda like, okay, this is what the Lord was uh uh putting in a word picture in the old test And then he talks about any of the families who don't go up for the booze will be cursed, there'll be no rain He talks about Egypt, perhaps Egypt because Egypt had a river, right? So the people and the other areas that are blessed, they're getting the rain, the rain comes down and so what he says there's gonna be a plague. The point is is that Um there's one religion, think about that. One God, one religion. There's no there's not gonna be any God's not gonna allow like he is now. I'm here, you worship me. End of discussion. There's not gonna be any more uh of this. And again, what a picture. The last two verses. Holy unto the Lord. And um I put in there uh this is what was on remember when the uh the priest uh was uh uh Back in uh three, Joshua the priest, remember, he gave him clean clothes. And remember Zechariah put a turban on his head Right? That turban had a this nameplate, holy unto the Lord. And they looked at their priest and he was, he was separate. Remember That was their priest. He was the intermediary we uh you know uh for the people between the people and God. Christ is now, right, our intermediary between between God and man. So holy unto the Lord. He was separate. The people recognized us. He was and of course it was his responsibility to overlook and see that that things all the temple things and everything were holy unto the Lord. What he's saying is here is that every this is this is the state of this. Even the bells and the horses, everything is holy to the Lord now. Again, that's kind of incomprehensible, isn't it? No more, you know, well on Sunday. It used to be a great song and I'll finish with this on that. On Sunday I'm praying for a revival. On Monday I can't find my Bible. You know, uh but everything, think about it. It's we are in think about what we're immersed in now. We're immersed in a fallen world. It's all around us, right But w these people will be immersed in a holy righteous world. Totally opposite