Give you all these passages and then we can go back in the notes and we can look at some of the details. Um even in my notes, trust me, uh some of the details the commentators went uh really expanded on. And because we're looking at again uh prophecy. He's taking, he's throwing some things out there and and then you have to look at that. We're gonna we're gonna The candlestick, the oil, uh my servant, the branch. These are huge. You have to look at the other passages. We don't have time to go through all these and meditate on them. But you really as we do this, I don't know about you, but I learned I think all of us learn in layers. Uh I need to be exposed to it and then And uh kind of go through it and through it, through it again. Again, like we said, this is a uh a terminal. All these uh passages, the Holy Spirit has all these connected together And so how what did the original audience see and how much more revelation we get to see looking back? Let's do a quick time of prayer. Father, we lift up this time, open our eyes, our hearts. Let us see what's in this word. Let us um uh see the example of it, Lord, and and to uh Just take what it says here on face value. What does it say? And then move to what does it mean. Lord, it's in your name we pray. Amen That is a big thing with me. Uh one of the lessons I learned uh going to Bible colleges. Good morning, good morning. Uh oftentimes uh even in these advanced classes you have these students are going, what does it say? What does it mean? What does it mean And the press professor oftentimes would say, What did it say? And it's amazing, you go, Well, let me look, you know. Uh we're detectives. We're uh gonna try and draw out the facts uh And that's what uh we want to do this morning. Uh we're gonna go over this again. We're gonna kind of go through this as a big view kind of picture Uh I'm going to finish up in chapter three, which we didn't finish up on. Then we'll move into uh chapters uh four and five. five. So if you recall, uh maybe what we should do is read uh does somebody want to read this chapter three Chapter three. Thank you. Uh Zechariah chapter three. Then he showed me Joshua, the high priest, standing before the angel of the Lord, and Satan standing at his right hand Hand to accuse him. The Lord said to Satan, The Lord rebuke you, Satan. Indeed, the Lord who has chosen Jerusalem rebuke you Is this not a brand plucked from the fire? Now Joshua was clothed with filthy garments and standing before the angel. Remove the filthy garments from him. Again he said to him, See, I have taken your iniquity away from you, and will clothe you with vessel robes. Then I said, Let him put a clean turban on his head. So they put a clean turban on his head and clothed him with garments, while the angel of the Lord was standing by. And the angel of the Lord admonished Joshua, saying thus says the Lord of hosts. If you will walk in my ways, and if you will perform my service, then you will also govern my house and also have charge of my source. And I will grant you free access among these Now listen, Joshua, the high priest, you and your friends who are sitting in front of you, indeed, they are men who are a symbol. For behold, I am God Going to bring in my servant the branch. For behold, the stone that I have set before Joshua on the on one stone are set. Behold, I will engrave an inscription on it, declares the Lord of hosts, and I will remove the iniquity of that land in one day. In that day, declares the Lord of hosts, every one of you will invite his neighbor to sit under his vine and under his fig tree. Thank you. Okay, so again let's pick out the the the facts here. Uh we we went through uh this we stopped uh at verse eight. But we have Joshua, we got the high priest, he's before the Lord You have the enemy. We are in a battle. We have an enemy. We have an accuser. The accuser is just. We are sinners. Joshua's not perfect. He's a high priest. Uh some of us uh may have less blatant sins than others. We're certainly it's a maturity thing, but nonetheless we're sinners. We need cleansing Right? Uh so th again, let's keep the big big things in mind. Sometimes with prophecy we try and get too much uh what is the secret meaning or what is this detail? Uh come on in, we'll make a I think there are a couple seats over here. He can get there. So We have an accuser. Um uh we see that he has filthy clothes. Uh remember, he's a high priest, he's a representative. The filth also will represent uh he's he's uh The mediator, he's offering the the sacrifice, etc. , for the land of Israel. So you need to be see that he's a representative, right? So it's Joshua, but it's also Israel's sin. We're looking at Both. Joshua included. So uh So he's clothes, he's filthy clothes, we talked about that. It does mean filthy, it uh probably means excrement. Uh not that we really need that detail, but it's in other words it's it's repulsive, okay? And think about a holy God. Um so uh he's clean and who cleans up Joshua? This is what we need to remember. Think about uh these these themes. We're steeped in this Old Testament. They have the law, they have the ritual, they're the washing They do all this stuff. But he's he's filthy, right? Even though he's going through all these sacrifices, right? Who cleaned anybody? It's The Lord, right? We need salvation. Uh I and we talked about this a lot in a covenants class. Went through this. How we get so confused with the covenant, where the people saved in the Old Testament. Yes, but it's always by faith. It's by faith. Abraham believed God, it was reckoned to him as righteousness. Okay. You see that with that that that line, it it's Genesis, it's early on. Uh y you see the New Testament writers and and remember our New Testament's kind of a commentator or uh commentary on the The uh the Old Testament, right? We see it in Romans, Galatians, and James. All of you said that verse, and it's all talking about faith So uh the cleansing not done by the rituals. The rituals are pointing to something else. All of these things, and all this prophecy we're going to It's not so much the specific thing. The oil doesn't doesn't we're gonna look at that. That doesn't give you the Holy Spirit, right? And yet we see that in some some of these religious things, man. They have the anointing oil. It's a symbol, right? God, where'd the Holy Spirit come from? God puts the Holy Spirit on the people. So I just want you to think through these these big ideas when we're looking at these. uh the symbols that we're dealing with. Verse eight. Now Joshua the high priest You uh now now listen, Joshua the High Priest, you and your friends who are sitting in front of you. Indeed they are men who are symbols For behold, I am going to bring my servant the branch. Again, think about it. He's telling you in the passage. They are symbols Right? There are symbols that are pointing to what's ultimately going to come, the Messiah. He calls them here. He gives them a label, my servant the branch. Uh I don't have time to go through this. I hope uh some of you got the notes. Um But I I do want to read you some of the passages and this is where in your own time when you look at some of these passages, they're giving you the notes, also you can find all the passages where you're talking about my Isaiah 4 2. In that day the branch of the Lord will be beautiful and glorious. The fruit of the earth will be the pride the enjoyment of the survivors of Israel. He talks about my servant Uh really we we're the other uh w piece we're talking about is um especially in Isaiah forty two, Isaiah forty-nine. We'll we'll look at this a little bit later, I believe. in some of these notes that are in there. And everybody knows Isaiah fifty two to fifty three, right? My servant. He sacrificed. He bore our sins Um let me read you just real quick Isaiah has several servant passages, forty-two, forty-nine, I think fifty, but it's and then fifty-two to fifty 3 is are the major passages. It's my servant. And you can tell he's talking about about the Messiah. Isaiah 42, 1 Behold, my servant whom I uphold, my chosen one in whom my soul delights, I have put my spirit upon him. He will bring forth justice to the nations. He will not cry out his voice, nor make uh his voice heard in the streets, a bruised reed he will not break, and a dimly burning wick he will not extinguish. He will faithfully bring forth justice Uh verse six. I am the Lord, I have called you in righteousness, I will also hold you by the hand and watch over you And I will point you as a covenant to the people, as a light to the nations. When we talk about the new covenant, Christ is the new covenant New covenant. He says he's going to appoint him. He says it in uh Isaiah forty nine. The covenant is a personal We talk about the New Covenant. We see that now. It's called the New Testament. The covenant is Christ. He embodies it, right? Without his his sacrifice, without his uh all his work on the cross, we we have no uh promises. He is the covenant Um fifty-three, uh most of you probably know that passage. It's Isaiah fifty-three is one you should look at and go back again. This is what he's referring to here. My son It's a branch. But he's using both and um he may have in in in picture it here. Remember, Israel has no clue as to uh really they don't have a clear focus of the Messiah like we do. Uh Zechariah probably gives them a a lot clearer picture of Messiah than than some of the others other passages that this part of the enlightenment here. But they don't have it like we do. Yeah, and they certainly weren't aware of his gonna uh his first coming Uh and they couldn't grasp Isaiah 53. They just couldn't see him as dying for their sins, right? They saw him as king, as as as one who's going to conquer all Uh but they certainly didn't see him in the first coming and then this huge gap we have between his second coming. We've got over two thousand years already, right? He's come, he's coming again. So I I know it's a lot, but just kind of get the picture of of remember what we see, what what uh They see. For behold the stone so the servant, a lot of the uh commentators put the servant part of this is almost his first coming, his suffering, his pain for since. The stone uh they see uh again uh verse nine for behold the stone that I have set before Joshua On one stone are seven eyes, behold the uh the grave. I will engrave an inscription on it, declares the Lord of hosts. I will remove iniquity in the land in one day Th that's a lot there. Um the stone, you you uh Daniel two he talks about the stone. The stone was cut without hands, you remember that? We looked in Daniel two When Nebuchadnezzar had the dream. You know, tracking with me, I see faces, so yeah, remember that? If not, go back and read Daniel two and every kineth is a dream, all these kingdoms, the stone that was cut without hands came and crushed them. Okay? Remember Daniel is somewhat a contemporary during this time Right, Daniel was taken off into captivity, he was uh alive uh uh when the Israel was brought back. Alright, so that they would have uh been familiar with these passages Or it Zachariah would have. Remember, he's the medium, the the the the angel talking to Zachariah, the high priest. Yeah they didn't have a lot of distractions as we had. They they focused they these men knew the scriptures. A lot of times they had memorized uh great portions of the scriptures, some were uh uh believed to have memorized the first five books verbatim. So he's a stone Isaiah 8. 14. He was a a rock of offense, a stone of stumbling. coming remember that they stumbled over the stone uh the vast majority of the Jews during the first coming did not believe Isaiah 28. 16, the stone represents the Messiah. Why don't we uh somebody find me Isaiah 814? Somebody uh also look up uh Isaiah twenty eight sixteen. And then somebody else would uh find Ephesians two twenty. Yeah. And and some Somebody find twenty-eight sixteen. Somebody else look for Ephesians 2 20. Isaiah 8. 14. Then Israel become a sanctuary But to both the houses of Israel, a stone strike and a rock stumble over, and a snare and trap for the inhabitants of Jerusalem Mm-hmm. New Testament quotes on this. He was a stumbling stone. They they did you know, he didn't get it. They didn't they didn't see it. Somebody have Isaiah twenty eight sixteen? Yeah. Therefore thus says the Lord God, Behold, I am laying in Zion a stone, a tested stone, a costly cornerstone Foundation firmly placed. He who believes in it will not be disturbed. Right? Really, either the stone crushes you or you stumble over the stone. And the stumbling is as you come The picture is you see your own sin. You realize you need a Savior. Old Testament, same thing. Joshua needed somebody to clean him up. Right? Even with all the rituals and everything else, that doesn't do it. We need a Savior. We need God. We have to depend on him. That was always the picture. Much clearer for us than it was for them. Uh how about Ephesians 2. 20? Does somebody have that? Built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus himself being the cornerstone. So the church is built on the cornerstone. Uh again we have the we have the light. We have had Christ. We we we see that he died, he rose again. But but just seeing all these miracles or just experiencing that, I mean think about it. Uh remember the people that saw Christ in his time. uh witness to them all the miracles and everything else. God has to open our eyes. So the seven eyes it really portrays omniscience, God's knowledge. And and also gods, uh w we don't have uh uh what's a religion, you know, kinda denist I guess, where God kind of creates everything and stands back and watches everything happen. We have a God who's involved uh in the details of life. Again, this is a uh a revelation we get from God opening our eyes. We see God involved, even in the small things. When I look back so many times over my life I see God. Oh, I said, oh yeah, God was Working here, here and here. So that's really the picture here. Uh the stone will remove iniquity uh of of the land in one day. We're talking salvation. The only the only thing that will remove the iniquity is the washing, right? Washing by the blood of Christ Christ and and even uh the Old Testament saints were really uh Revelation or uh Romans talks about this. Uh these people were uh even beforehand were saved uh by the the blood of Christ uh uh knowing God's God's coming He's gonna cleanse their Sin. But uh Zechariah says somebody read me Zechariah twelve, ten I was I always thought out the counsel of the deadly and On the inhabitants. Supplication? Yeah, over supplication. So that they will look on me whom they have pierced And there were one for each as one More than so on itself and they are well bit on detail already I can like the like a bitter on repeating over the price. Mm-hmm. Thank you. But I have a question about that I should think of Jesus uh died kill our sin after he died, but he said And then here you know, uh and he died with three days, meriting to one I thought they these bikes quite uh he just figured what Yeah, the where was he? Is that's that the question? Yeah, that's uh that's a topic for another day because then that's really highly debated. Some say he went down into uh Shio and uh witness to the saints there. Uh But that that would be for another study because that could be a long one. People debate that. But the point is, is that yeah. A and really where does our spirit go when we die? Our spirit lives on. So that's the other question. Yeah. Right. But here's the point with this passage. They looked on him whom they had pierced. Now we'll we'll deal with this when we get there, but um Could be an indication that they're seeing him when he comes back the second time. Regardless. They are going their eyes are going to be open. They're have will have gone through tribulation. We're going to see even in Zechariah that uh many will have been martyred. Uh but they're going to come to salvation in a day. This has to be Uh well it's obviously still future. W we believe in uh our progressive revelation it's uh gonna be just prior to the millennial kingdom There's gonna be a tremendous amount of judgment, but even through that judgment, uh they're going to see him. Right? And and it sounds like to me from this passage that's when he comes back, they're gonna look on him whom they appear And why is their hearts open? Again, God opens their heart. This is his plan. Remember, this is God's plan. w we have to kind of discern and this is the way he did it. We don't know all aspects. We can't say, oh well I know why you know, as soon as we start going too far why he did it or y uh uh uh you know trying to have a nice clean uh comprehension to the whole thing. We we we can't. We're we don't have the mind of God. But he's telling us his plan. They're gonna come to salvation And that's what he's opening up. Do you know this eddy? The Israelites are coming to salvation? Israelites are coming to salvation. Israel. Yes, he's talking to the nation here. Yes, there are going to be lots of Gentiles here too. But this the focus here is on uh Israel. He's talking to a Jewish audience at this time, right? Talking to Zachariah, talking to the priest. Um and the and the covenant promises. We get grafted into these promises. We're saved. The Holy Spirit was poured out. We are saved by the Holy Spirit right? It did come. But it's the the overall the most of these prophecies have uh an immediate fulfillment, but they look to the end. completion. God is looking to the complete program. And that's that's and that that's what we're looking at, different aspects of that. Complete program, Israel's gonna be safe There is going to be uh a time uh where they're in the land, they're blessed, and and uh and a whole uh list of other things that goes with it. And that promise was made to Abraham and His descendants, Jews. In that day, declares the Lord of hosts, everyone will invite his neighbor to sit under his vine tree. Again, you can look at some of the passages for this and um it Um it it just means uh the e there gonna be there's gonna be comfort, there's gonna be peace. They're they're not experiencing peace. Remember where we are. Uh with this body right now coming back um the temple is not complete uh there are problems there is opposition Actually they're being exhorted to build a temple because they haven't done it yet Alright. Zechariah 4. Then the angel who was speaking with me returned and roused me as a man who was awakened from his sleep. He said to me, What do you see? And I said to him, Behold, I see a lampstand all of gold with its bowl on top of it. And seven lamps on it, and seven sprouts belonging to each of the lamps which are on top of it. Also, two olive trees by it One on the right side of the bowl, the other on the left side. Then I said to the angel, Lord, speaking with me, what are these, my lord? So we let's look at some of the uh so we have a lamp stand Right? Um this is uh a picture of the same lampstand that would have been the sanctuary. Uh It's obviously got a lot of a lot of differences to it, right? Uh the visions uh picture a bowl of oil on top of the lampstand so that uh oil may run down into the lamp That's different. Right? This is uh this is the automatic lamp of the day. Right? It it it and I don't mean to to make fun of it, but I mean really this is what's going on. The lance finion has seven uh uh spouts or or pipes that connect to each lamp, the tubes are the pipes that connect to the bowl. the oil. So they're feeding the lamps. There's 49 pipes. There's seven tubes for each lamp. Okay? Sh that's a lot, isn't it? So we're probably looking at a quantity. There's gonna be uh a lot of oil going to this land. It's going to be fed and fed abundantly. Uh finally there are two olive trees standing beside the lampstands, uh with the fruit of the branches filling the uh oil bowl. uh uh with the oil. Uh these uh so really what we're looking at here is if you're familiar with Leviticus And w reading through the Bible or whatever and and you see the the ha the detail they go through, processing the oil. The people have to uh are are supposed to uh be uh tithing and giving money to supply the oil. And there so there's this whole economy for supplying and maintaining and taking care of the oil. They have to do this What we have here is something that is self-contained. Get the big picture. Let's not get too lost in the detail. This is God, right? He's giving them a picture Uh Zechariah probably doesn't get the whole idea right now, but God's applying this. This is this is uh uh and w and we'll see this uh as we move on. Um Um but this is a self-containing uh lamp that he's very familiar with. Uh even the lamp has um So I said to the angel, verses 4 and 5, who was speaking with me, saying, What are these lamps? The angel was speaking with me, answered and said to me, Do you not know what these are? I said, He said, he doesn't know. Look at uh again we don't have time for all this, but look at Isaiah 6113. I've got it right here. Arise, shine, your light has come, and the glory of the Lord has risen upon you. You for behold, darkness will cover the earth, the deep darkness, and deep darkness the people. The Lord will rise upon you, and his glory will appear upon you upon you. Nations will come to your light and kings to the brightness of your rising. Again, look at this. The Lord will come upon them. The glory will be upon them. It's the Lord's glory. Uh nations will come to your light. Where are they getting the light from? Where is our light from? If we have real light, right? It's from the Lord. That sometimes we look like uh you know w we're not a good example of that light. So uh we're not walking in in in the sphere, are we? Isaiah 62, 1 through 2, for Zion I uh For Zion's sake I will uh not keep silent, for Jerusalem's sake I will not keep quiet until our righteousness goes Lrightness or salvation, like a torch is burning, the nations will see the righteousness of all the kings your glory, and you will be called by a new name which the mouth of the Lord will give you Israel and the church now were supposed to be lights of the world. Okay? All this ritual, everything else was to reflect the glory of God Without the spirit of God working in us, we're we're not going to look at we saw what Israel did and and we see the church now in many ways A lot of unsaved churches. They don't have much light, do they? They really look like darkness. Some of them are are actually leading people astray, are they not? They are. That's the overall picture that uh uh this is the high priest. He should have understood stood there All this oil and everything we're um I've I've uh put some uh what's it New Testament here? Uh Revelation in chapter 1 is a lampstand. If you're familiar with it, he's standing among the seven lampstands. The lampstands are for the churches. I think this is important to us. Revelation 2:42, the church of Ephes Ephesus. But I have against you, since you have left your first love. Therefore remember where you have fallen and repent. Do the deed. You did it first, or else I am coming to you and I will remove your lampstand out of its place unless you repent. The light's gonna go out. Uh God's not gonna bless those just because we're a church and name or anything else. Right? And it's not even our deeds, uh, right? The Old Testament Israel wasn't all saved, even as they went through all the legalistic deeds. It's our hearts. It's our faith. Do we are we believing and trusting Then he said to me, This is the word of the Lord, is rubble saying, Not by might, nor by power, but by By my spirit to the Lord of us. I'm gonna stop there. Here I he never answered this question. He goes, What are these? He does answer it in this. It's by It's a spirit. The oil, the lamb, it was all a picture of the spirit of God. It was always the old testament picture was always a picture of the Holy Spirit, particularly the well. Uh as we get down here, I th I think don't know if I passed them or not, but you know you have the anointing uh of king Um I'll just mention now. You know when David was anointed. Remember he went to Samuel, he goes to Pic he goes, which son? And he goes through all the sons, it's finally the last one. It's again that's God's picture. It's not what you think. Because that would you see, I I see the heart. David was anointed with oil. If you remember, as soon as he was anointed, what happened? Does anybody recall what came upon him? The spirit. Yes. And it it even uses an adjective that can't it powerfully it can't came on him. The oil itself was just a symbol pointing to the spirit. It's just a representation. Uh it's amazing though, like I said, um You'll see churches, uh, and I've heard of them, you know, they they anoint these people. They actually get oil and anoint them. As if that's anything We have the anointing. You're saved by grace. We have the whole if we are believers, we have what? Holy Spirit. And if you don't have the Holy Spirit, our Are we saved? No. But there is a place where the uh apostles and looked people that are sick the whole didn't they? That's a different that's a different thing altogether. Yeah, it was a medicinal thing. And there probably was some healing power to it. I I don't know. Um but yeah, if not soothing, it soothed the skin, if nothing else, you know change that thing. Right? Sometimes just feel feeling better on one thing makes helps you, doesn't it? When you're in pain, there's anxiety, there's all that stuff going on inside of you. That's not healthy for you. But yeah. But uh when we're talking about like anointing the head like they did then, it was a it was a verbal, it was a manifestation of the picture Right? The Holy Spirit came upon us. And he said it here, not by might, not by spirit, not by power, but by my spirit. Spirit. Zach Zerubaboo is gonna build this temple. If it gets done, and you think about it, um what Well They should have known this. And again, uh well let me read this verse because I'll tie this together. Um Verse 7 What are you great now before Zara Well you'll become a plane and he will uh bring forth a stone shout uh with shouts of grace, praise to us Okay, so mountain can mean a lot of things as a symbol. Uh I think here it's just just a general symbol. If you want to get somewhere Going through the mountains is a hard way to get us. Sometimes that's what you have to do. But he's gonna make it a plane for 'em, right? If you if you're if you're on a journey Then you wanna get someplace, you're not really looking to see the scenic mountain. You wanna get there. When we drive down to see my son, it seems like we're always first he was out in Ohio, now he's down in uh Kentucky, we're going to the mountains and it it's not it's pretty but in a way it's like, you know, when you're trying to get someplace t i it gets old and the weather's always there. But you know, he's going to take away He's a he's making a plain, he's speaking metaphorically, it's not gonna be easy. It wasn't easy, but he's gonna allow them to do this. the symbol of David and his giant. You know, we use that all the time. You know, what's your giant? You know, it's a Goliath, right? But so w you know, what's a giant in your life? That kind of thing. We use that's That's all he's talking about here. But it's huge. Um I put in here I I put in In the notes again some of the uh anointing. I gave you several examples. What was anointed? Uh w this this should be appointed. Who was anointed? Kings and who else? Priests Yeah, some other people were in but those are the two main offices and that's what we're dealing with here. We're we're going in into uh We talked about Joshua last chapter, right? Now we're talking about derubbable. Who's derubbable? Do you know? What line is derubbable from? Anybody know? He's of the line of David. He is a kingly line. He's a line that should be rolling. He's not king. They don't have a king right now. They're they're and and that's part of the the thing we talked about when we talked about chapter one. Remember when we talked about the dating? He said what king did they date it? And And it was uh it was a heathen king, it wasn't a king from uh Jerusalem or Israel. But the Rabbable is of the g of the king we line. He is Um he has the right to rule and govern, and he is ruling and governing in this situation. I put uh some other things. Okay. Eight and ten. And the word of the Lord came to me, saying, The hands of the rubble have laid the foundation of the house house and his hands will finish it, so then you will know the Lord of hosts has sent me to you. Again, Lord of hosts, well I was just gonna ready to make a point out this the Lord of armies, this is the one who judges, this is the one who controls. We need to he need to have that picture in mind. It looks like Gentile nations are wrong and pushing 'em around But remember who's in control of them? The Lord of hosts, the Lord of armies. But look at this. The hands of the rubble bull who laid the foundation of this house And his hand will finish it. Again, uh uh wish we had time to Talk about it a little bit and think through some of these things. But think of the facts here. He's given them facts. The rubber will start it, he's gonna finish it. So they know this is gonna be done in a relatively uh good time frame for him. He started it, the rubbable is going to finish it. It's not going to languish or take forever. It's not going to go over multi-generations. It's going to be completed. It's an assurance This is huge. Who is the spies the day of small things? And think about what they were going through Still working, they've been back at least sixteen years, depending on when they you say they came back. Five thirty-six is what I'm saying on the SARS. This is five twenty. Um So people say five thirty eight, I don't know. Um I um two sources. Anyway, um it's been sixteen years. Not a lot's been done. Things are tough. But they had been brought back. They were in captivity. God raised up a king for 'em to bring 'em back. He gave them goods to come back back. Yeah, just we see that a lot of times excuse me in our life. God's doing little things. He's working He's not doing the big we're not getting the maybe accomplished or getting it done, but he's working. The will of God is being done And that's really the issue here. It's his plan. Right? We what is it what is that Proverbs? Man makes his plan, God directs his steps or whatever. It's it's like Say it's good to plan, but it's his plan, his timing. Think about the small thing. God has done a lot of good small things in my life and I haven't given him credit But when I look back I could see those steps that wow he was involved in all of this. And that's what he's telling the people. Think about it. I would imagine a lot of people grumbling. Had I been there? I could well have been one of the ones, right? So Tana said, what are these two olive trees on the right of the lampstand on the left? And look at what he says here. And I answered the second time, which seems obvious because he he he really, you know, we see no dialogue. He talk it's this is Zechariah talking again. And he said, What are the two olive branches? uh decided to uh uh golden pipes which empty the uh golden oil uh from themselves So he answered me, Do you not know what these are? Oh, I don't. No, my lord. Then he said to me, These are the anointed ones who are standing by the Lord's the whole earth. If you're familiar with Revelation chapter 11, God has his two anointing ones. I mean it could be For us it could be well pointing to those two anointing ones. You see in Revelation eleven, the two anointing ones there were witnesses Okay, that's that's the key. They're witnesses, that's the thread. These two anointing ones, um Sorubbable, the King, and the uh The high priest, the representatives for the people. The people again is the lampstand, it's the light, or the witnessing ones So you notice how he he he goes from uh the two olive trees to the two branches And I think that's what he's telling Zachariah. It's Joshua. These are the two anointed ones in his particular time. Okay, and it has a future aspect to it. Again, we see that in Revelation. Again, this is our Revelation. It it's God revealing it to us. They would would not have seen this far in advance uh to the tribulation time of the two witnesses Um so these two are New England ones are standing by the Lord of the whole earth. Uh they refer to the the branches again. Um I have the Revelation passage. It's Revelation uh that's not right enough for the two witnesses. Two witnesses would be Revelation uh eleven. So this is what I summarize. The golden lamp represents Israel, it's the light to the nations. as she's intended from the Old Testament times. She's explained under verses uh four uh and five. The olive tree represents uh the anointed offices of kingship and priesthood. Two branches are the persons occupying the office, the king and the priest, Joshua uh uh chapter three is the rubbable in this chapter. The lampstand, uh the the two uh uh the two olive trees, the offices of king and priest The flow of the oil, the filling of the Holy Spirit, uh all point this all points in the Messiah, his empowering his chosen people Messiah will be king of priests, right? We see that in Psalm 110. But look at uh in our in our book, Zechariah, he's gonna tell us this in Zechariah Chapter 6 verse 13. Yes, it is he who will build the temple of the Lord, and he will bear the honor and sit and roll on his throne. Thus he will be a priest on his reign. And the council of peace will be will be between the two offices. He's telling them then you're gonna and Psalm 110, which would have been written earlier. There are messianic Psalms. Psalm 110, definitely messianic Exam. You you're gonna see the two officers come in the Messiah. Let me ask him the question back Yeah, well I guess 3 PM is like a state in Event, an NF, I know. It's almost like the commentator put it out, it's almost like he's focused right he he's meditating on what he sees and and now he's going back and he and he focuses. First of the two olive trees, then he sees the two branches. Remember the picture at the beginning. You have two olive trees, you have these branches, you these branches are pouring oil into a basin. This basin's running down to all these tubes that are running and lighting the lamps Okay? There's no man involved. And it says the Lord is standing beside the two olive trees. So the picture is the Lord is empowering all this The Lord has the olive trees which are producing, the branches are feeding the oil. Okay. It it could be the two yeah, it could be in general the two offices, yes, of king and priest, which were the two big offices the the the the two uh again anointed ones in Israel. And the king was supposed to r to roll godly and and And obviously the priest was, but the king was also. And you saw what happened as you read through there with ungodly kings throughout Israel's history Chapter five. Time. This is an is a a It's different, is it not? But again, I think if we go through, look at the clues, I'm going to give you the overview. I've given you the notes, you can go back and look at But let's look at again what are the facts and we'll we'll try and point out what were the facts that Zechariah would have seen? What do what do these uh images mean to him Okay. So somebody wanna read so volunteer to read uh chapter five for us, Zechariah five Then I lifted up my eyes again and looked, and behold there was a flying scroll. And he said to me, What do you see? And I answered, I see a flying scroll. Its length is twenty cubits and its Would tempt you this. Then he said to me, This is the curse that is going forth over the face of the whole land. Surely everyone who steals will be Purged purged away according to the writing on one side, and everyone who swears will be purged away according to the writing on the other side. And I will enter the house of the deep and the house of the one who swears falsely by my name, and it will s and it will spend the night within that house and consume it Let me just make one comment before you go on. This is this is uh one vision. This is a vision here. And we're gonna move into another vision. Okay? But th but they certainly uh Again, you could as you can see all these visions I've said before are connected. They they're connected with uh a then. Okay, so it's it's it's it's going somewhere. It's it's kind of a continuing story. Go ahead Mel Then the angel who was speaking with me went out and said to me, Lift up now your eyes and see what this is going forward. I said, What is it? And he said, This is the epic Going forth. Again he said, This is their appearance in all the land. And behold, a lead cover was lifted up, and this is a woman sitting inside the ephi. Then he said, This is wickedness, and he threw were down in the middle of the ephi and cast the land weight on its opening. Then I lifted up my eyes and looked, and there were two women who were coming out with the wind in their wings, and they had wind wings like the wings of And they lifted up the ephah between the earth and the heavens. I said to the angel who was speaking with me, Where are they taking the ephah? Then he said said to me to build a temple for her in the land of Shinar, and when it is prepared, she will be set there on her own pedestal. So let let's let's take some of the facts out of here and I I think we can uh start to see this. So he sees a flying scroll. Uh we know roll, scroll, Old Testament, what is it? Uh scroll. Yeah, it's it's a ri it's it's writing, it's rolled up, okay? Uh this was common in all cultures, right? Not just Just uh uh Hebrew. So so it's it's a writing, right? Uh it's flying through the air. Do you notice uh the detail here? Did you notice it's uh twenty cubits Um its length 20 cubits, its width 10 cubits. Okay? Here's the detail. Zechariah's high priest. This is the exact dimensions of the holy place in the Old Testament. Testament tabernacle. Zechariah would have gotten that. This would have been evident to him. Remember, this is what they're steeped in. This is his life. He's he's immersed in this. and our work and this is his life. He he would have gotten this picture immediately. Okay? So there's something going on here. It's a holy place Alright? And the scroll is the same dimensions as the holy place. Okay? Um Then he says to me, he curses them, right? Curses the whole land. It's going throughout the land. Everyone who steals They they're judged on one side. Everyone who swears, uh he's gonna purge them, but everyone who uh swears uh will will be judged on the other side. Okay, it's again it's it's it's a scroll with a writing. He's he's got the picture of the holy place, he his mind should be immersed in in idea Sins he has, one stealing. We think of the uh second part of the law, the Ten Commandments Okay, this uh somebody else pointed out this ha if you look at the list of the commandments, this stealing is in the middle of of the second side of the tablet, okay, and this uh uh purging or or the um Uh look at verse 4. I will make it go forth, declares the Lord of hosts, to enter the house. The house is one who swears falsely by my name. This first part, the swearing, it's the first part of the The uh covenant, right? Now shall have no gods before me. This also happens to be in the middle of uh that part of the tablet of the covenant. Whether Zechariah picked up on all that detail, I don't know. Commentators had time to look at all this. Uh uh several of them, uh David Barron was one of them, definitely picked up on this. a lot of others catch it. The point is, the i the the image could have been well that this is the law. He these people are being judged. Remember we've gone through all these visions now. They're comfying, he's promising uh uh Zechariah and the people that these these are gonna be uh taken care of, that they are gonna have a place, the temple's gonna be built. Now we're going into judgment Though. God is changed uh changing uh gears here, so to speak. He's also reminding them, yes, but this is a holy land, uh he mentioned it before God is going to have to judge. He's going to purge. And that's what we're looking at here. It's purging. He even says that. He goes, uh Um I will m verse 4, I will make ye go forth, declares the Lord of hosts, enter the house, and the house of the one who swears by my name, and spend the night with them, and consume them You know, kids and the picture is he's gonna consume the house with its timbers and its stones. It it's it's gonna it's gonna it's gonna purge it. It's gonna take everything. It's uh everything in it, right? Uh and that's the picture they're they're getting here. Those who sin are going to be judge. Remember what he said at the beginning, right? Return to me, I'll return to you. What'd he say to Joshua? If you will walk in my ways Right? And and and do my it's it's our our hearts, our desires, and it's our deeds, it's our actions. It's what it's the same thing over and over again. It's what God has to do. Are we holy? Are we righteous? Are we living for Him? We live for ourselves Um without faith, we're we're we're not going to do that, but that's what we're saying. This land is going to be purged, it's going to be cleansed. So the second vision, this is a uh Uh uh then the angel was speaking with me, lifted uh uh said to me, Lift up now, uh see what's going forth. Uh what is it? It's an ephah. An epha is uh uh again a common term. It's a bushel. It's a b uh what we call today a bushel basket. Okay, you would buy and sell and trade things and And it's a measurement. It's a commercial measurement. Uh let's not make too much out of what the bushel is. Just let's talk about what it is in reality uh during that time and be li again, like I said, be a like a bushel basket today. We'll we'll draw the conclusions won't once we realize uh What it meant uh to the original hearers. Um Epha is going out in appearance. Uh verse seven. Um This is where comparing translations makes a difference. That's why we're told to do this. I have here, look at the Yeah, American Standard Version. This is the predecessor to the new American Standard. Uh this was uh done about uh the 19 early 1900s Right around 1900. And behold, uh there was lifted up a talent of lead, and this is a woman sitting in the midst of the east. New King James at least puts down there a disc. Everybody else puts uh I look Looked at some other ones, ESV, those. What's the point I'm trying to make here? It is a disk. What he's what he's describing there, this lead thing, is a disk. It was a common term. Um, I think I have it here. Um Anyway, it's the Hebrew common term, and it's a measure. It's a measure. There was a a talent, a talent of weight. Okay, and it would have been a a common measure, um like a standard so to speak. This lead could have been a standard. Think about it, if you had a town of gold So we're using these balance scales, right? You have to have mm what the talent is, what is the uh standard so to speak Week. That's what he's talking about here. He's talking about this this lead weight, this disc describes a standard they would have known. It's a commercial term Let me just give me a minute or two and I think we can conclude And behold, leg cover uh this this talent and and by the way a talent weighed probably equivalent of uh I think one of the I saw different measurements. Um seventy but but I think American uh are pounds, I think up to about a hundred pounds So it's heavy. Then he said to me, uh uh no, excuse me, verse seven, that the leg cover uh was lifted up and this woman was sitting inside. The word sitting there has a connotation of uh comfort It it's a dwelling place. It's uh uh sh it's peaceful. Uh she's contented there, whatever this woman represents. Okay. Uh and this ephaw again is she's in the midst of this epha Verse 8. Then he said, This is wickedness. And he threw her down in the middle of the ephah, and cast a lead weight on its opening. So he's thrown her down in the midst of this ephah. This is the angel of the Lord or the uh I believe it's the uh interpreting angel that does this. But he's he's got her encompassed in this epha. And we're gonna look. This ephah is gonna be carried away Verse nine, then I lifted my eyes and looked, and there were two women coming out of the wind with their wings And they had wings like the wings of a stork. And they lifted the ephaw between the earth and heaven. So these two women, whatever they represent, they can't be angels. Angels are d always men Men, but they seem to be uh they they're working with the women the woman, and the woman is labeled wicked, right? They're in association with her. They carry her to the land of Shinar. Shinar is a is a night name for Old Testament baptism Babylon. You look in Daniel chapter 1, you'll see that. Nebuchadnezzar came, took over the land from Babylon. He said the people carry it off to the land of Shem So they're going to Babylon. So what we have here is a is a commercial. Uh but this woman seems to embrace wickedness. So we're it and it and he's also telling 'em it's going to be Babylon. This is where the This woman is gonna go and set up. Her base is gonna be set up in Babylon. says build a temple and and a throne uh but again that that may or may not be the interpretation it's general it could be temple but it also could be house again a resting place a comfort place place a place an operation and not necessarily a throne where she's going to be worshipped but this is the base this is her will she'll be working out of Now in the notes I have this and I'll have to finish here. Babylon is especially if you look at Revelation, read Revelation 17 It can be a place, but that's not really the import of it. The import the importance of it is it's it's a spiritual It's the spirit of the world. It's a spirit of false religions. Okay? And this woman, whoever it personifies, is the demonic force that's behind this whole false religion, false economy. Right? We're gonna have we're gonna see greed. If you read Revelation 18 I've talked about this before. All you see in there is all these merchants are dealing with everything in there. It's just totally precious. It's luxurious trade. It has nothing to do with the uh essence of life. It's not, like I said before, rice and beans or feeding people. It's it's It's uh fine linens and purple and you know expensive dyes. It has to do with greed, it has to do with with o overabundance, ostentatious I guess is the word somebody would use or you know what I mean? And it's it's evil, it's wicked. Because it is in itself a religion, is it not? It's hard. It's hard it's hard to keep this in control. And this is what he's talking about here. And he said to me that that they were gonna set her up. Big picture, and I'll finish with this This is taking the immediate picture for Zechariah, this religion, this this woman, this This personification of the ephah is taken out of Israel. Israel is going to be cleansed. And in Revelation, obviously the whole world ultimately has to be cleansed. But Israel is and if in order for this to become a holy nation, in order for the Messiah to come back, all this has to go. And Israel had turned into a very materialistic society As as you know, it's hard to say when. It's I mean certainly they did in in Solomon's day. But a look, remember a lot of people stayed in Babylon, and why were they there? Because it was comfortable. They'd set up, they they were doing well. So anyway, I hope that wasn't too fast. Uh I uh will not be here next week. Mel's gonna fill in for me. Uh we'll we can go to one chapter a week now. But as you see, look at how these play into one another. Heavenly Father, thank you