Bibles go to Genesis chapter six. Brother Dale just referred to this verse. I'm kind of glad he did. This isn't going to be our text verse, but this is where we're going to get started off. Genesis chapter number six. It's always good to come home. I love coming back to West Maryland. Every time I come back here, I had a guy I worked with. He I told him where I was from. He said, Why'd you ever leave? God called me to where I am, and I'm thankful for God God's calling. Well I do appreciate the chance I have every time I get to come back over this way. I love coming over here. I love bringing my family over here. I tell you what, there's a book of jokes up here. I'm like that's where Pastor Lutherman gets all those jokes at I was gonna look up one but I said, you know what, I'm already a joke enough on myself. I don't need to look up that one. I tell you, if I look um uh disheveled, if I look like I d something's out of place, maybe my tie's crooked, I'd miss the spot shape or something, I tell you it's 'cause my help meet's not with me tonight. I tell anybody when my help meet's not with me, if anything looks out of place, it's because she's not here. If my collars don't match, it's because she wasn't there to help me. Uh so I tell people just to bear with me. I'll try to get through this and uh Uh just listen to what I have to say, just ignore what I look like if I don't look right otherwise I do appreciate my wife. I wish she could have been here tonight. This afternoon about one o'clock she got hit with the flu and she is down and out. Uh she's got the baby with her and the baby's sleeping, she's sleeping, and I got the two old older ones here with me tonight. One's in the master clubs, one's in the nursing, and I That's nothing or nothing. We're all doing great. And uh hopefully she gets the feeling better. Uh hopefully by now you found Genesis chapter number six. If not, look uh hymn book and act like you know what you're doing. But uh we're gonna be in verse number five, as Brother Dale just mentioned. I'm just gonna read this one verse to get us started. I tell you why I like to warn people who take notes up front when I don't do what you normally do with note-taking, and I'm gonna warn you up front, I'm not gonna do what you normally do with note-taking You don't really like that. Point one, point two, point I don't have that for you tonight. Really, I got a big introduction. I got one key thought and then two uh thoughts behind that to help you with that one key thought. But we're gonna start here in Genesis chapter six and verse five it says this. And God saw, well, there it goes. How about that? My notes closed up on me. And God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth. And that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. I want to deal with that thought tonight, that the the the every imagination of the thoughts of his heart. I want to deal with that issue of the heart tonight, the thoughts of the heart. I'm going to take us to a portion of Scripture here in a little bit that's pretty familiar with us. I think a lot of us have heard this verse that I'm going to go eventually end up with tonight. But I tell you, I got to study in that verse Several months back, I forget how many months it was early, it was late last year, or sometime last year, I was studying this portion of scripture out, and the Lord showed me something I really never saw there before And it struck my heart. Said, boy, that's powerful. I want to share that with you tonight by God's grace. But let's pray and we'll begin. Father, thank you so much for the opportunity to share your word tonight. And Lord, thank you for the opportunity to be here back home in Maryland, here in Mount Lake. I do pray for Calvary Baptist Church as I'm away, Lord. I pray that everything goes smoothly there. Lord, I do pray for my wife as she's sick. I'd help her to get better, Lord. I thank you so much for what a blessing she is to me. Lord, I pray for tonight that your Holy Spirit would have free reign here, that we would have an open heart ready to receive your word. I pray I be a vessel in your hand Father, if there's anybody in this building tonight that does not know you, Savior, I pray they would be saved tonight. I thank you so much, Father, for your goodness and mercy to us. I thank you for the opportunity to be here. Lord, I pray that you help me to communicate this truth the way you laid it upon my heart in Christ's name, amen. When I came to Genesis chapter number six, I w uh uh that kind of went along with this thought that I'm dealing with tonight But I was reading through the book of Genesis this year, and I saw this verse, and I thought that kind of goes along with what I want to deal with tonight. I found it amazing. Most of us are familiar with this portion of Scripture And as we study this portion of Scripture, we find God calling Noah to build this ark because he found grace in the eyes of the Lord When I study that portion of scripture I find it amazing there was two items that God dealt with why he was going to destroy the world. I thought that's amazing. I never really saw that before either But two real main things that God says, this is why I'm going to destroy it. Number one was immorality. God mentions that in these portions of Scripture. God saw that the wickedness of man is great in the earth and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was Only evil continually is the other thing he mentions. He mentions immorality and what's going on in their heart I tell you, both of those are key factors in our world today. Immorality is something the world wants to promote, and it's something we shouldn't promote in the church. We should promote godliness and purity in the house of the Lord, the young people of this world and the older people of this world, I should say, as well, they're getting enough of it out there. They don't need it here But I tell you another thing God mentions, and I find amazing. He didn't mention the murders, he didn't mention the stealing, he didn't mention all those things going on. I'm sure it was going on at that time. What God mentions though is he says The thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. God takes great interest in what goes on in our hearts. God takes great interest in what's going on in your heart tonight throughout this week. God cares what's going on in your heart. And God looked at that generation and he looked at the hearts of those people and all he could see was wickedness and evil thinking. God forbid that would be us. But I tell you what, you could be here tonight and have everything right on the outside. You could play everything just right, but on the inside You're not okay. I know you've never done this, but I know there's been times in my life I've gone to church and you know I've have that smile on, I say hello to everybody, but down inside my heart there's something going on, and I'm sure the Lord didn't like it. Your heart is something God cares about. Your heart is something that God can seek. We see that in this portion of Scripture. We look at our heart and you look at your own heart. God sees what's going on there, and God cares about it. God does not want wickedness going on in your heart. Go to Proverbs chapter number six. In fact, God cares about your heart so much that in this portion of Scripture we're going to look at in Proverbs 6 He mentions as one of the seven things that are abomination to him that heart That is not thinking right. That heart that's planning something that's not good. Proverbs 6, 16 says this. These six things doth the Lord hate, yea, seven are an abomination unto him. Verse 17 goes on to say, A proud look. A lying tongue, hands that shed innocent blood. Then verse 18 says this: A heart that deviseth wicked imaginations There's verses after verses after verses to show God cares what goes on in your heart and my heart. God is looking at your heart and he cares about what you think about in your heart. I look at that and I find that pretty amazing because we look on the outward. We're going to look at that in a minute. We see what goes on the outside. God cares about that too. But God sees further than that. I tell you, that's why I believe in the New Testament, when Christ comes, he mentions several things, like hating someone in your heart. Oh, you may not murder them on the outside, but you hate them in your heart. Why? Because God cares about the heart issue. Or adultery, we know that's a sin, but he mentions us that goes on in the heart. Why? Because God cares about the heart. God cares about the motive. God cares about your intents. God cares about your very thinking that is going on right inside of you. Now, I think I got the point clear that God cares about what's going on in JR. Let's get to the main thought I have for you tonight, and that's found in 1 Samuel chapter number 16. 1 Samuel chapter number 16. Some of you are familiar with this portion of Scripture. Samuel is going to anoint the new king of Israel. God has rejected Saul. Saul was disobedient to the commands of the Lord. And God rejected him. So saw Samuel's coming, he's looking for a new king in 1 Samuel chapter number 16. Jesse comes, he brings his boys in, and Samuel sees the first one, Eliad. That's who I want to talk about tonight Eliab. Verse number six of chapter number sixteen says this. And it came to pass when they were come that he looked on Eliab. Speaking of Samuel, he looked on Eliab and said, Surely the Lord's anointed is before him. Eliab comes in, sa Samuel sees him and says, You know what? He looks at the countenance, I believe, from verse seven. He looks on the height of his stature. He says this guy's a pretty good looking guy, kind of like the guy I never was, but he says, you know what, this guy, he's gonna be the king for sure. I like everything about this guy Maybe he seen him out in the field and he went to Jesse. I don't know what he saw, but when he saw this young man, he says, This has got to be the king. Look what God had to say about him, verse number seven. It says, But the Lord said unto Samuel, look not on his countenance, or on the height of his stature, because I have refused them. If you underscore in your Bible I love I love to underscore in my Bible. That's a phrase I like to underscore. I have refused him. Why? That's what I began to think and meditate upon as I came to this portion of scripture. God, why did you refuse Eliab? Hey, get this. When Samuel saw Eliab, this is the man of God, by the way. I look at Samuel, I see a man that wants to do what's right. I see a prophet that is following God. I look at him as a man of God. I look at him as a man that makes right choices. But I tell you what, right here, the choice that he's making was not the same choice that God was making. This man came before Samuel, everything looked right about him I tell you what, just like with Samuel, you could come here and everything look right to Pastor. You could come here and everything looks good. Says, hey, this person is the person for the job. But I tell you what, you won't fool God. You will not fool God one bit. You can have everything right on the outside, and I believe Eliab did. Based on what Samuel saw, I believe he was doing things right on the outside. He was obeying his father, he was doing what needed to be done. But God saw us deeper than what went on in the outside. And God said this about Eliab: For the Lord seeth not as man seeth. For man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the heart. I want to mention from my notes here, a lot of people will use this verse and say, well, I know I'm not doing everything okay on the outside, but God knows my heart. Yes, he does know your heart. But God cares about the outside too. There's plenty of scripture to support that. For example, if God tells you to be an example of the believer They're not going to see thy heart. Remember who Samuel saw? Samuel didn't see the inside. Samuel saw the outside. Hey, God tells you to be a salt and light in the book of Matthew. You can't be salt and light to those around you if what they see on the outside isn't salt and light. God very much cares about what's going on on the outside. The scriptures teach us how we ought to live on the outside. But this verse is getting out this portion, this part as well. God cares about what's going on right here. What's going on on the inside. What I don't see tonight. What you're thinking about right now. God cares about that. Now I'm going to get to the main thought tonight, and that's this. And if you don't get anything tonight, don't miss this. I look at Eliad. Eliad missed out on the opportunity of a lifetime. This is Samuel coming to anoint a king. In this day and time, his younger brother is going to get to be that king. He missed out on an opportunity to be a ruler, to have an influence, and a nation. And it all wasn't because of what he was doing outwardly, but what was going on inwardly. You see, why do you say that? Because God, when he says, I refused him, says, the Lord looketh on the heart. God didn't tell us what he was thinking, but God did tell Satan this: I have refused him because I have looked on his heart Now stop and let that sink in for a minute. To miss out on being the king of Israel all because something was going on inside, and God said, these works, I have refused him. Now take that and put the application to it. Could you imagine God refusing you? Missing out on an opportunity God has for you here at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, God refusing you. Oh sure, you may have Pastor Fool, just like this guy had Samuel Fold. But to have God's hand of blessing removed from me and saying, nope, I'm not going to do anything for that individual. Why? Because of what's going on right here Because God looks down, sees inside the heart, and says, You know what? They're doing everything right on the outside, but I could see where they're going because of what's going on on the inside. I could see inside their heart, and their heart is not where I want it. to be. How about you tonight? What's going on in your heart? Maybe you're here tonight and you're thinking, oh it's not a big deal. I'm not doing anything wrong. I know I had those thoughts, but That's not a big deal. I'm not doing it. No, it is a big deal. I tell you what goes on in that heart, you better get it in check Many of you may have heard of Proverbs 423. In fact, some of you may have memorized it for the scripture memory challenge. Keep thy heart with all diligence. Why? For out of it are the issues of life. I tell you what, what's going to go on in your life, God says, it's going to come from right here. The direction you're going to choose to go in your life, the destination you're going to end up with in your life, starts right here. And God says, you better keep it, you better guard it, you better do everything you can with that heart to make sure that it is in tune with me. Because if you don't, you could end up just like this man. Oh, you're trying to do everything in your own power or outwardly, okay. But God knows what you're thinking about. I tell you when I grasped that thought and when I thought about that and meditated upon it, I was like, what would it cost me What can I miss out on in Calvary Baptist Church where I work with the young people, those young people, what could they miss out on if I'm not thinking right? If God says, I can't get a hold of that heart, I can't do anything with that heart, I'm just not going to do anything. I tell you what would happen with you. You say I'm not sincere. No, God wants to do something with you. And what if God says, I refuse. Because you're not thinking right here. I want to give you a few helpful tips tonight, and then we're going to wrap this up on what can I do with this heart? What can I do with my heart? Go to Psalm 119. Some of you might know where I'm going with this. Psalm 119 The first truth I have for you for tonight is this. How can I not end up like Elias? How can I end up not being refused of God because my heart is not where it needs to be? Psalm 119 is a great verse for this. Number one, you ought to get God's word in your heart. God says in Psalm 119 verse 11, Thy word have I hid in mine heart that I might not sin against thee. You may have heard this statement. It's a powerful statement. It's a true statement. Sin will either keep you from this book, or this book will keep you from sin. If God's word gets in your heart, if God's word gets a hold of your heart I'm not saying I'm against scripture memorization. In fact, that's what I'm talking about here with this verse. But I tell you what, it doesn't say thy word have I hid in my head. No, God says, thy word have I hid in my heart. I think I've used this illustration here before. If not, I'll tell you right now. I was down in Pensacola, ran to a man, that guy could quote Revelation better than I could. The revelation didn't get up hold with his heart. He didn't care about it. You could be here tonight, you know the Bible better than me. But does God's word have your heart? Either A, sin's got a hold of your heart. Or be this book, God's Word's going to get a hold of your heart. Something's got a hold of your heart tonight There ought never ever be a time where you come to God's house to God's word and you miss out because you say, I already know that. No, God's you ought to have a heart ready to say, God, give me something. God, I want that book that you have ready for me. This book's changed my life so much. This book's done so much for me. I'm thankful for this book. What it's done in my life and you ought to be thankful for what it's done in your life. You ought to let it get a hold of your heart When you do your personal devotions, it ought to get a hold of your heart. If not, you ought to get in the book again and again and again until it does. Because there's so much in there God wants you to have. It ought to affect your heart. There ought to be an affection for this book. It's a terrible thing to see people who could care less about the Bible, who could care less about these truths. God wants his truths to get a hold of your heart. I tell you Eliab, I believe he was trying to do things right. I don't know a whole lot about just from studying the scriptures though. Samuel looked at this man, he looked great on the outside, but I tell you what, I'd hate to be refused to God because something wasn't going on here There ought to be a time where God gets a hold of your heart each and every day with this book and he says, God, whatever you want me to do, that's what I'm willing to do. When's the last time God spoke to your heart in a church service? When's the last time God had got a hold of your heart when you were sitting down reading your Bible? God wants to get a hold of your heart. If God can get a hold of that heart, just as Proverbs 4. 23 teaches, He can direct it in the issues that you need in your life. The question is, is your heart pliable to the Word of God? God illustrates it like this in the Gospels. Like the ground. This is a perfect time for gardening. You have the ground that's stony. You have the ground that's full of thorns. You have the ground that's by the wayside. Those grounds when the Word of God came to it, those hearts when the Word of God comes to it. They may receive it for a little bit, they may not receive it all, but it doesn't get a hold of the heart. I tell you, that ground good ground, that heart that's ready to receive God's word, and when that word gets in and it can plant and bring fruit, that's what God wants. Where's your heart at tonight when it comes to receiving God's Word? Getting God's word into your heart. Here's the second truth I have for you time. We're going to stay in Psalms. We're going to number 50, though, Psalm 50. Not only does God's word need to get a hold of our heart, but we need God's help with our heart. Let me put it this way, you need God's help with your heart. I need God's help with my heart. The psalmist David, I said Psalm 50, I believe. I won't Psalm 51. Psalm 51, if I told you 50, I told you the wrong Psalm 5 one. The psalmist David create committed a terrible sin by the way, it all started right here That wicked action that came out later? But that she bet started right here. The heart's not important? It's very important. But David's getting his heart right. I tell you what, you may be here tonight and you've messed up. Listen. Get your heart right. Get right with God. God is pleading with you, just like Nathan did with David, thou art the man. I tell you that's a message in and of itself when I was going through that. Thou art the man. When you are the person. It's easy to make that message for so-and-so. It's easy to make it somebody else. No, you're it And when you get that message, you apply it to your own heart. David said this, I have sinned. And David asked this. When he was asking for mercy, when he was asking for forgiveness of God, he asked this in verse 10. Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me. David's not asking to be saved again. But I'll tell you one thing, David's asking for help with his heart. Because that's where that started, right here. Lord created me a clean heart. And I tell you that's what we need. We need to go to God and say, God, help me with my heart. Why? Because I believe Jeremiah It's true when he says this, that the heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. Who can know it? Hey, he goes on to say it's I the Lord. The Lord knows your heart, and you need his help with your heart. You need his help to get that heart right. You need to ask him, Lord. Point out the sins in my own heart. Lord, forgive those sins. Lord, help me not to follow after my own heart. You know the world will teach you that. You need to follow your heart. No, you don't You need God's help with your heart. David said, Lord, create in me a clean heart. Clean up that heart of mine. Get that sin. Lord, forgive me of that sin. Renew a right spirit within me. You need God's word in your heart, but you're going to need God's help with your heart. You all have done so well tonight. The last one is this. We need to go to 2 Corinthians. Go to 2 Corinthians chapter 10, verse 15. Blast thought is this, and I'm going to give two verses on this thought. We need to have a heart that thinks right The heart and the mind is used interchangeably in the scriptures. We need to get that imagination, that thinking in the heart right. So we need God's help, we need God's word But when those bad thoughts, when those things creep up in our heart that shouldn't be there, 2 Corinthians 10. 5 says this, casting down imaginations. You remember that word imaginations? How God talked about the wickedness and the imaginations that he hates going on in the heart? He says in verse 5, casting down imaginations in every high thing that exalteth Itself against the knowledge of God and bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ God says, when those things go on your heart, those wicked devices, those imaginations, those thoughts are going on in the heart, God says, hey, why don't you just cast it down? Throw it down. Stop it. God's solution is just stop. You need to get rid of that. You need to get control of those thoughts, he says, and bring into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ. Here's a question for you. Think about this. Do you control your thoughts, or do your thoughts control you? Do you control your thoughts, or does your thinking and your thoughts control you? God says we ought to bring every thought into captivity, bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ. Is your thinking line up with obeying Christ? Is what going on in your heart right now, would you say, you know what? That pleases God. That pleases my Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. If not, God says you need to get rid of that. You need to bring your thoughts into something that's going to bring plea that's be pleasing to him. Go to Philippians. Philippians 4. 8. God has this to say about our thought life. In Philippians four eight Philippians 48 says, Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just What sort of things are pure, whatsoever things that are lovely, whatsoever things that are of good report, if they're being evirtue and if they're being praised, think on these things Okay, God's very clear on what He wants us to think on. Oh, it doesn't matter what I think about, as long as I just do what No, God cares very much about what's going on in this heart. And we need to get that settled. We need to get that going in the right direction. See why? Number one, because that's God cares about that. But number two, I'd hate for us, I'm done with this. I'd hate for anyone in here to end up like Eliah You say, end up in horrible sin? Well, I hate that too, but that's not what I'm talking about. Hate to miss a great opportunity in your life. To have God say, nope, I refuse you. All because what goes on in your heart, you will not bring it into captivity. You will not let God's word get a hold of it, and you choose to just run wild with it with your own thinking, with your own flesh Miss out on great opportunity because you do not get control of your heart. What's your heart like tonight? Are you heading in the direction of Lyab's going I tell you, why don't you get that heart right tonight? Why don't you change the thinking that's going on in that heart tonight? Each and every day from here on out. Ask God to help you. Get in this book. Let it get a hold of your heart. And take let God take you in a direction And he wants to take you. Father in heaven, thank you so much for the opportunity to be here tonight here at Mount Lake Invent Baptist Church, and thank you so much for giving me this truth. Lord, I do pray for your people tonight that know you as Savior. Would I pray that their heart, that you have it. Lord, if there's anybody here tonight that their heart is not where it ought to be That what's going on inside of them is not right. Or that they would ask as David did, Lord, create in me a clean heart. Lord, that your word would get a hold of that heart. And Lord, I pray that you help us to keep our heart with all diligence. With heads bowed, as closed. I don't think there's a piano tonight, but maybe God said The altar's open, but before I say come on up here, before I say, you know, come up to the altar, maybe here tonight you don't know you're going to heaven someday. I tell you, that's the heart God wants to forgive tonight. God wants you to get saved. Maybe you're telling you, say, I don't know, I'm going to heaven someday And in that closing prayer, would you pray for me? I never want to pass up an opportunity to pray for someone who doesn't know they're going to heaven someday. And if that's you, would you slip your hand up and say, Pastor James, I don't know I'm going to heaven someday, but would you pray for me now closing prayer. Anybody like that at all? I'll definitely pray for you. Anybody like that at all? Now Father, I thank you so much for again for the opportunity to present this message. Lord, I do pray now for your people. Thank you so much again for giving me this truth, Lord, and I pray, Lord, that you'd help those who are yours tonight to follow after you, today and throughout the week. Thank you, Father, for your goodness to us. We ask for your blessings on the remainder of the week Heads by as close the altar's open. As I mentioned, there's no music time. But maybe the Lord's touch your heart. Maybe you we want to come to the altar. Maybe you want to pray there in your seat. But I encourage you Let the Lord deal his heart and hear in a minute, I'm a close in a word of prayer