Bible's turn with me to James chapter 2. Brother Ethan just about stole my message tonight. I mean he set it up perfectly. In fact, I'm going to reference the verses that he uh used in his message tonight And so uh he basically preached my introduction for me. So I appreciate that. James chapter two. I got something this past Thursday. I'm a little weak, Dave. Um actually I just turned it on, so don't do anything I was Thursday of I love Brother Byron Fox. How can you not love that guy? And I'm telling you, that guy is intense, sold out with reaching our country with the gospel. I mean He has fired up. He's been doing these citywide rallies. He's got one plan. I was mentioning it this morning for uh Richmond, Virginia. He's got, I believe I could be wrong on this. I think he's got forty-seven churches lined up, independent, fundamental, sold-out, King James Bible preaching churches lined up to work together. to uh have a big citywide r uh rally September eleven, twelve, and thirteen of this year. So he had a prayer rally um Thursday and he invited me to come down. I went down and spent the day uh in the big prayer rally and it was just amazing what he's got in place and what I believe the Lord is is doing uh through these rallies. But As he was speaking to us and explaining what was going to happen and what the needs were and we were praying on different things, he made some statements that um Uh I just caught my attention. I wanted to share some of them with you before we get into the message. Uh he was talking about when he's done these rallies before He gets a lot of criticism. People write and tell me he should do this, he shouldn't be doing that, this is right, that's not wrong, and then he just gets that. And he made this statement. I thought this was good. I only accept criticism from investors I thought that was pretty good. If you're not investing anything in it, I'm not listening to what you have to say. And uh then he was talking about some other stuff and he made this statement this Go, I wrote this down, he said he says, When you win people to Jesus, they pull their pants up. And he was talking about some guy got saved and his pants hanging down and he saw him later and his pants were pulled up. And uh thought that was pretty good. Then he was there was a bunch of atheists who were protesting and fighting the rally down there And he made this statement. He said, Praise God for atheists. I thought, what? He says, they motivate us. So what a blessing. You pray for Brother Fox. Pray for that great uh meeting coming up and we'll uh talk to the church in the coming months, some things we can do practically to help that down there And uh he's actually has others planned in the future years, different parts of the country. Just exciting, exciting. James chapter two. I want to read uh a fairly extended portion of scripture because I want us to get the whole context here This is, for some people, this is a very difficult passage, and they really struggle with it. There's been um I won't uh use the word controversy, that's not really the right word, over this passage about what it's saying And to be very honest with you, I think if we just take it for what it says, pay attention to the words, it's pretty clear what God is teaching here in this. So I want to read verse fourteen all the way down to the end of chapter. I know it's extended. Bear with me and uh I'm just going to share a few thoughts. Um I know we got the teacher uh parent team meeting afterward, and so um I want to get to the point. But notice verse 14. What doth it profit my brethren? Though a man say he hath faith and have not works, can faith save him? If a brother or sister be naked and destitute of daily food, and one of you say unto them, Uh depart in peace. Be ye warmed and filled, notwithstanding you give them not those things which are needful for the body, what doth it profit? And the answer is obvious, is what? It doesn't. It doesn't profit anything Even so, faith, if it hath not works, is dead, being alone. Yea, a man may say, Thou hast faith, and I have works. Show me thy faith without thy works, and I will show thee my faith by my works. Key statement there Thou believest that there is one God, thou doest well. The devils also believe and tremble. But wilt thou know, O vain man, that faith without works is dead? Was not Abraham our father justified by works? When he had offered Isaac his son upon the altar? Seeest thou how how faith wrought with his works, and by works faith made perfect And the scripture was fulfilled which saith Abraham believed God, and it was imputed unto him for righteousness, and he was called the friend of God. Ye see then how that by works a man is justified, and not by faith only. Likewise also was not Rahab the harlot justified by works when she had received the message and had sent them out another way? For as ba for as the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without works is dead. Now what in the world is he saying here? Faith, works? Um salvation? I've been titled the message, and I'm not even going to get to the message, just give some introductory thoughts. But the testimony of faith. What is the testimony That I genuinely have faith in God. How is that revealed? How is that evidenced? That I actually, my faith is actually in God. I say I have faith in God But how is that evidence? How is that seen or proven? And that's what this whole passage is talking about. Let's have a word of prayer, and uh I'll share a few thoughts with you. Father in heaven. I'm thank you for your Hall of Faith there, Lord Hall of Fame in Hebrews. What a challenge these men and women are to us to trust you and obey you. and uh have faith in you. I thank you for Ethan's challenge to us here a minute ago. And now as we follow up on that, pray you'd help us to apply some of these thoughts. And um and uh uh help us to grow in our faith, our understanding, and our works, I pray, Lord. Fill me, I plead with you. Fill me with your Holy Spirit and speak through me. In Jesus' name. Amen. I don't think I'm on at all, actually, Dave, to be honest with you. My battery is dead. Oh, that's O N means on, huh? There we go. Okay. James, I like James. I love the book of James. I tried at one point to memorize the whole book. I never made it. I got about halfway through. But um it's a very practical book. And when we get to this portion here, and James is talking about faith and works, I know how some of us think. We think, you know, faith works, all of that, that's theological stuff Um, you know, that that has to do the seminaries, they gotta debate that stuff, and the theological students, they'll talk about faith and works. I just want to know how do I pay my bills You know, faith in works and all that stuff. You know, what I really need in my life is how in the world can I learn to get along with my spouse? And talking about Timing is everything. But the fact of the matter is This faith in works is a real life issue. Connie, you can slap me afterward, okay? You're more than welcome to do. It really is. Understanding the role of faith and the role of works in my life as a Christian, it's a real-life issue. It affects how we handle our money, it affects how we interact with others, it affects how we live our lives. And so I believe it's very important we understand what he's telling us here and what the role of faith is and what the role of works is in my Christian life. Now, I emphasized this this morning. I hope I was able to communicate this. Getting salvation right is the most important thing. I have everything else right in my life, and I don't have salvation right, I'm cooked. And I die without Christ. I can be the most successful businessman, as I mentioned this morning. I can be the best parent. I can be the best spouse. I can be the smartest person in whatever. And if I don't have salvation, right, I die and go to hell. I lose in the end. So salvation is intensely important. So when he's talking about faith and works and being saved and all that, I want to pay attention because I want to make sure my faith, uh my salvation is right. Salvation is a very personal matter. My salvation is between God and myself. Amen? It's very, very personal. But it is also very public. My relationship with Jesus Christ is personal. It's between God and I. We have fellowship. We have intimate communion with each other on a very personal basis. But it has public ramifications. That becomes evident to others. The way I think of it is kind of like marriage. My marriage to Kathy is very personal. It's between her and I. We exchange personal vows that we take very seriously We interact with each other. We fellowship with each other on a very personal basis. It's between us and us, but it's also very public. I like we go out, I like for it to be very, very obvious that we are a married couple. Uh we wear rings to bear Testimony of the fact that we are a married couple. We're unashamed to say I'm not ashamed. Step up and say, This is my wife Though we have a very personal relationship with each other, he is very public in the fact that we are unashamed of each other. We're unashamed of the fact that we've taken lifetime vows. To love and respect and cherish, be faithful to one another, and uh uh we're not ashamed of that. And that's very much the way salvation is I take my personal faith, I take my faith, and I personally accept Jesus Christ as my own Savior. And he and I have one-on-one fellowship with each other. On a daily basis, we communicate He leads me and directs me. I try to trust him and obey him, as Ethan was preaching, and it's a very personal thing. But that needs to be public also. And that's what James is talking about here. Living out our faith. Let me say this. Living out my faith. Is almost as important as being sure of my salvation in the first place Can you imagine? I said this, I'll use this illustration word. Can you imagine if Kathy and I were going to get married and it came time to get married, and I said, you know, let's not tell anybody that we're married We'll just keep it a secret. We don't let anybody know. Do you know what would have happened to me if I'd have said that? It would have been ugly And so Jesus is the same way. Jesus, I'll accept you as my Savior, but I'm not going to tell anyone. We'll just keep it between us. That is not what God intends. He intends for our faith to be seen. He intends for our faith in Him to be evidenced in how we live our lives, how we function in our homes. the decisions we make, the actions we have, even to some extent, even our appearance, everything about us ought to communicate, I am a believer and follower of Jesus Christ. And I believe that's what he's talking about here. So understanding this passage here will help us live our Christian life. It'll help us be the Christian that God intends for us to be. It'll help us have that testimony That God intends for us to have. Now, you say, well, this says here you're saved by works, and Romans tells us that we're saved by faith. There's a contradiction here I have over the years had people tell me that they reject the Bible because it's full of contradictions I have tried without fail, whenever someone has said that to me, I tried to, if I had a Bible handy, I would hand it to them and say, I'd like you to show me one contradiction in the Bible And after 35 years of being a Christian, I have yet to have one person tell me or show me in the Bible a contradiction. It's a lame excuse. It's just something they throw out. And I'm telling you, if you got family or friends or workers that say, show me a contradiction, they say there's contradictions, you challenge them, show it to me And I'm telling you, uh 99. 9% of the time they won't be able to do it. They are never able to show that here. But have some folks taken this passage and presented what appears on the surface to be contradictory. Ephesians 2, 8, and 9. 4 by Grace are you saved through faith, not yourself not of works, lest any man should boast. He says here he's talking about works. So is there a contradiction? Martin Luther, the great uh reformer, it started really, God used to start the Reformation in many ways, uh, he rejected the book of James He said it contradicts Galatians, it contradicts Romans, teaching work salvation, and he said, I don't believe it should be in the Bible. He was wrong. He misunderstood what this passage was saying. And so I think if we look closely at it We'll find out that there's no contradiction at all. In fact, this is a very important subject. Now, before we get into these verses, and it's probably going to be a couple weeks down the road, I want to deal with two subjects that are mentioned in the text. We're only going to be able to look at one tonight, and that is the role of faith and the role of works. Now I know what some of you are thinking, you're thinking that's theological stuff. How does the world that affect me? I think you'll see that it has a very practical effect on our lives. First of all, the role of faith in the Christian life Without a doubt, faith is vital in life. What does it mean to have faith in something? And uh Ethan touched on this uh uh very significantly. Uh what does it mean to have faith in something? It means to trust in something. It means to rely on something or someone. He pointed out the bench here By faith, you sit on that, you trust it's going to hold you up. And uh that was a good illustration. The fact is, we exercise faith in every area of our lives on a continual basis Somebody comes and say, Well, I don't have any faith. That's a lie. Everybody has faith. The Bible says in Romans, God has given to every man a measure of faith. We couldn't function without faith. For instance, Maybe you're going to get up early tomorrow morning. You're going to go to somewhere you wouldn't go if you had the choice. You're going to do something for 40 hours you wouldn't do if you had the option. And you're doing that for somebody that some of you probably don't even like Jerry, you're digging a hole deeper all the time, brother. But uh why do you do that? Because you have faith that at the end of the week they're going to give you what? They're going to give you that paycheck. I have yet to work anywhere, but they gave you the paycheck first and said then all right here's your paycheck, now you work And then work out that way. And so I go to work, I get up at an hour I don't really want to get up at, I go to a place I really don't want to be, I do something I really want choose to do, and I do it for 40 plus hours All because I am depending, I'm trusting, I have faith that they're going to reimburse me for my efforts. That is faith. I'm depending on them, trusting them, that they're going to agree to do. You go to the doctor The doctor says, I'm going to inject this liquid into your arm. Or if you're little, another part of the anatomy. I'm going to inject this liquid and it is going to make you better. That is come on, think about that. The only reason I'm trusting him he's got this thing on the wall and other people have been there, but I'm trusting that what he's putting into my body is good for me. It's going to help me. That is faith. Don't tell me you don't have faith You do it, babe. You go to the pharmacist. Jody's here. I trust Jodi, but you go to the pharmacist. You give her you give the pharmacist a prescription. You can't even read that I don't think the pharmacists can read it. I think they just grab some pills and say, here, take this. And you thank them and give them money and walk away and dump those things down your gullet. What is that? That's faith. I'm trusting that what they're giving me is good. The point I'm trying to make is we live our whole life by faith. Faith is trusting, believing, relying upon somebody that what they say is so. That what they're doing is good for me. We d we exercise faith when we drive down the road. You come up to an intersection, uh, and we ought to be a little careful at this, but for the most part We go through that green light, we are trusting that the other cars are stopping at their red light. Some of us will kind of glance and look and make sure, but For the most part, we just go through there trusting that uh they're going to do what they're supposed to do. That is faith. That is faith. Now, faith does not mean I'm believing something without basis. You hear talk, I had a guy criticize me years ago. He says, ah, you just had blind faith. I said, I absolutely do not have blind faith. My faith has a solid foundation. My faith has a solid basis. Blind faith is foolish. Blind faith says, well, I'm going to believe something is so, even though there's no basis for believing it whatsoever. For instance, that fellow I mentioned this morning, I I think it was in the morning service, the skateboarder that was when he died he was going to planet Zotar and um uh they were gonna smoke pot for ten million years or some ridiculous thing He had no basis for that. That was just a figment of his imagination. And if he genuinely believed that, it was blind faith. Now you and I, as believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, we do not have blind faith. We have a solid basis for our faith. It is called the Word of God. And this book has proven itself over thousands of years to be exactly what God says it is, the Word of God. And so, uh, faith is not just, well, it's out there, I just believe it, there's no basis for it, there's no foundation for it. I just, that's blind faith, that's foolishness. We go out knocking on doors. We talk to people all the time. We ask them, do you know for sure? If you died right now, you go to heaven? Oh yeah, I know I go to heaven. How do you know? What gives you that assurance? Well, I just think I will That's no basis. Well what you just think you are? Go down to the bank and say, I want a million dollars. What makes you think you have a million dollars in the bank? Well, I just think I do. That's blind, that's foolishness. Our faith is not foolish. It's founded on the Word of God. Um when I was young, I went to camp. And um they would teach repelling, rope repelling. Anybody ever do that? That was the scariest thing I've ever done in my life, up to that point. They tied that rope there, that thing dropped, it must have went down at least four feet. And uh There's a little more than that. They hooked that thing up on me and you know you gotta hold back here and you're holding there and they said, lean back, alright, just go over the edge. I said, What are you nuts? And they finally held you, held you, and finally you go down, you go over that thing. That's trusting that that rope's gonna do what they say it does, that everything's gonna function exactly the way it's it So when we have faith in God, it simply means this. I am trusting that God will do what he says he will do, and that things are the way he says they are. I'm trusting that. I'm depending on that. I'm relying on God being true. And we have basis for this. God's word is historically correct. It's scientifically correct. History has proven itself for thousands of years. People all around this world can stand up and testify. God has done exactly what His Word says it will do. We have a basis for our faith Now what role does it play in our lives? Well, very quickly, one, we are saved by faith. Ephesians 2. 8. 9, for by grace are you saved through faith. That not of yourselves, it's a gift of God. When I put my faith and trust in Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, God does what He says he will do and He saves me from sin in hell. Now listen, if you get tired of hearing that, you're in the wrong church I'm telling you, as long as I'm Pastor, we're going to preach the gospel, we're saved by grace through faith every chance we can. But that's the role that faith has. It saves my soul. Faith in the person and work of Jesus Christ. Faith in the promises of God. These things have I written unto you, 1 John 5. These things have written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may know that you have eternal life. Listen, you and I can know for sure that when we die we go to heaven, we have eternal life Not because we're good enough or how we live our lives or anything like that, but because God has promised us that by receiving Jesus Christ, we have everlasting life. We are saved by faith. In a couple weeks, Kathy and I are going to fly down to New Zealand. We're going to go over to National Airport in Washington, and we'll stand there and there will be that big airplane. We believe, we believe with all our hearts, that their airplane is going to fly us from Washington out to LA, then we get another plane that'll fly us down to Auckland, New Zealand. We believe with all our hearts that plane will do that, can do that, will do that. But we're not trusting it until what? We get on it. You think that plane can fly you out there? Oh yeah, absolutely. Do you think that air that pilot can do that? Oh sure, I have no doubt. Um are you gonna get you trusting it? Ain't no way I'm getting on that plane. Uh oh. So it's telling me I know I get an amen from one person in the ground. Uh uh-uh, you believe it again? Yes. See, that's the difference between simply knowing something's true in my head and then trusting it and relying on it to do what it promises to do. And so when I accept Jesus Christ, over there at the airport, uh Kathy says, You believe that plane could do that? Yeah, I think so. Do you believe it? Yeah, I believe it. All right, well, let's get on. Okay. We'll get on the thing And that's what salvation is. Believe Jesus can die on the cross for you, was buried, rose again, take away all your sins, give you eternal life, a new life here, take you to heaven. Something you believe he'll do that? Yeah, I believe he'll do that. Alright, then trust him. Put your faith in him. Rely on him to do that. And he'll do it. So faith, we're saved by faith. Another role that faith has is we walk by faith and we live by faith. 2 Corinthians 5, 7, for we walk by faith, not by sight. 2 Corinthians, Colossians 2, 6 says, As ye have received Christ Jesus as the Lord, walk ye in him. In other words, the Christian life is to be lived by faith. What does that mean? That means as a Christian, I read my Bible, God says Christians ought to do these things. I say, all right, I believe God's true, I know that's true, I'm going to trust me. I'm going to do what he says. I'm going to live my life the way this Bible says I read my Bible says Christians ought not to do these things. Alright? I believe God's true. I'm going to live by faith. I'm not going to do those things. The Bible says a Christian ought not to go to these certain places. Alright, I believe God's work. I believe God knows best. I'm going to live by faith. I'm going to trust that I'm not going to go to those places. The Bible says Christian ought to be in these places, ought to be in church or whatever. Alright? I believe the Bible. Bible says that's so. I'm going to live by faith. I'm going to do what that says. And so we walk by faith. We live our lives by faith. Not to stay saved, but to live for God and be the Christian God intends for me to be. Put this down, number three, we have victory over the world in sin by faith. 1 John 5:9. This is a victory. It overcomes the world, even our faith. Uh what does that mean? The world says one thing. The world says you ought to live like this. The world says this is what's important. The world says this This is uh this will be good for you. The world says, uh, don't don't live that way, live this way. Live it up, enjoy it, go for the gusto. Uh Uh just do it. Live it up. Do whatever you want. Put yourself first. And I say, all right, I'm gonna trust that the world is right. I'm gonna believe that what the world says and the world's values, the world's priorities. Are good for me, so I'm going to follow and trust what the world says. Or I can have victory over the world, and I can say, you know, I'm going to put my faith in the Lord. And trust what God says. And God says, listen, by the way, God's values, God's priorities are very much different than the world's. Let me say this. The results of God's priorities and values are very different than the world's results. I have yet, I have yet to meet a person. Who is living by the world's values and the world's principles and is genuinely happy? I've yet to meet a person. Oh, they laugh, they put on a show, they act like they got their act together But I tell you, I've been with them when that show is broken down. And in their hearts and souls, there's emptiness, there's frustration, and there's sadness. We live by the world's values. We live by the world's priorities. We live by the world's principles. We get the results the world has also. But if I by faith overcome the world and say, you know, I'm going to trust God and I'm going to live the way God says, I'm going to order my life according to the principles of God's word, and we get the results that God gives. And Jesus said, great peace have they that, trust me, I'll give you peace that the world cannot take away. And so how do I overcome the world? By faith, trusting God, letting him lead me and direct me. You know what a worldly Christian is? You know what a worldly Christian is? How would you define a worldly Christian? A worldly Christian is a Christian who is trusting the world's values. Is living by the world's priorities. What the world says is important as opposed to what God says important. What the world says a person should do as opposed to what God says a person should How the world says a person should live as opposed to the way God says a person should live. And a worldly Christian is a Christian that says, you know, I'm going to trust that the world is right. I'm going to trust that living my life, disregarding God's word, and living by how the world is, I'm going to trust that that's going to bring me happiness. I'm going to trust that that's going to be good for me. I'm going to trust that that's going to work out, and when it's all said and done, it's the best course of action. That's a worldly Christian. A godly Christian, on the other hand, says, you know, I'm not going to trust the world's values. I'm not going to put any faith in what this world says is right and wrong and how I should live my life. I'm going to put my faith in what God says. I'm going to live by God's principles, and I'm going to trust that when it's all said and done by living for God, it's going to work out in the end. It's going to be good for me. It's going to be alright. Now I don't know about you. I've been around 54 years. You know what I think? I've come to the conclusion it's far better trust God and do it God's way than the world. Look at the world. How's it working out for them? Look at the world. They're happy? They have peace? The joy of the Lord? Godliness? Fulfillment? I don't think so. So how do we overcome? It's by faith. What I'm trying to say is faith saves our souls and living by faith. We overcome this world's values. And we find the peace of God and the joy of God and purpose in our life. Number four, faith is how we please God. Ethan mentioned it. Hebrews 11:6. Without faith, it is impossible to please God. Pleasing God is an amazing thing. Think about this with me. I, Dennis Leatherman, a wretched sinner, I can do something that God is pleased with. Wow! Did you ever, when you were a kid, did you ever have somebody you just admired so much? And you would try so hard to please them? Might have been a parent or someone. And you think, and boy, if you were able to do something, and that parent said, or that person that you admired so much, and they said, you know, that is wonderful. That really makes me happy. Who Can you imagine, listen, can you imagine God Almighty saying to me how you lived your life, that pleases me Without faith, you can't do it. You can go your own way, you can lean on your own understanding, you can call your own shots if you want. But you're doing that. You are not pleasing God. I'm not pleasing God. I can say, I know what God says, but I want to do it this way. Go ahead. Live, have faith in the world and stuff. I'll tell you, when it's said and done, you're not going to please God Jesus' strongest rebukes were against the disciples were for them not having faith. Oh ye of little faith, he said to them, could ye not trust me? And I believe Jesus' greatest rewards are going to be for those who exercise faith, who trust him. And last of all, my fifth one, what role does faith have in the Christian life? Number one, we're saved by faith Number two, we walk, we live by faith. Number three, we overcome the world by faith. Number four, we please God by trusting Him and obeying Him. And number five, acting apart from faith in God is sin. Romans 14, 23, whatsoever is not of faith is sin. If I am acting On my own understanding. If I am leaning on my own understanding and I'm doing things the way I think I should, rather as opposed to what God says I should, I am sinning against God. Whatever is not of faith is sin. When I trust the world's evaluation of life, I'm sinning against God. So what role does faith have? I'm telling you, faith is vitally important. We can come to church, just go through the motions, we can just put on a show and a facade. But if we don't have genuine faith in God, if we're not genuinely trusting Him that what He says is so and what He says is right, and acting on that, we are messing up and we're messing up bad. Now I can't I can't make your decisions for you. You can't make decisions for me. This is a personal thing that every one of us need to between us and God make the decision. Am I going to live by faith? Or am I going to lean on my understanding? Am I going to take God at His Word? Or am I going to call the shots? And let me just encourage you to consider this one thing. When you come to the end of your life, Listen, when you come to the end of your life, will you really be glad that you lived your way rather than God's I've buried so many people over the years. I have yet have someone say to me, listen, I have yet to have someone say to me, boy, I wished I hadn't lived for God. I have yet to have somebody say, boy, I wish I hadn't done what God said to do. Never had that happen. Never But I'll tell you what people have told me over and over and over and over. They come to the end of their life, they're about to meet their maker, and they say this, Preacher, I wish I could do it over again. Preacher, I wish that I'd have trusted God. I wish that'd have done right. We had a man, told you this in Indianapolis, older man. Sunday night the preacher preached the message. I don't even remember what it was. I was I was on staff and I was counseling and he came forward. I knelt beside him. He was sobbing, sobbing, sobbing. I mean chest heaving, sobbing. He'd been a member of the church for years, I knew him. Knelt down, just quietly prayed beside him for a while. I said, Can I help you, brother? He said, when I was young, God called me to preach. And he said, I thought I knew better how to live my life than what God did. And he said, I said no to God. He said, I look back over my life, I see divorce and wreck and heartache. He said, I wish I could start over again. I wish I could start over again. What do you say? I said God loves you. God can still use you. What I'm trying to say is faith is vitally important. It's not something for theology class. It's not something for the seminaries. It's every day how I live my life, trusting God, obeying Him. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us to live by faith. Help me, dear Lord. We're so prone to lean on our own understanding. We're so prone to let the world influence us and lure us. I pray you'd help us to be real Christians. And to walk by faith and not by sight. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, I look at my life and the Spirit of God shines the light of God's word on my heart and life, and I see areas where I'm not living by faith. I'm not trusting God. I'm kind of doing my thing. And you say, preacher, pray for me that I'll learn to trust God, that I'll make decisions based upon faith in God's word. And let him lead and direct my life so that when it's all said and done, I don't have any regrets. I don't look back with a broken heart, but I look back with the joy of the Lord, knowing that God is good and he's wise. How many tonight say, preacher, pray with me, that I'll learn to live by faith, trusting God, letting him lead me step by step, doing what he said. Any like that by the uplifted hand. How many say that, preacher, that's my desire? I don't want to lean on my own understanding anymore. I don't want to go my own way anymore. I want to go God's way and trust him Listen, either he knows best or the world knows best. They can't both be right because they're diametrically opposed. How about it? Any others preach or pray for me? Maybe tonight some need to kneel at an altar and say, God, here I am. Here I am. I put my heart, my soul, my life, my home, my marriage, my everything. I put on the altar. God, you have it, you lead it, you direct it, you have your way. One last question. Is there someone here tonight say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die? Maybe your Christianity's been a show. Maybe it's been a facade and tonight you say no more. I want to know Jesus Christ personally. I want to have a relationship. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. No more show. No more facade. I want the real thing. I want the real thing. Any at all? Now, Father, bless our invitation. You know our hearts, God. You know our struggles. Give us grace. Strengthen our faith. Lord, teach us. Work with us Chasten us, Lord, where we need it, so that we can be the people you want us to be. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's going to play a few verses of invitation. Tonight God spoke to your heart.