So listen, turn to James and keep it right there because we're going to use our Bibles a lot tonight in a little time. And so um uh I'm glad I'm part of a church that uses their Bible in the services. And that's not true in all churches. And um praise the Lord for that. James chapter 2. And uh I do need to meet with the deacon trustees just real quickly after to the service if you would all the deacons trustees meet uh me just uh down front here give me a couple minutes i need to show something to you And so if you would, last week was our family conference, wasn't that a blessing with Brother Schindler? Uh my wife gave me a book to read, she recommended for our relationship. Uh it's called Uh men are women are from Venus and men are wrong. And so uh might want to get that and read that, it might be helpful. No, she didn't give that to me. That was a lame joke Uh James chapter 2 and uh verse number 14. James 2, 14. Make sure I'm turned on here. It's funny, we were in Dover, Delaware preaching at the men's thing, and the same issues with the sound there. It's just everywhere. Uh look at verse number 14. What doth it profit, my brethren, though a man say he hath faith. And have not works, can faith save him? If a brother or sister be naked and destitute of daily food, and one of you say unto them, Depart in peace, and be ye warmed and filled Notwithstanding you give them not those things which are needful to the body, what doth it profit? Even so faith, if it hath not works, is dead being alone Yea, a man may say, Thou hast faith, and I have works. Show me thy faith without thy works. And I will show thee my faith by my works. That's the key to this passage. Thou believest that there is one God, thou doest well, the devils also believe and tremble. But wilt thou know, O vain man, that faith without works is dead. The testimony of faith, let's pray. I want to dive right into this. Lord bless our study tonight, our message, stir our hearts I pray we'd be a people of faith and works according to the Bible. In Jesus' name, Amen. No one denies that faith is vitally important in Christianity The Bible, in fact, this passage here, the word faith is used eleven times. He references faith in just a brief uh portion of scripture. But the other side of faith, closely associated, is this matter of works. And there's a lot of friction in some circles. A lot of theological discussion about faith and works. Uh I've heard people preach from this passage and say that uh we are saved by how we live our life and the things we do A work salvation. I'll say right up front, that is not what this passage is teaching. And if you'll pay attention to the wording, it's pretty clear. But nevertheless Uh it does address the matter of works. Uh the word works in this passage is used by my count uh twelve times. Now if you remember two weeks ago tonight We considered the role of faith in the Christian life, the role of faith. And let me just remind you of what we said. We pointed out first of all that we are saved by faith It is faith that gets my sins forgiven. I preached on it this morning. It is faith that gives me new life, eternal life. It is faith that makes the grace of God and applies it to my life, me putting my faith. We are saved by faith. I'd say that's pretty important. Amen? Saved by faith. The second role of faith in our life, we pointed out that we walk by faith. We live by faith. And by that we mean the Christian life is simply to be lived by trusting God, that what God says, the instruction God gives the leadership God gives us in His words, in His Word, we trust that, we believe that, we have faith in God, that that is best And we live accordingly. So we live by faith. We're saved by faith. We live by faith. 1 John 5. 4 tells us, number three, we have victory over the world and sin by faith. The world tells us what's important, the world tells us what we ought to have as priorities, the world tries to influence us on how we see things and our perspective on life. And then we have God's word tells us, and when I refuse to lean and follow the world's philosophy, and I follow God's word and trust Him, I have victory over the world by faith. And then we pointed out, number four, faith in God is necessary for prayer. Jesus made it very clear, if we don't believe when we pray, we're not going to have the answers to our prayers. So faith is necessary for answer prayer. Then we said, number four, having faith in God pleases God. In fact, without faith, it's impossible to please God. Listen, I can tell you one thing tonight. God wants you to trust him. He wants you to trust him. And if I'm not trusting him, number five, and acting apart from faith, according to Romans 14, 23, it is sin. And any time, rather than trusting God, and I lean on my understanding, even if it's something good, but I'm doing it my way rather than trusting God in his way I'm sinning against God. So the role of faith in the Christian life is vitally important. Now I'm looking at this passage and I see here James is telling us, under the inspiration of God, there is a role of works in our life. There is a place for works in our life. Listen, God does not save us so that we just kick back and do nothing. And uh we're going to look at that, uh, the role of faith in our life. Many Christians, uh, for a lot of Christians, the only thing they know about works. And they come to a church like ours and they hear an emphasis on salvation, and the only thing they know about works is this: I'm not saved by them. For a lot of Christians, that's all they know. You say somebody mentions works, oh, bad. I'm not saved by works. That's true. We're not saved by works. But works are not bad. They play a role in our Christian life, and there's a whole lot more to it than that. Ephesians 2. 8. 9, for by grace are you saved through faith, and that not of yourselves the gift of God, not of Works, lest any man should boast. Oh, no, no, works, he's preaching works. Uh no, we're not saved by works, but works does have a place in the Christian life. The word works here, as it's used in James, uh, means our actions. The deeds we do. I like this one definition. Our occupation. How we live our life. How we occupy our life The works we do. So what are the what role do works play in the Christian life? Let me give you a few thoughts real quick. Number one, I put this down, and this is where we're going to start using our Bible a bunch. We are saved. Unto good works. We are saved unto good works. Ephesians, right where we were this morning. Ephesians chapter 2. And I deliberately this morning had Brother Grant read all the way down through verse ten. I just preached on eight and nine, but I wanted ten included on it because verse ten Most of the time is left off, but if you look very cle uh very clearly there, it's a continuation of the thought in verse 8 and 9. Ephesians 2, 8 and 9. For by grace are you saved through faith. That not of yourselves, it's a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. Verse 10, for because that's true For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus unto what? Good works. Which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them. The word created there is referencing the fact that when a person gets saved We become a new creation. How many folks here, you're a different person since you got saved than you were before you got saved? How many people testify to that? Sure. You know what that means? You're a new creation. And when he says we are created, we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus, he's talking about our salvation. 2 Corinthians 5. 17. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature, a new creation. And that's what he's referencing. And then he says, we are created, we're born again, we're changed by God, we're saved, unto good works. I like the word unto there. We are saved unto good works. That word unto means this: in the direction of. So God saves us by grace, verse 8 and 9, through faith. But he saves us to put us in the direction of good works. All right, you got saved? Saved from sin, saved from hell, it's completely God's grace. Faith applied it. You put your faith in Jesus Christ, applied God's grace. Now you're a new creature. You're in Christ. You're a new creature. Now I saved you. For to go in this direction of doing good works, of serving me. And so, from the very beginning, one of God's primary purses for saving you and I was so that our life would be transformed from wicked works, from sinful works, unto good works. I put in the margin of my Bible beside verse 10, I put this statement there. Saved to good works, not by good works. Did you get that? I'm saved. That is the purpose of my salvation. Genuine biblical salvation. produces good works. Good works. We are saved unto good works. It's one of the reasons God saves us to perform good actions. to uh to be involved uh to uh uh live uh to exercise good godly behavior Now that doesn't save us. It is the result of the salvation. It's the purpose of salvation. It is the direction our salvation takes us to good works. I've said this before, and I'm going to just inject it here. I have more respect I have more respect for a liberal or for a Jehovah's Witness that works hard to be saved. Than I do for a Baptist who won't work because they're saved. Well, I'm not saved by works, I'm saved by faith, so therefore I'm not going to lift a finger or do anything. I'm just saved by faith. James chapter 2 is blowing that out of the water. Because God saves us, Ephesians 2. 10, God saves us unto good works to serve God and to live for Him. So what role does works play? Number one? We are saved unto good works. Not by good works, but unto good works. Number two, put this one down. The role of works in the Christian life: works bring glory to God. Works bring glory to God. When I as a Christian and I am doing good works, I'm uh doing godly behavior, I'm serving the Lord, I'm doing the things God tells me to do, I'm not doing the things I should not do. I have good works, I'm exercising good works, that brings glory to God. Turn with me to Matthew chapter number five I told you we're going to be all over the New Testament. So if you have little tabs on your Bible, it would help be helped maybe. Matthew chapter 5, the good the the uh uh Sermon on the Mount. uh transitioning from the Beatitudes into the Sermon on the Mount this Wednesday night. And uh this is part of his sermon there. Matthew chapter 5. Look at verse 14. Matthew 5, verse 14. Here's a great passage. Ye are the light of the world. Isn't that good? A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. Neither do men light a candle and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick, and it giveth light unto all that are in the house. Would you agree? That's a great blessing to that house How many people when you're walking through the middle night would rather have a light on than off? Anybody that wants, oh, the lights off at night is is dangerous. And um uh but uh uh you put the light on the candlestick and it lights all the house. Now look at verse 16. Let your light so shine before men That they may see your what? I thought works were something bad. No Works have a role in the Christian life. Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify who. Your Father which is in heaven. When I accept Jesus Christ as my Savior, God saves me and He puts me in the direction of doing good work, serving Him. and uh various aspects, whatever those good works will involve doing that, things that are right and good and honest and true and getting away from the sin and all that's coming out, and I'm serving God, I'm working for God And one of the things the Bible tells us one role that those good works plays is that people will eventually see them It cannot be hidden. It's like a light in a room. People will see them, but if they're biblical, if they're scriptural and spiritual good works, people will glorify our Father in heaven. It brings glory to God. Good works are the light. According to this, that light, let your light so shine, that's the good works I'm doing. It doesn't say let your light so shine by telling everybody how great your faith is. James says, no, no, no, you say you have faith. I'll show you my faith. I'll show you my faith by my works. My works are the light. And he says, when you do that, people will bring glory to God. This is the interesting thing. This is what our sinful nature thinks. We get saved. Well I'm going to do some good stuff. And I'm serving God. God stirs my heart. He puts it in my heart. And I want to do this and I want to do that. I want to get involved in master clubs. I want to work in that busting around, singing the choir I want to do this. I want to serve God. I want to do something for God. And these good works. And our flesh wants to get all the what? The glory. Well, our flesh wants to get all the credit. So uh here's it. Oh, we'll go on Twitter. Well, I gave $25 to this poor homeless guy today. And he gets 700 likes. Oh, that's wonderful. You're a great guy. If you're following Twitter, you know what I'm talking about. And the thing is, and this kind of bothers me a little bit. Now listen, I think if God does something for us, we ought to give him the glory and testify. Let the redeemed of the Lord say so But there's some uh even in our circle, some guys, boy, they'll put on there and uh and they'll just broadcast all how great they are and how wonderful they are. Listen, that you're missing the point I'm to do good works, not for me to get the credit, not for me to say, boy, Brother Dennis is a great guy. Let's lift him up, for he's a jelly good fellow, for he's a jolly good fellow. No If my good works are what the Bible intends for them to be, if they're scriptural and spiritual, people will see them and they're not going to say, boy, what a great guy Brother Dennis is What they're going to say is, boy, what a great God Brother Dennis has. See what I'm saying? Man, God did something in his life Man, God's working there. And the glory goes to God. Here's the role that works play in the Christian life. My works that I do for the Lord as a believer are a means of bringing glory to God. Of bringing glory to God. The word glory, what does it mean to glorify your Father which is in heaven? What does that mean? Well you just look up the meaning of the word One of the most basic meanings of the word is to honor. To honor the Lord. Back in November, we honored the veterans. That was a good thing, wasn't it? We ought to give honor to whom honor is due. So what did we do to them? Boy, we put them up front and we told them we appreciate them and we said what a great job they did and their sacrifice and we gave a picture and we tried to present them in the best light we possibly could. Now, our good works glorify, honor our God. And when we have biblical, sincere, humble, godly, spiritual good works, God is lifted up. People think more highly of God. People have greater honor in their hearts and minds for God. Now here's the tragedy. When we as Christians don't live that, we don't do good works, God is not glorified, but people start to think lower of God. People have meant tend to dishonor God rather than glorify him and honor him. And I'm telling you, we're at a point in our country where God is very dishonored in the eyes of the unsaved. There's no fear of mocking him. They see nothing of his glory. They see nothing of his goodness and his majesty and his holiness. And so we want to blame all of them and blame all the politicians I'll tell you where the blame lays. The blame lays on Christians who aren't doing good works. Genuine biblical good works. Because if we do them as God intends and they're being produced in our light, then God will be glorified And so the condition of, and this is in my mind, but the condition of the the blame for the condition of America in my mind lies at the feet of the church. Of Christians. And we failed to live up to what God has called us to do. To glorify means to honor. It means to produce an enlarged opinion of Wow, God is even greater than I ever thought he was. My opinion of him is larger and greater. Wow, God is holier than I ever dreamed he'd be that holy. And good works, if they're scriptural and spiritual, will cause people, their opinion of God to be greater and greater and greater. It means to manifest the dignity and the wonder of. And when our works are biblical and they're godly and they're spiritual. the wonder of God will be displayed. Good works, when genuinely done and biblically done will not glorify the one performing them but will glorify the Lord by whom they are done. In other words, it's God enabling us to do it in the first place. We mentioned this often when we get to the judgment seat of Christ, and God rewards us and crowns us for the service we've done, the good works we've done, and various categories are listed in the Bible. The Bible says in Revelation that we're going to take those crowns and we're going to cast them at his feet. Now, a surface reading of that, it sounds like it's very disrespectful. Sounds like I don't respect that crown, I'm just throwing it. But that's not the picture at all. The picture is there, God, uh, I do good works for God and all that, and He crowns me and honors me And what I do is say, oh no, no, no, Lord, I'd be I'm a lost fit. I was a lost sinner. I ought to be burning in hell. Jesus, all this credit and glory goes to you. And that's what good works do. They bring glory to God, not to us. And you know, we get out and uh brother Jerry and I were down there in Delaware. I've really enjoyed myself, I keep mentioning it. But um, you know, they said so many nice and wonderful things about our church. They really did. And in the back of my mind, I'm thinking the whole time, you know, it's really God that's doing this. It's God the one saving souls. It's God the one changing lives. It's not us. This is just serving the Lord. It's just a result of our salvation. That's the good works that come as a result of that. So good works bring glory to God. Turn over to 1 Peter chapter 2. This is along the same lines. 1 Peter chapter 2. Told you we're going to use our Bibles. I figure you bring them to church, you might as well use them, right? 1 Peter 2, verse 12. Very church I went to after I got saved. I mean I was saved Monday, this is Sunday, so you're looking at seven days later, it's church down the street. And I didn't know at the time, but a very liberal church. I went in, I had my little Bible. I didn't know. I was seven days old. I was a little spiritual baby. I come walking in there with my Bible. Nobody else had a Bible And you know what my little baby spiritual baby mind thought? That ain't right. Had enough sense then. But anyway, look at where did I say? 1 Peter 2, verse 12. Having your conversation honest among the Gentiles, that whereas they speak against you as evildoers, they may by your good works, which they shall behold, do what? Glorify God in the day of visitation. He goes, oh, uh, they'll speak against you, they'll say awful things, they'll make you sad They'll make it sound like you're the most wicked thing that doing right and serving God and living for God is so terrible and taking a stand for what is right is so terrible, they'll make that which is good look so bad He says, but those good works that God produces in you, they're not going to be able to say anything against that. And even though they say all that stuff, they're going to see your good works. And you know what's going to happen? God's going to be glorified. And it's by how we live our life. Now I think there's an interesting statement at the beginning of that verse. He says, by your honest conversation. Is that how it's worded? By your conversation, having your conversation honest among the Gentiles. Honesty in my lifestyle is a good work. Is a good work. Honesty in my daily living, honesty in how I talk and how I live, just being honest. Brings glory to God. In my mind, now this is me, but in my mind, dishonesty Is one of the most God-dishonoring characteristics of a Christian. If a Christian is anything, he has got to be honest. And to me, one thing that will that will turn people away from God is when a Christian is dishonest. Members of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, we have got to be honest. Put away dishonesty. Let every word be true. And when we're on when we have our conversation honest among the Gentiles, they can say a lot of hateful stuff about us. When it's all said and done, God's going to be glorified. But if we're dishonest in how we live and things we say, if we lie and we don't tell the truth, brother, we are not bringing glory to God. We are bringing dishonor to our Lord. The Bible says that God is truth. Dishonesty and untruth is an affront to that characteristic of our God. So good works, number one, we are saved unto good works. Good works bring glory to God Let me finish this up. Number three, good works are to be a blessing to others. Not to make me look good, but to be a blessing. All right, come on over to 1 Timothy, chapter 6. When a Christian lives and does good works, boy, that becomes a blessing to other people. 1 Timothy chapter 6, verse 17. Now pay attention to verse 17 because that's talking about us. I mean us Americans. Look what it says. Charge them that are rich in this world. Hey, that's us, folks. Right here, sitting in this auditorium. We are the ones that are rich in the world, Americans. I put in the margin of my Bible, most Americans. Charge them that are rich in this world, that they be not high-minded, nor trust in uncertain riches, but in the living God, who giveth us richly all things to enjoy. Now look at this that they do good and that they be rich in what? Good works, ready to distribute Willing to communicate, in other words, share with others, laying up for store for themselves a good foundation against the time to come, they may lay hold in eternal life. He's saying, listen, don't God didn't give you those riches to trust in those riches to make you saved. That was a big thinking back in this day. He said, No, God didn't God gave you those riches so you can be a blessing to people and serve God. And be a blessing to others. So don't trust in them, trust in Christ. But my point is this. That word rich means to have an abundance of. He says, be rich in good works. Have an abundance of good works. Be a blessing to others. Be an encouragement to others. Over and over and over again. The scripture instructs us to help other people To be a blessing to other people. I think the folks of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, you and I, we ought to be the kindest people in this whole community We ought to be uh help people and do all these things. And uh we're to be rich in good works. What does it say about Jesus? He went about doing good. Everywhere he went, he was a blessing to people. Man, they'd cuss him out and do his stuff. He'd just kind of let it roll off and he'd go over here and he'd just go about doing good. Heal this one, help that one, feed this one, teach them, do that. And he just went about doing good And that's one of the roles that put good works has in the believer's life. I'm just to go out and be a blessing to people and help people and lift them up. Jesus went about doing good. Hebrews chapter 10, real quick, quicker you turn there, the quicker we get done. Hebrews chapter 10, verse 23. It's not far away. Hebrews 10, verse 23. First second Timothy Titus Philemon Hebrews tens right after nine uh 1023. Verse 23. Let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering, for he is faithful that promised. Now look. Let us consider one another. The word consider means to think carefully about, give close consideration to. Let us consider one another to provoke unto love and to what? Good works. That word provoke means to incite. We have some folks in our country that are very good at inciting riots. There'll be a little scuttle butt something going on, the brother, they'll show up. Next thing you know, there's rioting and looting going on. You know what I'm talking about? And so they're good at insiding riots He says that when you and I as a Christian are doing good works and we're being a blessing to your people, we're serving God and we're doing these good things, not to be saved, but because of our salvation, and uh we're bringing glory to God, and you know what? We're being a blessing to other people. And what that does is that incites, provokes other people to do the same thing. I found two things in life are contagious. Well, there's a lot of things, but two things in the Christian life are contagious. One is anger. Do you ever notice that? If somebody around gets angry, what happens to you? I get angry. Everybody gets angry. That's why it says don't make friends with an angry man. So anger is very contagious. But there's something else that's contagious according to the verse. Are you listening, girls? According to the verse, it says that good works are contagious. That when I'm being kind, I'm being gracious, I'm helping people, I'm being a blessing, encouraging others and doing all that, that provokes others to do the same thing. And somebody else looking at it and saying, well, you know, that was a nice thing. I ought to do something like that. And so it provokes others. So good works are contagious. The Bible says some folks are especially gifted in this area. Now we're not going to take time to turn here, but Romans 12 1 Corinthians 12 verse 28 says that God has given to some people the gift of helps, the gift of ministry. Do you ever meet someone? It's just something about them, they're just always helping people I mean it's just in their nature. They don't even have to think about it. They're just being a blessing. And I think that is what the Bible refers to as a gift of helps. They just have that special mat That special insight, they have a special way that they just know how to help people, they can see it, they can assess it, and they can come the right, they just know what it is to do at the right time, the right way, the right day, and they just have the gift of being a blessing and helping. Now, some people are specially gifted to that, but all of us are supposed to do that. That's part of good works So good works, number one, we're saved unto good works, not by good works. We're sav uh good works bring glory to God. Number three, good works are to be a blessing to uh to others. And uh come back to James now. We're winding down here. James chapter 2. This brings us back to our passage here. And uh chapter 2, we're talking about uh good works are to be a blessing of others. Look at verse 15. Now we read this, but we haven't talked about it yet. If a brother or sister be naked and destitute of daily food, and one of you, what's the word, say, here it is, say unto them, Depart in peace, be ye warmed and filled. Notwithstanding, you give them not those things which are needful to the body, what doth it profit? And the answer is what? Don't do any good. And so my good works that he's talking about here, one aspect of them is to be a blessing to people. And somebody comes by and says we're out of food, I don't know anything, or kids are starving. And uh what do I do? Well, listen, God bless you. Let's pray. Lord provide for them, and my refrigerator is full, and my shelves are stacked full Lord, you take care of them. And I've got blankets there and maybe some kerosene I can put heat in there. And uh, Lord, you take care of them. God bless them. Listen, we're praying that all your needs are met. Goodbye, clunk That's not good works. That's not bringing glory to God. That's not why God saved me to treat people like that I'm to be a blessing to them. I'm to give of myself to them. Now, does that mean we have to feed everybody that's poor? No. Does that mean we have to uh uh just give everything we have to everybody else? No There was a lot of sick people in the day. Jesus didn't heal them all. There's a lot of hungry people. He didn't perform miracles and give food to all of them. But as we go through life, That ought to be part of our thing. I believe this is an individual mandate. God didn't institute the church to make sure all the hungry people were fed. That's individual jobs. The church's job is to get the gospel around all the world And so we are to be a blessing to others. Let me give you the last one. Good works are the only legitimate testimony of my faith. I can say that I have faith in God all I want. But my works are what are going to be a legitimate testimony of that. I I think it was Clyde Box, I don't remember who it was I heard say this years ago. It's probably a number of different ones But they said this, your talk talks and your walk talks. But your walk talks more than your talk talks. Do you get that? In other words, I can say all I want and people are, you know, I'm saying that. But how I act, my behavior, my works, say a whole lot more about my faith than what my tongue does. See what I'm saying? And so works are the only legitimate testimony of the reality of my faith Boy, I wish we had more time. Let me give you the reference. 1 Timothy 5, 9 and 10. Timothy is addressing the issue of widows in the church, and it's an interesting study. And one of the things he says there is, before you bring a widow into the the benevolence ministry of your church, in other words, giving to her and taking care of you, before you do that, he actually puts an age limit on it. And then he says this, that she makes sure she is careful that she maintains good works And I think what he's saying is, if you have uh, and for this case here, it's talking about widows, uh, the principle applies across the board, what he's saying is before you bring them into that program the church has to take care of widows You make sure she has a testimony that she's a believer. That her works, her life, her behavior is a testimony bears witness to the fact that she's a child of God. If you come over into uh first that same chapter 5, verse 24 and 25, he makes a very similar statement. That it is our works that testify to the reality of our faith. And here we are at James. What doth it profit, my brethren, if a man say he hath faith, And have not works? Can that faith save him? Is there anything legitimate about that faith that doesn't produce works, that doesn't bring glory to God, that doesn't isn't a blessing to others? Is that a a faith really in Jesus Christ? And he comes down and we'll study it and we'll look at it and he points out that the only legitimate testimony of actual faith in Jesus Christ is how it affects my life and produces good works in my life. That is where the testimony is. Not that the works save us. But the works are a testimony of my salvation. Works carry much more weight than words. That's what he's saying. Works, I like this statement, works are my faith on display. Me living my life and doing these things and serving God and witnessing whatever those works consist of, according to Scripture, as long as I'm biblical and they're sincere, that is my faith being demonstrated. My faith is a personal thing. I'm trusting Christ. I put my faith and trusting Christ. And that produces these works. And those works are a demonstration that that faith is in place. Follow what I'm saying? This past spring, a little over not quite a year ago, I went to one of the places stores here and I bought an apple tree. And I got counsel from Brian on buying an apple tree He's our Johnny Apple seed in the church. And I told him what I w he said, you gotta get this kind and it has this and he told me all these things about it. So I went to the place that sold trees And I said, I want an apple tree. And there's a whole bunch of I saw 'em they're in b uh bundles, you know, in the little um uh thing there bundled up and The trees were there and they were all there's a whole ton of them out there. I said, I want an apple tree. She goes, Well, they're out there along that. Uh she's out there, go out and find what you want. I said, uh, how do I know which ones are the apple trees She said, uh, the ones that have apples on. I said, Oh yeah, well that makes sense. And I went out, you know what I found out which trees they had pear and peach and all kinds of trees. You know how I found out which ones were the apple trees? The ones that had apples on. How many people are glad you came to church and learned that? That's profound. You know what James is telling us? You know how you tell which ones are really the Christians? They're the ones that have the good works. That their life is t changed, their life is testimony. Now, is it possible for a person to be saved and not have good works? If they are, I know one thing, they are under the chastisement of God. Hebrews chapter 12. God is chastening, God is working, because we are saved unto good works from the very beginning, before the foundation of the world, God's plan was for those who are to be saved to be saved unto good works. So what am I saying? What is James saying? He's saying this. God expects us to work for him. to serve him, live for him, perform these good works. And that is the role that they play in our life. One last thought, and this is important. The Bible references in Hebrews dead works. Dead works. Now, what in the world is a dead work? And maybe we'll preach a sermon on that sometime. But let me just make it concise. When the Bible references dead works, dead works, a dead work is any good work that is done to make up for a bad work. Do you get that? In other words, if you're here tonight in church because you did something bad this past week, And you decided, well, I'm going to go to church on Sunday night, and that will make up, that's a good word, that will make up for the bad thing I did earlier in the week. The Bible says that is a dead work. It's meaningless. It doesn't work that way. The only way to make up for a bad work is to confess and forsake it and find forgiveness and cleansing in Christ. Good works are not to make up for bad works, that's dead works. Good works are the result of God saving me and working in my life and changing me and directing me as I trust them and obey them. What role do good works have in your life? What is your testimony on the job, in the home, around the community? Is it a testimony that my faith is producing good works? Or is my faith, is my testimony just my lips? I say I'm saved, I say I'm a Christian, I'm saying that, but nothing in my life has any works that indicate that that's the case There's something gravely wrong. That faith does not save them. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray that we would be careful to maintain good works.