The sermon only has like two points. I'm not sure this but this one this morning didn't even have points when you really think about it. So it shouldn't have I shouldn't have even preached it. It just should have been like, all right, let's go home. But uh so this one's uh it's got two points. Um by the way before I get started, I was thinking about Sunday school teachers because uh he was showing the uh the pictures of Sunday school. Um and this is just to all these Sunday school teachers. Let me tell you how important Sunday school is. I was teaching in teens this morning and um and I'm talking about how important children's Sunday school especially is. I was teaching in teens this morning, I said, who knows? And again, we had twenty-one kids, I think. Twenty f How many kids? Oh, we had 24 kids. Well, I'd put we need to change that on the Sunday school report. I miscounted. Um by a lot. So we had twenty we had twenty-four kids And uh I said, who knows? Who has ever heard of, and it was a minor point, but who has ever heard of the Apostle Paul? And seven of them raised their hand. And I was like, wow, this is a problem. And and like it was great. And I got, you know, and maybe w and oh that means that I get to teach them about Paul. But This is something that no one understands. Or it no one seems to understand, or at least I don't, I guess. People just don't like Be born knowing Bible stories. It might feel like you're born knowing Bible stories because you've always known them And that's some of you. Some of you have been raised in church and you've always known the Bible stories, it feels like. Just like just like you've always almost known how to be saved. Like you've almost been saved as long as you can remember. Some people are like that But there's more people than not who have no idea who Paul was, really. They have no idea, they might know David and Goliath, but that's the extent they know about David. They might know something that Daniel has something to do with the lion's den. They probably think that Moses built the ark. I said Moses, not Noah. But if you say Moses built the ark, most people would be like, Yeah. Jesus will. And I g because maybe maybe they do know the Bible and they're just trying not to embarrass you. But people like to embarrass people, so that's probably not it. But the fact is is that most people uh they don't listen, these kids they need to know these Bible stories because and here's something that you're that uh that past I probably shouldn't say being a pastor, but um Preaching is great. Sermons are great. Sermons can affect people. But the part of the sermon that most people will understand wait let me the part of the sermon that people will remember, not the points. are the stories you tell. Which is why most of the Bible is not um just straight doctrine, it is also stories. Because God teaches us through stories, God teaches us through histories of people. It's all true, but God teaches us that way, and not just through you should do this and shouldn't do this, because we always forget the shouldn't shouldn't, but we remember that David killed a guy killed a giant. And we remember that Daniel survived the lion's den. Now once we remember that we're going to be able to say, hey, God can do anything. Once we remember the story about Moses and the ten plagues, we can remember that, wow, God is very powerful. More than we remember, hey, just God is very powerful. So remember, if if you're a Sunday school teacher, I want to thank you for that because I'm telling you, it's uh I when I start my lessons, sometimes I expect kids to just know stuff about the Bible. And they don't. But uh but I mean th but those that do it's because of you, not because of Uh me, so that's uh that's just what I wanted to say before I got started. Uh everyone in Numbers, chapter number thirteen. Numbers, chapter number thirteen, and then I'm gonna go to the book. Numbers, chapter number thirteen. We're gonna start in verse number seventeen. If you know what this uh passage is, uh most people don't know where to find this passage, they just know it's in the Bible. Um but uh but my teens should know where this passage is because we preached out of it like five times in the last month. And I took one of my Sunday school lessons, I turned it into a sermon. Um but I but I just think it's a it's an important uh Important ideas, but I I just want you to listen up. I will try to talk fast, but I always get complaints when I talk fast. So here's the thing. You either want to be out early or you want me to talk fast or you want me to talk slowly. You get to choose. And actually you don't, because I'm just gonna do probably both is I'm gonna talk late and fast. But think of this. If I talk slower, you'd be here longer. Um don't just stand. Uh I told my wife today, she's like, You didn't get out on time. I was like, I know. And she's like, Can you talk to that? I said, I know, but if I had talked at a normal speed, we would have still been there. So uh but uh I will try to talk slowly and clearly. Um uh has anyone ever heard of Pirates of Pen Dance? Raise your hand. Okay. It's a famous opera slash musical depending on what form you've heard it in. I was the modern major general, and that doesn't matter to any of you probably. But that means that they taught me to talk very, very fast, and I've never recovered. So um Numbers chapter number thirteen. Um And Moses sent them to spy out the land of Canaan, or in verse 17, by the way. And said unto them, Get you up this way southward and go up into the mountain and see the land what it is. And the people that dwell therein dwelleth therein, whether they be strong or weak, few or many, and what the land is that they dwell in, whether it Whether it be good or bad, and what the cities that and what cities they dwell in, whether it be tents or in strongholds And what the land is, and whether it be fat or lean, and whether there be wood therein or not, and be ye of good courage, and bring the fruit of the land. Now the time was the time of the first ripe grapes So they went up and searched the land from the wilderness of Zim to Rahab as the men came to Hamath. And they ascended the south. And came unto Hebron, and uh Hyman and the Shishai and the Talmai, and the children of Anak were there, or and sorry, the children of Anak were. Now Hebron was built seven years before Zoan in in Egypt And they came unto the brook of Eskel, and cut down then from thence a branch with one cluster of grapes, and bare it between two upon a staff, and they brought the pomegranates and of the figs, and the place was called The place was called the Brook Escal, because the cluster of grapes which the children of Israel cut down from thence, and they returned from searching the land for f after forty days. And they went and came unto Moses and Aaron and all the congregation of the children of Israel unto the wilderness of Puran and Kadesh and brought back word unto them. And unto all the congregation, and showed them the fruit of the land. And they told them and said, We came unto the land whither thou sentest us, and surely it floweth with milk and honey, and this is the fruit of it. Nevertheless, the people be strong that dwell in the land. And the cities are walled and very great. And moreover, we saw the children of Anak there. The Amalekites dwell in the land of the south, and the Hittites and the Jebusites and the Amorites dwell in the mountains, and the Canaanites dwell by the sea and the coast of Jordan. And Caleb sealed the people before Moses and said, Let us go up at once and possess it, for we are able to overcome it. But the men that went up with him said, We be not able to go up against the people, for they are stronger than we. And they brought up an evil report of the land which they had searched unto the children of Israel, saying, The land that Through which we have gone to search, it is a land that eateth up the inhabitants thereof. And all the people we saw in were men of great stature. And there we saw the giants, the son of Anak, which came which come of the giants And we were in our own sight grasshoppers, so we were in their s so we were in their sight. And all the congregation lifted up their voice and cried, and the people wept that night And all the children of Israel murmured against Moses and Aaron, and all the whole congregation said, Would God have died, would God that we had died in the land of Egypt, or would God we had died in this wilderness. This is a very uh trying time for the uh for the Israelites. It's actually a joyous time, um originally Um, if you remember, they'd left the uh they'd left Egypt. God had freed them from Egypt. Let me say that again. God had freed them from Egypt. Now not many now listen when God's involved in a lot of stuff that we don't give him credit for, but God was really, really involved in freeing them from Egypt. He was so involved that he freed them from at that time the most powerful army in the world without them having to lift a finger. He had freed these slaves, this nation that had been in Egypt for 430 years, enslaves for much of that time. He freed them. And he didn't just convince the Pharaoh to let them go. No, he actually sent ten plagues. And uh we're not going to go over all the ten plagues, but just a couple. He destroyed most of Egypt with fiery hail. He blocked out the sun. He gave the people boils and he diseased their cattle cattle. And when that wasn't enough He killed the firstborn of every family Now if you're uh and I I talked about this uh at the uh at the uh super seniors luncheon, but that's fifteen to thirty percent of the nation he killed. In America, roughly that would be about 50 to 100 million people dying in one night for no reason or for no cause no known cause This is what God did And then he led them out. And then when they hit the sea, the Red Sea, and the army of uh the Egyptians were behind them, God opened up the sea like it had never been done before. I would say it'd never been done again, but that's actually not true, but that's a different story. Um But he opened up the Red Sea and they walked across on dry land And then he gave them the word of God. Then he gave them the uh not only the Ten Commandments, but all of the law of Israel. Or all of the law of Moses. The entire party gave it to them. Or not the entire Torah because it's being written right now, but he he just gave them all the law. And and then he opened up the ground and swallowed up a bunch of people who were against Moses. God showed himself to these people. And so he takes them to Canaan land. And he says, uh and Moses says, Alright, I'm sending twelve spies into Canaan, and you guys are just gonna look at it and see what it's like. Bring back the fruit thereof, and you're gonna and you're just gonna give us a report. Now I don't know whether God told them to send spies. That's actually a completely different message. But they sent twelve spies in there. And if you guys know the children's song, ten were bad and two were good. Ten were bad and two were good. Two of them came back and gave this great report. Listen, the fruit is huge. It's huge fruit. And by the way, everyone loves huge fruit, by the way. Like is there anything better than like just like a giant grape and you're just like, wow Grapes are that big? And like you don't even know, so you just eat it. It's awesome. And then and then and then uh there are pomegranates there. Pomegranates, oh that's an expensive fruit right there. And and and they're and they're and they're just all in the the the land is rich and the land is beautiful and and and we need to go up and take it. And ten of them were like But we'll die. Because the people there, they're giants, and their cities are walled, and they'll eat us. The land will consume us. That's what they said. Now. What we're going to talk about, oh by the way, uh if you're wondering what the uh what the title of tonight's sermon is, it's no li it's not to me it's not ten were bad and two are good. It's Ten were negative and two were positive. Or ten were negative and two were good. Let's talk about this. You see, here's the similarities between the twelve spies. They saw that they had the same experience. They saw the same sights. They had the same God. They had the same belief in their God. And they had the same knowledge. And they had the same mission, right? All these things were the same. The facts were the same. They all saw the same thing. None of them were like, hey, look, giants, and like, you know, Caleb and Joshua were like, we're not gonna look at them, we're not gonna look at them. Because we no, everyone saw the same thing. But here's the differences between them. The difference between the tenant two was not that they had different experiences. They didn't say it's not that they saw different things or had different gods. It's that how they viewed those experiences. How they viewed what they saw, how they viewed who God was. How they viewed what they believed about him, how they viewed what their religion was about, how they viewed their mission Listen, two of them treated um that their spy mission as in to go in and bring back about bring a report back about what was in the land. The other ten, they thought their mission, and this is the difference, but they thought their mission was to come was to go in and see if they could take the land. Let me say it again. The two good ones went into the land thinking that their mission was just to see what was in there. The ten bad ones thought their mission was to go in to see if they should go in God had commanded them to go in. Why was the spies report evil? Because it wasn't about whether or not they should go in. It was just to see what was there. Now that's an there's a lot of messages there, and uh and I can't preach all of them tonight, so I won't. But um let me tell you something. I don't know how the ten spies viewed God. I don't know if they saw him as this mean God. I don't know if they had friends who died when the wr when the uh ground swallowed up a bunch of people. I don't know. I don't know if they saw him as a mean god or or if they were so bitter that he left him in the wilderness in Egypt, which by the way they shouldn't have been in Egypt for four and thirty years in the first place. They should have left after the famine was over, but that's a different story But but they were probably a little bitter. But you know what? You know what I really think? In my heart of hearts Is a is a is a very good possibility is that the ten spies that came back with their evil report, saying how there are giants in the land and how the the land was going to swallow them up and that they couldn't do anything They didn't really want to maybe dissuade the children of Israel from going into the land. That might have not listened me, they might not have wanted to dissuade the children of Israel. They might have just wanted to talk about something. They might have just wanted to be heard They might have just wanted their opinion heard. Maybe this evil report wasn't an evil, wasn't a report meant to be evil But it was a conversation or it was a viewpoint of that that they that they m wanted to say because it made them feel different or important Maybe the evil report was never to sway anyone from going into the land just to tell everyone the negatives about the land. What if the ten spies by the way, these ten spies, this evil report, um it caused every adult in the nation to die in the wilderness instead of going to the promised land? Every adult, save Caleb and Joshua, died in the wilderness because of this report. But maybe this report Wasn't anything more than simple gossip. What if they were just making conversation and it turned into something more? One person's talking And says something negative about it. And the other person agrees with them and also adds something negative. And the other person says, yeah, but what about this? And also adds something negative. What if these ten spies weren't really bad guys? They were just naturally pessimistic I can say all this what if and I want, but here's the thing about the what ifs. I don't know. But I know this. Whether or not they were just naturally pessimistic until they gave a negative report when Caleb and Joshua gave a positive report because they were optimistic I don't know. But what I do know is all the children of Israel who were adults at that time died in the wilderness because of this report We're going to talk about pessimism and optim optimism. I have one page of sermon left, right here. This is it. It and look at it, it's color-coded. Um and at the top it says pessimism, optimism, and the lie of realism. The lie of realism. Okay, so and I hope I does everyone know what pessimists and optimists are? Alright, if you don't let me explain. They give me this wonderful water so often. It's about half. So um so simple way to explain it. A pessimist looks at his glass of water and says it is half empty. Pessimist says half empty. Optimist looks at his water like, man, there's still half a glass of water left. Awesome. A realist claims that the water is half filled and half empty. Let me explain this real quick. Why there's no say and and so most people when you say are you a pessimist or an optimist? A lot of people will say I'm a realist because they don't want you to decide. You know what? That's dumb. And here's and here's why. Listen, I know some very, very staunch realists, and I think they're dumb. And this is why As an optimist and a pessimist. Actually, pessimists and optimists do not argue There's half a glass of water there with half full and half empty. They don't they don't argue that. They both know that. They're not saying, oh, it's filled with rainbows and puppies. That's not what they're saying. What they're saying is It's about viewpoint. Here's the thing. Realism is a thing, alright? Realism is a thing. But it only comes into context when someone is making up things. When someone is like using their imagination to lie about things. Everyone agrees that is in here that's saying that this is half water and half air, right? Good, we're all realists. Now, are you a pessimist or an optimist? When you look at this glass, do you see that it's empty first or do you see that it's half full first? Now, if you don't like water and you like drinking soda, you might still be a pessimist and think it's half full. Um For those of you who are real big soda drinkers, you're like, I hate drinking water. And so you like glare at the water. But the fact is, guys, that if you look at it, we know we know none of us are dumb in saying that it's not there Right? Are you saying, hey man, I've still got half a glass of water left. Or ooh. Or it's, ah, I already drank half my water. That's the difference, right? Pessimism and optimism. There's the difference. Right there. Here's my problem with these uh ten spies. Pessimism. This this wanting to be heard and making up and just talking about something negative so you can be heard. It's called gossip. It's also called murmuring. We'll get to that in a bit. But it's called murmuring. Listen, at times, at point in times in our life, you will sit there and you will Talk about the negative parts of something, the negative parts of life, the negative parts of um of a person, someone will bring up someone's name and automatically you'll say, I don't like them because of this, or I don't like this about them That's pessimism. It's thinking ungodly. And it's pessimism. And actually, all pessimism is ungodly. Listen, I can expect no listen a as an optimist you can expect a negative outcome. You can you can basically bet on negative outcome. You can say, you know what, most likely this is what's going to happen But the difference is a pessimist will say this is what's going to happen and optimist says this is what's probably going to happen but but there's hope Where is our hope and joy? This is the problem with the ten spies. Maybe they didn't want to dissuade all the children of Israel. Maybe they didn't want to say all to tell all the children of Israel that they shouldn't go in the land. Maybe they just wanted to talk about something. Maybe they're just sitting around with their friends and again they gave a reporting from Israel, but maybe it started out with them just sitting around saying, Man, those those giants uh did you see that guy was huge. Yeah it was. Man, it's gonna be tough taking him. Yeah, I'm not sure we can take him. And it started down this process of we can't take him. We're starting down this process of, yeah, but it doesn't matter how big our God is or what he can do. We're focusing on this part. What do you focus on? Listen, if you always focus on the negative, this is wrong, that's wrong, this is wrong, that's wrong, then listen, maybe not physically, but spiritually, you're going to get someone killed. May maybe maybe maybe not maybe not actually but but in but in someone's heart someone's someone's spiritual fervor might get put out because of your pessimism. Because you because you saying this person won't last or this is wrong with it or that's wrong with it. Or when you talk about church, you say, you know, church was good today. Accept this, this, this, this, this. And you're saying, wow, Pastor Rant, you're being mean. Yes, but I'm preaching myself because listen, we're naturally nitpicky people. And because no one Because no one really wants to hear you talk like listen, this is human fact. Are you ready for human fact? Human fact says no one wants to hear you talk about how good everything is People would much rather you talk about how bad things are so they can join in on talking about bad how bad everything is. That's human nature. It's not that it's fun, it's not as good, but the fact is we just we like to talk about what's negative Listen, how many of us when we get an opportunity, when something good happens, our our mind jumps right after we talk about the good thing, our mind jumps to the negatives. That sin. That is a bleeding sin. That is a terrible sin. And do you know why? Because God is good. And if you're focused on only the bad, then you're not focused on God. And according to God, when you're not focused on Him, you're sinning. You see, someone who's loving God with all their heart and all their mind, all their might, and all their and with all their soul, someone who's loving God that much, like it's really hard for them to look for negatives in something. Because they're so wrapped up in God. I love happy people. And listen, this is a church actually full of happy people. I'm not saying it's not. But I'm preaching to myself here. How easy is it to jump to the negatives? And not just about something, but how many of us, and and I'm gonna have you raise your hand in your mind. Don't do it for real because you'll embarrass yourself Um, but in your mind, raise your hand. Are you ready? If this is true. How many of us can talk with a person for longer than five minutes? With all without we'll give it ten minutes, for longer than ten minutes, without A insulting someone, B talking about a bad situation. And complaining about it or see just being negative. Don't raise your hands, but think about it. How many ten minute conversations have you had with someone that don't involve gossiping? They don't involve talking negatively about something. Listen, I uh and and this is something my wife knows about me, some of you I love politics. Politics is fun to me. Um and my best friend is in politics. And uh and he and he's actually really working his way up. He's a great k guy. Um but uh I'm not sure I can get through a 10-minute conversation without mentioning something negative when I'm talking about politics. And by the way, and this is so this is more my wife, the realist, um, former realist. Um would say thinks that I say that everything's always good. Or an optimist would say everything is always good. But that's not true. Optimists know things are bad. Right, just because you know something's bad doesn't mean that's what you have to focus on. I'm telling you, I think there are more pessimists in the soil than optimists. And not by a small margin. I think there are probably ninety-five, ninety-seven percent more people who look at the negative side of life. Or in the negative side of things in life, rather than the positive. And that's kind of heartbreaking. I'll tell you why it's heartbreaking. Let me quote some verses, and then we'll and then and then I'll let you go Psalm 47. 1 says, Oh clap your hands, all you people, shout unto God with the voice of triumph Romans 8 28, we all know this one. And we all know that all things work together for God to sorry, let's try that one again. And we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them that were called according to his purpose. Romans 8:31, what shall we say to these things? If God be for us, who can be against us? Where is there room for negativity in that? Where is there room for just pointing out the bad things in life? I look at these children of Israel as a Stand on the land that God gave them. Not only the land that God gave them, but the land that God commanded them to go in. And I look at them and look at it and say, Yeah, but man, did you see the size of that guy? Or yeah, but that city has walls. We'd have to like break down doors and stuff. And I look at that and say, that sounds more like me. Because I think I might be the person who, while someone says, Hey, did you hear look I mean did you see those grapes? I might say, Yeah, but you know grapes are fruit, and we're talking about people killing us Or you know, I mean I know God's behind us, but what about that moment when he's not? Or or or I know that got I know that that God, you know, freed us from Egypt or whatever, but you know I mean, you can't or maybe I wouldn't even think about God freeing us from Egypt, I don't know. But these people didn't They'd forgotten that he killed the most powerful nation in the world. He killed tw uh fifteen to thirty percent of all their citizens in one night because he loved them that much. And they just they just did away with that. Pessimism is kind of forget is listen, by the way, if you don't believe in God, you've ever right to be a pessimist. Because you're right. If God's not real, this world's stupid, and uh and we're all just gonna die in the end anyways, and you should live for yourself. But if there is a God and He loves us and He died for us like He said He did, and all these words are true, and He really is on our side, then I'm not sure where there's room for negativity Murmuring is the is pessimism in verbal form. It's expressing your negative views. Ephesians 4 29 says, Let no corrupt communication come out proceed out of thy mouth, but that which is good unto the use or to the use of edifying, that it may minister minister grace unto the hearers. Philippians two fourteen says, Do all things without murmurings and disputings. James five nine says, Grudge not against one another, brethren, yes ye lest ye be condemned. Behold, the judge standeth before the door God does not appreciate murmuring. He doesn't appreciate when we stand there And he's given us his son, who died on the cross to cover all of our sins. And he's given us that mercy, and we focus on the negative things in life. I you and and if you know me, I I hate spoiled kids. And I might like the kid. I hate spoiled kids as a group. We're spoiled kids. You know I mean think about it. Now here's the thing. Spoiled doesn't just mean they get a lot. You can you can give your child everything. And if you raise them right in other areas, they won't turn out spoiled. Well it makes sense. And you can also give your child very little and they still become spoiled brats. It's not about what you give them, it's not about how rich you are. That's that no shh. Some rich people make great parents, some poor poor people make great parents, some rich people make terrible parents. Some poor people make terrible parents. Middle class people, both great parents and terrible parents in the group too. So you know what? Stop it. That's not what it's about. Spoiled kids are those who think they deserve stuff. We talked about this a little bit this morning, so I'm not going to get into it, but fact is we're spoiled kids because even though Jesus Christ was given to us and died for us, we still find things to complain about. We shouldn't even be here. We should be in hell. We should be we should be paying for our sins. You remember that time? And just think for a second. You remember the last time you sinned and you sinned and you sinned bad and you and you're so ashamed of it and you're ashamed of yourself and you've probably forgotten about it by now? Do you remember that? God died for that sin. And so the next time you want to pick on someone else's problems Pick apart someone who's not there, but just verbally pick apart someone with someone else. God doesn't do that with you And yet you just expect to get more mercy for your sins. And then you just expect it. You you expect you know yes God gave me all this, but you know what this is going bad in my life. Yes, God and listen, by the way, I'm telling you, I am I'm I try to be a positive person, but I am an awful sinner and I know it. And and I ta and and again I I try not to talk about people, but I'm not preaching on preaching. I mean the fact is, listen, our conversation naturally goes a bad way. I think that really breaks God's heart. And I think that really hinders his ministry. And I think that when when you focus on someone or focus on something and just look at the negatives, I think you can really hurt someone or something. Especially when God told you to do something, nonetheless. Let's pray. uh just to be an optimist all the time and just focus on only the great things in life and and Lord just just always think that there's hope of God. But God you've given us your son. And and God I I didn't I know that life isn't always always Lord the humanist in me wants to say that life isn't always great. Well you've given us this life, God. And Lord, we ought to praise you for every single moment of it, God. And so for every moment that that I haven't praised you, that I haven't thanked you for, and everything that's negative That I haven't just that I haven't handled with grace and with hope and with peace from you, Lord. Lord, I apologize. In your name. Amen. Please stand.