If you will take your Bibles, turn to Philippians chapter number three. Philippians chapter three. The first Wednesday of every month. We try to take some time and um look at some tips for personal soul winning. Just something, a thought, an idea, a challenge, something to help us be a per better personal soul winner. Does anybody s ha see any problem with having this tonight? This is not the first Wednesday of the month. But we've shifted everything off a bit because uh Brother Wheeler, as I said, was here last week, and so I I still wanted to get to this And so we're going to take a little bit of time tonight, probably not as long as we normally do, although every time I say that it ends up being longer than we normally do. But uh I don't think it will be. But uh just some tips, and this is my thoughts for this evening is developing myself as a personal soul winner. Now, how many folks here you're saved and you know it? Say amen. Amen. Now don't respond outwardly, but I think it's safe to assume And if a person genuinely knows Jesus Christ, their personal Savior, somewhere down inside their heart and soul is a desire to see other people come to Christ. Can I get a witness on that? There's something about it. It's the presence of the Holy Spirit, I think, in our lives. Stirs us to want to see others saved and actually to want to have a part in other people being saved, right? Am I right on that? Not just I want to see Bill saved, but I want to be a witness. I want to have an influence. Um, I remember uh it wasn't long after I was saved uh uh uh on that Monday night. I trusted Christ the very next day. Nobody, I mean I was only saved twelve hours, not even. I say ten thirty. I was at work, six o'clock, we're on the floor working next morning. Nobody had twisted my arm and said, All right Uh, Dennis, you've got to tell other people you got saved. You've got to witness. Nobody did that to me. No I had no chance to have any outside influence other than what was before I got saved But something down inside my heart and soul wanted to tell all those other guys there that Christ saved me. Does anybody know what I'm talking about? I want to see them saved. I mean within twelve hour time, that was developed in my heart and life. And I'm convinced that is the presence of the Holy Spirit inside the believer, hungering, longing to bring others to Christ, bring others to Christ. And so with that in mind, we have that, as a believer, we have that desire that longing to see others saved, to be a witness, to uh to have a part and influence in other people and come into Christ. But here's our responsibility The Spirit of God puts that there. Our responsibility is to develop that. And let it become more than just a desire or longing, but let it become part of my life. Part of my behavior. So that's what we want to talk about tonight. Developing myself as a personal soul winner, trying to win others to Christ. Philippians chapter number three is where I want to start out at And although it's not a soul-winning passage, Paul makes some statements here that apply to what I'm trying to get at. Philippians chapter 3, look at verse number 9. Philippians chapter 3, verse number 9. Paul again writing to the church, that's at Philippi, he's writing this letter under the inspiration of God. God's directing what he's writing, and he says this. To be found in him, not having mine own righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is through faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith. So he's saying, Listen, I have nothing in myself, earn salvation I put my faith and trust in Christ. He did that. Now look what he says in verse 10. That I may know him, Christ, and the power of his resurrection. and the fellowship of his suffering being made conformable unto de his death, if by any means I might attain unto the resurrection of the dead. Not as though I had already attained, neither were already perfect. But I follow after that which uh I may apprehend for I follow after that if that I may apprehend that for which I am uh uh Let me try this again, alright? Phew. Alright, let's try this again. Not as well I had already attained. In other words, he's saying, I'm not- I haven't arrived yet. Anybody ever feel that way? Sure, none of us have. I'm not there yet But I follow after that if that I may apprehend that for which also I am apprehended of Christ Jesus Brethren, I count not myself till I have apprehended. I have not achieved everything that I should as a Christian. But this one thing I do, he is focused He says, this is one thing that I'm doing. This one thing I do. Forgetting those things which are behind and reaching forth unto those things which are before, I press towards the mark of the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. Let's pray, and then I'll try and apply this to what I'm trying to say this evening. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now our time in your word, particularly this matter of being a personal witness. and pointing other people to the Lord Jesus Christ that they would believe and be saved and have eternal life. So please fill me with your spirit, I pray I yield my will to you. I present my body. I ask that you be our teacher tonight. Lord, you certainly know how to win souls. You certainly uh are the are the soul winners. So we ask that you would help us and uh open our eyes, our minds, and And help us to develop this in our lives. In Jesus' name, amen. If you read this passage we just read here, you pay attention. One of the high priorities in Paul's life was the continued development of his faith in God. Paul was not satisfied with where he was at spiritually. He wanted to have greater faith. He wanted to have stronger faith. I don't know about you. I found myself in the last maybe year or so I found myself praying and asking God to help me have greater faith than I've had before. Anybody ever get to that point? Lord, I just feel like my faith is so weak sometimes. And Lord, I need that. And Paul says, I'm pressing forward. I believe one thing that Paul pursued was that his faith in God would be stronger, his faith in God would be clearer and more complete, trusting Christ completely. Another area I believe Paul sought to develop in his Christian life was his conformity to Christ. And he kind of references that there in this passage, and that is simply this. God saves us and he begins a process of developing in us the attributes of the Lord Jesus Christ, the characteristics of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, of course, as God, there's some characteristics we can't attain, but we can be meek. He said, I am meek and lowly. We can be compassionate. We can be true and faithful. And so Paul said, I want the characteristics, these these attributes of Christ, I want them developed in my life I want to be more like the Lord Jesus Christ. Remember in Acts where it says the Pharisees took note that Peter had been with Jesus? There was something about the way they talked. There was something about their behavior. There was something about their demeanor that made those Pharisees think about the Lord Jesus Christ. These guys, you could put it this way, they were kind of this way. These guys remind us of Jesus. Remind us of Jesus. I tell you what, I don't know there's a better thing to be said about somebody than that statement right there So Paul pursued being conformed to the image of Christ. I want the characteristics of Christ to be true in my life. I want my faith in God to be stronger. than it's been before, that I can trust him completely. Anybody ever here ever have a situation and you say, I'm going to trust Christ, I'm going to trust Christ, then you end up doing it your way Anybody know what I'm talking about? Oh, we're going to trust the Lord in this. Next thing I know, I got my hands all over it. And uh I said, wait a minute, I need to let the Lord do this And so Paul pursued that. And I think there was a third area that Paul wanted to develop in his Christian life. He pursued, he pressed after, and that was this, his influence for the gospel. You find Paul always trying to reach out farther, more thorough, writ farther, gotta go farther, gotta go farther. He talked about going to Spain I don't believe he ever made it, but uh he had a vision. He wanted his influence for the gospel to to increase and to be more effective. And so that's what we're talking about tonight. I would like personally, I would like for my personal witness and my personal soul to be much, much more effective. I would like to see more people come to Christ, maybe through Christ's working through me. Anybody else feel that way? I'd like for my witness to be a little more effective, a little clearer, a little stronger. And um how do we do that? How do we do that? I was thinking about the ministries of our church, and I'm so grateful for our church and the various ministries. I I enjoy fishing. Anyone, did I ever mention that? I enjoy fishing. I really do. And I have to be careful. But uh I like it. And uh I when I go fishing, some of the guys uh will go uh there W d Derek's helping in master clubs tonight, but uh and Jerry and I'll show up and I've got four or five fishing poles, you know. I'll take a whole slew of 'em. One, I don't like changing lures all the time, so I just bring more lu more poles so I don't have to change lures But when I'm fishing, like bait fishing or whatever, and it down at the ocean, you'll throw four, five, six lines out, right? You got all kinds. You got one kind of bait here, another kind of bait there. Why? Because you want to catch lots of Fish. Got one pole, you catch one at a time. Six of them, you got more chance of getting more. So that's kind of our idea here, winning the loss in our church. We got all kinds of fishing poles out there, so to speak What do we have? We got the radio ministry. Beaming out the gospel. Beaming out the gospel. Beaming out the gospel And uh anybody notice that thing's been a little clearer lately? Anybody notice that? And uh stereo's fixed up. Brother Jamie's been working on that thing out there and he's tuning that thing in really good. Dave Dave Heath climbed the tower and uh made sure everything's connected. Uh we decided it's probably pretty important that everything be connected up there. So he went up there and tightened a few wires and different things. So uh that's one area that's one avenue by which our church is trying to influence the world with the gospel. People tune in and they hear the gospel. What are some other areas? What are other poles we have out there? Blankets for babies. I had that one down. That's having a significant influence in a lot of young couples' lives and people's lives. It really is. What else? The computer, the website, I didn't have that one down, around the world, people by the hundreds tuning in and listening to that. Somebody else said something The bus ministry is huge. And all these twenty plus years, these buses running around. Now we're bringing in kids of kids that rode the buses. And I think in some cases bringing in grandkids of kids that rode the bus uh years ago and soon we're gonna have great great great grandkids of kids that rode the bus. But that's significant. What else? Fingerprints is huge. The scripture's going out all around the world. That's a powerful influence. What else? The sword conferences. I put down conferences, revivals, and rallies. This teen rally. You know how many hundreds of kids have been through here over the years to the teen rally and been impacted? What else The sword boxes we have out. Master clubs, the children's ministries, king's kids, the kids coming through there. What about track month? Man alive. You talk about that influence. So we got all of these, and I got looking at them and thinking about it. I thought, which one of all the ones we do, which is the most effective Of all our attempts to reach the lost, which is the most effective? Well, it's hard to say for sure down here. We get to heaven, we'll know a little clearer. But you know what I believe is That personal one-on-one witness. That one-on-one witness. We'll see more people trust Christ because of one individual. We'll speak to them one-on-one and share the gospel with them, see them come and trust Christ as Savior So of all these, we want to develop them all as much as we can. We want that radio to be the best we can. We want to reach out as far, track months, get as many out as we can, whatever But that one area, one-on-one, personal contact, personal interaction, uh building a relationship with an unsaved person and sharing the gospel, that I believe is the most effective of all our areas. So that means we want to develop that area. If that's the most effective, then we want to work on that. We want to develop that and make it as much as we can be Let's see if we got all the things. Oh, we forgot faith promise missions, supporting missionaries. We got that there. And I think you got all the others in here. Anyone you said that was the same as mine is right, so that's good. Most effective is personal soul winning. And by the way, that one-on-one witness with people, maybe knocking on their door, visiting them, or whatever, however it transpires, that one-on-one I believe that's you see that most prominent in scriptures also. One-on-one, people witnessing, talking folks, one-on-one. So we want to develop that. And uh by the way, that is also the most resisted the most resisted area. Um I I don't know how it is. Brother Ed says this often and I've said this often myself, but here comes time. I'm going to go out and make some visits or go door to door I got ten thousand reasons in the world why I got something else to do. Oh, I can't tonight. I gotta do that. Oh, I gotta do that. Uh I don't feel good. You know, all these different reasons. I think Satan will fight that one the hardest. That one will fight. He'll fight that the hardest because it's the most effective. So we want to develop this area, and that's what I'm talking about. Now there's two aspects tonight what I want to talk to you about And they're both tied in. Every point will have two applications. One is for the person who has a little bit of experience. in sharing one-on-one the gospel with the unsaved person. Maybe they've been around a little bit, they've done it for how whatever reason. They have a little bit more experience, a little more confidence sitting down and talking to a lost person and sharing the gospel. So every one of these points is going to apply to that person in helping others. get to that point where they're comfortable sharing the gospel. But the other aspect is the person that says, you know, I really want to be a witness. I really would like to be able to share the gospel with everybody, with other people, but I'm just not real confident Uh I'm a little intimidated by it. Uh uh I'm fearful, I don't have a lot of experience, I'm not sure I could really do it. That's probably where most of us are. At that point we really want to be a witness and we'll try and we'll make effort But uh you say, you know, to sit down or go visit somebody and talk to them. I'm not real comf confident with that. And so there's going to be an application for that. But we want to develop it We want to develop this area. Number one, I'd put this down. Here's your here's the tips. Number one, pair up with another soul winner. Pair up with another soul winner. If you say, you know, I've done this a little bit, and I'm not I'm certainly not a teen, but I've had a little bit of experience and uh I I can visit folks with a element of confidence. Find somebody else, maybe that has a desire. They really want to be a witness. Maybe they don't have that confidence or a little timid or whatever. Find that person and take them with you Or maybe you're over here and you're that person, you know, how you preacher says that, and I always think, you know, I'd like to go out and I want to, but I'm just not sure. I don't know what to find a person that does it and pair up with them and go with them That is biblical. Jesus sent out the disciples two by two. And they went out in pairs. He sent the disciples out. Why? They help each other. They help each other. So I've seen I've been out with people and uh that person will say something and say, hmm, I didn't think of that witnessing. I could do that. Or they'll do something or uh or one way or another. Take your Bible, if you would, and turn to Acts chapter 9. Acts chapter 9 and verse 22. Before you get there, can anybody tell me what's the big event that happens in Acts chapter 9? Somebody very prominent in the Bible gets saved. Paul gets saved. Acts chapter 9 is Paul's salvation. Paul immediately upon his salvation begins witnessing. He begins telling others of Christ. Chapter 9, look with me at verse 22. This is shortly after he's saved, Paul increased the more in strength, spiritual strength, and confounded the Jews which dwelt at Damascus, proving that this is very Christ. Now, without being too technical, just summarizing, what's Paul doing here? Without being too technical, just a general statement, he's what? He's witnessing. He got saved, and he was pursuing the Christians. He was going to kill them, throw them in jail, persecute them severely. He gets saved on the way. Now the guys that were with him in killing the Jew killing the Christians. Now he's telling them, wait a minute, let me tell you about Christ. And he's disputing with him, he's going on. Who's with him? And verse in that verse there, 22, who's helping him? Nobody. He's on his own. He's just out there. Now come down to verse number 27. Look what happens. Verse 26, when Saul was come to Jerusalem, he essayed to join himself with the disciples, but they were afraid of him. Can you blame him? This guy's been killing Christians. He shows up. Hey, I'm one of you guys I don't know how you are. I'm like I'd be like, No, you're not. I don't believe it. Uh and they uh said he wanted to join themselves to disciples, but they were all afraid of him and believed not that he was a disciple. Look at the first statement in verse 27. But Barnabas did what? Barnabas said, hey Paul, come here. You'll be my partner. And Barnabas took a man, he assured everybody this guy's legit, he's genuinely saved, and I believe at that point a relationship was established between Paul and Barnabas. And you get on a little bit later, chapter 13, and they're going out on their missionary journey, and you find Paul and Barnabas working together. Paul Barnabas was a strong Christian. He was strong in the faith. And here was a young man who's wanting to be a witness. Here's a fellow that's a new Christian. He's wanting to be a witness. He's wanting to have an influence. He's wanting to see souls saved. And Barnabas takes him and they work together. That is biblical pattern. And so maybe I'm talking to somebody and you have a little bit of experience witnessing, you have a little bit of experience talking to folks. You're certainly not a team, none of us have But you say, you know, I got that. One of the good things to do would do do what Barnabas does, find somebody else that maybe doesn't have much experience, say, hey listen, why don't you be my partner? Let's work together. We'll try and be a witness in Oakland and surrounding area. We'll work together and do that. And uh I'll tell you, do not under do not underestimate the influence that one Christian can have on another Christian taking them under wing and going out visiting with them, talking to others It's a powerful, powerful thing. And so um and maybe you're here, you say, I'm I'm the timid one, I'm the I want to, I really want to, I really want to, but I don't know, I'm scared to death. I'll find somebody that's doing it And say, hey, could I go with you? Could you take me sometime? Could we be partners and go out there? And I tell you, it's a powerful, powerful thing when you got two people going out together, holding each other accountable, one's witnessing, the other one's praying One's witnessing the other one is a running interference, we call one of them a silent partner. That's a huge part of witnessing. And um uh you know inevitably when you're sharing the gospel with somebody, maybe you're sitting in their living room or a hospital room or whatever, inevitably um there's going to be interferences. Satan hates that I would believe in the devil even if I didn't believe in the Bible just from experiences soul winning. And how many times, right when it's time to call on the Lord to be their Savior, that phone will ring. Or the cat will get out and run out. Oh no, the cat and uh you know the baby will throw up all over everything or something. Inevitably something happens. Well the if you got a partner they can step in and run interference and let that person witness and you know, maybe go catch the cat and kill it. Or no, I mean catch the cat and bring it back. And uh or change the diaper on the ba I don't know, I'm being silly here, but you can run interference. Uh did I tell you recently about the fella The dog was yapping the whole time, so he just reached down and scratched its head and hold its muzzle close did I help tell you that? And the other guy's witnessing and the dog's yapping, yapping, yapping, interfering, so he just held it down by the sofa and he held the dog's muzzle closed, mouth closed. And he said after a while the dog went limp. Uh oh. So I never did hear the end of that story. But um That's an aside. But the point is this. You get folks going out helping each other. They grow. Iron sharpeneth iron. So a man sharpened the countenance of his fret. And so folks are working together. Pray, working together. Hey, we're gonna, we got this, we've got uh We've got uh Deer Park. We're gonna reach Deer Park. You and I, we're gonna get everybody in Deer Park, we're gonna share the gospel with them. Okay, partners, and go out. And that is tremendous. And that helps develop that. I thought about, um, I've talked often more lately about uh Arden Musselman and Terry Wilcox that took me in. When I first got saved and I wanted to witness, and Thursday nights the church had visitation. A lot of times they'd promote visitation. Nobody would show up Thursday night, not even the preacher. And there was nobody there, it was by myself. So I grabbed some tracks and go out and they heard about that. They said, hey, we'll take you out. And uh I learned so much and they probably weren't the greatest soul winners around. One thing we learned when I was out with Terry and Arden one time Uh actually it was just Terry. Terry was a little more aggressive than two of the two. And one time it was Terry and I and we knocked on the door and there was a young lady there, probably uh I was in my early twenties. Uh Terry was probably mid-late twenties and this girl answered the door she was probably in her early twenties and so we started talking to her she said would you like to come in? I didn't know And uh Terry said, Yeah, sure. So we're in there, we sit down, and it's this young girl and us two guys, and he's witnessing to her. And about five minutes into it, her husband comes walking in, and it looked bad. These two guys sitting there with his wife in the living room. And I knew immediately we messed up. I mean we weren't doing anything, but we were just witnessing to her. But the whole scenario was not good. And we came out of there, we both said, we learned a lesson tonight. If it's a young lady by herself, you don't go in at all. And so I learned after that, if I knock on the door, a lady comes, she invites me in, I'll say, is your husband around? Is there anybody else here? If there's nobody else here, then I don't go in And so, but that's where the two of us learned. And it helped us. Um I thought about Randy Miller down, uh my good friend in college. He taught me, he took me out and taught me how to win souls and how to uh confront people. So uh you I've learned more I've learned more in personal soul winning and I'm certainly not a taint but I've learned more in personal soul winning by going out with other people than I did any class I've ever set in I had personal evangelism in Bible college. I've read all the books. I've taught the class. But I've learned more just going out and doing it. How many people believe you can learn how to ride a bike better by trying to ride a bike than reading books about riding bikes? Uh you can ride a bike you can learn how to ride a bike better by riding a bike than watching YouTubes of riding bikes And so, uh, find somebody, find someone, pair up with someone. I thought about Mike Stubler. How many people miss Mike Stubler? Man, what a great guy. I love that guy. And um he took the soul winning class. He says, uh he says, I want to I want to go out soul winning. I said, well come on out with me. And we'd had time during the weekdays. We'd go out Uh he didn't do nothing. And so uh he had the day free. So we would go out. We're over here on 135 there by Sisler's Lumber. Remember, I think it's burned down now or whatever. Sisler's lumber. And we're going out that way And we're knocking on doors and I'm going through the little pattern. He's there standing there, he's watching me and listening to me, took the class. And so finally I said, Mike, you've got to do it this time. So he said, alright. And he got his tracks and everything, he's got everything right ready and he knocks on the door and he steps back everything just like we taught, make sure the door goes this way. and I made sure I was in the right place and he's got everything. They came to the door and he says, I'm Mike Stuttler, this pastor from the Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. We leave an invitation with you and your family, come visit us. And they said, okay. And he started going into this field And he got into it little ways, and I don't remember how it all played out. I don't believe the person trusted Christ. I don't think he even got the gospel given totally, but he did what everything we taught to do. Then we were done. The lady at the door, she looked at me and said, how do you do? He's he's being trained, isn't he? She said. I said, yes he is, actually. And uh so uh you know, he was learning. He got out there and uh She says, Well, he's doing pretty well. He's doing pretty well. So number one, find someone to go with. Find somebody. And say you know, and say, hey, let's let's work on this together. That's a huge thing. That helps. Number two, put this one down. Schedule a time. Schedule a time. I think I've worked that tip into every list of tips we ever gave. Schedule a time. Or it will never happen. How many people ever said someday I'm going to go do something. Anybody ever say how many people have been saying that for four decades? Something you're going to do. And it never happens. Why? Because you never schedule a time. Every time I bring this subject up, I mention Pastor Jim Moore in Hagerstown. Every time we talk, I mean every time we talk, it'll be, hey, we got to get together for lunch sometime. All right, yeah, we will one of these days. Give me a call. All right. It's been 20 years. We've never had lunch together yet. I mean not in that setting. And so you just got to schedule a time. Make a time. I got thinking about that. And I'm confident I'm correct on this. Nearly, and I can't think of any exceptions, but I'm going to say nearly, everything that God created works on a schedule. I thought about the movement of the stars, the movement of atoms. They're not just chaos. They're all on a schedule, on a pattern, so many revolutions per whatever. Everything works on a schedule. Our physical bodies have rhythms to them, have schedules to them. The seasons are scheduled. I was hard-pressed to come up with anything that God created that is just chaotic, that isn't on some sort of schedule. I got thinking about this. God Himself works on a schedule. It is appointed unto a man once to die. That word appointed means a date and time So God's got that scheduled. In the fullness of time, Christ came. Born of the Gentile uh uh came the fullness of the Gentiles. And the full never mind that verse, just that statement. The fullness of time. God had a very specific God worked on a schedule You know what I found out? My life flows a whole lot better when I schedule it. You know? When I schedule it. Alright, this is it. This is that and the other. And so I believe that's true in our soul wedding. How how would church work if we said, well, y'all just show up sometime this week? We'll have church whenever y'all show up. Good night. We wouldn't have church. Who knows when anybody would show? Nobody might show But we have it scheduled. We have it scheduled and it works. Bus workers, all right, we're gonna pick you up at 9. 50. Oh, we'll just get there sometime Sunday morning. I don't know when we'll be there. That wouldn't work And so what makes us think that our witnessing is going to work if we don't do that? We've got to schedule. We've got to say, all right, here's the time. We're going to do this. We're going to do this. Now, I want to be careful, that's not a hard and fast rule. Because there are opportunities that come up unscheduled where I can witness to people. There are opportunities. I thought A little bit Andy and Vicky, the night they trusted Christ, I really that was not part of my plan. And I was scheduled time for visiting, but I was going home and God pressed me that I needed to go and visit their house and they trusted the Lord So there are exceptions. Uh uh Derek Dove got saved and it wasn't a Thursday night, it wasn't a Saturday morning, it wasn't any scheduled soul winning time. He'd been coming out, we had witnessed to him, I'd visited a number of times And one Thursday afternoon, I was doing some work here in the office. He called me up. This is where he got saved. I really need to talk to you. I got to get this salvation thing settled. Flying up there and in his kitchen, uh there at the kitchen table, he had the Bible open, he got saved. It wasn't scheduled. I I should not have said, now wait a minute, this is not scheduled soul winning time Wait till 7 o'clock tonight. No. However, it does work pretty good when you schedule it And I've set it down. So make a time and be consistent at it. Be consistent at it. Number three, put this down. Deliberately make various types of visits. Now I don't know how this will apply to everybody, but maybe you have a little bit of experience at witnessing. If we're not careful, we kind of get locked into one type of thing. There's various ways of various types of visits we can make One is a door to door. We do that Thursday nights a lot, sometimes Saturdays. During the weekdays, I try to take a little time, uh at least one afternoon out of the week, and I'll go out and just go door to door through a neighborhood. I just did uh King's Run Road here just recently. And uh so door to door, that's just cold turkey. Knock on the door. I'm Pastor Leatherman and talk to him. Very effective. However, there's another one. Visitor follow-ups Maybe sometimes just come. And this I think is good if you're a little bit timid. You say, I'd be scared to death to knock on a door and talk to a total stranger. I'd be scared to death Well maybe a visitor follow-up. Somebody comes to church. They say, you know, I'd like a visit from someone from the church. You come by, they're a little more open, welcoming, and that would be a good type of visit. Try different ones. Sometimes salvation appointments. Maybe there's somebody you work with or whatever, and uh, you know, they're unsaved and they're you're burdening there. You say, I'd like to witness to them, maybe you can schedule a lunch or something and say, hey, listen, I'd like to have lunch with you sometime And uh sit down and schedule an appointment with someone, have lunch together, and and try to share the gospel there. Maybe uh uh have a picnic. I thought of Tom and Cindy Um their friend in that they went to school with, this was a memory years ago, and I was hoping they'd be here to fill in the details. I can just make up anything now since they're not here. But um they had a picnic with some friends they went to school with a few years ago. And they went up there and said, you know, we're going to try and witness to them And they got up there and got talking, and um Cindy was telling me, she goes, Tom and the guy just kind of went off, we thought they were looking at football or something, we didn't know what it was, and so Cindy's going on, and Cindy ends up with her Bible open and and this lady prays to trust the Lord as Savior. About the time they got up to go find the guys and tell him that the fellow's wife trusted the Lord, Tom and the other fellow came around and said, hey, guess what? So-and-so here just trusted the Lord. And Tom was out witnessing them there, and she was witnessing to the lady there, and they both prayed to trust the Lord. And so they went up there with that purpose. It wasn't knocking on doors and it wasn't a visitor follow-up, but they made that deliberate effort. Sometimes it's a discipleship follow-up, somebody that trusted Christ Helping someone after they get saved understand what it's like, what it means to be a Christian, that's as much a part of the Great Commission as winning them to the Lord. That's an important part of it, helping them there. Hospital visits and uh somebody in the hospital. Go by there and and talk to them. But try various different types of visits. And the more you do that, the more you get a grasp of sharing the gospel in various settings. And go with somebody maybe that does a lot of hospital visits and they could help you in that area or whatever. Number four, this one's very important for both experienced and less experienced, is be teachable Be teachable. Always look for ways that I can maybe make the gospel clearer. I'm always, as a preacher, I'm always looking for some sort of illustration to illustrate what the gospel is I used this one recently, and I tell you, it's really good. It's that Kew Creek mine. Remember those guys were trapped down there? And I used in a message, I think, not too long ago, those guys were trapped down there and they're tapping on the ceiling. And they believed They believed that there was someone up there that would hear them when they called for help. They believed that that someone, if they heard them, could and would make every effort to get down there and save them from dying. Isn't that a great illustration of salvation? We're sinners, lost in sin and darkness. We believe that there's someone up there, God's up there, that if we call out to him, he'll hear us. If we call out for salvation, he not only will, he has done everything to save. I'm always looking for illustrations like that so I can share the gospel clear. Be teachable. Look for ways I can develop it. Try to look for ways I can grow spiritually. I tell you, if I'm not right with God, it's going to be hard to win others to the Lord. If I've got sin and different stuff in my life, I don't have I don't have the power of God. And I'm going to be hard to see people come to Christ. So I've got to be teachable and learn to grow spiritually. Uh after a visit is done. Evaluate it. And different things. I had a visit just not too long ago, and afterward I thought, boy, you know, I could have pressed that a little harder there than what I did. I should have pressed that for them to trust Christ. And then other times where I pushed it real hard afterward, I thought, man, I should have backed off on that a little bit and maybe let them cook a little more there and let the Lord work on them. And so listen to others and read about it. The sword of the Lord is great articles. Number six, I've got to finish. Let me give you these last couple here real quick. Give opportunities to be more involved. If I'm with somebody that maybe doesn't uh have that much uh experience, don't just hog the visiting all the time, let them be involved. Like I was talking with Mike, let them talk Or vice versa, if you're the one that's wanting to develop, make sure you take an opportunity. Hey, wait a minute. I'll I'll do this. And here's a neat thing, and this applies to going door to door But um I've done this before where somebody's kind of new and they're wanting to learn, I'll have them just say the opening part. They'll just say, oh, we're from Mountain Lake Baptist Church, we'll invite you out to church And they'll just do the first part, and then maybe they're not real confident sharing the gospel, and they get to that, they'll say, would you be willing to let someone show you from the Bible how to be saved? If they say yes, then I would step in And take it from there. And let them just develop that and learn a little bit. Those types of things. I've told you about the first fellow, Mr. Hogue, when he got saved. Um Jenny, uh the girl's name was Jenny Lee. She we were partners uh going through that neighborhood, and she went through the whole gospel with them. She never led anybody to Christ. And so she said, um She goes, Mr. Hogue, would you like to pray and trustface your Savior? He's crying. He's in a wheelchair. Yeah, sure would. She goes, good. Denny here. We'll show you. We'll pray with you. I said, huh? And uh but it was forcing me to have a part. Uh and then let me give you the last one. I put this tip down. Pray for success. Pray for success. Actually, none of us can save a soul, can we? It's not us. God does it. And all we are is simply tools and instruments in his hand that he uses us as we trust him. And let Him lead us, and we step out in faith, and we open our mouth, and we talk, and we go to the people. God does the saving. And so what we've got to do is saturate it in prayer. Pray, pray, pray, pray, pray. And maybe this would be the prayer, Lord, I really, really want to develop myself as a witness. I'll be more effective than seeing people say. Maybe I'm maybe there's somebody here would say, you know, I've never won someone to Christ. And I would really, really like to experience that. You know what I think? I think if you pray and ask God, God's for that. God would be for that. Maybe you haven't won someone to Christ in a long time. Maybe you haven't witnessed to somebody in a long time. You say, preacher, I'd really, you say, Lord, I'd really like to at least be able to witness to somebody. Help me. Give me the boldness. Give me wisdom. Give me compassion. Help me to see the opportunities and take them. I quit praying for opportunities years ago. They're all around. We don't need more opportunities. We have them. What we need is take advantage of those opportunities and step through them. So prayer, pray, pray, pray, pray, pray. We can read, we can study, and we can sing about soul winning all we want, but until we get out and actually try it and actually talk to somebody, it's not going to happen. It's not going to happen. So let's pray. And let's ask the Lord to use every one of us as individuals. You say that's the preacher's job to win souls. If that's your view, then you've missed it completely. Because it is every individual Christian, the Spirit of God, dwells in us. To win souls. And here's a thing. And um I was visiting today with uh Brennan downtown in the jail And I said, we were talking, I said, Brennan, you have access to fellas that not me or anyone else in church would have access to. You can witness to people that would never listen to a word I had to say, but they'll listen to you. And that's true for all of us, regardless of what our circumstance, situation is, there are people that you have their ear that maybe no one else, any other Christian, has their ear. And so Take advantage of that. God will use us if we if we just let him. You're here and you don't know for sure your sins are forgiven If you're hearing say, preacher, I'm not positive that when I die, I'm going to heaven, I'm not going to hell. If you're not certain that God has forgiven your sins, that is the beginning point of everything The Bible says that we can know for sure that our sins are forgiven, we have eternal life, we have a home in heaven, and it simply comes by trusting Christ. And I can't save a soul, no one here can, but Christ can. And we can show you from the Bible how to trust Christ that He can forgive you and save you. Isn't that good? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless us now. And as Christians, we do want to be a witness. We want to see people saved just like you saved us. And so but give us boldness. Maybe help us find a partner, somebody we can work together with and pray with and and uh make visits or whatever, and make some effort to win the lost win and uh help us to grow in this matter. With our heads bowed eyes closed, how many would say, preacher Um I want God to use me. And maybe you say, tonight I'd be willing to pray and ask the Lord to help me within the next seven days. to be able to share the gospel with somebody, whether they get saved or not, I can't control that. But you'd be willing to say, pre- you'd be willing to say, Lord Help me in the next seven days be able to share the gospel with somebody. I'm going to keep my eyes out. I'm going to keep my ears out. I'm going to be looking for that opportunity. Maybe I'm going to do what I can to make that happen. But you'd say, preacher, I would I would be willing to pray that tonight. How many by the uplifted hand? The next seven days I want to be able to share the gospel with somebody. God bless you. Hands all around. If we do that, that'd have a profound impact. I believe we'd see some people saved, maybe. If there's someone here tonight, say, preacher, there's some area of my Christian life for me to be a good witness that needs some attention. Like Paul said, I need to press on. And I don't know what it may be. I might not even touch on it tonight. But you say as a Christian, my walk with God, there's some area that needs attention so that my witness can be more effective. And the Lord points out to us what that area is. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I know there's some areas in my Christian life Need attention for me to be that witness. God bless you. A number of hands around. We know what it is. The Spirit makes it clear to us. Let's not ignore that. Let's address that. One last question. There's someone here tonight say, Preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die. I'm not certain that my sins are forgiven. I don't want to go to hell. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me also. That God would help me settle that, that I can know that for sure. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, I I need to know for sure that my sins are forgiven. I'm concerned about it. Any at all, Preacher, pray for me. How about it? Any at all? Now, Father, please bless our little invitation here on this Wednesday night and stir us to develop our personal soul winning and our influence. In Jesus' name, amen.