Trust them in Gotta get battered up here, batteried up, batteried. That didn't stay. Well, good evening. Good evening. Take your time and hurry up. I see the clock is still there. All right. Well, it is a a delight. To be back once again at uh Mountain View Independent Baptist Church. It's always a delight to come here. What did I say? Uh as I was saying, uh such a joy to be here at this Independent Baptist Church. Sometimes I forget where I am, where I've been, and where I'm going. But uh it is a delight to be here uh with Pastor Leatherman and uh the church family, and I can honestly say I feel somewhat like the Apostle Paul. Uh your care for us has flourished once again. Uh when we come here we feel like royalty There's few places that we go to that make us feel at home as much as what this place does. And we thank you for the accommodations that you provided for us uh the lovely fruit basket that was given and the nice fall flowers that uh uh come to our place free of snowflakes and uh all of that But uh what a joy it is to be here. We're looking forward to a great week, and uh I trust that uh the Lord will uh give us opportunity to complete this project this week That uh those scriptures will be put together, that your fingerprints will be all over them, and I ask you to pray that uh there will be good participation that we'll be able to accomplish the goal and that many souls will come to know the Lord as their personal Savior as a result of what we do here this week. So Pastor, thank you for having us and it's a joy always to be with you. If you have your Bibles this evening, I'd like you to take them and turn to the book of 1 Thessalonians The book of First Thessalonians, uh yesterday was kind of an unusual uh day for me. Uh we got up yesterday morning and and uh there was nothing really pressing Uh there was no place that we had to go. Uh there was really nothing that we had to do except the state dinner last night, and I thought about that throughout the day But uh a as I just kind of relaxed and sat back yesterday and uh read my Bible and looked at some verses of scripture. The Lord uh brought me to this passage of Scripture, and uh I really don't know what the Lord has intended to do tonight. But here it is. 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. I'll look at verse number 14 and verse number 15. You all do have your Bibles tonight, is that right? Going to church without your Bible is like going hunting without your gun. It's like going fishing without your tackle. It's like going shopping without your pocketbook, ladies. 1 Thessalonians 5 and verse number 14. Now we exhort you, brethren. Paul is speaking to those that are saved. We exhort you, brethren, warn them that are unruly, comfort the feeble-minded, support the weak. Be patient toward all men. See that none render evil for evil unto any man, but ever follow that which is good, both among yourselves and to all men. This church at Thessalonica was indeed a model church. When Paul wrote to this church, he called attention to their testimony and the example that they were to all of those that was in Asia Minor. So there's something exemplary about this church that we need to take note of. I believe one thing that would be true of your pastor and anybody that cares about the flock that God has made him overseer of is that they would be spiritually healthy That it would be a growing church. A church that's on fire for the Lord, that has zeal for the Lord, that has a love for the Lord and for the Word of God. And there's ingredients that make a church spiritually healthy. And there's also hindrances that come our way that can deprive us of that spiritual health that God wants us to embody. And that's what I'd really like to speak about tonight, those hindrances To spiritual, healthy churches. Let's bow our hearts together in a word of prayer. Loving Father, as we come to you this evening, we thank you for this wonderful day that we've had. We thank you for the Sunday school hour. We thank you for the morning preaching hour and what a time it was. And I thank you, Lord, for the message that Brother Leatherman brought to us and the conviction that it brought to our hearts. uh the stern reminder that it gave to us. And I thank you, dear Father, for working in our midst and for the sweet, sweet spirit that spoke to our hearts and challenged us from the truths of your precious word. And as we come into this service tonight, pray Lord that you'd help me to be a blessing, to exalt the Savior, to be led of the Spirit, to bring honor and glory to your precious name. You know my heart tonight, Lord. I want to be a blessing and a help. And I pray that Christ could be exalted, that you've saved the lost and encouraged and blessed your children. And we'll thank you for what you do because we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. What is a spiritually healthy church? What are the characteristics that we'll find present in a church? that our Lord would describe and would say is spiritually healthy. When I look at the Bible and I view the success of the early church, it makes me wonder about our churches today. When you read the book of Acts, that is what God expected of his church. That's the church that he was building. That was the church that he was blessing. That was the church that he was using to turn the world upside down and bring others to a saving knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm going to have to describe the early church as a recruiting station for workers to be involved in the work of God But as I look at the church today, it's more like a convalescent home for idle saints. There's not that zeal and that fire that we need present in our individual lives And what the church needs today is more tithers and fewer drivers. Well what we really need in the church today are People of action. We need more action and more action rather than faction in the church. As we view the church today and we compare it to the early church, I'd have to say that we need more workers and fewer shirkers. Everybody is looking for a way to get out of the work of God rather than to get into the work of God. Uh what we need today are more backers and uh fewer slackers when it comes to serving Jesus Christ. Uh what we need in the church today is more praying and less playing. Say, man or only, one of the two. What we need in the church today is more divine power and less human powwow. We got a lot of that today. Things that make no sense, things that uh are are not biblical, things that have no foundation in the Word of God whatsoever. We need more burden bearers and fewer tailbearers in the church today. What we need in the church today is more zealous effort and less jealous thought. There's a lot of jealousy today. Envious of one another and someone else getting the praise or the spotlight or uh getting the center of attention. What we need to really pray is that He would be exalted and that He would be center stage and our focus would be on Him and not one another. What we need in the church today is more holiness of life and less bickering and strife. And the early church was a model of what God really wanted his church to be. When you read Acts chapter 2, there's some things that are notable about that early church. I would say that they were earnest in spiritual duties. They were a saved church. That's what needs to make up the church today. Saved people. I I know it's possible, even in a church like this, for someone to be a member, uh someone even to be baptized, and not really saved. That's possible. Because we have to take the word of the individual, we have to take at face value what they say when they come forward to join the church or to follow the Lord in believers' baptism. But this early church was made up of saved people. I'd have to say that this early church was a scriptural church. They followed the Bible. They searched the scriptures daily. To see whether those things were so. The Bible says that they continued in the apostles' doctrine. And wonder God that this church, uh Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. And even Mountain View Baptist Church, wherever it might be. Wherever Bible Baptist Church is, uh wherever any Baptist Church is, that they would be noted for their scriptural basis, that they would continue in sound doctrine until the day Jesus calls them home. This early church in their spiritual duties was a fellowshipping church They partnered together to get the work done. And the Bible described them as unified. They had one mind and one heart and one goal. They were zealous of doing the work of God. The word fellowship has more to do with with partnering and having the same goal and aspiration than it does about getting together and eating a steak. As nice as that was last night, and we planned that as fellowship, what we partnered to do together was eat the cow. But when a church really fellowships, they partner together to get the work of God done. That's what we're going to do this week Tomorrow morning at nine o'clock, we're going to gather here on this campus and we're going to work on scriptures. The Lord wants his word in the hands of every person in this world. No one ought to be excluded. No country ought to be overlooked. No people ought to be neglected. Everybody needs the Bible And and you're helping make that available to souls that might not be able to afford the purchase of a Bible or a portion of scripture. We're able to provide these free to the missionary and to the national workers to distribute to people. That's what we're doing this week. We're partnering together, we're fellowshipping, we're Coming together for fellowship in our partnership to reach this world with the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. I I'd have to say in the spiritual duties of that early church, they were a Christ-centered church The Bible says that they broke bread daily. And that has to do with communion and the recognition of the broken body of our Lord and what he did on the cross of Calvary. This early church in their spiritual duties was noted as a praying church. They were people that prayed. But not only were they earnest in their spiritual duties, I would have to say that they were exemplary in their spiritual character. Their spiritual character. It was an awe-inspiring church. The Bible describes them as people that that fear came upon everybody around them. They were a miraculous church. The Bible says that they witnessed signs and miracles and wonders in that early ministry of the church. They were a sharing church. They distributed to the needs of others and recognized when somebody had a need, they wanted to do their level best to meet that need. It was a joyful church. The Bible says that they praised God. That's a model church. And that's what God intended his church to be. They were electrifying in their spiritual success. I would have to say that this church was an attractive church because the Bible says that they had favor with all men. They had favor with all men. We want to be an attraction in this community, don't we, Church? We want to attract people to this place. We want to draw people into this place. And you're the living testimony and example in this community that ought to attract people To Mountain, Lake, Independent, Baptist Church. Now say amen. I like what Joe Arthur said. I've got Amen written right there. So it was an attractive church. It was a growing church. The Bible says that the Lord added daily such as should be saved. This was a church that was not content just to meet together once a week and take care of business as usual. As a matter of fact, the Bible describes this church as a church that met daily. It describes this church as a church that cared daily. It describes this church as a church that won souls daily. The Bible describes this church as a church that searched the scriptures daily. And the book of Acts describes this church as a church that increased in number. Daily. What a church! But that's what God expects of this church. Mountain, Lake, Independent Bevis Church The church at Thessalonica displays the marks and the characteristics of a spiritually healthy church. As I read this book of 1 Thessalonians, I was impressed with this fact that Paul was dealing with the responsibilities of both the leaders of that church And the members of that church, and was showing them what it was to be a spiritually healthy church and what would hinder them from having that kind of a testimony. Preacher, the Apostle Paul was not concerned about demographics when he looked at the church at Thessalonica. He was not even concerned about making it a seeker-friendly church, as we have some trying to do that today. Let's find out what the community likes and what the community would like to sing and what the community would like to hear and what we'll do is tailor make our church so that It will truly be a seeker friendly church that everybody that comes in will feel comfortable and right at home. Nothing will be offensive and nothing will stir them. Nothing will move them. They'll just be hunky donky dory day. That's not what the church is about. It's not what people want to hear, it's what people need to hear. When Paul was writing to this church at Thessalonica, he was not concerned about leading them into a sophisticated entertainment ministry. That was not his desire. He wanted to be a spiritually healthy church, and he wanted to point them to the things that would stand in the way of being everything that God wanted them to be. He was not concerned about whether their worship services were relevant or not. He was concerned about whether they reverence the Lord. And honored the Lord and praised the Lord. And the center of attraction and center of that church was none other than the Lord Jesus Himself. He was not concerned about marketing techniques. As a means of attracting people and drawing them into the church, Paul focused on the sinful obstacles that would stand in their way of being everything that God wanted them to be. These verses that we read to you this evening are the very things that we need to be concerned about in this day in which we live. There's things that will hinder us. There's things that'll hurt us. There's things that will mar the testimony of the church. There are things that, if overlooked and not attended to, will deplete it of its spiritual power and influence in a community. Here are the things that weaken a church and cause a church To lose its influence. First thing that I notice in this passage of Scripture, Paul was going to deal with the wayward sheep. You notice in verse number 14, now we exhort you, brethren, warn them that are unruly. That word unruly is a military term that refers to those that are out of step with the rank and file of fellow soldiers When he talks about the unruly, he's talking about those that behaved themselves in a disorderly manner. He's talking about those that were insubordinate and didn't follow their commander and their chief. It refers to those who walk disorderly in a way that is displeasing to the Lord. It's injurious to the local church When members of this ministry walk disorderly in the things of the Lord and they're not following their leader, there are consequences that come to that church. I believe Paul was referring to those that were idle. Wouldn't it be wonderful if everybody in this church was zealous and on fire for God? Do you know that only about 10% of any given church really carries the burden of that church and is involved in the work and the ministry of that church? That's an average. And I'm talking about our fundamental churches today. That ought to alarm us. Because God has given spiritual gifts to every one of his followers, every one of his believers, everyone that has been born again, has been endowed with a spiritual gift, and if that gift is not being used in that local church, there is a weak link that Satan is able to work. And get a foothold. He's talking about those that were indolent. He's talking about those that were apathetic. If you look at Second Thessalonians chapter three, you'll notice in verse number six, now we command you, brethren, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you with Draw yourselves from every brother that walketh disorderly, and not after the tradition which he received of us. That's a pretty stern warning, isn't it? The preacher made mention of that this morning, that there's some people, even some Christians, that we need to withdraw from, that we need to separate from. And that's exactly what Paul is saying in this passage of Scripture. When he says withdraw, he says avoid them. That seems kind of harsh. That seems kind of brutal, that I am to withdraw from a fellow brother and one that pretends to follow the Savior. But the very word withdraw means to avoid them. It means to shun them. It means to pull back from them. He says, Withdraw yourself from every brother that walketh disorderly. And that word disorderly is the same word that we find in 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, when he talks about those that are wayward. Those that are disobedient, those that are out of rank and out of line and out of order. And he makes reference here to tradition. When we think of tradition, we think of something that has been generated and made of man. But that's not what the word tradition means here. When Paul referred to the tradition, he was talking about those things that were handed down by the apostles, and they are to be followed. He's talking about the Word of God. He's talking about those things that were generated by the Spirit of God to be written down and for the church to follow and implement into their life. Unruly folks, pay no attention to that. They pay no attention to that. To the very things that are to make up that church and to lead that church and to be the characteristic of that church, they are determined as being unruly. Those that are out of step. They fail to exercise their spiritual gift. They fail to use that which God has given to them. There might even be people that fail to support the church financially. You know, every need of this church can be met if every person tithes. Faith promise could be increased if everybody took part in faith promise giving. It's just simple as that. And lest you get too comfortable, if you're not tithing, you're a thief. There'd be no difference of me going down and taking money out of the offering plate and stuffing in my pocket as to use God's money that is declared to be the tithe and using it for my own benefit and blessing. God will catch up with you on that one. Unruly people are those that fail to use their spiritual gift and fail to support the church financially and fail to support and back up the man of God. The Lord has given you a pastor. These to be followed. These to be carefully listened to. He's to be held up in prayer. He's to be supported and taken care of. That he can give himself daily to prayer, to fasting, and to the study of the Word of God. The demands that are placed on a pastor today are far different from the demands that was placed on the pastors of the early church. They have a twofold responsibility. Pray, study the Word of God, and proclaim the scriptures. There's a whole lot more demanded of a preacher today. You need to support the man of God. You need to protect the man of God. You need to be careful of what you ask of the man of God. You need to hold him up in prayer earnestly, because if I know anything about the devil, I know he wants to destroy that man right there That's why I pray for you. And I earnestly request your prayers for me. Because I know the devil wants to put us out of commission. But Paul had a remedy for those that were wavered. He said, warn the unruly. Warn them. Put some sense into their heads. That's what that word means. Put some sense into their head. Warn them of their careless behavior. Warn them of the rebellion that is evident in their life. Warn them of the contentious spirit that they generate. Warn them. That's the remedy to the unruly in the local church. And there's good reason to do that because it affects the spiritual health and well-being of that assembly. The second thing that Paul calls attention to in verse number 14, he says, Now we exhort you, brethren, warn them that are unruly, comfort, the feeble-minded. The worried sheep. That word feeble-minded means to be faint-hearted. To be faint-hearted means that they fear getting in the battle. There's a lot of Christians like that. They want everything to be free of any risk whatsoever. Think about the radio ministry here. And the possibility of getting a full-fledged radio license. If you're thinking that there's risk involved in that, I just want to confirm your feelings I just want you to feel right at home with that because there is risk with it. There is risk. But there's also potential. And think of what Peter would have missed standing on the bow of that ship when the winds were blowing and the sea was enraged And he said, Lord, if it be thou, bid me to come to you. Suppose he had never stepped Over the bow of that ship and got out onto the sea. Do you realize what he'd have missed? There was risk involved in that. I I I don't know if anybody else is like me, but I've never walked on water That had any potential of sinking me. I might have waded through a mud puddle or ankle-deep water, but if I understand correctly, that was a storm and that sea, Peter could have sunk. There was risk. But there's something something magnetic about the fact that he jumped overboard and walked on water. Oh, I I feel a shout coming on right now. Well, what that is that is something to think about. Peter walked on water. There was risk. And there is risk involved in the ministry. This is a battle that we're in. This is warfare that we're in. There's going to be casualties. There's going to be wounded soldiers. There's going to be penetrating fiery darts that are sent our way. And those that are worried, that lack boldness and courage to stand in the time of battle, there's a warning that is issued. Remember that we've not only been called upon to believe on Jesus, but we've also been called to suffer for Jesus We kind of overlook that aspect of our Christian calling. We don't mind the believing part, but boy, this suffering thing, don't send it my way. Paul has a remedy. He says in this passage of Scripture, comfort the feeble-minded. That means to simply give them some confidence. Something solid upon which they can stand. And you know, every one of us tonight that are saved by the grace of God has some foundations upon which we stand. I think of the the foundation of God's love that is eternal. It's eternal. It never changes. It never falters, it never diminishes, it's eternal, and nothing, the Bible says in Romans chapter 8, can separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus. Here's another one that we can stand upon. Our salvation is secure. I don't secure it. God secures it. He says, I put you in my hand. And no man, no one can pluck you out of my hand. You're hid with Christ in God. That's a foundation upon which we can You don't have to be faint-hearted and feeble and unsure. Because what we have this evening is the confidence that God loves us and the confidence that our salvation is secure in Him. Here's something else that we can stand upon. God answers prayer. God answers prayer. This is the confidence that we have in Him that if we ask anything according to His will, He heareth us. Now think about that for a minute. When you go to God in prayer, he hears what's on your heart. He hears what you utter to him. And he's concerned about it and wants to do something about it. Jerry needs our prayers this evening. He's got a big move and a lot of decisions. And I'm sure it wasn't easy for him to make that decision to move to Alaska. Well maybe it wasn't such a hard decision after all, but at least we have another place to go and another place to visit and hopefully some churches will open up to us in Alaska, but that's a big decision to make. And we need to hold them up in prayer. It was a big decision for Chip and Vicky to leave the security of their job and step out in faith. And I've watched the tremors. And I know exactly what they're going through. D and I have been there. We've walked that road. We've felt those those things in our life that were uncertain and unsure. But I I I say to all of you tonight, God answers prayer. That's a confidence that we have that we can stand upon, that God hears and God answers our prayers. Can I say to you this evening? God fulfills his will in your life and in mine. Once he started that work, I'm glad to tell you this evening that God is a finisher. Philippians chapter 1 and verse number 6. If he started it, he'll finish it. He's committed to that. And that's a foundation upon which We can stand. And it's important that we deal with those things because it affects the spiritual health of a congregation. The third area that Paul deals with in this passage of Scripture are termed as weak. He said, Brother, and I exhort you, support the weak. Weak saints would be those that are fragile in their faith. Weak saints would be those that are beset by doubts. Weak saints are those that are susceptible to sin. Weak saints are those that are attracted by this world. Weak saints are those that are carnal and would be described as fleshly in nature. Such Christians endanger the local church. They endanger the local church. 1 Corinthians chapter 5 and verse number 6, Paul wrote these words to a very troubled and distressed and worldly-minded church He said, Don't you know a little leaven leaveneth the whole lump? Leaven in Scripture is described as sin. It's a sin. It's like answer. It eats away at the very fiber of a person's life, at the very fiber and foundation of a local church. And the Bible has one solution for that. It says, purge it out. Whether it's in your life or mine, the responsibility is to deal with it and cut it out and get rid of it so that it does not affect the local church. There are things that pertain to our old nature that are to be immediately dealt with. Paul said, I could not speak to you as unto spiritual, but as unto carnal. You're fleshly. You're weak. As a result, there's a lot of strife and contention among you. The carnal saints are the ones that cause trouble in the local church. Let me run that by you one more time. Don't think you heard me and quite understood that one, and perhaps you didn't even grasp it. Carnal Christians cause trouble in the local church. They're the ones that are usually saying, you preach too long, preacher. They're the ones that are more concerned about that clock on the wall back there and and and their next meal, getting out those doors, out into the cold, out into the snow. I don't mind it when we're all in here and the Lord just dumps a big bucket full of that stuff on us. Maybe some Sunday the Lord will favor us by not allowing us to leave the church. We just have to stay here because it's too, too bad outside. Carnal Christians hurt the church. They weaken its testimony And cause trouble among the saints of God. But Paul has a remedy for that. He says in this passage of Scripture that we're to support the weak. That means to establish them. It means to firmly root them in the things of God. I'm sure you're thankful for the messages that your preacher preaches from this pulpit that establish a firm foundation for you to build your life upon. Every message that is preached ought to be a help to us, an instruction to us in biblical truth that will aid us and strengthen us and build us up in the faith. To support the wheat means that we encourage them to righteous living and the rejection of any kind of sin in their life whatsoever. And it's necessary to do it Because it affects the spiritual health of that church. The fourth type of person that he deals with That is a hindrance to the spiritual stability and the spiritual health of a local church are the wearisome sheep. The Bible says, be patient toward all men. That means to be forbearing with one another, understanding one another. Have you noticed that it's easy to get frustrated with people? Have you noticed that? That they can kind of get under your skin? And that they they can kind of be obnoxious at times, that they can irritate you at times, that they just kind of Rub you the wrong way sometimes. And as a result of that, it's easy to get discouraged with people and to get upset with people and even get to the point that you're plum angry with people. You've worked with them, you've tried to teach them, you've tried to train them. And there just doesn't seem to be any kind of response to that, any kind of commitment to that, any kind of change in their life, and there's no evidence of any spiritual growth whatsoever. May I say to you this evening that I think the Lord got a little frustrated with his disciples when he said, You men lack faith. There's just an air of frustration about that. And I'd have to say that I've been there a few times myself. Lumpedhead? What do we have to do to get this message through to you? What are we going to have to do to get you to sit up at the table and eat what you need to eat? This is not a potato chip and pop world. You need some spiritual meat as much as I like potato chips. Well, let's put popcorn in that category too, because I love my popcorn There's sometimes that you need steak. I'd like more of that. But Paul has a remedy for people like that. He says, be patient with them. Well, that's a tall order. That is a tall order. Be patient with them. That means to be understanding with them. It means to be forgiving toward them. How many times, Lord? Seven? How far should I go down this road, Lord? Could I just kind of give you a humble paraphrase of that? Go down that road as far as you have to go. And the Lord used this term 70 times 7. That was not a figure that he had in mind. It was a distance that he had to go as far down that road that is necessary to deal with those That drive your patience. And believe me, there are people that drive our patience. Then there's the last group. He calls them the wicked sheep. He says in verse number fifteen, see that none render evil for evil unto any man but ever follow that which is good, both among you yourselves and to all men. There can be sheep in the church that are very harmful to other sheep. You win a new soul to the Lord, and you get on edgy when you see them gathering with certain people within the church. What they have, I hope, doesn't rub off on them. Are you with me, Church? You get concerned about that because you know their behavior and their activity and you know their spiritual state. And and you hope that that new convert does not get around them and lose their zeal and their enthusiasm and their love for the things of the Lord, their desire to be in church every time the doors are open, and those critical spirits that are standing around saying That'll rub off sooner or later. God help us. God help us. There are those that are very harmful to other sheep because of the wicked words that they speak. They're very harmful to other sheep because of the gossip and slander that they spread. They're very harmful to other sheep because of the influence that they can cause another person to sin. And you know what Paul is saying? If you're wronged, don't retaliate. Don't develop the vengeful spirit within your life. Paul's remedy is to do good to them. That's a tall order, too. You mean someone that has abused me, somebody that has hurt me? Someone that might have spoken evil against me? Someone that gossiped or slandered about me? I'm not to go punch them in the nose? That I'm going to do something good for them? That's exactly what the book says. Exactly. Don't render evil for evil. I remember a number of years ago when I was pastoring. There was a church that was not too far from us that thought they were pretty good. If there's any doubt about that, all you had to do is get around them and they would tell you that we're the superior church in our community. They were standoffish. They weren't very cordial. And they used to bother me and rub me the wrong way. I remember one year we decided to have an Easter service together, of all things. The first year we were gone to their church. The second year they were coming to our church. The first year we all went to their church, but the next year they forgot all about our church. I was deeply offended I was hurt to the core. I I wanted to go burn the place down. I wanted the preacher to die. I wanted those lousy saints, those those horrible wicked sinners, to meet their payday. You know when I got victory? When I got down on my knees and I said, Dear God, bless those dear people. And I prayed for days upon days upon days that God had poured out his blessing and lavish them with his goodness. I got victory. When someone abuses you and hurts you and harms you, don't look for a way to get even with them. Look for a way to do good to them. If the preacher rubs you the wrong way. And that can easily happen. Make them a pie. If you have a bunch of pies this week, you'll know what happened. I I don't know how anybody could be mad at him. He's such a lovable teddy bear, I just uh I don't know how anybody could be upset with them. And Miss Kathy, I just I just don't understand why anybody wouldn't love her. She's such a dear and sweet and I'm being serious. These are good people. You're privileged to have them. You ought to love them. You ought to stand with them. This this day coming up. Special Cathy Sunday. I don't know where I am that day, but I feel like coming back just to be a part of that. You ought to do something really, really special for your preacher's wife. Can I give you some suggestions? Thanks. I'm glad you asked me. I think it'd be nice if a bunch of you ladies would get together and take her shopping and buy her some new clothes. What'd be wrong with that? Maybe take her to her favorite restaurant and have dinner with her. Do something special. Something that will draw you. Those things draw you together. Those things give you a heart of love for one another. Your preacher labors in this pulpit Sunday after Sunday and service after service. All because he loves you. And he cares about your spiritual interest. And that is not to be taken lightly or overlooked or abused in any way I know I know what it is to pastor. You can tramp on toes, and I wouldn't want to be a part of a church that didn't tramp on my toes from time to time. I want to feel the pressure. I want to sense the heat. I want to sense the moving of the Spirit. I was convicted this morning in that service in that message that our preacher brought what a what a message. But when someone rub rubs you the wrong way and and and does harm to you, don't look for a way to retaliate but do good. Display love one for the other. That'll confuse the community. Hello? They know what it is to put up the dukes and box it out They know what it is to be angered and to be resentful and to level the playing ground and bring vengeance toward one another. They know all about that. But love in the midst of suffering, they can't understand. They can understand. The key to a a spiritual healthy church is not finding some clever way to overlook or some scheme or some strategy strategy that's going to bypass the problem. The key to a spiritually healthy church is to address the issue. To deal with the issue. And Paul is saying in this passage of scripture, admonish the wayward. That'll make you a spiritually healthy church. Encourage the worried. That'll make you a spiritually healthy church. Uphold the weak. Bear with the wearisome. And render good to the wicked. And the outcome and consequence of that is a spiritually healthy church. May God keep that fire burning in this place. Let's put our hearts together in prayer. Our loving father, as we come to you this evening, we're very, very mindful. Sometimes messages like these are not easy to deliver, nor are they easy sometimes to even accept. And I pray, Lord, that we'd not be thinking of somebody else or pointing our accusing finger at somebody else. But may we take the message to heart and look at our own hearts and lives To see whether we fall in the category of causing the spiritual healthy church to wane. Lord, I pray that you would put a hedge of protection about this ministry. And every design and fiery dart that Satan has prepared to level against this place would be totally, absolutely quenched. And would not accomplish any objective that Satan had in mind. But you'd rule supreme here. That you'd be exalted here. That there would be a sweet, sweet spirit in this place. As we've witnessed and as we've experienced in days gone by I pray, dear Father, that Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church would be an attraction in this community. Would would be a place that even confuses this community. That they'd want to come and see what makes the difference in these dear precious people that have assembled here this night. Keep us in love with one another. Keep us zealous for the things of God He was concerned and burdened for the lost and where they're going to spend eternity. But this ministry to be a model of a spiritually Healthy church. I want us to stand with our heads bound and our eyes closed this evening. We're not going to sing a song of invitation tonight. I just want the instruments to play. Maybe you need to come and gather around this altar and say, Lord, protect this place Protect my life and my family. Protect our membership. Don't let seeds of discord And and destructive tools of the devil have its way in this ministry. I I don't know what purpose God had in this meant message, but but I know this that I've been obedient to the Lord to bring To you this night, what the Lord has laid upon my heart. And it's my prayer that fruit, lasting fruit, will come as a result of our fellowship tonight. If you're here tonight without Jesus, we invite you to come and share that with us that we can Show you from the scriptures how to become God's child. If you're a Christian tonight, this altar is open For old-time, old-fashioned prayer calling upon God to do what only God can do. Maybe you need to come and just pray for the preacher and his wife. Protect them for them. Keep them. Maybe you need to come and ask the Lord just to help you and help all of us to be sensitive to the Spirit and mindful of the things of God. And be a part of developing a spiritually healthy church, not an instrument of destruction, destroy the healthy characteristics of this church. God speaks to your heart and invites you to come.