Romans, I'm gonna do something a little different and um I think I might uh talk to my wife, I think I might start take the first Wednesday of every month. I'm I'm gonna turn this on Dave, so be prepared. There. Okay. Um I'm gonna I'm thinking about taking the first Wednesday of every month and try and give some different tips on soul winning and uh sharing the gospel, witnessing to people. I want to try and be very, very practical and just some things, to share things that some are original with me, most of it isn't, things I've picked up over the years and I want to use some of what we do in our soul-winning training to do that. But just take one Wednesday night, probably the first Wednesday of each month. and take the service and share some of these things. So that's what we're going to start tonight and do this. I think it'll be helpful to you. As I said, I want to try and be extremely practical on this. And uh most of us have been around long enough we know that the Bible teaches us that to we're to be witnesses. The Bible teaches us we're to but go into all the world, which includes our own community, and preach the gospel to every creature And so we've heard preaching on that, we hear that all the time. Sometimes I think uh we ask ourselves, maybe not directly, but in the back of our mind is, well, how do you do that How do you go about uh doing this? And and uh so that's what uh I want to try and address. I'm gonna start off here in Romans chapter 10. While you're getting there, I do have something else I wanted to share real quickly with you. We got our This stirs me up. I really enjoy getting this. This is our web, our report from our website and the sermons that are downloaded off of these In fact, somebody came in church tonight and said, I was listening to you off the website. Total sermons downloaded in September was 768. Now get this, the number one sermon downloaded. This tells you a lot about where people's hearts are, what's going on. The number one sermon downloaded 122 times in September And uh is God's cure for anxious care, preached back in the beginning of the month. And so that tells me there's a lot of hurting people out there. And they're looking for answers. So I thought that was interesting. There was 42 different states that downloaded sermons. Anyone want to guess the number one state? West Virginia. 57. Then New York, New Jersey, California, and then all the way down through here. There was 30, there was 26 countries that downloaded sermons. England. was number one, United Kingdom with 30 of them over there. Sri Lanka had 15. Korea had a bunch. Vietnam. China. Spain. Singapore. One country, I don't know how to say it um Jamaica, Papua New Guinea, all around. Isn't that something? And uh I just I enjoy getting that. Each at the end of the month they send at beginning of the October, they send for September, and I always enjoy getting that. Alright, Romans chapter number 10. If you would look at verse number 13. I think we're all familiar with Romans 10. 13 For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord, what? Shall be saved. What a promise. What a great verse. Now look at verse 14. How then shall they call on him in whom they have not believed? They can't As great as verse 13 is, verse 14 says, alright, that's great, but how can they do that if they don't believe? Then he goes on How shall they believe in him of whom they have not what? Heard. You can't believe on someone you haven't heard about And how shall they hear without a preacher? Now it's important to understand here, the word preacher there, he's not talking about someone holding the office of pastoring a church. He's not talking about someone standing by our pulpit in a congregation and declaring the Word of God sermons. What he's talking about here is simply the very uh basic definition of the word preacher is just how should they hear without somebody coming telling them without somebody coming proclaiming to them what they need to hear so that they can believe, so that they can call on the Lord, so that they will be what? Saved. So there's a progression. There's things have to be in place. Things have to take place before we get to the point where somebody's able to call on the Lord, believe on him, call them, trust him as their personal Savior And the key factor in that whole progress is a what? A preacher. Somebody to communicate that information. Somebody to deliver the message, so to speak. So that they can hear it, believe it, call on the Lord, and be saved. How shall they hear without a preacher? Verse 15, and how shall they preach except they be sent? And so, uh, and then I like the last part of that verse, how beautiful are the feet of them that preach the gospel of peace. and bring glad tidy uh bring glad tidings of good things. You don't think much about beautiful feet, but uh here God says the folks that go and tell other people that preach, deliver the message, proclaim the gospel that uh that he considers them to have uh beautiful feet. So let's pray. Tips for personal soul winning. I'm going to give you a few real practical things tonight. I hope it'll be helpful. I hope you enjoy this And then Lord will in uh in the coming months we'll take uh one Sunday, one Wednesday night out of the month and uh touch on these. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I thank you for the word of God. I ask that you would bless us And I pray you'd stir our hearts in this matter of reaching people with the gospel and seeing other people saved. And I pray that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit and use these thoughts tonight to help us, encourage us, give us a little confidence. Lord, help us to feel like there's something we can all do to contribute to this mission and advance the cause of the gospel. And just bless, I pray, in Jesus' name, amen. I read recently, I think it may have been today, I read the statement: the poorest person on earth is not the one without money, but rather the one without Jesus. That's a good statement. The poorest person on earth is not the one without money, but it's the person that doesn't have Jesus Christ as their Savior. You can have millions and millions of dollars. You can be a Donald Trump and yet be spiritually. Pa in poverty. And you can have two dollars to your name, but if you know Jesus Christ as Savior, you're as rich as anybody can possibly be. So here's the thing. The poorest person is not the one without money, it's the one without Jesus. So we have a lot of people that are very poor. Here's the great thing. You and I have the resources to meet those people's needs. It's a lot of people out there. They may have money. They may or may not have money. But if they don't have Jesus Christ, they're very, very poor. They're in poverty. And you and I have the resources to meet that need. We can introduce them to Jesus Christ so they can be spiritually rich. Soul winning is simply God using me or you To take that resource, Jesus Christ, to those who need him. Here's people that are spiritually poor. They need Jesus. We have the resource. We know Jesus Christ. We have the information about him that can bring them, that God can work through us to bring them to a relationship with Jesus Christ. So Romans 10, 13 down through 15, what we just read, a lot of times we'll read that, or a preacher will preach on that, and the only application we get from that is foreign missions. We'll say, how will people in Kazakhstan believe if they haven't heard? And how should they hear? How should they call on him when they haven't believed? And how can they believe if they don't hear? And how can they hear unless somebody goes over there? That is absolutely true. But this has universal application. It's not just true in Kazakhstan, it's also true in Kitzmiller It's also true in Deer Park. It's also true in Ter Alder or any other place. This passage has universal application. It's true in all parts of the world. Wherever man may be They need somebody to give them the information about Jesus Christ. How many people are sitting there and you say, preacher, I know that Ah, we know that. We know that's true. Now why is it that we so often it seems like we do so little? To make that happen. And I think sometimes it's we are just intimidated, maybe, by the responsibility. We're intimidated by Approaching someone and talking to them about the Lord Jesus Christ. Now here's the thing, and as I was preparing this, got thinking along these lines, God created man to be a social being He created us to be social. In fact, he said in Genesis, it is not good that man should be alone. God didn't create man to be alone. It's not good for man to be isolated. We are social beings We need other people. We need the interaction with other people if we're going to be complete, if we're going to ful function like the way God created us to function. We must have interaction with other people. There must be relationships. In fact, the Lord in Genesis 1. 28, he told Adam, he says, be fruitful and multiply. And the idea behind that is God wanted this world filled with people. People getting along, people interacting, people that have relationships with each other. God created us to be social beings, to interact, to socialize, to fellowship, to establish relationships with people. Now sin damaged that Sin hurt that, and I think we see more and more. Will you agree with me? People are becoming less and less social. And even when we do interact, even when people do interact. They don't know how to do it right. And it becomes very, very awkward, and people get hurt and things are said and next thing you know, they're at it like that. Well, sin has come in and sin has damaged our ability to socialize, to establish and maintain relationships. Now it seems uh uh I hate to say it, but it's not it's not completely true, but many times it's like a strange thing to find somebody that got along for decades You know, just to maintain that relationship, maintain that fellowship is challenging. And so we have to work at that. We have to work at interacting with people. Some people, it comes naturally. Some people just naturally get along. How many people know someone that just naturally gets along with anybody? My wife, when we first got married, I often said this, we first got married, um, uh she'd walk into a grocery store in a town we'd never been in, she'd come out with ten best friends. You know. I'd go in and get what I want and come out and not see anybody. She'd come out, she's got their name and address, and we're gonna go to lunch together. You know, it's like good night. And um we we are ever at Brother Bohm. By the way, I heard Brother Kenton did a real good job Sunday night. I like Kenton. That's good. I'm glad We were able to preach over there and God bless. And uh we're at the back, Dad was with us and Kathy was there, and uh folks going out and there's this little boy uh I don't know how old he is, probably ten years old, eleven years old in that range. That kid just the whole time just talking, talking, I'm trying to shake hands. And then the motorcycle has hundreds C C's, a thousand he's going on about all this stuff. I said, oh nice kid. And uh shaking hands. And the guy was just naturally social. Some people are that way. Some of us, how many folks say I gotta work at that a little bit? Yeah Some people are just naturally establishing relationships. Some of us have to work at that a little more. Some of us have to work at maintaining relationships. In fact, a lot of the Bible is devoted to people getting along with each other, to people interacting with each other. And uh helping us, showing us what to do, what not to do, the way to think about it, how to approach these things. Say, what does this have to do with witnessing and soul winning? Personal soul winning is ultimately interacting with other people. Personal soul winning is establishing relationship with people, talking to them, getting to know them. wanting them to trust me when I give them some information about heaven and hell, about the eternal destiny, there have to be some level of of trust on their part that what I'm saying is so, and they can trust what I'm saying. So there requires interaction with other people. When I'm going to be a soul winner, when I'm going to be a witness to people, I have to be able to interact with people. I've got to be able to establish a a a relationship with people at least to some level, to be able to communicate with them. Um the gospel of Christ. Now I know what you're thinking. I thought that. So well that's true to some extent. There are exceptions. I mean we can give out gospel tracts. And God uses gospel tracts. I'm not disparaging that. But when we talk about being a personal soul winner and somebody that God can use to bring people who are lost on their way to hell, they're in sin, and bring them to the point that they will accept Jesus Christ as their personal Savior and establish a relationship with Jesus Christ. I have to be able to interact with them. I have to be able to establish a relationship to some level with them. So ultimately, personal soul winning is personal interaction with other people. It's this. And we talked about it in the Beatitudes. It is being in the world, but not of the world. We don't isolate ourselves from the world. We don't isolate ourselves from unsaved people. We're in this world. We're in it. We interact with the unsaved. We interact with people that need Christ. We're not going to be like them. We're not going to adopt their values and their principles. But we do interact with them and we establish relationships with them with the intention of bringing them to Christ. It's called being light and darkness. Light has to go there, be there for the darkness to be dispersed. It's called being sought, applying sought into this world. In Romans 10, and look at verse 15, it says, How shall they preach except they be sent? That word sent there is interesting. It means to be put in a pointed place. To go to an appointed place. And in my mind, this is the idea, at least it would apply this way. The idea is: all right, here is a neighborhood That people live and there's lost people there. I'm being sent, I'm going to go to that specific area with the intention Of preaching to them the gospel, communicating to them the message of Christ so that they can hear it, so that they can believe it, so that they can call on the Lord, so that they can be saved. And so it's the idea of doing this on purpose, doing this deliberately, going after and communicating this message. Soul wedding is many way, in many ways, uh establishing relationships with unsaved people. So that they, so that I can bring them into a relationship with Christ. Suppose I'm going through a neighborhood or I'm at the store, somebody's behind Tom's behind me. I don't know Tom, he's some unsaved guy and He's behind me. I say, hey, how you doing? We start talking a little bit. Maybe I hand him a gospel track. I'm the pastor. We get to talking a little bit. We're interacting. Maybe I can get them to the point where we're interacting and kind of trust each other. We get outside of Walmart or wherever we are. We sit down and talk for a little bit and we begin a very surface, but we begin a relationship in a sense that he's listening to me and I'm talking to him. And I'm able to use that interaction, that beginnings of a relationship, so that he can have a relationship with Jesus Christ. Follow what I'm saying? And so it requires this interaction. I think that intimidates us sometimes. You know, yeah, I've got to get involved in someone else's life. If we're going to be a witness, yeah, to some extent we're going to have to We're gonna have to interact with them. We're gonna have to engage them. Now, here's what I want to give you tonight. Just some real practical things. Now I'm trying to start out here where anybody and everybody can do this. One great way. to interact with people, with unsaved people, generally, and this is a good starting point, is when visitors come to church. We're all here anyway. And somebody comes to church or an unsaved person, maybe bus workers were out there working hard, they got an unsaved mother to ride the bus with them, or it's uh somebody else had family in town and they brought unsaved family members to church and or maybe it's just somebody out of the blue showing up. They're going to come to church. They're not saved. Every one of us can have a part In helping that person come to know Christ as Savior, just by the way we conduct ourselves in a church service when a visitor comes in. So I got two points, two categories. One is I want to share with us some things not to do. And then I want to share a list of things that we should do. I call it this the don'ts and do's of visitors at church Now we're going to leave here and all of us are going to have something say, hey, I can do that Sunday. I can do that Sunday night. I can do that on the revival when Dr. Williams is here and we'll have a lot of visitors. Here's some things I can do to help bring people to Christ uh at some level. Alright, are you ready? I hope that um you'd write some of these down. These are pretty good. I think these are great. I'll tell you. Nobody said amen there, but um I know what they are and you don't. Now I'll tell you this first list, the don'ts, the don'ts of church visitors, isn't totally original with me. I got this list and I took it and tweaked it and adja adapted a little bit to our situation, so and and and all openness. This list isn't totally original, but I think it'd be encouraging. What not to do? Number one, here it is. Do not ignore visitors. Do not ignore them. They're coming in those back doors. We don't know you don't know anything about them. They may have never been in a church before. They may have never we have people, uh folks that have never been in a Baptist church before. Uh some folks come, sometimes you get them. The only church they've ever been in is a Catholic church. Very formal, no interaction with people. In fact, they don't even know what the guy's saying. He's talking in Latin a lot of times And so here they are coming. I had a lady one time and said, I ain't never been to Baptist church. I'm a little scared. Well, first thing when they come in, do not ignore them. There's nothing worse than an unsafe person coming in. They already feel self-conscious. They already feel like, you know, a fish out of water. Who are these crazy people a lot of times? And then we walk in, everybody's just standing there in their little group staring at them and watching them, and it is like, I cannot wait to get out of here I am not comfortable. Don't ignore them. Do not ignore them. Make sure that you greet them. Do not here's my advice. Do not wait for someone else to meet them. Don't stand there and say, surely somebody's going to go over there and shake their hand. Somebody's going to go say hi to them. Somebody's going to go over there and and greet them a little bit. No. Don't wait for somebody. Don't assume somebody else is. Make sure you do it. You say, well then everybody will. Yes That would be good. The whole church converge with them. Well, we might spook them a little bit on that, but spread it out over the service So number one is what? Do not ignore the visitors. Greet them. Introduce yourself. Number two. Now this one gets a little deep. Do not make assumptions about them. Do not make assumptions about them. Sinners come in all kinds of shapes and sizes. Person may come in, maybe That person coming in, maybe in a suit, looked like an independent fundamental Baptist from the day they were born. I mean they looked the part to the T, and they could be as lost as a goat They could they could they might die that week and in split hell wide open. So don't assume because they come in and they look clean and all of that and they're all dressed up and all that, don't assume that person's saved. They may not be. I remember the first time I came to church. I got saved on a Monday night. Did I ever tell you about that? Saved on a Monday night. That next Sunday I went to a church down the road there. That was disaster. I knew that wasn't right Nobody had a Bible and there's n it was just And so the next week I went to a Bible preaching independent church and independent Baptist Church and I went there and um I walked in and I didn't know anything. I didn't been in church in years, I didn't give it any thought. I told you this recently, you know, I had my bell bottoms and all that. I w I thought I was dressed up. I looked like John Travolta probably. I mean I was at least that good looking I I still remember it was tan bell bottoms uh and polyester and uh a black shirt. I had it opened. I mean I was and a gold chain. I mean it I was hot. And uh you know what? They weren't overly friendly, but the people greeted me. And I know what probably people are thinking, good night, this guy's nuts. Hair, the whole deal. And um I know. But I was a new Christian, two weeks old in the Lord. And you can't make assumptions. And I praise God, and I've touched on this recently, but Terry Wilcox and Arden Musselman, those two young men just took me in. And treated me with respect, treated me like a brother in Christ. So don't make assumptions. They come in, they might look a little bit off the wall, they might look a little odd, but they're a soul for whom Christ died And don't make assumptions. I put this down. Sinners come in all kinds of shapes and sizes. And Christians come at all levels of spiritual maturity. That person might be saved, that person might be lost. Don't go by what they look like. You don't necessarily know. I guarantee you If Lot would have come walking in that back door when he was living in Sodom and Gomorrah, every one of us would have thought that's a lost man coming in that door, but he was saved. And so we have to be very, very careful about that. That might be a Christian that has been away from the Lord for a long time and they messed up and they look look as unchristian as can be. And maybe they're coming back and they're wanting to get back right with God. And how you and I treat them is a very, very important factor on whether they might be open or not. So one, don't ignore visitors. Two, don't make any assumptions In fact, if we're going to assume anything, let's assume that they need Christ. Let's err on that side. And treat them all as if we want to try and win them to Christ. And so and uh you know and even in family arrangements, we live in a day and age when uh you know a man and a woman come walking up and the kids, that not n might not necessarily be a family unit, as the Bible says And so we have to keep that in mind and be very kind and very gracious. You say, well, what if it's a couple they're living together, they're not married? How should we treat them? We treat them like Jesus treats them. We love them, be kind and gracious Maybe they reeked the pot smoke. So whoa, we're not going to let them in. No, no. Bring them in here. They're not going to be on the platform. They're not going to teach Sunday school, but they can sit there and let us preach to them and befriend them You follow what I'm saying? So don't make assumptions. Number three, don't ever, ever be unkind. Under no circumstances should we ever be unkind to a visitor. Let me take it another level. Under no circumstances should we ever be unkind to anybody. You say, what if they come in and they're real rude and arrogant? What if they use bad language? Well, we can deal with that, but we're going to do it in a kind way. So don't ever be unkind, even if they're not very friendly. I would say this, give people the benefit of the doubt They may be dealing with stuff you and I don't even know anything about. In fact, I would venture to say, let me just throw this out here, I would venture to say There's some folks sitting in this auditorium right here and now are dealing with some personal things no one else in the church knows anything about, and it's heavy on their heart, and they're trying their best to be sweet and kind. And so we have to be very, very careful. Always be kind to people. You have no idea, no matter how they act, no matter how they look, be kind to them, because we have no idea what's going on. in their heart and in their life. There was a I don't know if there's a commercial or something like so on the computer somewhere, but it was powerful. I wished I'd have kept it. And it showed different scenes. It was like a snapshot. I remember one was a couple people standing in an elevator. And above the woman's head, it said this. She just found out last night that her husband's cheating on her. And she's standing there trying to smile and be friendly. I had another one, a person walking down a hall, just found out that his infant daughter has brain tumor. And he's trying to function and deal, and he's got that heavy on his heart. And it went through a series of about 12 or 15 snapshots like that and stuff that was going on in people's hearts and minds that no one around knew about and they're dying inside And when people come through a door, I'll tell you one thing, a lot of times churches attract hurting people. They're looking for answers, they're looking for help. And we ought to be kind to them. We ought to be kind to them, even if they're unkind. So number one, don't ignore them. Number two, don't make assumptions. Number three, don't ever be unkind to visitors when they come here, or anybody in the church. Um, I put this down, I'm not going to say much on it. Number four, don't ever be unhelpful. Look if there's some way I can help them, what they're doing, whatever, step in and be helpful. And we'll talk about that in a little bit. Number five I like this one. This one wasn't original with me. This is the one I picked up off of the thing, but I thought it was pretty good. Don't ever say Are you listening? Don't ever say this. Hey, that's my seat. Don't do that. Hey, you're in I'd like for you to know, sir, you're in my seat. Brother, you want to guarantee they're never coming back again. You would guarantee they're not gonna listen to anything they It comes from the Word of God from that pulpit. You say that to them. All right, here's a question for you. What you say, well preacher, what should I do if they're in my seat? Spit somewhere else, knog ahead. Maybe even closer So they're in, don't ever say they're in my seat. Don't ever say this. Here's something else, don't ever say. Don't ever say this to a visitor. You're late. So they come in a little bit late. You know how many people come visit church here and uh they think it starts at eleven? Visitors? Oh, I thought it'd start at 11. No, when they come in and say, well, you're late. Don't say that. Now you want to say it to Jerry or somebody? Go right at it. But uh don't say it to the visitor Don't ever say that. Um don't say this, and th this one I don't know if this one's necessary, but don't say this. A couple comes in, they got a little baby, don't say don't say something like this. Oh good grief, our nursery's already packed. Don't say that to somebody coming with a little baby. What are you communicating to them? If you say they come in and they got a baby and oh we do have room issues in the nursery, we're working on that. What are you saying to them? They're not welcome. We've got too many already. Or, worse yet, we're telling them, hey, your baby's not going to get good care in our nursery. It's already loaded. George don't have to worry about that. But don't say that to them. It implies they're unwelcome, it implies that their child will not be cared for. Let me give you this. I gotta keep moving here. Don't ever say this This is uh surely this would never happen, but I've heard it. This comes from personal experience, this one. Don't ever say, maybe you can find another church. Don't ever say that. They come in, maybe they're a little different, a little rougher, whatever. Don't ever say, hey, you know, where are you from? You know there's church over there. Now I'm saying this from experience. I was in church thirty-some years ago. A homosexual got saved. And he was growing. Now I wasn't directly involved in it, but I knew it. I was part of that church, and what was happening, he got saved, he wanted to get baptized, the pastor of the church. Said to him when he came about getting baptized, told him, and the pastor told me, he told him this. He says I told him, I knew where he lives, I told him there's actually an independent baptist church a little closer to him. Maybe he should go to them and let them baptize him. Listen, I don't care if there is one closer or not, that guy needs to be baptized. And the place he came to to follow the Lord in baptism should be the one to baptize. It doesn't matter what his past was. I don't know what his history was. And I tell you, that steamed me. That was not right. We never want to turn somebody tell them, oh, you need to go to another church. You should go somewhere else. Maybe you'd be more comfortable in that kind of church. Now the fact is sometimes people, you know, they want a different persuasion, they would be more comfortable, but I'm not telling them that. And so have to be very, very careful with that. Don't ever say, have you considered another church? Have you considered going somewhere else? I'm telling you, there's a bunch of us worked far too hard to get people here to have them turned away, told to go somewhere else. Number nine. This is just being practical. Don't make them climb over you to get to a seat. All right? You say, well, I like sitting on the end, I know, but on Sunday mornings in particular, this place gets pretty full sometimes, and a visitor comes down Don't make them climb over top of you to get to the seat. What would be the best thing to do? Slide in for Pete's sake. Don't tell them go sit over there. Slide in, let them have the MC. It's not going to kill you. And there's actually a good reason to have an unsaved person sitting at the end of the pew. We'll come to that. We'll come to that. So those are some don'ts. You can probably come up with a whole list of others. Don't do that. You say, well what does this have to do with soul winning? I'm telling you, just a church not doing those things could make the difference between a person going to heaven or hell, listening to the gospel, responding, or us coming back and visiting with them in their home and having a positive response for us coming by. Just those things. Let me real quickly, I got a couple minutes, let me real quick you give you the do's. That was the don'ts, here's the do's Number one, here's some stuff to say. Write this down. Stuff to say. Practice it. Go home and practice it in the mirror. Find the kids, your spouse or a neighbor, somebody practice saying this. Number one, say this. This is so important. Say this. We are glad you're here. Thank you for coming today. We're glad you're here. We are glad you're here. Say it in the mirror. We are smile. We are glad you're here. I'm telling you, that make the world. They expect the preacher to say that, right? But what a difference it is when the people in the church are coming up, shaking their hands, saying, Hey, we are glad you're here. It's good to see you. So say that. Work on that. A visitor shows up, somebody you don't know, go over and say, we are glad you're here. Some variation of that. Good to have you with us. Glad you're with us. Number two, this goes right along with that one. Number one, we're glad you're here. Number two, this goes right along with it. Introduce yourself. I'm Dennis Leatherman. I stand back there all the time. You see me. I see some of you. I'm Pastor Leatherman. Good to see you. You're busy with us for you. Glad you're here today. And if not just the pastor, but if the whole congregation at some point while they're here is coming, hey, it's good to see you, we're glad you're here. Um you might need to vary that. If a hundred people say to them those exact same words, we're glad you're here, we're glad you're here, it might seem like robots. But um but then go introduce yourself and uh get their name, ask them their name and uh get the names of the rest of the gang that's with them And tell them your name. Try to this is hard for me. Try to remember their names. Um one good way to do that is use that name in the conversations. Hi, I'm Pastor Lemon. Hi, I'm Bob. Hey Bob, good to see you. Bob, is this your kids? Bob, who's that? Bob, is that your car? You know, just say it over and over. It helps So thank you for being here. We're glad you're here. Some variation of that. Introduce yourself. Number three, write this down. Say this. Let me help you with that. Now that applies that there's something they need help with. But maybe they're coming in with an odd maybe they're coming up and you're getting out of your car and they're over there and they're struggling, it's raining or whatever, and they're struggling to get out of their car or whatever. Jump over there and say, hey, let me help you here Just watch, look for some way that I can help that visitor do whatever it is they need to do. Maybe there's a lady coming in with all kinds of diaper bags and babies and everything. Oh here, let me help you that I think our ushers are really good at that. They r if you watch them, they're real good at that. But let's all of us work at that. They're struggling with something. Uh I liked I saw um the Hardesty gang over here, Bushrod and the whole gang sitting up there. Uh the other Sunday um they were sitting up there the whole gang was lined up it was like Pack a pew with Hardesty Day and uh they're all lined up there and Kathy was watching they all had their Bibles out and they're flipping around flipping around this is before between Sunday school and church flipping around flipping around Kathy went over and said, what are you all doing? They said, we're trying to find the verses that preacher is preaching out of. We saw them in the bulletin, and we can't find them. We're trying to find where those verses are, so we're ready when the preaching time comes She goes, well I'll help you find them. And she went down and got them all set up, little markers there. They're all good to go. And so keep your eye out. Watch for ways. How can I help that visitor? What can I do to uh to make it nicer. And by the way, that would also apply to members. Say, uh Jennifer's walking in, she's got babies and all kinds of stuff. Don't say, I'm not helping her, she's not a visitor. Don't do that I like this one, number four, and I would like to do this one if I could. Invite them to sit with you. A visitor comes in, they're kind of standing there, they don't really know anybody. Hey, uh good to see you here, glad you're here. I'm Pastor Lee, I'm Dennis Leatherman, and uh uh got anybody to sit with? Well, um this is my first time here. Why don't you sit with me? It'd be great And uh I'd love to have you. Let me introduce you. That leads me to another one. Um I'm getting out of order here, but invite them to sit with you. Now, if you invite them to sit with you, let me suggest two things If a person comes through, they'd never been in church before, whatever is there, and you say, I'd like me to sit with you, and they say, okay, thanks. Where should you sit? Down front. Don't bring a lost person in and keep them as far away from the preaching as possible. You got somebody that's willing to seal you, bring them down close somewhere. I mean maybe not the very front row, but uh Get them down in the front half here. And another thing, get them down towards the front and try and have them sit on the ends, on the end aisles. Let them sit there. Why do we want to do that? Get away quicker. No. We want when I'm done preaching and I invite them to trust Christ, I want them to be able to ha get out and get to that altar as easily as possible with as few hindrances as possible Hey, you know I'm past I'm Denzel Leatherman. Glad you're here. You got anybody to sit with? No, I don't. Why don't you sit with me? Okay. Zing! I'm coming down front. And I'll scoot in here. You can sit right there. Okay And just set them up that way. Number five, I've got to quickly go on here. Offer up your seat if seating is limited. If this place is filled, this place is all filled up, and we got some visitors come in, some people who have never been here before, don't make them Sit on chairs or stand in the back or whatever. If you see that happening, don't hesitate, jump up and say, hey, come here You guys can sit here. I'd rather have the deacons sitting on folding chairs in the back than visitors sitting on the folding chairs. You follow what I'm saying? You do that in your house You bring guests over, you don't sit there and make them stand. You say, oh no, no, you're a guest in my house. Well, they're guests in God's house And let's offer them. Offer them to sit down and sit in your seat if seating is limited. This is a little repetitious, but offer to help them. When they're here. Hey, when they come in between Sunday school and church, hey, there's fellowship hall back there. We got coffee and donuts and grapes and whatnot. The children are downstairs. Here's the restroom. The nursery's there. Service is in here at 15. You got a bulletin? Just look for something that we can help them with to make them feel comfortable. Let them know what's going on, what's happening. Number seven, I've got to go quicker. Number seven, offer to take them out to lunch What a great thing. I get a preacher friend of mine that kind of introduced this to me and we've been trying this, especially if they're a returning visitor You know, it might not it might be tough first time they show up. Say we'll take you out to lunch. Well thanks, but we already got plans. But they come back again. Say, hey, we're glad to see you back. I'd like to get to know you a little bit. Would you would you be willing to take you down to Denny's or whatever, and offer to take them out to lunch, especially returning visitors. Kathy and I have been trying to do that. Number eight, introduce them to other church members They come in. Introduce yourself. Say this here's uh uh Derek, this is Ken, here's Cindy and Tom, and uh maybe hold off on Tom a little later, but um at some point now I'm teasing Introduce them around people. Find uh let me find the pastor. He'll want to know you're here. And uh find the pastor. Introduce him. There's one of our deacons. Uh Ed. And uh Lord Number nine, I gotta hurry up. Are y'all hanging in here with me? I hope this is helpful. Number nine, I put this down. Pay close attention to the preaching. I found that people will listen to the speaker better if the people around them are listening to the speaker. If the people around them are texting and laughing and talking and drawling and doing everything else in the world. That's going to be hard for that visitor to listen. We used to do that. Did you ever go see somebody you're driving by and they're looking up in the sky? What do you do? What in the world are you looking at? We used to do this out in Colorado in the Rocky Mountain National Forest. There's elk and different thing and mountain goats And every time a car was stopped along the road, everybody else would stop because they were wanting to see what they were looking at. So Kathy and I, we just stopped for no reason. We just stand there and look at stuff And I mean to tell you, this is the truth. We'd have four, five, ten cars all around us. They're all looking around. What do you see? Oh nothing. We just stopped, took a break. What I tell you what, if visitors come in and everybody's paying attention to what's being preached, even if it's boring, they're paying attention to what's being preached, they're going to pay attention. They're going to listen too, and maybe that's what it would take for God to give that. Keep distractions to a minimum. Keep movement to a minimum. I should say this Sunday morning. Use the restroom before the service begins Or wait till over afterward. If it's an emergency, do it. Go out. But number 10, be sensitive and responsive at the invitation. If the word of God's preached and he imitates the give that lost person, they raise their hand maybe that I need to be saved. And uh and I say, all right, y'all come on down. Let's pray. This is old-fashioned, let's pray, let's get a hold of God. And they're standing there, and in their mind, they're thinking, I need to go down there And they look around and they're the only one going down there. Guess what they're not going to do? Very unlikely. They're going to step out by themselves, walk down in front of it. But I tell you what, if there's a lot of people going down there, I found. That folks who respond for salvation are more prone to respond to imitation if there's other people responding to imitation than if they're the only ones. Uh a preacher down in um I don't know him real well, we're acquaintances, we know each other, but down in Texas and his church he s he was telling us His church, whenever they give the invitation, I'm not saying we should do this, I just use this for illustration. His church, whenever he gives the invitation, everybody comes forward. The whole place. They all go to the altar and pray. And he said it's like visitors are there I should be at the altar. And they say they just come forward because they think that's what you're supposed to do. I'm not saying that's what we should do, but I am saying this. If we're tenderhearted in response, you say, well, what if I what should I go to the altar for? Well, if nothing else, pray they get saved. Go to the altar, pray that person gets saved. Um, and I end with this, and this is of all I said, this is paramount. Three words: pray, pray, pray That visitor gets in here. I tell you what, I feel like I preach a whole lot better when I know there's lost people out here. I can preach the gospel a whole lot better when I know there's lost people out there. I got something to shoot at. You know what I'm saying? And when God's people pray and you say, I know there's a lost spirit, you pray that person gets saved. Pray the preacher be filled with the Holy Spirit. Pray that God will guide my words. Pray that invitation that they will respond and believe. Pray, pray, pray. Listen, all the kindness in the world, the friendliness, friendliest church in the world cannot bring conviction of sin. Only the Holy Spirit can do that. And we do all this friendliness and we do all these things and we don't do these other things, but all that is vain if we don't pray. And the power of God isn't here, and the presence of God isn't here to convict. We have got to pray. If we don't do anything else, we've got to pray. Now don't be mean and pray. Let's be nice and pray. Let's do things right and pray, pray, pray. God get saved. God save that person. God let them come to Christ. It kills me. It kills me. When I know there's lost people here, I preach my heart out and I try and get them to trust Christ and they go out the back door and they never trusted Christ. I know they're leaving lost. I hate that And if you'll watch carefully, when I'm at the door, if I know, if they raise their hands from them, I'll buttonhole them at the door before they leave and say, listen, can we show you from the Bible? I saw you raise your hand Do you know for sure? Can we show you? And I'll try and get them there, because I don't want anybody to leave here lost. And we got we must have the power of God. We must have the power of God. And that requires us praying earnestly, right from the get-go. I hope these are helpful. And I've got a whole list of other areas. I want to just give some real practical things. And over the coming months, I want to take the first Wednesday of each month And try and touch these. And then we'll get back to our regular thing. So let's pray together. This is the invitation. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. This is the invitation. Let's each of us ask the Lord. To help us as individuals to give of ourselves to interact and have relationships with unsaved people that we can bring them to Christ and have a relationship with Christ Maybe some of these items I gave, we may need to tweak the little things in our Sunday morning behavior. And we can step out and say, you know, I can do that. That's something I could do. And then let's ask God to give us a real burden. In this matter of reaching people for Christ. Father in heaven, I pray you bless and help us. How many would say, preacher, this helped me tonight? And I want God to use me In the church service here, to be a part of others coming to Christ. How about it? Sure, that's how we all would feel, surely Now Father, bless us and help us. Teach us to pray. Teach us to die to self. Give of ourselves that you can use us. Let's stand together, heads about, eyes closed.