It's not particularly a patriotic message this morning so much, but I think there's application while you're finding your by uh your place in your Bibles there uh I was reading about a uh young soldier. You know, the soldiers don't make a lot of money. They l they uh just barely get by. His wife was um uh was uh known and had a reputation or had a a characteristic of spending a lot of money on clothes and those types of things and there's a lot of fussing going on. They're living on this uh soldier's salary and she would spend a lot of money says, listen, sweetheart, you've got to be careful. Lo and behold, one day she comes home with a new dress And he looked at it, he said, that's a beautiful dress, sweetheart. How much did you pay for it? She goes, I got it for seven hundred and fifty dollars. And he says, Good night. That's two weeks' pay. What in the world? How we got And uh there's a Christian couple and uh finally says, Listen, sweetheart, uh why in the world would you do that? And she goes, The devil just tempted me and tempted me and I ended up giving into the temptation He says, when the devil tempts you like that, just say, get thee behind me, Satan. She goes, I did. She goes, I looked, stood in the mirror, and put it on. And the devil said, boy, that dress looks fabulous. And I said, get thee behind me, Satan. And he says, looks fabulous from back here, too. And um so temptation. Is a tough thing. Notice verse number 13 of 1 Corinthians chapter 10. I know many of you no doubt have this verse memorized. It's a good good verse to memorize. I believe it would be very helpful. Notice what it says. There is no temptation taken you, but such as is common to man But God is faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above that ye are able, but will with the temptation also make a way to escape that ye may be able to bear it. I just want to speak on this thought this morning. Temptation is common to all men. Let's pray and ask the Lord to help us and teach us. Father, we do come to you this morning with very grateful hearts. Lord, it is a great blessing and joy and privilege to live in the United States of America. And we recognize that all our blessings and every good gift and every perfect gift cometh from you. And is sent down by your grace and mercy. But Lord, we understand the role that men and women have played in defending our country and keeping us safe. And we appreciate that greatly Now, as we look into your word and we look at the spiritual conflict we all face, I pray that you would give us victory, that there would be peace and spiritual prosperity in our hearts and lives. And that we can know your blessing and that your will be accomplished in each and individual life. I yield myself to you now. I present my body anew and I ask with all my heart That you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, that you would speak through me to each of our hearts and minds. That we could leave here helped, that we could leave here a little stronger, a little clearer in our understanding of what is necessary to live a Christian life. Bless I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. I believe it was Abraham Lincoln who said something to the effect That America will never be overthrown by a foreign country. Because of our location in the world and because of our unique ability to defend ourselves is very unlikely, if not uh it won't happen that another nation will overthrow and take away our liberties from without. But he says the real danger, and others have said this along these lines, the real danger to our liberties and our freedoms is not from a foreign land, but from within. As we see our freedoms and our liberties taken away from our own authorities. And our own liberties. Our liberties taken from our own country, from within. A deterioration of God's blessings and uh from within So we need our men and women on the front lines. We're very appreciative of that. But we also need something here at home. And what we need here at home are good, strong, godly Christians. Who pray for our country earnestly, who humble ourselves before God, who search our ways and seek the Lord and repent of our sin, so that God can continue to bless and protect and use our land for his glory. And so that's an ongoing battle. We rejoice in the victories of World War II and victories of past battles we celebrate and men this morning testified of the conflicts they were a part of and uh played a role in and we're appreciative of that but it's ongoing. We have men and women out on the field now as we speak in harm's way uh defending our freedoms and our interests around the world. And just as that is an ongoing thing, you and I as Christians have an ongoing struggle within our own hearts. And that is the struggle with sin. The struggle with sin. How many folks here you're saved and you know it? Say amen. Amen. Isn't that a good thing to be able to say? I know God has saved me. I know God has forgiven my sins. I know when I die, I have a home in heaven. God has given me eternal life. That's a settled matter. What a joy to be able to say that. Now, once we are saved, and I think most of us understand this, once we've accepted Christ as Savior, our salvation is settled, we're secure, but that does not mean we do not have to deal with sin. That does not mean that we do not face temptations on a regular basis. Would you look with me, please, at verse number 12 in our passage of Scripture? First Corinthians chapter 10 and verse 12. Notice what it says here. Wherefore let him that thinketh he standeth Take heed lest he what fall. And then it goes into our passage. There's no temptation taking you, but such is common to man. What is God telling us here? God is telling us here that we must understand the fact that we are vulnerable to temptation. We must not get to the point where we think, oh, I've arrived I'm saved now. There's no longer temptation is not an issue. Sin is not an issue. I am standing. Because the moment I get that mentality The moment I develop that mentality, I am vulnerable for a tragic fall. Years ago, I had a woman tell me, she says, I have never been tempted to sin since I've been saved. And uh uh and I said, you're absolutely wrong. You either are not being honest, or number two, you don't know what temptation is And she is setting herself up for a tragic fall. A tragic fall. The wrong information or the wrong understanding about my vulnerabilities as a Christian Will lead me to falling. Now, when he says here, wherefore to him, let him that think it he standeth, take heed lest he fall, the word fall there, he's not talking about losing our salvation I want to point out right at the get-go here, a Christian can never ever lose their salvation. That is absolutely clear in Scripture. That is a settled fact. And uh it's in my mind very pretty easy, pretty obvious to to do uh to document from Scripture So when he says let him take heed lest he fall, he's not talking about them losing their salvation, but he is talking about this. That a Christian no longer growing in their faith, a Christian losing their spiritual influence for the gospel, a Christian not walking with the Lord as they ought to, but Getting out of fellowship with God. Being saved does not mean I no longer have to deal with sin and temptation. I do have to deal with that. That is a fact of the Christian life. Sin and temptation, sometimes for people, some people are a bigger issue than others Sometimes it's a greater struggle in certain areas than it is for other people. But what I want to talk to you about this morning is this. As a Christian, understanding what temptation is. How it goes about developing itself and how I respond to it. Number one, here's my outline. Let me get into the outline right away. Here's my first thought. Number one, and I encourage you to jot this down. Temptation is a reality. Temptation is a reality. Salvation does not eliminate temptation. Matthew chapter six and verse thirteen and in Luke chapter eleven verse four, the Lord in his model prayer uh encouraged his his disciples, To follow this pattern. And this is what he said. He said, Look, our Heavenly Father, our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. And he says, This lead us not into temptation. The Lord recognized that for his people, temptation was a reality. That temptation was something they're going to face. And he was asking his disciples to pray in such a way that they would look to God to not lead them into situations where temptation would get the victory. Temptation is a reality of life. Now get this. Temptation is not sin in and of itself Me being tempted to do commit, me being tempted to commit a sin is not sin in and of itself. The temptation itself. Keep your place here if you would, and there's a very important passage of scripture that we really need to understand, and that is in James chapter 1. So keep your place here. We're going to come back to verse 13, but I'd like you to turn over to James chapter 1, and there's a passage of scripture here. That uh will help us understand what temptation is, the reality of it, and what it is not. To be tempted to commit a sin is not sin, the temptation itself. Now, it's important to understand that. Look at James chapter 1. I'm going to begin reading in verse 13. Everybody find it there. James 1, verse 13. Notice what the Bible says. Let no man say when he is tempted. Now it's important to notice the terminology God uses here. Notice what he does not say. He does not say, uh, let no man say if he is tempted. Do you catch that? He says, let no man say, what's the word? When he is tempted. Now what does that tell us? God doesn't use the word if, it's a possibility. He uses the word when, it means it's a what. It's inevitability. If means it's a possibility. When means it's inevitable. Follow what I'm saying? So it's going to happen. It is a reality. Temptation is. Now look, let's read on. Let no man say when he is tempted, I'm tempted of God. For God cannot be tempted with evil. Now look at this: neither tempteth he any man. So as we go through this message, keep in mind, God is never, ever the author of temptation. We cannot blame God if I am tempted to do something wrong. Now, that temptation of itself, we'll notice, is not sin. But the source of that temptation is not God. Read on. Let me read it again. Let no man say when he is tempted, I'm tempted of God. Why not? For God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempted he ever man. Ah, here's the source. But every man is tempted when he is drawn away, read those next few words with me, of his own lust and is enticed. That verse tells us what the source of temptation is. It is what? Our own lust. When we are drawn away from our own lusts We cannot blame God for our temptation, but rather, temptation finds its root, is born And our own sinful nature, our own lusts, our own sinful hearts. How many people here have found to be true in your life, young and old, how many people here have found to be true in your life that there is a part of you that is desires something that you know, desires things that you know God does not want you to have or partake of. How many people ever found that to be true? Sure, half of you are honest. And uh but we found that to be true. There's a part of me that wants to sometimes say something that I know God doesn't want me to say, would not be pleased with the Lord. Uh think something, go to someone, whatever And that temptation, that desire for things that are not right, that are not good. Comes from my own heart. It is not from my circumstances. We'll look at that here in a minute. It's not from my surroundings. It's not my wife's fault. It's not my husband's fault. It's not my parents' fault. It's not my kids' fault Comes from my own sinful heart And so temptation, what we're trying to point out here is temptation in and of itself is not sin. Now we need to understand where temptation comes from. Temptation, let's read on here. Verse 14, but every man is tempted. This is when temptation begins, this is when it happens, when he is drawn away of his own lust and enticed. Now, what does the word enticed mean? It has the idea of being lured Of being dated. I'm trying something this year I haven't done for probably 35 years. I am trying to go trapping and catch raccoons and foxes with a trap. Isn't that exciting? Oh, this is thrilling. Lonnie lent me some traps to use. There's something wrong with them. They don't catch anything. And uh there's something wrong with those traps. And uh I've I've been I had it one day so far. My dad's been helping me a little bit. He's more praying for me to God have mercy on me. But um uh I I put these little traps out there to try and catch these critters One important part of catching the critter is baiting. Put some bait out to attract, to lure, to entice that critter over to where the trap is so I can catch it. Same thing in fishing. Some people cheat and use live bait. I think that's low-down cheating. I like to use lures. And you use that lure, and people at fish know what I'm talking about, I use that lure, and boy, it just looks like a wounded minnow coming across there, and you twitch it a little bit, and boy, that old big old bass is enticed It sees that. The desire, the desire in the nature of that bass to eat that thing is attracted, is is enticed. And he is tempted to go after it. That's what he's saying here. Every man is tempted when he is drawn away from his own lust, the desire that's there, naturally there from our sinful nature. And something comes along that entices that latent desire, that desire that's there, entices it, draws it out. Read on. But when the lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth what? Sin. And sin, when it is finished, bringeth forth death. Let me just throw this in here. Nothing good ever comes out of sinning. Never. You and I, something, we know it's sin. We know it's wrong. God has clearly made His will known. And uh and nevertheless, we sin. Nothing good ever, ever comes out of that. Mark it down. So we have a sinful nature. We have a sinful heart And when something comes along that appeals to that sinful nature, those sinful desires, it comes along, then temptation arises. I am tempted to partake. I am tempted to engage that sin. Now, here's my point: the temptation itself is not sinful. It is when that temptation is conceived, when the sinful desire. Are you following me? When the sinful desire receives the sinful object. Then it becomes sin. When the desire, the sinful desire, gives in to the temptation, takes part of the sinful activity or whatever is object, then it becomes sin. But the temptation itself is not sin. Let me illustrate. I've been on an object lesson binge lately. Whiskey. It's not really whiskey, it's water. I just wrote whiskey on it. The choir came up here said, good heavens, the preacher has whiskey in the pulpit. And so uh here's whiskey. Uh we'll put the whiskey over here. Alright, here I am. I'm I I'm a Christian. Maybe I'm a new Christian. I just got saved. And I'm living for God, and God's doing exciting things in my heart and life. I'm seeing changes and I'm seeing things, changes take place in my life, and there's joy there, and there's peace, there's confidence. I'm going to heaven someday. And uh praise the Lord, God saved me. And maybe in my past I indulged in drinking whiskey. And so my sinful nature really likes that whiskey. It's wrong, it's destructive, it doesn't do any good, but my sinful nature really likes it. And so there is a desire, even after I'm saved, the desire for that sin when you agree with me, drinking whiskey is sin. You agree that was pretty weak. Let's try that again. We do agree drinking whiskey sin, right? You make me feel a little better. And so anyway The desire to enjoy, get, drink that, and the buzz I get out of it is latent down inside my sinful nature. It's there. For some people that desire is stronger than others. Other people say I I don't know have an interest at all. But some it's a very real real desire there I walk around, I live my life, and a desire is down there, but it never has an opportunity to be fulfilled. Thus, it is never tempted. Because the opportunity is not there. I don't let's imagine, you have to really use your imagination. Let's imagine we live in a let's imagine Garrett County is a dry county. And no liquor is allowed within the boundaries, the limitations of Gare County. None whatsoever And so, wouldn't that be great? And so the opportunity to fulfill that desire is doesn't exist. And so there's no real temptation to drink whiskey. If I don't even have the opportunity to do it, the temptation's not there. Are you with me? I know this is overwhelmingly obvious, but it's important. The opportunity to engage in that sinful, to engage that sinful desire doesn't exist, so there's no temptation. So I decide I ran a cabin out at Deep Creek Lake And uh I'm gonna take a little vacation. And um I'm at Deep Creek Lake and I'm checking out the cabin I rented, and lo and behold, I open one of the cabinets, and there's a bottle of whiskey sitting there. Now the opportunity to fulfill the desire is realistic. And what immediately develops. Are you with me? The desire's been there latent the whole time, but there's no opportunity to fulfill desire, thus there's no temptation. Now I'm in a circumstance situation where the opportunity to fulfill it is there. And what develops? Temptation. That is where temptation comes from. If there's no opportunity to fulfill the simple desire, temptation doesn't exist. But as soon as the opportunity to fulfill the ventilation desire presents itself, suddenly temptation is there. Now, with that in mind, let's read James again. That no man say when he's tempted, I am tempted of God. For God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth any man. But every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust. That sinful nature there to be a drunkard, it comes from my own sinful heart. And now there's whiskey there now that is drawing that temptation. Every man is drawing that temptation lust and enticed. Then when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin. Now let's go back to my cabin. I saw that there. I'm I'm in the cabin exploring. My life is over getting unpacking. I open up. Go about, unpack, get the boat, put the boat in, hit my lures, and down inside my sinful heart it's whiskey. Whiskey's over there. Shut up. And so this battle begins. My wife says, Good grief, I've got to go to Walmart She says that every day. Um here's a true story. Kathy's not in here. Here's a true story We went to Puerto Rico the other year. We weren't in Puerto Rico forty-five minutes. Guess where I found myself? Walmart! So anyway, she goes, Oh, good heavens, I forgot something. I gotta go to Walmart. Okay, you go ahead, I'll put things together. And she leaves. Lust is now enticed. Look, look at the verse. But when lust hath uh verse 14, but every man is tempted when he has drawn away of his own lust and enticed, suddenly That is very enticing. Question Am I sinning? By simply having the desire to engage that. No, not according to this verse The desire to it, that enticement in and of itself is not sin. That temptation to go and take a swig of that is not sin. That enticement Now here's where I've got to make a decision. Do I give in to that enticement? Do I give in to that temptation, go over, and drink the whiskey? Or do I resist it? Do I deal with it? And depending on how I respond to the enticement, Depends whether it ends up being sin or not. Alright, here she leaves. As soon as she goes out. Now to be honest with you, for me personally, whiskey is not a genuine temptation, realistically. I really don't have any desire for it. But in this scenario, I'm presenting it is. Oh, I'm gonna go fishing. Whole time. Boy, I hope I catch a big whiskey. I mean uh uh muskie. And uh uh I gotta go clean out the whiskey shed. I mean the wood shed. And man, that thing's just eating at me, enticing me, enticing me, enticing me, enticing me. Why is it an enticement? Because it is a possibility. If there wasn't any whiskey there, it wouldn't be an issue. There's no way I could get it. There would be no temptation. But because it is possible to get it, thus the temptation is produced. Now let's say finally I give in and I go over and I say, no way. And I pour it down the drain. I'm not doing that. I'm not going to displease my God who died for me. I'm not going to give in and destroy potentially destroy my marriage and my life. God has saved me from that, delivered me from that, and I pour it down the drain and I walk away and I eliminate the temptation. Did I sin anywhere in that scenario? No. The temptation, this is my whole point of this: the temptation in and of itself is not sin. It's how I respond to the temptation that determines whether it's sin or not. And so temptation is a reality. Two reasons temptation is a reality. One, we have sinful desires. They're there, whether you want to admit it or not, they're there. Jesus said, out of the heart of man perceive adulteries and murders and drunkenness and lasciviousness, and he goes down the whole list. It's in our hearts, folks. It's there And the other thing that makes temptation a possibility, a reality, is the opportunity to fulfill those desires. And by the way, you've heard people say, and I may have said it, I don't mean to say it, because I don't think it's correct, but sometimes we make statement, boy, there's so much more sin today than there's ever been before. More and more sin. Sin is worse. No, we'll say it this way: the sin is worse today than it's ever been before. I want to submit to you, there's no sin today that hasn't been in existence for thousands of years Those ancient Romans were as perverse and wicked and debauched as you can imagine. I'll tell you what's different today. It's not that there's worse sin today. But rather, it is much more available today. Thus, the temptations are far greater Are far more numerous. A person in this day and age, the average person in this room this morning can go home this afternoon and view things on your TV and your computer that the worst pervert in New York City 100 years ago could have never found. You follow what I'm saying? In the worst back alley of the worst scummiest part of New York City 150 years ago, he could not find photos or depictions of the of the vileness. That the average person here could go home this evening this afternoon and within an hour after church engage in that. You follow what I'm saying? That sin's always been there, but it has never been available. The opportunity to engage it has never been so abundant as it is today. And thus temptation is a huge, huge issue in our world. Somebody was, I think it was Ed and Carolyn were down at uh Ocean City. Ocean City is a dry count dry town, is that correct? Ocean City, New Jersey. Ocean City, New Jersey, a dry city. So he wanna that's why he went down to the other one. No, I'm kidding. Um uh Ocean City, New Jersey, you drive I remember I haven't been there for years, but I remember you drive up, there's a big sign before you cross the bridge to go out to it saying no liquor, no it and all that. That's for the most part, you know there's a day in the United States of America that was the case for the whole country. And I want to submit to you. Now people may disagree with me and you know it's a free country. You can be wrong if you want. But um I'll be very honest with you. If liquor is illegal and it can't, and it's not on every shelf, it's not on Walmart shelves, it's not on convenience store shelves, and it's not on uh gas stations that make themselves look like gas stations but are really liquor store shelves. The temptation for people to drink that stuff would not be as prevalent as if there wasn't any around Am I making any sense? And so temptation is a reality And as we get in the last days, and as the world progresses more and more and more into sin, the opportunities to sin increase, thus the temptations increase. And we need to deal with it. Temptation followed leads to sin. I'll tell you what, I'll tell you what. Is anybody here? I I don't know. The older I get, the more I'm ready to go to heaven. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I mean I don't I like the idea I don't want to die. But boy Just the idea of being in God's presence and being in heaven is appealing to me more and more and more all the time. I got to the point now where I'm praying, Lord, I'm ready. You ready to take me? I'm ready to go. And you know one of the things about heaven that appeals to me so much is to get this old sinful nature out. And not have to deal with the sinful nature and this old sinful world that just entices the sinful desires of my heart so much And to get in an environment for the rest of eternity, one, there's no sinful desire, two, there's no sinful opportunities, but to live in pure godliness and holiness What is that like? I look forward to finding out. So one temptation is reality. Listen, you're saved, you say, well, I'm safe. Be tempted anymore. Wrong. Well, I've been a Christian long enough. I'm mature enough. Now I'm not tempted to sin anymore. You sin right there. You're lying. The Bible says you're going to be tempted. it. It's reality. If somebody ever tells you, hey, I like this, somebody ever comes up to you and say, I don't sin anymore, ask their spouse about that. See what the spouse says. One, temptation is reality. Number two, jot this down. Temptation is universal. Come back to 1 Corinthians 10:13. There's no temptation taking you, but such as is common to man. That phrase common to man means applies to everybody. Applies to everyone, young and old. This verse applies to all Christians around the world. Young Christians, old Christians, new Christians, mature Christians There's no temptation taking you, but such as has come to man. Look at the last part of chapter 9. Would you come back there? Everybody doing all right? Everybody with me? A little more teaching this morning, maybe, but notice verse chapter 9. Look at verse 27. This is Apostle Paul writing under the inspiration of God. Apostle Paul, would you agree with me? Strong Christian. Good grief. Yes. This guy is a man of God. But look what he says in verse 27. But I keep under my body And bring it into what? Subjection. Why? Lest by any means, when I preach to others, I myself should be a castaway. What's he saying He's saying I have got to keep my body, I've got to deal with the temptations my body faces. I've got to keep that thing in check. I have got to fight a continual daily battle with my own walk with God so that I don't give in to these temptations and find myself set aside and of no use to God. That's in the Leatherman version. Paul, the great man of God, who was used of God to record at least 13 books of the New Testament, says that he has to deal with temptation. That he has to keep his body in check because that body has sinful nature and sinful desires. And I've got to keep that thing in, or I'm not going to be of any use to God. I'm not going to be effective in my ministry. I'm going to be a castaway. I'm going to be set aside of no use to God. Now listen, if Paul had to deal with temptation, how much more do you and I need to deal with temptation? It's common to all men. The first ten chapters, first ten verses of First Corinthians chapter ten, leading up to our text. Is a record of Israel coming out of Egypt. They saw miracles that God did and experienced the power of God in ways no other generation ever experienced. You would think somebody coming out seeing the Red Sea, the ten plagues, God doing these amazing things You think they'd come out and say, I am totally Lord's, I'm never going to sin, I'm not giving in to anything, I'm just going to go. You'd look like they'd have victory. Read the first uh ten verses there. Guess what they kept doing Giving into temptation, giving into temptation, giving into temptation, giving into temptation. Even people that experienced the great blessings and power of God had to deal with temptation. Great men of God, used of God to start churches and record scripture, had to deal with temptation. Jesus Christ Had to deal with temptation. Now Jesus did not have a sinful nature. He's unique in that respect But read Matthew chapter 4, the first four verses very carefully. And the Bible says: when Jesus came out of the wilderness, that he was tempted of the devil. And the devil enticed the Lord to disobey God the Father. And the devil enticed Jesus, the humanity of Jesus, enticed him to worship the devil, to give glory to him. to cast himself down and presume upon God's protection. And the Bible says Jesus was tempted. What's the point? Temptation is common to all men. See these young people sitting here? Over here, the young teenagers right there? Every one of them has to deal with temptation. See these old people just sitting around somewhere. Um they have to deal with temptation. Same way the young people do. Are you listening, young people? Just the same way young people do. And all points in between It's common to all men. And if I don't understand that, if I don't understand what temptation is, if I don't understand how real it is in my life, I'm going to sit and duck. Here's the problem. In the last several years there have been some great preachers have messed up bad. Can I give you my own little I don't know, I don't know them firsthand, so everything I get is second and third hand, but can I tell you my little summary conclusion? I think it's possible for a Christian to get to the point that think I am so strong, and I am such a position that I'm really not vulnerable like other people are, and we let our guard down and boom. Messed up and out of the picture. And fail to realize it's common to all men. All men. Number one, temptation is reality. Number two, temptation is universal. Number three, temptation is restricted I like this part. Look, come back here to verse 13. There is no temptation taking you, but such is this common demand. I love these next few words. But God is what? Faithful. God knows that. God looks down at Dennis Letterman and he says, that poor guy has such a sinful heart. He's trusted me. He's put his faith in me. I've saved him from sin in hell. He's trying to live for me for the most part. He's trying to live for God, trying to do what God says. But man, he's got such a sinful heart. And you know, I'm just gonna put a hedge about him. He's still gonna have to deal with that temptation. There's no way he can be in this world. and not have opportunity to some degree to fulfill the desires of his heart. So temptation is reality. But I know him, I know him better than he knows himself, and I'm going to restrict what temptations Opportunities are going to be true in his life. Look what it says: God is faithful who will not suffer you to be tempted above that ye are able. God looks down at you, God looks down at me, He knows our vulnerabilities, He knows our unique idiosyncrasies. He knows what areas of the sinful heart are more vulnerable than others, and he says, I'm going to put a restriction there, I'm going to put a limitations on that, and I'm just not if he can't resist that temptation, I'm not going to let him be tempted in that area. He will not suffer us to be tempted above that we are able. So my temptations are restricted. There is no temptation you and I are ever going to face that we cannot have victory over. Because if I could not have victory over it, God would not allow me to face it. Let's come back to our fellow with his whiskey. God knows that guy. He's a new Christian. God knows him better than he knows himself. God knows if there is a whiskey bottle in that cabin. that he would not be able to say no to it. There is no way his makeup, his character, his his uh his uh uh what he is He would not be able to say no to that whiskey bottle. You know what God would make sure wasn't in that cabin? God would make sure there was no whiskey bottle there. So what does that tell me? The very fact that there's a whiskey bottle there is proof that I can say no to it. Because if I couldn't, it wouldn't be there. People say to me, Oh, I just can't quit smoking. I I think smoking's sin. Thank you. I think the body is a temple of God to fame it in that way. So, oh I just can't quit. I just they're stronger than what I can handle. I can't quit smoking. The very fact that you're tempted to quit smoke tells me that you can quit it. Because if you couldn't, God wouldn't let you be tempted to do that. Follow what I'm saying? So you walk in and there's a bunch of cigarettes there, and um you say, Oh, I'm tempted to you need to stop and say, wait a minute, the very fact I'm being tempted is proof that I'm able to say no Because if I couldn't, then God wouldn't give me that opportunity. God wouldn't put that opportunity there. And so the very fact that I'm being tempted is proof positive. that I can say no to it. I don't have to give in to it because uh there's a lot of things out there. Apparently there's a lot of things out there that God knows if I was given the opportunity to engage him, I wouldn't have the ability to resist it, so he doesn't give me that opportunity. Young persons in school, they're taking a test, they don't know the answer. The person beside them is sloppy and they leave their paper open, and the temptation is to cheat, and the opportunity to cheat is there And you say, well, I don't know it. I've got to pass this test. I can't help it. No, the very fact that there's an opportunity to cheat is proof that you can help it. Because if you couldn't, God wouldn't put it there. And so look at the temptation as evidence, as a seal mark from God. Hey, I can say no to this. I can say no to this. I can have victory over this because I wouldn't have the opportunity if I couldn't. So temptation is restricted. We have greater, hey, I like this statement. You and I have greater capabilities of overcoming sin than we realize we do. You and I have greater capabilities to say no to temptation than what we think we do. We think, oh, I can't help it, I have to give into it. God says no. The very fact that the temptation is there is proof that you can overcome it Temptation is restricted. Number four, last of all, temptation has a retreat. Finally it says whiskey. No. Look at the rest of the verse. God is faithful, not suffering you to be tempted above your able, but will with the temptation also make a way to what? Escape that you may be able to bear it. Finally, it comes down to that point. I can't help it, I can't help it. Suddenly the Lord says, Oh, wait a minute, you can. You can go out this store. You can call up and tell them, I want another cabin. I'm not going to stay here. You can go over and open it and pour it down the drain. There are tons of avenues. The word escape is also used other places that have the idea of a back door. They're kicking in the front. Temptations and sin is kicking in the front door. God says you got a back door you can get out of. You don't have to stay there and engage this thing. You can retreat. You can get out of that situation. You can get out of that. I believe it was C. I. Schofield was saved. He was a lawyer. He was saved later in life. He wrote uh he did the notes in the Schofield Study Bible, many of you many of us use. He founded the school that I attended for one year, Philadelphia School of the Bible, C. I. Schofield. Great man of God, great theologian, great Bible writer, uh writer of scripture of um commentaries and stuff. Story is told that he, before he got saved, was a heavy drinker. And after he got saved, and I think he was out in Kansas City, I want to say, and don't don't I can't document this off the top of my head, but I believe it was Kansas City and he had a law office out there, he had gotten saved, doing some writing and speaking And he would walk from his house to his law office, and en route between the two was a bar. In the mornings he would go worry, of course the bar wasn't open, so it wasn't an issue. There was no opportunity to go in there. But of the evenings When he was finished his day's work and he would make his way home, he would have to walk by that bar and the music in there and the drinking and the guys coming in and out. And he said when he would go by there, the enticement to go in there and go back and engage in what he did before he was saved was so great. And it was at the point he felt like he could not say no anymore. He was unable to bear it. You know what he did? At night when he would finish up at his office, took his books, his Bible, and whatnot, he would go down, and when he got about a block or two from the bar, he walked two or three blocks over this way. And then he'd go down two or three blocks pla past where the bar was. Then he would come back and go on his way. You know what he had? He had a retreat. He had a way out of that temptation. He removed the enticement from his experience. And God says that He's not going to let you or I face anything that we can't deal with, and He's going to provide a way that we can get around it, that we can get out the back door, that we don't have to give in to it. Joseph, young man. Far country, nobody's there, no friends, no peer, no peers, no family. He could pretty much do doing what he wanted. He was head of Potiphar's house, handled all his household. Potiphar's wife, we have no reason to doubt, was an extremely attractive woman. Joseph's a young man. Dealing with young man desires, no doubt. Very real for him, as anyone else And here this attractive older woman comes and she basically throws on him herself on him and says, Here I am, I'm yours. Enticement, temptation. To give in and become sin, and we never read of Joseph All that never happened? Or is there a back door? Is there a way to escape? You know where the back door was? It was through a coat. He's there resisting, resisting, resisting. Finally, she grabs him. Imagine that. She grabs him and he pulls himself out of the coat and he follows God's retreat and he runs out of there That is exactly how we deal with temptation. I tell you the stupidest thing to do, and this is unscriptural. That bottle, let's say that whiskey represents whatever area you and I may be tempted in, whatever category of sin, whatever. Stupidest thing for us to do is leave it there and stay in that cabin. But sooner or later, I'm going to give in. So I need to, and God says, just the fact that it's there tells me I can have victory over it. That's scripture, solid scripture. The very fact it's there. I can have victory over it. I don't have to give in to it. But I need to escape it. I need to get out. So either I get another cabin or I pour it down the drain. Better yet, get my wife, have her pour it down the drain. And I deal with it. I eliminate the possibility of it happening. And just go down the road. If at work there's uh finances there, and there's a temptation, a sinful desire to steal from your job. And you see the opportunity to do it is there? That says one, you don't have to steal it. You can have there's you have more to your character than what you realize, or you you can have victory over it, or I wouldn't let you be in that situation. And two, there's a way out. Go to the boss. Hey, there's the thing: money, somebody could steal that. Deal with it. Do something. Change the circumstance where I don't have that opportunity to engage in. Whatever it may be. Television, cable TV is an issue, and you give in. It's very simple, so very simple back door for that. Cancel the cable TV. Here's our problem. Our desire to give in to the temptation sometimes is greater than our desire to do what's right. And thus we don't escape. I've prayed for years. God Make my desire to do right greater than my desire to do wrong Make my desire to please you greater to such a degree that it overwhelms my desire to please me. And there and I can have victory. My dad and I were down at the sword and we were getting a tour through John R. Rice's office, as I mentioned earlier in Sunday school, and um And I knew this was true about Dr. Ice, but he had a big shelf there, and I had been there before, I'd seen it. But he has this big shelf in his office. He has thousands of books in his office. He had a big shelf and it was full of Louis Lemour books Westerns? Great Donna Rice, theologian, dangelist, man of God, reading Louis Lemour. He had them all. Zane Gray, all these Westerns. My dad and I got talking about Louis Lamore my dad heads about all his books. And um that's why I'm such a great outdoorsman from the influence absolutely more. But um I gotta think about Louis Lemour. You read how many people have ever read Louis Lemour? I I like them. They're I haven't read them in years, but they're enjoyable. Inevitably The good guy, there's always good guys and bad guys. The good guy would get up in some canyon. The bad guys were coming. How many people know what I'm talking about? He'd be up out west, there'd be some canyon, he's backed up in there, and the land, the evil landowner that's taken over everything, the town They're coming up to get the the good guy and uh there's no way out and he's gonna be uh killed. They're gonna lynch him. Oh, it's terrible and you're reading that book. Oh no Oh no, don't go up that canyon, whatever you do. And uh he goes up the canyon and he's back up in there and inevitably How many people want to know what happens to the guy, come back next week and I'll tell you what happened. Inevitably he'd be up in that canyon. And he looked around, and lo and behold, there's a little game trail or something, and he's able to get out. And he gets away. That's what God does for you and I. So tempting. Wait a minute. There's a way out. Pray, seek God's face, trust Him. Lord will get you out of it Isn't that helpful? Father, bless us, Lord, I pray, and help us to understand what temptation is, how it comes about, and Lord, help us understand we need to get away from it. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, I I've had to I have to deal with my own sinful nature on a regular basis? How many people acknowledge that by the uplifting hand? Yes, it's there, I see it, I know it, it's real Now here's the thing, what are we doing about the opportunities that come up to fulfill that sinful nature, those temptations? Do we just give in? I have no doubt in my mind. I don't know anything personally firsthand. I'm just saying from experience I have no doubt in my mind, I'm talking to several people at the minimum, that as I'm preaching this, God is bringing something to your mind, some area that you're dealing with maybe is defeating you. And this morning God is telling you there's a way out. You don't