What this verse is saying is saying that you and I, that we can have peace of mind. Uh and not just a peace of mind that you come up through psychological therapy and psychological uh exercises and whatnot and and all that, but a peace of mind that is supernatural. Look what it says there. The peace of God which passeth all understanding Something that can't be explained, it can't be understood. It's something that God does for us. And so I want to speak this morning for a little bit on peace of mind. And let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father in heaven, I'm grateful for the book of Philippians, and this passage of Scripture has blessed me so many times over the years, dear Lord, and not myself, but many, many others. We're grateful for all the Bible, but it seems like you give us some portions, Lord, that just stand out and just apply to us in wonderful ways. And so as we examine these verses here, I ask that your Holy Spirit would open our hearts and minds and we would understand clearly what you're saying to us as individuals. And that we would be able to apply to our lives these principles here. I present my body to you, Lord, is uh to take and fill and use and speak through me. That this morning we would hear from heaven, and it would be your word speak into our hearts. Help us to be submissive, Lord, and humble ourselves before you, that your will can be done in our lives And Lord, we do pray for your peace to be in our hearts and minds. We pray your peace to be in our homes, our church, our nation And we look to you for this, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. Charles Spurgeon is one of my favorite preachers. I love to read his sermons, and I've read his his biography, his aut his biography a number of times, various ones. He made this statement about peace. It's just a simple statement, but he said the word peace is a heavenly word. And he pointed out that when the Lord was uh at the Lord's incarnation, when the Lord was born, the Lord Jesus was born there in Bethlehem, and the angels appeared to the shepherds on the hillside, their message was, as they cried out, was What? Peace on earth and goodwill to men. Peace is a heavenly word. And though those angels on that first Christmas morning uh cried out, peace on earth. Uh, as the song says, there is no peace on earth as far as peace between nations is concerned. And the fact of the matter is, there will not be peace on earth. until the Lord comes back and establishes his kingdom after the tribulation period. And so we understand that my microphone is falling apart That's the thing I like about teens. Everything you say is great, isn't it? We had a blast yesterday. We had a lot of fun. What was I talking about? Peace on earth. There will not be peace on earth until the Lord comes back. We understand that. After the tribulation period, he establishes his kingdom for a thousand years. They're going to take their swords And they're going to beat them into what? Plow shears. And uh the there'll be peace among nations. There'll be peace among people But that's not going to happen until the Lord comes back. That's at least seven years off. We understand that, uh, if the Lord rapture would take place today. Um And so, and the Lord Himself said that you'll hear wars and rumors of wars, and that's going to characterize this age that you and I live in. But nevertheless In spite of the fact that there's wars between nations, and there's various reasons for that, why does one nation go to war against another? Why does one nation's citizen shoot and kill another nation's citizens? There's various reasons for that. And uh we could talk about that, power grabs, resources, disagreements over uh treaties and whatnot. Threats, perceived threats. But in spite of the fact that there is no peace on earth, the Bible clearly tells us, and experience tells us. That we have can we can have peace in our hearts. We can have peace of mind in spite of what's going on around us. I read a recent study, it was a couple weeks ago. I was reading I'm reading a book, and he referenced in that book a study, and he said, and this study said that more Americans suffer from anxiety. How many people understand what we mean by anxiety? You know what we're talking about? Well, I'm going to use the term anxiety. I'm going to use the term stress. By that, I'm referring to a lack of peace of mind. Alright, you understand? So when I refer to anxiety or stress, we're talking about someone who does not have peace of mind. They're troubled in their heart and mind. They're disturbed. There's unrest. And their heart and mind. So this study said that more Americans suffer from anxiety than any other nation on earth. Now, I thought that was a fascinating study, and it was pretty legit, pretty documented. United States of America. Now think about that. Of all the nations of the world. Now don't misunderstand, I love America. I love United States of America. I'm proud to be an American. I don't appreciate the direction the leadership of our country is taking us, but I love United States of America. And more people that make up the country of America suffer from anxiety than any other nation in the world, a higher percentage of our citizens. Now think about that. America, would you agree with me? America is a peaceful nation. Right? How many people on your way to church this morning you were anxious about bombs being dropped on your road or your house while you're on your way here. Anybody anxious about that? No. That's not even that doesn't even enter our mind that that might happen. I'd venture to say none of us passed armed w uh armed uh soldiers at street corners or had to go through checkpoints with armed uh soldiers. And uh real concerned that we might not have paperwork in line or anything like that. None of us uh were concerned about that. None of us got up this morning and thought, boy, I wonder if another nation's going to invade our country America is a peaceful nation. We don't deal with the fears of warfare and violence that a lot of other nations deal with. And we're grateful for that. So why, if we uh if we're a peaceful nation as far as conflict from other nations taking place on our soil, why is such a high percentage of Americans Suffering from anxiety. We don't have that concern as many other nations do. America is a peaceful nation. America is a prosperous nation. That's undeniable. We are the richest nation in the history of the world. We have more resources, more goods. Our people live, American citizens live at a higher standard of living than any other people in the history of the world have lived Now you and I have experienced that our whole lives, our parents experienced that. We can't comprehend what that really means because we're just so immersed in it, we don't know anything different. So if we have so many resources, if we're so prosperous, why is our level of anxiety So much higher than nations that don't have those resources. I'd venture to say not one of us got up this morning worried about whether we would have something to eat before we went to bed tonight. In fact, many of us got up this morning determined we're going to eat less than we did before and trying that. Can I get a witness? Y'all looking at me like We're a prosperous nation. Nevertheless, studies show that a higher percentage of Americans suffer from anxiety than nations where they're struggling to have their daily food. Why is that? We're a peaceful nation, we're a prosperous nation. Uh I put this down, we're a preferred nation. You want biggest you know one of the biggest issues in our government issues is uh dealing uh issues our government is dealing with now is immigration. People trying to get in We don't have a problem of too many people leaving our country. We're not trying to come up with policies to deal with a reduced citizenship. Our problem is we have too many people wanting to come in and in a proper way. So if so much so many people in the world want to get here, We have so much prosperity that we don't even comprehend ourselves how prosperous we are. We have unprecedented peaceful society. Why do we have such a lack of peace of mind? Why is there so much anxiety? Why is there so much stress? Why is there so much tension? In our homes, in our communities, in our hearts, churches What's the reason for that? This study went on and suggested, and they said that 40 plus million, over 40 million Americans, are diagnosed each year with clinical anxiety. I I I I think it's actually more correct more accurate way of saying it. More than forty over forty million people have been diagnosed with clinical anxiety. They've been to some sort of doctor, and he has diagnosed them as clinically anxious. Three Of the top ten drugs that are written, prescriptions being written, three of the top ten deal with mental illness, anxiety-related illnesses. Why is that? If we would if we would operate by the world's understanding If we would look at things from the world's perspective, we would look at the United States of America and its citizens, and we would say they would be the people with the least anxiety. They don't have war to deal with. They don't have poverty for the most part to deal with. They the the whole world's wanting to get there and have what they have. They should be the least anxious people. They should have the most, the greatest peace of mind. But we don't. But we don't. Now we come to the book of Philippians. The church at Philippi was a church that was very precious to Paul. You can't read the book of Philippians and not come to the conclusion that Paul loved this church very dearly. They were precious to him. You look at and examine the church at Philippi, and you find that this church, by any biblical standard, is a good, solid church. They were strong. They were their doctrine was good and solid, Bible, Bible sound Um their influence in the world. They had an effective outreach. They uh they were influential with the gospel and seeing people saved. But there was an issue in the church that he brings up in verse chapter number four that addresses this matter of anxiety. Anxiety, lack of peace of mind, stress, troubled hearts and minds. And he addresses that Notice with me, if you would, in chapter 4 and verse number 2. I beseech Eodius. And beseech sentice, I would like to have those names, that they be of the what Same mind, what's the next phrase? In the Lord. Paul is addressing these two women. These are feminine names. Paul is addressing these two women And he's urging them, in fact, he's beseeching them. What does it mean? And the Bible uses the term beseech. What does that imply? He's pleading with them, he's begging with them. This is very emotional to Paul. That word beseech implies a personal involvement in this I'm begging you ladies, I'm pleading with you ladies, to be of the same mind in the Lord So the fact in verse number two that he's pleading with them to be of the same mind, what does that tell us about these two ladies? They were not of the same mind. There was not peace between these two ladies. These ladies, for whatever reason, and we can only speculate, he doesn't tell us why, for whatever reason, these ladies did not have peace of mind. There was stress and tension in their hearts Concerning each other. Now I got digging and trying to see what others suggested. I don't know why they didn't get along. I don't know why they were so stressed out about each other. I don't know what their tensions were between each other. Bible doesn't tell us. Some commentators suggested it that there was doctrinal issues between the two. I don't know. Some others suggested it was something going on with different ministries of the church. I have no idea. For all we know, it could have been the collar of the carpet in the church. That stress them out so much. But here's the thing. I've found in my own experience and in working with other people that often the majority Of stress-causing issues have to do with interpersonal relationships That is one of the things, one of the major causes of not having peace of mind One of the major causes of people not having peace in their heart, of having tension and stress and frustration in their heart and life, is because of interpersonal relationships. And that apparently was the case here. In fact, I read from this, I take from this, that their stress, their tension between these two ladies was of such a degree It was spilling into the church and affecting others. Thus, Paul addressed it. And then he goes on in the following verses and uh gives a solution to it. So why does America such have such a high percentage of stressed out citizens? Can I give you a suggestion Our prosperity and our peacefulness and our popularity in the world, as far as people want to come, have made us proud. Has made us selfish. And we have gotten to the point And even within the church, even among Christians, we have gotten to the point that we have to be treated a certain level, or we are not happy. I deserve. It's my right. How many times have we heard that coming from society? American citizens How comes nobody ever goes down to Washington, D. C. and protests and demand their responsibilities? I've never heard that, have you? We all want our what? Our rights! We want to be treated! We want this! I, me, us! And that has brought upon us levels of anxiety and tension, and we have lost our peace of mind because we have fallen in love with ourselves. And I suggest to you the root cause, whatever it was, carpet doctrine, who knows, but these two ladies were fussing. I suggest to you the root cause of it was they were selfish. One demanded her way, and the other demanded her way. And thus they were not of the same mind, and thus peace of mind was gone. And Paul addresses that And this level of anxiety and this absence of peace of mind that is in our country is in our churches and is in our homes And it's hurting us. It's hurting our spiritual growth. It's hurting our spiritual development It's hurting our effectiveness and our influence in the world with the gospel. See people saved from sin and hell go to heaven when they die. Because we lack that peace of mind. I made the statement that interpersonal relationships are the major source of anxiety and stress and frustration. And that that can be easily seen in our society. But let me bring it home a little bit. That can be seen in our churches. I've been around for a little while And I've seen churches split over the years in different places. The church I uh church I was closely associated with shortly after I got saved, when I went off to Bible college, they split not long after I went out. And I know I could probably count on one hand over the last 34 years as a Christian the number of churches that split over biblical reasons. Most of them have split over interpersonal stress. Fussing over differences of opinion, dividing over personal preferences, not biblical principles. Self. So this level of anxiety, this lack of a peace of mind and peace of heart has has infiltrated, has has uh uh come into our churches. It's hey, it's come into our homes. How much how high is the level of anxiety in a home between moms and parents and kids? Man alive. A huge cause of stress, a huge reason for a lack of peace of mind is the tension, is the frustration, the lack of having a same mind between parents and kids. Say, well, uh the parents all say those stinking kids these days. The kids say, ah, stinking parents these days Fact is, the Bible has a solution for that. It's gotten into our churches. What was true in society We find it to be true in our churches. We find it to be true in our homes. Can I bring it even a little closer? We find it to be true in our marriages. Marriages can be a huge, huge, huge cause of stress. An absence of a peace of mind because husband and wife cannot, do not, will not get along And thus there's no peace of mind. There's stress, there's anxiety. He says to Eudychus and Synectice, I'm begging you. I'm beseeching you, be of the same mind, die to self, settle this thing. Quit being so self-centered and be of the same mind in the Lord. And I can hear these two ladies responding, how do we do that? How do I get to the point where I can have peace of mind, peace of heart, regardless of what is happening around me? Regardless of who I'm married to, regardless of what my parents are like, regardless of what uh someone else in the church may or may not think or do or want, regardless of what's going on in my society How do I get to the point where I can live my life with peace of mind? Well, he tells them. I think Paul anticipated their question. And in verses number four down through verse eight, he gives the solution. He gives six points on how to be, how to have peace of mind. Um, the Bible, I found that the Bible is kind of like a medicine chest. And we have different spiritual symptoms that we deal with as sinners. And sin will manifest itself. You can have, for instance, there's some folks in our church that deal with diabetes, a terrible disease. But diabetes, if I understand it correctly, manifests itself in various different ways. Correct? Some people have diabetes, and their eyesight is adversely affected. I know other folks that have had diabetes and their circulation in their feet becomes is a big issue. And others with different organs and whatnot. Am I right or wrong, folks? Correct? It's one disease, but it manifests itself various ways. My wife has been diagnosed with lupus. Lupus is a strange disease. It manifests itself in different people various ways. Some people, they're internal organs are affected by it. Other people, their connective tissues, their connections, their joints. That's my wife's issue is is very much affected by it. Others is different areas. And that's the way the Bible is. We all have, we are all sinners. We have, to use a figure of speech, the disease of sin. And that sin manifests itself various ways in various people. It doesn't manifest itself in the same way. Some people, the fact that they're a sinner, has manifests itself in their alcoholism, their debauchery. Other people, the sin manifests itself in a way like self-righteousness. They're very moral and they're very good, and boy, they try and do everything just right. And boy, they're just self-righteous. Hey, self-righteousness is just as condemned by God as unrighteousness. And so the Bible is like a medicine chest. And God gives us these therapeutical promises. And we take them and they help us deal while we're here in this flesh with the various symptoms of sin. How many folks here? You're saved to know it. Say amen How many folks here, since you've been saved, you found that you are also still a sinner? Say amen. Wasn't quite as loud. The second one is the first one Fact is, we are. If any man says he's without sin, he is a liar, the Bible says. So though I'm saved, I still got sin. I still have that disease in my body, so to speak. And still manifests itself. But now as a child of God, I have access to God's pharmacy. I like that. And I can come to God's medicine chest, and I can find tranquilizing principles That I can ingest into my being, and they help me with the symptoms of sin. And one of the symptoms of being a sinner is having lack of peace of mind. Is having selfishness and dealing with other people and being affected by that and being stressed out And being upset and not having that peace of God that passes all understanding that the Bible says we can have. And apparently these two women did not have So let's open the medicine chest. Now I brought a little uh Brother Mike Clark preached yesterday. He used an object lesson. I got inspired. I brought an object lesson with me. How many people recognize that? Shows how many people are old. Young people are looking at I saw that at grandpa's house once, I wonder what that is. This is my little medicine um My medicine organizer. Now come on, how many folks have one of these? Be honest! There we go, good. And I have, I'm down to uh tomorrow night, so I've got to refill it. And uh in here I have certain medicines I have to take in the morning. If I don't take them in the morning, people's lives are in danger. And um Then I have some I have to take at night. Now I have more than one. Now mine are primarily for me. Just for that, I'm not gonna tell you what they are for. But here's the thing. The doctor says you gotta take this one. Some of you can relate to this. You got doctor says, you gotta take uh You gotta take this. Alright, I'll show you one. You gotta take this pill here. That one there. I'm supposed to take a couple of those a day. Now you know why I take this pill? I take this pill because I have to take this pill If I didn't take this pill, I wouldn't have to take this pill. Because this pill has side effects that this pill deals with. Alright? You follow what I'm saying? How many people are saying this is the stupidest thing I've ever heard in my life? Yeah, I thought so The point is, I can take one or two of those independent others, and they're a little bit helpful. But really, to get the full effect, for them really to help me and keep me alive longer. I need to take all of them together. And they work together to keep me a healthy person. And that is the way I view several verses that God he gives us here, that God gives to us We can take any one of these, and they may be helpful in themselves, but if we take all these m these therapeutic promises here and these inst these uh uh uh tranquilizing principles And we apply them into our life, we can have peace of mind. Each and every one, in and of themselves, are helpful and plays a role, but if we get them all, I can get to the point, I am convinced that I can get to the point in my Christian life that no matter what is happening around me No matter who is in the White House, no matter how my country may or may not change, no matter who I'm married to, no matter what my kids or parents are like, I can have peace of mind. I can be at peace in my heart and soul. Now, what are they? Let me give them to you very, very quickly. And you could do a series on each of these. Number one, will you write these down? You might not be stressed out now, but by the end of the day, you might need these Number one, write this one down, would you? If I want to have peace of mind, I need to rejoice in the Lord. So oh, I knew you were going to say that. That's meaningless. No, it isn't meaningless. The reason some people aren't happy is because they do not rejoice in the Lord. Look at verse number four. Rejoice in the Lord always. And again I say what? Rejoice He is making a very emphatic command here. He's giving us a very emphatic command. Rejoice in the Lord. Now that's all he would have had to say. But God goes beyond that. Hey, look what he says. He says, rejoice in the Lord. Alway. And again, I say, rejoice. Listen, the very wording of that verse tells me that this is very, very important. The emphasis that God gives to this command tells me that for you and I as Christians, as children of God, it is important that we incorporate this principle into our lives that we rejoice in the Lord always. One of the reasons we don't have peace of mind, one of the reasons we're always mad, one of the reasons we're always frustrated, one of the reasons We are so upset is because we do not obey this command and rejoice in the Lord. It's a clear and concise command. Listen to Psalms 37, verse 4. Delight thyself also in the Lord. That is a command. God is saying to you and I, delight yourself in the Lord. Do it The word delight there means be happy. It has the idea of rejoicing in the Lord. So God looks down at us, and we're all stressed out, and we're frustrated, and we're mad, and we're unhappy, and He goes, Listen, here, take this pill: Delight Thyself in the Lord. Rejoice in the Lord. Always. Rejoice in the Lord. Okay, Lord, how often should I take that pill? Always. Always? Yeah, I'm telling you again. Rejoice in the Lord. Okay. My wife sees a doctor down at Johns Hopkins. That doctor gives her prescriptions and gives her things to do and not to do and things to eat and not to eat. That doctor has an interesting policy. If you do not take the medicine that she has you take, that she gives prescribes for you to take, she will not see you anymore. She is, here's this prescription. You take it, we'll meet in six months. If you get there, do you take these? Nah, I really didn't. Sorry, no more meetings. No more appointments. Either you do what I say or I'm not going to work with you. Now, God's a little gracious. Amen. But when God tells us to do something, he expects us to do it. And God says, listen, America, you have a higher level of anxiety than every other nation in the world, and you are the envy of every nation of the world. Now here's the solution. Start rejoicing in me. Always Now what does it mean to rejoice in the Lord? I like this corresponding it's interesting. You often find one verse in the Bible, it may be the New Testament, Old Testament, then you find another verse in the Old or New Testament that are is almost identical to it In Psalms 118, verse 24, we sang it a little bit ago. This is the day the Lord hath made. We will Rejoice and be glad in it. Notice it says, we will rejoice and be glad in it. These verses I looked at tell me something. about rejoicing in the Lord, about taking this medicine. It tells me one, it requires a decision. Rejoicing in the Lord is something I decide to do Here's the way most Christians deal with rejoicing in the Lord. Here's the way most Christians end up rejoicing in the Lord. We rejoice in the Lord if something good happens to me. Right? Oh, I got a great check back from the government. Praise the Lord. Now listen, if you get a good big check back from the uh your income tax return is big, praise the Lord. But God's saying that we should praise the Lord even if we owe the government. Just make that decision But we base our happiness on our circumstances. We base our rejoicing on our circumstances, our health or whatever. If we're healthy, oh praise the Lord I'm healthy. If we're not healthy, Right or wrong? And God is saying, stop doing that. You've got to make the decision that no matter what your circumstances are, no matter what your situation is. No matter how others treat you, you make the decision, I am going to rejoice in the Lord. It's a decision we make. It's it's rejoicing on purpose, not it's rejoicing on purpose, not on my prosperity. I know I'm overusing these illustrations, but they just stand out in my mind down in Dominican, and when we were in Antigua and different places, we met Christians living in incredible poverty. That were as happy, if not happier, than anyone I've ever, Christian I've ever met in the in churches of the United States of America And they don't have a tenth of the possessions and stuff we have. But the rejoicing is not in their stuff. Their rejoicing is in the Lord. And so you and I can have peace of mind if I'll just say, you know, the Lord's enough for me. The Lord treats me so good that it doesn't matter how anyone else treats me. I'm going to rejoice in what the Lord. I'm going to rejoice in God's fear. I'm going to rejoice in God's love for me. I'm going to rejoice In God acceptance of me Boy, the preachers yesterday really dealt with an important principle with our young people, and that is being accepted by our peers. And evaluating our worth, our value by what other people think of us. Listen to me. I am I and teenagers and all of us, none of us, our value is not determined by what the world thinks of us. Our value is determined by God's love for us. And I can have peace of mind. I can have tranquility in my heart and mind if I'll just stop and say, you know I'm not going to rejoice in what others think of me. I'm not going to rejoice in the size of my paycheck. I'm not going to rejoice in the health of my body. I'm going to rejoice in the Lord. There's a great peace that comes from that So, number one, the first pill we've got to take. Alright, Lord? Oh, I'm stressed. God, I don't have peace of mind. Alright, first of all, here's your first pill. Rejoice in the Lord. All right, Lord, when should I take that? Always. Okay. I'm not gonna take it now. Let me give you the second one. Verse number five, the first part. Look where he says, Let your moderation be known unto all men. What in the world does that mean? I put it this way: number one, we said, rejoice, Lord, I put this one down. Number two, don't react. The word moderation there means to govern myself, to control myself. The idea is when I'm provoked in some way, I don't react to it. I keep in moderation. I control myself. I govern myself. Maybe a temptation comes along. And I don't react to that temptation. I govern myself. I put it this way: act, don't react. In other words, I have a set of principles, I made decisions ahead of time, what I am and am not what I am and am not going to do And then I act on those principles. I don't react to things that come up throughout the day. Here's where we lose our peace of mind. Tell me if I'm right or wrong. Here if I'm wrong, don't tell me. If I'm right, tell me. Here's where we lose our peace of mind through the day. Somebody says something unkind to us, and rather than just letting it be and acting and going on, we react to it. Come on now. And next thing you know, I am wound tight as a uh two dollar watch. Two dollar watch. And I am upset, and I come home and stuff starts flying, and I say things I don't mean to say, and peace of mind is completely gone. Why? Because they said something? No, because I reacted. I didn't have moderation. We see I I got for a while there, I didn't watch the news because I kept reacting. And every other day we had to buy a new TV. Not really. And uh man, I was just miserable all the time and I was mad and I was this, I couldn't get along with anybody. I said, you know, I'm more concerned of what takes place in God's house than I am what takes place in White House. I'm not going to react to that stuff anymore. Does that mean I shouldn't be engaged? Sure, be engaged. I'm going to vote. I'm going to have my I'm going to write my letters. I'm going to make my phone calls. I'm going to do all that. But I'm determined not to react to the idiots that are running this country. That was a reaction, wasn't it? Paul. It's interesting, and for sake of time I can't go there, but if you go back to chapter one in Philippians verse twelve through eighteen Paul refers to other guys that were preaching the gospel. He's in jail. Remember, he's in jail when he's writing this under the inspiration of God. And he references in chapter 1, verse 12 through 18, he references these other guys who are preaching the gospel. And he says some of them Preaching the same gospel he does. They're out there, we don't know who they are, but they're out there preaching and witnessing going door to door and old means or whatever. And he says, I praise the Lord that these guys, many of them, are preaching the gospel in truth They really mean it. They're really wanting to see people saved. And then he references another group. And there are some clowns out there. That are preaching the gospel, but they're doing it to mock Paul. Oh yeah, Paul's going, hey everybody, gather around. Jesus died on the cross for you and buried and rose again. Now, I would imagine Paul would have been tempted to react to that. He would have called them names like clowns and stuff like that. But he doesn't. You read that passage very carefully, you know what he says? I'm glad that they're still preaching the gospel. They're making fun of it, and they're doing it for pretense, but the message is still getting out, and God can use that to see people saved. Then he makes a statement at the end of that passage. So whether in pretense or in truth, I Rejoice. So his ability to operate, to his ability to not react to things enabled him to do the first take the first pill to rejoice. See what I'm saying? If I'm reacting to everything I don't agree with or don't please me or isn't up to my what I like or whatever, if I'm reacting to that, then I'm going to have a hard time taking number one pill, rejoicing in the Lord. But if I can get where I'm just acting on principle, I'm not going to react to everything, I'm going to operate in moderation, then that enables me To rejoice in the Lord a whole lot easier. See how these are interrelated? Number one, rejoice in the Lord. Number two, don't react. I like this phrase: stay the course. My message, the opportunities I have to speak with preachers or have an influence over younger preachers or whatnot, out in uh fellowships, and the occasion I get to speak to guys. My message is almost always the same. You guys stay the course. You plant your feet down and you just plow away People give you a hard time. There's troubles in the church. There's issues outside the church. You just get in the center of God's will and you stay there. Don't react to everything. Just keep plugging away, plugging away, plugging away, plugging away. When you do that, it's a whole lot easier to rejoice in the Lord. The preachers I've found, for the most part, that are frustrated are jumping from church to church to church to church to church to church to church. Because they're reacting to every little issue that comes up. Now I'm not saying God never moves a preacher from one church to another. Sure he does. He did that to me, leading us up to here. But always in acting according to God's leadership, not reacting. And so he says, Let your moderation be known unto all men. Rejoicing in the Lord enables me to act rather than react, and acting rather than reacting enables me to rejoice in the Lord. Let me give you a third one real quick. Rely on the presence of the Lord. Look at the second part of verse 5 Let your moderation be known unto all men. The Lord is at hand. Now what in the world does that mean? The phrase at hand simply means within arm's reach. That's all it needs. Stretch your arm out. That's at hand. So he says, the Lord is at hand. Hey, ladies, you need to be of the same mind. Get some peace of mind here. How do we do that? Well, rejoice in the Lord. Act, don't react, and uh remember the Lord's at hand. Now there's two aspects to that. Is everybody with me? I tell you, God uses sermons like this in various ways. Some it helps people get peace of mind. Others it helps them catch up on their rest. And um it's a real blessing. That God can use you like that. But anyway, um what does it mean the Lord is at hand? There's two ways that can be taken. One is the Lord's coming is at hand. And that's true. Is it possible the Lord may come today? Sure. Very real possibility. Paul expected it in his lifetime. How many people, if you knew for sure the Lord was coming at 1255 this afternoon, how many people, there's a lot of stuff you won't worry about? If I knew the Lord was coming at 1255, I won't some of you are saying there's a whole other stuff I would worry about. But I really wouldn't worry about what's going on this week if I knew the Lord was coming back today. If we would live Every day, in light of the fact the Lord may come back at any moment and had that frame of mind, we could have a whole lot better peace of mind. We live with that in mind. How many folks here ever was all upset, all worried, you lost your peace of mind, all anxious over something that never happened? Come on now. How many folks hear there's something you're really concerned about, legit, but if the Lord came back it wouldn't be an issue? He says, Hey, the Lord the Lord's at hand. But there's another aspect of this phrasing, the Lord is at hand. It has this: the Lord is always present with you. The Lord is within reach. The presence of God, hey, that's very that's very therapeutic. Right? How peaceful think about I got thinking about this this week. How peaceful would I be if I had the Lord's physical presence right there with me? Some guys in my face, and I've got the Lord's presence right there with me. It would be like So what? Say whatever you want. Right? I don't care, the Lord's right here. He can deal with it. Um 24-7. How many folks you'd wake up in the middle of the night, 2 o'clock, oh, all worried about something? And you get up, and the Lord's standing right there at your foot of your bed. And be like, oh, praise the Lord, I'll go back to sleep. He's got it covered. Hey, I got news for you. He is right there. He said, I'll never leave thee nor forsake thee. I'm in you. We have the Spirit of Christ in us. We talked about that the other week. Boy, how we could have peace of mind if I would just take that pill. Hey, the Lord's with me all the time. I have the presence of God in my life at 24-7. Remember Joshua? Moses died. Joshua's now in charge of a million rebels. They correct they attacked Moses on everything. They fussed with him. Moses, you know, he just he didn't go to the promised land because he reacted to all the stuff uh Israel was doing in the wilderness. Now God says, all right, Joshua, you're in charge. We think that would be cause to stay up late at night and worry. Yeah. But in Joshua chapter 1, verse 9, the Lord says this to him: Joshua, be strong and of good courage, be not afraid, neither be thou dismayed. The word dismayed means to be upset in your mind. Don't lose your peace of mind, Joshua. Why not? For the Lord thy God is with thee whithersoever thou goest. Yeah, you got a tough man. This is not going to be easy, but I'm right there with you, man. Number one, rejoice in the Lord. Number two, uh re uh do not react. Number three, rely on the presence of God. Let me give you these last ones real quick. Number four, refuse to worry. Look at verse number six. Be careful for nothing. Word care doesn't mean don't have don't care about anything. That's not what he said. The word careful means anxious, get up, worked up about, uh, worry about. You know what I found out? Worry comes natural. How many people ever said, man, I've got to try and worry about this? How many how many of your kids ever how many y'all uh got your kid kids gather around? I'm gonna teach you how to worry Comes natural, doesn't it? It's a it's an instinct. If I just don't do anything, I will worry. If I just let it go, I'll worry. Now people's personalities are different, some are more so than others. But if I'm correct in my evaluation of this, worry is actually a form of laziness I'm just letting it happen. Because it comes naturally. If I would do what I naturally wanted to do, I would still be in bed. I don't like getting up out of bed in the morning. Come on, y'all look at me like you're so much better than that. I don't. I'd rather stay up half the night and sleep in in the morning. That's just the way I am. But if I do that, I would be lazy if I just did what was natural. So I've got five alarm clocks. And that's why worry is. The reason a lot of us don't have any peace of mind, the reason I'm dealing with so much anxiety is we don't take the time or put the effort in to address it We just let it happen. And God says, don't do that. Don't worry. You have to step in and intervene and do not let that take place. It's kind of like he said in John chapter 14. He says, Let not your heart be troubled. He says, Don't let it happen. You have to take action. You have to intervene. There has to be effort put into this. And say, oh, I've got peace, oh, I've got so much, oh I just don't, if only I could choose to have peace of mind. Listen, you can, but you've got to take the medicine. You've got to put some effort in here. You've got to make some decisions. So refuse to worry. Number five, write this down. Bring my request to the Lord. The last part of verse 6. What is it that has me upset? What is it that is taking what is the fussing going on in the marriage? What is the fussing going on with the kids? What is the issue with work or whatever it may be? What is it? He says, bring it to God. We have a powerful, powerful resource. It's called prayer. And God has given us hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of promises in His Word that He answers prayer. Why don't we pray? I got my little phone there and I have a prayer list app on my phone. I think it's pretty cool. Middle of the night I wake up and something's bugging me. Get my phone, hit that app, zing, there's my prayer. I just start praying. My battery's dead in the morning. Pray. Tell you what, I think one of the reasons uh America has such a high level of anxiety is America's quit praying. I think one of the reasons there's such a high level of anxiety between husbands and wives, so much fussing and lack of peace between husbands and wives, because husbands and wives aren't praying together. One of the things I'm doing now is I try and help people that are struggling. One of the first things I tell them is you need to start praying together, read your Bible and pray together. Read your Bible and pray together. That will do more to bring peace of mind than anything else I can do. Pray. Bring my request to the Lord. And the last one, and this one, is good. I gotta end. Remember to be grateful. Remember to be grateful. Look at verse 6. Be careful for nothing, but in everything, by prayer and supplication, and any adds two words. With what? Thanksgiving. A grateful heart to See if I'm not correct on this. A grateful heart is a peaceful heart. When I learn to be grateful for all that God has done for me, there's a peace that settles in. It is when I become unthankful, it's when I become ungrateful that I start fussing, I'm not treated good enough I don't have enough of that. I'm not healthy enough. I'm not this enough. I'm not too much of that. I'm not enough of this. And America's level of anxiety rises as our attitude of gratitude sinks And we've got to get back in our churches. And I'm not preaching this because it's November. I'm preaching it because it's the Bible. We've got to get back in our churches to being grateful for how merciful and gracious God has been to us. That'll change everything. That'll change everything. It's difficult to be grateful and anxious at the same time. It's interesting. Paul wrote. This letter to the book of Philippi when he was in jail. In Acts chapter 16, we have the record of Paul in jail He was unjustly tried, he was falsely accused, he's sitting in prison in and don't misunderstand, and we all understand the jails in Philip in Paul's day in Philippi Where he the uh what our prisoners are in are luxury motels. Uh Las Vegas ten star luxury motels compared to what Paul and Silas were in And at midnight, the Bible says, in their chains, their backs bloodied and beaten because they're doing nothing but preaching the gospel. The Bible says they sang, they prayed and sang praises to the Lord. You know what praises are? Expressions of gratitude They're thanking God. And there's not a hint of stress. There's absolute peace of heart and mind in those horrendous circumstances And here you and I are. Some of us have two, three cars in the driveway. We sleep on a couple thousand dollar mattresses. And we don't have any peace of mind. We're upset and frustrated. What's the matter with us? We're sinners. And that's a manifestation of the sin. And we need God's medicine. To deal with that. There's a guy, he was a leader in the Salvation Army. Now you know 150 years ago Salvation Army was something. It's nothing today. I mean spiritually. John George Carpenter was his name. He and his wife. And they were assigned, they were in the Orient, uh Asian, uh, and they got reassigned down to uh Australia for various reasons. But while they were in the Orient, Their daughter contracted typhoid fever. This was in the late 1800s. They got, they felt impressed by God that they should not pray for her recovery. Their daughter. This was their prayer. God heal our daughter if it is your will For six weeks they prayed, Lord, not outer will, but thy will be done concerning our daughter's health. Wow. Now, would it have been wrong for them to pray for her healing? No. Philippians says, let your requests be made known unto God. She prayed that way for six weeks, and then their daughter died. The morning that she died, John said to his wife. You know, I am aware of a strange and curious peace of mind. She said, I feel exactly the same way. This must be. The peace of God. You know what this was? This was the peace of God that passeth understanding. You can't explain it. I don't understand it, but it's a peace that God puts in my heart and mind. And that's what God wants you and I to have. Now our daughter doesn't have to die for that for us to experience that peace. We can take these principles and inject them into our lives, incorporate them in our lives. Rejoice, don't react, rely on the Lord, remember God's presence, remember to be grateful. And it doesn't matter what happens in America. Doesn't mean I don't care, but whatever happens in America isn't going to affect my peace that God gives me. I tell you what, when you and I on the job or out in the world, we're reacting to everything, nobody's going to want to get saved. The peace of God is there. Boy, that makes our witness powerful. What are you worried about today? What has it, your mind, all upset? Why don't you bring that to the Lord? Take this medicine. And see what God will do. Amen? Father in heaven