So we would understand the importance of casting the bread upon the water. Lord, we thank you for the wonderful salvation that we have received in Christ Jesus and for of a purpose for living. And thank you, Lord, for the very presence of the Holy Spirit in our lives. And we thank you for the joy of being able to serve you wherever you put us Lord, we just pray that you'll bless us tonight. May we have a clear understanding of that which you desire to teach us tonight. And Lord, I pray that we would not leave here the same as we came But Lord, we would have a greater burden to reach the loss with the gospel of Jesus Christ. And Lord, I pray that we would also have a desire to have our vision Refocus tonight, then we would want to see folks saved right here in this area as well as around the world. Oh God, I pray that you just take charge of the service. May you receive the honor and the glory. For what you'll do in Christ's name we pray. Amen. Cast thy bread upon the waters for thou shalt find it after many days. In September of 2005, I was invited to go to the Cayman Islands, the Calgary Baptist Church, and I was given the privilege of preaching their annual missions conference. Little did I know that the church had become quite discouraged because they've been given $75,000 annually to missions, but they had just gone through a horrendous hurricane that That uh the and the waters covered seventy-five percent of the Cayman Islands. People have lost their jobs. People were displaced. And all the testimonies that I heard about how different people suffered through that hurricane, and they ultimately began to look at themselves and to look upon their own flight, and they lost. the vision of reaching the world and they became very discouraged at the missionary said, Mother, I want you to come and preach. And I got there and he had this loaves of bread everywhere that his wife had made, and they had slack them down. And they had this one verse, cast thy bread upon the waters, for thou shalt find it after many days. It was a wonderful time. I enjoyed being there. And what a thrill it was to see the people get refocused on serving Christ. You know, you can be a very discouraged individual if you look at yourself and the problems you have. But when we take our eyes and look among the Savior and see what he did for you and me, and we get refocused, let me tell you, you can get energized and encouraged because God never fails. And when you look at individuals of value, but we find here in this passage, Solomon is giving them money a vertical vision to seek God and to do something because God has enabled us to have some very wonderful blessings that He intends for us to share. It says, cast thy bread upon the water, brother, thou shalt fight it after many days. You say, brothers, brother, that just doesn't make sense. Why would I want to cast bread on the water? Well, let me just share. We might want to ask the question, what is bread? I don't know about you, but I've had all kinds of bread in my last night. And for real, I get one day, one is out, one day, body, in the garbage. I come back to the United States and I get zucchini bread and banana bread and banana bread. Man, I put out a long list and then I go to the next book and I get cucumbread and a number of different types of bread. I'll tell you one thing, I found out that all in the world people love bread Nothing like hot bread with a little bit of butter and say, man, I'm saying, you know what? I can make myself hungry right now. Do you realize that in America 53 pounds of bread is consumed by every individual in America annually. One bushel of wheat produces 73 loafs of bread. And I might share with you, sometimes you think the farmer's really making a killing out of all this, he only gets about a nickel per loaf And I saw one statistic that really was quite interesting. They say by the time a kid finishes high school, he will have consumed about 1,500 peanut butter and And jelly sandwiches. I like being about a jelly. I hope you do too. Otherwise you can't keep that statistic going. One thousand five hundred mega dollar seconds. But I want you to see that the word of God's not talking about peanut, butter, and belly sentences. It's talking about the bread of life. In John chapter 6. Jesus said, verse 29, Jesus answered and said unto them, This is the work of God, and he believe on him who has sent, who he hath sent. They said unto him, What sign showest thou then, that we may see and believe thee, of what dost thou work? Our fathers did eat mamm in the desert, and it's written, He gave them bread from mammoth to be eating. Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Moses gave you not it. That bread from heaven, but my Father giveth you the true bread from heaven. And he goes on for the bread of God is he which comes down from heaven and giveth light unto the world. Then said they unto him, Lord, evermore, give us this bread. Jesus said, I am the bread of life. He that cometh to me shall never hunger, and he that believeth in me shall never thirst. The bread that is spoken about here in Ecclesiastes is the bread light. Cast thy bread. You and I have been given the privilege Of knowing Jesus Christ as our Lord and Savior, and we have been able to partake the bread of life. If you know Christ is your Savior, Ecclesiastes chapter 11, Solomon is saying in a commanded form, cast your faith, your testimony. Cast the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ upon the water. You see the first brother, what's the water? If you look at Genesis chapter 7 through 9, we find that the water's covered the deep And and we realize that Noah and his family were separated from the masses of people, and the waters covered and swallowed up the multitude. But in Revelation chapter seventeen, verse fifteen, the word of God is very clear. It says, And he saith unto me, The waters which thou sawest, where the Hordes sitteth, are peoples and multitudes and nations and tongues. Literally, if I could colloquially put this into our terminology, it would be cast thy light upon the masses of people, for thou shalt find your life with pity after many days. What a command. You single brother Scrum, I can't leave Maryland or West Virginia in order to go somewhere else. But there is a mass of people right here If you and I ought to cast our influence upon another, I have a year medical doctor in our church down in Puerto Rico. He's now practicing medicine. Over here in West Virginia, and I took an assignment one day and I said, Doc, off the record I want you to realize even though you're in the Navy and you're an anesthesiologist, you have a profound impact of what people. What are you doing for the Lord? He looked at me and he said, Well brother Springer, I really can't do much. I said, no wait. I said, according to race, you can go into any hospital room and console the individual and say, off the record, would it be alright if I pray with you? I said, is that not permissible on the naked? He looked at me and he said yes is. I said, why don't you do it? I said God gave you a wonderful intellect. He gave you parents who taught you the word of God. He gave you an opportunity to go to med school. And now what are you going to do with your life, with the impact that you could have after God's given you all blessings. You know what he did? He started to go into hospital rooms after that and asking off the record that he couldn't have murder with those information. And began to share the gospel with them. You know, you and I have been given an impact, and we have an opportunity to impact this world with the testimony That Jesus Christ has changed us and the world needs to hear them. Our problem today is we have become humiltous And fearful of what people think about us, and yet Solomon is saying, pass by influence the gospel on the masses, and when you do it, you're going to see a result. We can have revival in America if we just do a solid sale. I do not believe America is outside of the realm of reliable, but reliable will only come when we get serious and serve them. We just need to count the house. We find you. And first of all, we're going to see some exhortation Because it tells us there in verse number one and two, cast thy bread upon the water. There's an action of service here, and Solomon is saying he's exhorting us to cast. The brain. The word cancer has the idea of throwing something in a specific direction. With the purpose of hitting a target. Several years ago, I was in Newton, North Carolina, and preached at a Little Independent Baptist Church. And I found out that Uh uh when Brady Parker was pastoring his grandbrand uh son asked me, he said, Brother Sparger, would you like to go basket? I said, sure. He said Hank Parker is my uncle, and he's home right now in the bass tournaments, and he would like to take me fishing I said, man, tell me where I should meet him. He said, meet us down at the pier at so-and-so place tomorrow morning at about 5. 5. I pulled up there at 545, went out with my little ZEPCO 33 and my little tackle box, and Hank Parker looked at me and he said, Brother Strummer, is this all the tackle you have? I said, that's all I got. He said, don't put it back in the car. You see, he's a professional bass fisherman. Had been in bass national campaign. He didn't want to see a Zebco 33 on his book and a little plastic bait box. Well, I got on board. He said, you can use my equipment, man. Ambassador one pounds, draftwagon rods. I mean he had more equipment than I'd ever seen in my lifetime, but I had a kind of wildlife fish. We get out there on Lake Norman, and I found out what a professional fisherman does He took that rod and reel and he hung on a special rubber bait and he said, Brother Squirm, you see that right over there? Well, from here to the corner over there, he said, there's a batch right in front of there. I said, yeah. I didn't share him. He took that rock real heat. And that babe hit that rock. And he pulled that bait off that rock, and you know what happened? A big old bass took that thing just like that. Man, I'll tell you what, he pulled that big old bass in, and I said, I didn't see that bass. He must have a special glass for it. And all day long, he knew what asked for. But when he cast, he always cast in the fun, in a place. where he assumed he could catch a bass. You know what the Bible is telling us here? You and I need to cast the gospel out in the areas where we can catch people. The idea of casting here is a purpose of action. It is to throw in a specific location It is a focus of action for impelligence here in a directed area. I have a dear friend who was a seal by the name of Brad. Brad came to our church one morning and he was from Red Bank. uh Tennessee. Brad had a testimony of gotten saved at first Baptist Jim to Red Bay. And by six foot two, Lanky guy, he was one of the CO team six members There in Puerto Rico, and Brad said, French, I just gotta get away from that. I need a little air. Somebody said, Well, stay with me all day, and we went, painted, did things that he could do. And by that evening, I said, Brent, why don't you come home with us and uh my wife will prepare a good southern meal for him? Boy, she did it upright. Brad was on the way back to the deck that night, I looked over at Brad and I said, Brad, I said, I respect you as being a United States SEAL, but I think you are the weakest whip I've ever seen. You know, you're not supposed to talk to the boys like things women. He looked at me and I saw his color starting to change. I said, Bray, did you hear me? I'm calling you a whip. I knew I had his intention. I said anybody can be a seal, get out there and physically develop themselves to run and to swim and to jump out of airplanes and pump the shoot at the last minute just to get. You have a six-pack of Budweiser and I said, any old fool can do that. He looked at me and I mean his eyes got breakfast I said, but they can't remember that I've got to stand up and be a testimony to them. And I said, that's not Whippy. That's me, my man. Oh, when he got out of the truck, let me tell you, I was ready to catch the window coming out of the door. He slammed that door and I thought, oh no, what am I going to have to do with it? Thank God it didn't come out. I was trying to afford which is a fixer repair data video anyhow. But anyhow, uh that that had such an impact on Brand, I thought, well, I've never seen this guy again. But the Holy Spirit just kind of stuck an evil in me to kind of probe his heart a little bit. Next morning, I got to the church at 7. 30, and guess who was there? Ready to meet me? Pray. Brad looked at me and he said, Preacher, I couldn't sleep to 4 o'clock this morning. He said, what you said kept just ringing in my ears and he said, I came under so much conviction that God and I had a battle all night long. He said four o'clock this morning. He said, I made a commitment that I was going to be a man of God. About three weeks later, Brad called me up. He said, Richard, I'm not supposed to be talking to you, but I need some Spanish tracks. He said, I am leaving ASAP and I'd like to take with me 15,000 Spanish tracks. Yeah, I'm available. I say bread. Where do I find them off? He told me to bring it to the dead, put my name on it, I'll get them. I can't talk to you because I'm already supposed to be sanitized from being in contact with anybody else. We just bring them and leave them. I'll take them. I said, no Brad, I'll bring them under one condition. I said, first of all, I know you're probably going to nick around what And second of all, I knew you're going to be flying heroes over the desert or over the jungle. And I said, I expect you not to dump them out over the jungle. I want you to give them up Personally, one by one. He said, Preacher, I promise you I will not distribute these over any jungle. I'll give them out one by one. Three months later I got a call from Grab. I had not heard anything from him. He called me up and said, Preacher, I'm leaving in a matter of four hours. I can't talk to you. Can you get me another 10,000 Spanish tracks? He said I eat those out individually and he said I need more ammunition. I said I'll be over there a little bit down. I went scurrying around getting Spanish tracks ready. I put them in a box, took them down to the sealed death down. I left them off at the at the office and he took them on his way. Wow, that's casting the good news of the gospel. I thank God for your missions program here. You have a plan, you have a purpose, you have direction. You're casting the gospel in specific locations, desiring to reach people with the gospel. We find that he talks about the attainment from service. In verse number two, it says this. Give a portion to seven and also to eight, for thy newest, not what evil, shall be upon the earth. If the clouds be full of rain, they empty themselves upon the earth. What he's talking about there is a matter of attainment. There's a good return for the investment In the lives of people. In verse number one, it says, after many days, it literally means stay with it just because you don't see a return instantaneously Stay with them because God will give the results. We have become such uh An instant society. We want instant hamburgers. We want instant pudding. We want instant potatoes. We want everything right now. Let me tell you this. When you serve God, he'll provide the results on his time. And he's saying, stay with it, because the results are going to be seen maybe when we get the glory. There's also the idea that there's an attitude of the sermon, verse number two. It says, time is short, for thou knowest not what evil shall be upon the earth. You and I don't know how much time we have. I believe that we could well see the Lord coming in the air. In our lifetime. But until he comes, you and I need to do all that we can to reach the masses with the gospel. In Psalm 90, verse 12, the Word of God, so teach us to number our days that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom. James 4. 14 says, Whereas ye know not what shall be on the morrow, for what is your life? It is even a vapor that appeareth for a little while, a little time, and then vanisheth away. For that we ought to say, if the Lord will, we shall live and do this or that. I don't know how much more time I have. I have seen young people pass away. Dear missionary friend of mine by the name of Michael Hart, barely turned 50 years old. He did a missionary with BMI in Veracruz, Mexico. One year ago he came home in order to have uh a leg amputated because as a child he had fallen underneath a bush along and the doctors tried to reattach his foot But as we got older, the pain became so bad. He said, Brother Storm, I just want to get rid of my legs so I can go back to Mexico and I'll get a prosthesis and I can serve the Lord with it. The surgery went well. Two weeks after the surgery, a fever set in The doctor said that's awfully strange. When they began to run tests, they found that Michael Hart had cancer. He began his infusion came on. Every time he goes to the hospital, Michael had a testimony, my brother-in-law. Who was in there for infusion said, I've met a missionary by the name of Michael Hart and boy does he have a testimony. Michael at the age of 50 years old. Began to digress. Finally, the uncovered of said, Michael, we have lost, we have used everything in our battery of medicine. And there's nothing more we can do. So we give you about three more weeks to live. I went by a song, Mike, only said that's pretty great. He said, I'll show the home in glory of our spot does a miracle. And he said, that's alright. He said, I'll see you up there. You and I don't know when cancer might stay and our days are numbered. You and I don't know when there might be an automobile accident that will take us off the scene. But one thing about it, we do know that as long as we have a breath to serve the Lord, you and I want a purpose in our heart to give him everything we got need. In verses 3 and 4, we mind after we had some exhortation from Solomon, he now gives us some excuses that we use. He said, if the clouds be full of rain, they empty themselves upon the earth, and if the tree falls toward the south and toward the north. In that place where the tree falleth, there it shall be. He that observeth the wind shall not sow, and he that regardeth the clouds shall not free. He talks about difficulties in verse number 3. If the clouds be full of rain, they empty, but if they don't empty, it's going to be dry. There are difficulties. If the tree falls, it's not going to remove itself. I've been through so many hurricanes. Last time we had a major hurricane there in Alabama, we went through Ivan and it Went within three miles of our home, the High of Ivory. I've got trees that are still down that I haven't had time to clean up. You know what? They haven't moved themselves yet. I'm going to get a chainsaw out there in a tractor in order to get out of there. But what Psalm is saying, there are difficulties at works, but don't let the difficulty stop you. From serving the Lord. I heard about a chic farmer. And a chic farmer had a big chicken house right beside a river and it flooded. And all of his chickens died. And so after they cleaned up the mess, he told his wife, he said, honey, said I'm going to go get some more chickens. He went and built up a chicken house with more chickens. And the following year, the river came out of its banks again and killed all his chickens. He told his wife and said, Honey, after we clean up. I'm gonna go back and we're gonna go into business again, she said, and you buy chickens, said I'm going to divorce it. He said, no, honey, I'm buying ducks now You and I need to be resourceful, amen. There are going to be difficulties, there are going to be a hard time. But we do not need to allow those difficulties to stop us from serving the Lord. There's also the idea of discouragement. When the wind blew. We know it's going to blow, but he says those that honor the wind are not going to sow. Just because the winds of hardness are hard time to blow doesn't mean that you and I on a scrap the plan of serving God. Just because there's some economic setbacks, just because your house may have been devalued by the current uh uh economic situation just because your job may have been uh uh uh dismissed and you've going to get a different job and you're not making As much money as you didn't make does not or should not discourage us from serving the Lord. You see, God can make up the difference. And he desires us to honor him even in discouraging moments. There's also disappointments. The floods and devastation, unexpected problems. He said, He that regardeth the clouds there, he that regardeth the clouds shall not weep. If you and I are not Serve the Lord, we're gonna miss out on the blessings. And he goes on and he talks then about the matter of of having a duty to life. And he talks about the fact that everything in life in nature has a duty to do the will of God. I remember when I was a kid, I loved one Sky King. How many of you remember Sky King? Well, I mean you're making this older age. I remember when the old light of white TV screens, you know, Sky King had a season's asked. And I watched one time with Sky King. was gotta go up and see the clouds because they needed rain and the uh the local weather then accepted if you go up and you take dry ice colors and throw it out into the clouds, it would cause supercooling, and that super cooling would get the clouds to rain. So it's made of uh bags of dry ice pellets And he dropped them over while they were flying and they threw out these dry-ased colours, but it's still the green. You know one thing about our problem as human beings, sometimes we think that we can outmaneuver God. We think we can cause the cause to rain. When God closes up the clouds, there won't be any rain. But when God wants to make it rain, he does. And we need to realize God has a plan, a duty of nature, and view his will. And if we do not understand this, we will let everything be And it's gives to us. There's expectation in verse number five and six. Solomon goes on, he says, as thou knowest not what is the way of the spirit Or how the bones to grow in the womb of her and with child, even though even so thou knowest not the works of God who made them all In Ecclesiastes 11. 5, it's very clear that you and I are not permitted to see the development of a child in the womb. Oh, we may get a sonogram, but oh it's not very clear. One thing about the miracle of light is God controls The relevant of those bubbles had that line. I was picked up by my daughter-in-law, and last week they called us and said, hey Pop! Teddy, number rain is coming. Oh, and I got uh over the dollar side fall a little more And I said, oh it's going to be exciting. Coming April we're going to see what God has developed in there. And you know the excitement, for nine months we get the excitement of wondering whether the little one's going to look more like my son or more like her. But you know, will not know until that baby is born. Amen? And the development of a child is in the hands of God. And he's saying here, you and I do not understand, and God is going to permit us to see. The development of what he is doing until the birth. Oh, isn't it exciting to see what God does when somebody gets saved by the grace of God and a new one is born into the kingdom of God? You and I don't feel what God's doing in their heart. You and I cannot see, we may see some external results, but we're not seeing the true development. Then when they come down the island they get saved. Or you see them open up their hearts and share the gospel out of their own out of their heart now they got to say, oh listen, you and I are given the privilege of seeing the development of what God's been doing. Most wonderful things to see your own children come to Christ and Savior. And you may see an openness and a hunger, and they begin to ask questions. But you really don't know what's going on in their mind and heart. Boys are they decided when they get saved? Oh, it's wonderful. You know, that's all the excitement that we have around the church. We ought to be praying, oh God, let us see. Folks get born into the kingdom of God. Oh God, even though we're not saved all that we want, help us not to quit the let's be anticipated that when somebody gets saved by the grace of God, it's as exciting as a new baby being born in the house. Somebody gets saved, you and I want to be the first one to pat them on the back and tell we're going to be praying and we're going to be available and do everything in our power in our power to encourage them. Goes on, he said, verse number five, there needs to be dependence upon God. It says there in verse number five, these words, and thou knowest not what is the way of the Spirit, or how the ones do grow in the womb uh her with that is with child, even so thou knowest not the works of God who make it all. We need to repent upon God because He is in charge. Secondly, there needs to be determination to sow morning and evening. Verse number 8: In the morning, so may see that in the evening. Withhold not thy hand, for thou knowest not whether shall prosper, either this or that, or whether they both shall be alike good. There ought to be determination that so. Psalm chapter 126. Verse 5, they that sow and tears shall breathe in join. Proverbs 1118 says The wicked worker the deceitful work, but the him that sought righteousness shall be a sure reward. Galatians 6, 7 through 9, and you know these verses. Be not deceived, God is not mine. For whatsoever a man's soul, that shall we also reap. For he that soweth in the flesh shall the flesh reap corruption. He that soweth to the spirit shall of the spirit reap life everlasting. Let us not be weary in well-doing. For if we before in due season we shall reap if we fade the Solomon tells us that we ought to develop a spiritual investment portfolio. You and I ought to be doing our best. To serve the Lord and to build a four of the ones K up there in heaven. Amen. Amen. I don't know about you, but I'm a real big bank account. I don't need much down here, but I sure am looking forward to a nice bank account up there. He said that because I'm going to be able to throw my crowd at the standards. And I hope God will give me any more souls around me Who will do the same? Won't it be a glorious day to get to have it? Well, I understand Solomon is giving us an unreasonable request. Cast thy bread upon the waters. It's an unspeakable sacrifice, in a sense, because there's no way we can totally explain it. But there's unbelievable results and returns that will have just followed Years ago in London, England, Husband Taylor had two missionary families in China. Taylor went back to England and. He presented his birth to see 100 new families to go to China, a race for large cities. They would need about 680 pounds to go there. It would have been equivalent to about $680,000. The end result was that they not only got 100 men, they got 181 new missionaries that went to China. Hudson Taylor was a man of faith. He was a man given to serve the Lord. What would God do if we would just be willing and To cast our bread upon the water, wouldn't God give us greater results than we've ever anticipated? I want to ask you four simple questions. What would God do today if we just cast our bread upon the waters like you imagine? What would uh would you ask the Lord to show you where you cast your resources in serving him? Would you ask the Lord how to cast your bread? And where to cast the bread? Would you carefully Instead of coming forward tonight and getting to this old fashioned altar and this thing, Lord. You bless you, you've given me a lot of influence. I have a family, I can have an impact upon them. I have a job, but there's people around my job that I can have an impact upon. I've known by a lot of people around here and Lord I can have an impact upon them. And Lord, here's my church. We have a number of missionaries, and I can help them have an impact in this world. What are they the word of God? Cast thy grave upon the water. Solomon gives us the command, for thou shalt find it after many things. Oh, I'll tell you, the most exciting thing for me now, as I'm getting older, is being able to meet some of those folks that I went to the Lord years ago. And they come and say, Brother Gary, you remember me, I got saved, and we're in church down there, and uh uh God's been leaving us here and we've been serving the Lord here. Oh I tell you there's something about that that just stirs my heart. I shared the testimony with Earl this morning, and we invested several years of our lives in this young man. And the day he's pastoring Victory Baptist Church in St. Lucia, then he tell you, I do not have a Pentecostal bid. It was just exciting to see him serve the Lord. And you know, there's something like going back to a church where you see people get on fire for God and you see it continues to go on and on and on Oh, God bless you. I hope that you'll consider this message tonight and just serve the Lord. In closing, I want to tell you about a dear friend of mine by the name of Betty Quales. Eddie was born in a family by West Puerto Rico. His dad owned a chain of supermarkets. As a young man, many fell into the addiction of alcohol. He told me preaching? He said I was the most miserable fellow in all the world. He said I got married thinking that that would solve my Miserableness, but he said you know me cow was into the situation. He said, My wife Lucy prayed for me. I ran for the Lord. So whenever a missionary would come to my door, I'd be out the back door and running down the street where they couldn't find me. He said one day a missionary knew that I'd gone out the back door and he didn't stop at the front door. He came all the way through the house and he chased me down the back. And he said he presented the gospel to me and I got to say. He said, when I've got saved, I've got took the alcohol out of my desire for me. And he changed my entire focus and he said, more than anything else, he said, I wanted to go to church. And begin to learn about God's Word. Eddie Queenus today is one of the late preachers and leads in a Piscin Limabiva in my place. And he told me, he said, Brother Gary, he said, I lost my entire inheritance, but I've got a better way to do. Amen. I know what I'm going to spend time. You don't have to have a big inheritance down here that thank God, but the inheritance that we have, I think the Lord is. Are you willing to cast your bread? The masses. There we get God or God. I wonder if there'd be someone here tonight. He said, Mother Great. He said, Boy, God spoke to my heart. I am