And what we're doing is we're taking the first Sunday of every month, and I'm trying to just Give practical, simple tips on personal soul winning, how to share the gospel with others and things to keep in mind. And just anything along those lines. And so uh uh I hope that you're uh taking notes on this. This is something I always think It's good to take notes on any lesson, any message. I always try and take notes, but uh especially on this where I think it would be uh especially helpful and uh jotting just different thoughts down. I don't know if anybody remembers. I was trying to remember the the last time we did this, the first Wednesday of November, I gave obsc Overcoming obstacles. Does anybody remember that? We were talking about that overcoming obstacles. Here's my question. I couldn't remember. I was going back looking over my notes. Is I don't know if I finished giving that whole list Does anybody have does anybody happen to have with you the list and tell me how far we got? I think I'm a little bit strong on this, Dave. It's kind of coming back on me. Uh anybody? No? Anybody? Alright. Normally I'll mark it in my notes if I don't get done where I ended at. And I don't have any marks, but I don't remember finishing it. So what I want to do, with that in mind, I just want to quickly race down through the obstacles um that we need to overcome if we're going to be a personal witness. How many people here ever felt in your heart that uh you wanted to witness to somebody, maybe somebody in particular But boy, there was just all these different things that you f uh obstacles, so to speak, that you felt like you had to overcome to get and do that. Anybody know what I'm talking about? This is some things you got to get past. We all have them And there's a lot of different ones out there. And I just want to go through before we get to tonight's. And I just want to list these. I think you'll start remembering them maybe when we go through. We said first of all, number one One obstacle we have to overcome is a lack of our own assurance of our own salvation. And a lot of times that will be a hindrance. We're not real sure about our own salvation, whether we're saved or not And it makes it very difficult to witness and share the gospel with other people if we're not really sure that we have it ourselves. We said the second one, I tried to alliterate these, a lack of assurance. Number two, uh locked up by fear And sometimes, I think this is a huge one, is where we're just scared to death to say something to people. How many people ever heard me announce, hey, this Saturday or Thursday night, we're gonna go out, we're gonna go door to door through a neighborhood? How many people ever thought this to yourself? That very thought scares me to death of going out. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I feel the same way. And uh it's a natural thing, but uh to witness um we need to overcome it. Uh I've found that uh being afraid to witness people 99. 999% of the time is an unfounded fear. There's nothing to be afraid of. The overwhelming majority of people are glad to talk to you or very friendly about it. And so we talked about that. Then number three Lucifer's opposition, and we stated how that Satan's great commission is to not preach the gospel, and he'll do everything he can to keep us from witnessing to people. Number four, living in my comfort zone. If you remember we talked about that. So we get very comfortable. We're doing what we're satisfied with, what I'm comfortable with. And we're very hesitant to step out and do something that I've never done before, to step out and uh get involved in something that is a little scary and uh we like living in our comfort zone. Then number five Uh this is I think about where we ended, but I don't remember. Number five, I put this down, a loaded schedule. And by that I mean we are too busy. And uh we've just got something going on all the time. There is something going on just next thing, next thing, next thing. Every night of the week is booked up, every Saturday is booked up, every Sunday afternoon from morning till noon. We are just got a loaded schedule. I think if uh there's several things I could say along these lines. One, if we're too busy to read our Bible, we're too busy If we're too busy to spend time in prayer, we're too busy. If we're too busy to go soul winning, we're just too busy. If that is what it is, I just don't I want to, I have no problem with it, I want to do that, I'm bum-butt, I just don't have time for it then we're way too busy. I think we are just too busy, period. Now what's the solution to that? If we if we say, well I don't have time to do what God instructs me to do, uh what's the solution? How do I fix that? Alright, I make time or I what uh and along that list that is I need to rearrange my schedule my priorities because we will do what's important to us. Right? If there's a if there's a TV show on or there's going soul winning I'm going to do the one that um most important to me. I want to see that show, or I want to go out soul winning, or whatever it may be. And so I think a big thing uh is uh just a loaded schedule and um uh we gotta uh be careful of that. And then I put this one down. Uh loaded schedule is number Number six, I put this one down. I just want to not spend time on each of these. Number six, a low view of my usefulness to the Lord. A low view of my usefulness to the Lord. First Corinthians tells us, chapter 1, verse 25 to 29, tells us the kind of people God uses. And the Bible says, remember, we looked at this in Sunday school, the base, the weak things of this world, the foolish things of this world, the things that are despised, the things that are not So if I have this idea, you know, I'm really not that much. I don't have anything to offer. I have nothing in and of myself. I don't know what I could do as far as being a wizard. I don't think I'd be very good at it. You're the perfect person God is looking for to use. Because if I am not good at it, I don't have any confidence in myself and all of that, and I do what God says, and then a person gets saved, God uses me. Who gets the glory for that? God does I've often thought people, you know, people look and say, there's no explanation for what God's doing there other than God's doing it. Now I've known some preachers that were tremendous intellects They were powerful leaders, they were tremendous organizers, and they'd have a great work. And you know what we people would say? They would say, Man, he's a great leader, he's doing a great work there. And who's getting the glory for that? Now I'm not trying to take away from those things, praise the Lord for people that are doing that. But you get somebody that's not that great, not that smart, just an average guy or a gal, and they're leading people to the Lord and and people are getting saved. And you say, how in the world are they doing that? They're not that smart. They're not that gifted. They're not a great oratorical person and all of that. How are they doing that? And the only answer is God must be doing something through them. And so if you look at the Bible, it was average people for the most part that God used. You heard what Abraham Lincoln said. He says, God must love the common man. He sure made a lot of them And that's the truth. And those are the people that God uses. Don't think, don't get in your head that I have to be some fantastic Christian, I've got to be this great speaker, or I can't be a soul winner. That is the exact opposite of the truth. I think sometimes very gifted people hinder God using them because they're trusting in themselves. So sometimes this thinking, well, I don't think I'm that useful to the Lord, there's not much I can do. Paul said this in 2 Corinthians 3, verse 5 and 6. He says, not that we are sufficient of ourselves, but our sufficiency is of God. That phrase there, sufficient. He says not that we are sufficient ourselves. It has this idea, if you look up the meaning for it, has this idea. We are incompetent. And if I understand what Paul's saying there, Paul's saying I'm not competent for what God is, the responsibility God has given me to do. I don't have the competency to do this. But my sufficiency isn't of me, it's of God. And God's enabling me to do it. And God's giving me working through me and doing that. And that is exactly what soul winning is That is exactly what soul winning is. And so sometimes a low view of our usefulness to God, we convince ourselves I could never do that. I don't have what it takes to do that. Listen, if you've got the Holy Spirit in you, you've got what it takes In fact, the big problem in soul winning and actually in all the Christian life, the big problem isn't me being able to do it. The big problem is getting me out of the way, letting God do it. And so that's a factor. Number seven, I put this one down. Sometimes we let our ministry replace our personal soul winning. Now this is where people that are very active in the church and involved in the church sometimes, now I hope you won't misunderstand what I'm saying, but sometimes we'll think, well, because Well, because uh I teach a class, then that will s that that will take place of my personal soul winning. I don't have to witness to be, I don't have to do all that, because I teach this class. Teaching a class is not personal soul winning. You know, you have to be careful. I know preachers and I can easily get into this frame of mind. I try not to. Well, I preach, you know, three times a week, teach Sunday school, and do these other things. You know, I I that I'll do that instead of my personal soul winning. I have responsibility as a Christian to be a personal witness myself and try and lead people to the Lord on a one-on-one individual basis. And so uh that happens sometimes. We let our ministry at church uh replace our responsibility to be a personal soul winner and be involved in in that. Number eight, I put this one down. We lose the reality of hell. And I really think this is uh uh uh a big thing, and and maybe it's the pastor's, the preacher's responsibility that we don't bring it up in the sermons enough I think a lot of times we just forget the fact that there is a real place called hell and that people that die without Christ go to hell forever. How many of us, now don't don't respond to this, but I wonder how many of us Could drive past a house that's on fire and we know there's somebody trapped in there. We know they're in there And uh it's burning, and we could just drive by and not pay attention and not do a thing and just drive by. I doubt there's very few people, if anybody in here could consciously do that But the fact of the matter is everybody we go by, if they don't have Christ, they're on their way to hell. They're going to die and go to hell. There are people in Garrett County tonight. Right now are here now. Next week this time, they'll have passed away and they're out in eternity. Now think about that. That's a sobering thought. And uh I tell you, I believe if we understood the reality of hell, and that gripped us, not in a morbid sense that we're just, you know, it could drive you crazy, I guess But the reality grip us and we understand that, I think we could overcome a lot of these other obstacles if that one truth really gripped our heart. Um I'd be honest with you, I I don't I would never relish the idea of jumping into a burning fire. But if there's somebody trapped in there and their only hope of surviving is me jumping in there and getting them and getting them out I would like to think that I would overcome that fear of jumping in a fire for the sake of rescuing them. You follow what I'm saying? It would be changes my priorities if we look at it that way I often reference, uh, thank God for firemen and EMTs in them, that the middle of the night they're willing to change their priorities when that siren goes off. And they're willing to say, you know, I'd really like to stay in this warm bed, but there's urgency, and they change their priorities and they go and do that. How about us as soul winners? And at least letting that fact that people that die without Christ end up in a very literal hell for eternity. Um I was talking with Brother Williams and um when he was here the other week and um I should say the other month and a half he was here. And uh, but anyway, we got talking about this stuff, and I told him, I said, you know, for the last several years, the reality of hell has really bothered me. And and I got thinking about this during the revival. Think about I I was trying to imagine a person that that ends up in hell and knows They never get out. It's never not a million years, not it's n it this is the way it's going to be for the rest of eternity. That's hard to fathom, a person that dies without Christ. That bothers me. And then to think there are millions and millions and millions of people around the world. That that's their experience. That's a uh that's a troubling thought. And uh it ought to stir us to uh overcome some of these obstacles and say, you know, I need to be a witness. I need to share this message. And then uh let me quote this. William Booth said this about training his workers. William Booth, what who's William Booth? Somebody tell me. He's a founder of the Salvation Army, an amazing man, a little eccentric in some ways, but amazing man. That Salvation Army back when it started was a soul-winning army. I mean they were soul winners, aggressive. Out in the streets, in the cities, going after people, warning them of hell, pointing them to Christ, powerful organization back in its day And they were asking about training such a diligent, earnest team of soul winners. And uh he said this, he says, uh I would pray that Um uh I'm not quoting exactly, he says, spending five minutes in hell will make all of us an avid soul winner And his whole thing was, I'm not quoting him exactly right there, but his whole thing was this. He made this statement. He says, if I could have my workers just spend five minutes in hell, they'll be the best soul winners I'll ever have. They could just understand that. And so uh losing the reality of hell. Then I got one more, and I I don't know that I did all these before, but I wanted to go over them. Number nine I put this one down, and I hate to say this, but it's true. I'm not trying to rebuke, I'm trying to challenge us, but just a lack of love for the Lord. Is a huge obstacle to overcome. John chapter 14 in verse 15, 21, 23, 24, and 31. Five verses, five times in John chapter 14, Jesus says something to this effect, if you love me, keep my commandments. He that loveth me keeps my commandments. He that keepeth my commandments is he that loveth me And so if we're not keeping the Lord's commandments, if we're not doing what God has commanded us to do, that would indicate what? The one that keeps his commandments is the one that loves him, and if we're not keeping his commandments, that's an indictment against us, and myself included. And so the challenge is here is there are some very real significant obstacles that Christians have to overcome if we're going to be a personal soul winner, if we're going to get out and reach the people in our community. and present the gospel with uh present them with the gospel and see them trust Christ. We've got to overcome a lot of these um uh a lot of these obstacles. And I'm telling you, the most effective means of evangelism, as far as I'm concerned, the most effective means of evangelism is one-on-one Just somebody sitting down with someone else. Now we do big mass things, you know, we've done revivals and different things. We do the wild game dinner, we see people saved there and stuff like that, and that all has its place But you watch most of the people that we lead to the Lord are folks we sit down with one-on-one, one-on-one, many times in their homes as we go visit them. They invite us in and we're able to share the gospel with them. Don't let anybody tell you, don't let any Christian or preacher tell you that going out visiting folks and door-to-door whatever, don't let them tell you that doesn't work. It does work. And it's very, very effective. And so to overcome this, I'm well I started to say this. There are people in our community in the next few days, if we would go out and visit them, I'm telling you they would get saved. God's working in their heart. It just needs somebody to go by. Show them from the Bible how to be saved. Now that sets up what I wanted to talk about tonight and the tips that I want to give tonight. What I want to give this evening are four absolute necessary truths that we've got to communicate to a person for them to be saved. And I really want to encourage you to jot these down. Four facts, a soul winner must be able to communicate to a lost person uh if they're going to be saved. Now, if you would, come with me to Romans chapter 10. And if you got your Bible there and you got a pen and um You got a paper or somewhere, jot some of these things down. I'm going to try and be practical. Now what I'm going to give you tonight are the basic truths. Now what we have to do is develop ourselves that we can communicate these truths. And in the coming months we'll try and give some tips how to do that. But these are the four truths that I must communicate, four facts I must communicate to that lost person. Look at Romans chapter 10 And verse number thirteen, we're very familiar. For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Now read on. How then shall they call on him whom they have not believed? Now this is what I want to get to. How shall they believe in him of whom they have not heard? What's he saying here? A person can't be saved if they don't believe on Jesus, and a person can't believe on Jesus if they don't know about Jesus. Or, let me put it this way, if they do not know the facts about Jesus that need to be understood if they're going to be saved. You follow what I'm saying? This whole passage, along with other verses we're going to look at, they're telling us we there is some information that we must communicate to unsaved people for them to be saved. We live in the information generation. Anybody ever hear that statement? We live in the age of information. Good grief. You can find the most meaningless facts in just seconds if you've got a smartphone. Now I've got a smartphone. I all I told my friends, preacher friends, I said dumb preachers need smartphones So I got me a smartphone. We're watching a baseball game. My dad was in. We're watching a baseball game and um uh we're watching the pirates And they kept you know, the ball hits the dirt and they give that ball away and this ball gets foul tipped and they throw that one down there. My dad said, I wonder how many balls they go through in a baseball game I said, da da da. And I punched my little thing. I said, hello, Google. I said, how many balls do they go through in a baseball game? Lo and behold, they go through 60 to 90 baseballs in one baseball game. It told me in seconds. My dad looked at me and he said, that's amazing. I said, I didn't think they used that many balls. He says, no, that you could find that out that quick. I mean we can get meaningless information in seconds. Um but soul winning And we got all this information out there, but soul winning is first and foremost, personal soul winning, is imparting information to another person Me, here's a person that's lost, they're unsaved, they're under the judgment of God. If they die in that condition, they're going to go to hell. I need to, as a personal soul winner, I must communicate to them some information so that they can make a decision and be saved from going to hell. So the whole matter of soul winning is simply if you want to boil it down is communicating information to another person. Now, I want to be as thorough as possible in communicating that information. I years ago this was on the news there was a fellow was sailing around the world in some sort of sailboat. He was by himself And he was out down in the South Pacific, South Atlantic somewhere, down around South America somewhere if I remember correctly, and he had appendicitis attack. Anybody remember hearing that on the news? And uh and so he had the satellite phone he called up and they said, you need so you gotta need to do something. I think it was a penicillis, something attack. He says, you've got to have surgery or you're gonna die If I remember it correctly, they talked him through performing that surgery on himself, and uh he ended up surviving and making it back because they couldn't get there in time. What were they doing? Those doctors were communicating to him information he needed to do something that would keep him from dying. Anybody ever hear that story? Anybody or some people do it. I didn't just dream that. Alright, good. But that's the whole point. A personal soul winner, you and I, we want to, we want God to use us. I want to see some people saved. I want to, down in our hearts, a desire to reach others with the gospel. You boil it down to its most basic ingredient And it is simply me communicating necessary information as thoroughly as I possibly can. Now, depending on the situation, it's the the situation determines how thorough I want to be. If I'm standing on the porch with somebody and everything's going on and they're interested in knowing how to be saved, I'm not going to give the theological study of what salvation is. I want to give them some basic points so I can communicate them. Gospel tracts. Sometimes preachers and Christians will criticize some gospel tracts. They say, well, it's just too simple Well, I agree with that, but the primary purpose of a gospel tract is to get just basic information into somebody's hands. We're not doing a theological study on the doctrine of salvation. We're just giving them some basic information. Now If I'm sitting down with someone, a Muslim maybe, or someone like that, or some other religion, and we're going to do a five-week Bible study. Then I'm going to go into depth and I'm going to give them a whole lot more verses. I'm going to give a whole lot more information because of that situation. So I want to be as thorough as I can depending on the situation. I want to communicate this information as clearly as I can. If they don't understand what I'm telling them, I'm not helping them one bit, right? If I'm using another language that they don't speak, uh it's meaningless. And if I'm using words that they don't know what the words mean, or if I'm using phrases that they don't know what they mean I'm not doing a bit of good. So I want to be thorough. I want to be very clear so they understand what I'm saying. But I also put this down, it's communicating information powerfully. This is a spiritual endeavor. And so I need the spirit, I need the power of the Holy Spirit upon me. I want to have a godly testimony. It's important. Listen, if I go into work, or if I'm going into a neighborhood, or I'm going into a situation, and I don't have a good testimony And I've got a sorry testimony, and I sit down, I'm going to tell someone how to be saved. How effective am I going to be? Not very effective. That poor testimony is going to hurt my witness. Now I can get that information across there, but I want there to be a power among that. I want the power of God to be in that witness. So Having a good testimony is important. We had a fellow, and I mentioned this before in years gone by, was coming out Thursday night. This was way back in the early days. And um I was pairing people up like we did. We had about six, seven people out on a Thursday night and we're had visits and I said, here's a guy, be a good prospect, I'm gonna send you guys out. And uh the fellow looked at it and he said, I can't visit him I said, what do you mean? He goes, I can't go visit him. I said, why not? He said, he won't listen to anything I say. I said, why not? He goes, I got a terrible testimony with him. I I don't have a good Christian testimony with him I I d I talked and I think if I remember right I sent them somewhere else. But I thought, that's sad. There ought not to be anybody in the world that I cannot sit down with and share the gospel with that person. And if there is somebody in the world, I'll just say this, if there's somebody in the world that I cannot sit down with and talk to them about the Lord and pray with them, then I'm not right with God. That's what it boils down to. And so it was real disappointing that uh he said, I can't go witness to that person. So I've got to have a powerful testimony. I gotta have a godly t uh I have to have a godly testimony if I'm gonna have a powerful uh uh share that information powerfully. I need to have a pure heart. The Holy Spirit will not fill a Christian that doesn't have a pure heart. And I need the Holy Spirit to work through me. I need the Holy Spirit to open their heart. I need the Holy Spirit to use me to save that soul. And if my heart's impure, my heart's not right, then that Holy Spirit is grieved and he's hindered. And he cannot and will not work through me. The jailer in Acts 16, 31, said to Paul, What must I do to be saved? What was he doing? He was seeking information. Right? He was wanting some information that he did not have. What must I do to be saved? I don't know. I don't have that information. In Mark 16, 15, Jesus said, go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. You know, the gospel means good news. News is information. I had FBN on while I was getting ready to come over here about 5 30 or so, was putting some things together I had FBN on. They did the news, maybe it was at five o'clock, the news came on. Oh shooting in uh California and all of this. And uh that wasn't good news, but they were given information. I turned the computer on and went to the news site and there they had it and told everything going on And I was getting information. The gospel isn't bad news like that. The gospel's good news. And it's giving out information. He says, go and preach the gospel, proclaim, communicate this information, this news to them. And so soul winning at its very most basic form, personal witnessing, is simply communicating information. We can all do that Every one of us do that on a regular basis. We tell other people stuff. And that's what it is. So the question is, what is this information I need to communicate? I boil it you can boil it down to four basic truths that need to be communicated. Now this is what I want you to write down. And I'll try and do this quickly. Um number one I must communicate this bit of information. This person, all of us, that they are a sinner in need of a savior. Now however that's communicated and we'll give different tips and that's what you try and develop, but however I communicate it, I must communicate the fact That that person, myself included, all of us, we are as sinners. We are sinners in need of a savior. That is the starting point of witnessing. If a person does not if a if a person does not understand That they are a sinner before a holy God. They cannot be saved. They must understand that. What are they being saved from? Did you ever hear a preacher say something like this? You've got to get lost before you can be found. What's he saying? I think that's a clumsy way of saying it, but what they're saying is this person doesn't understand they're a sinner, they can't trust Christ to be their Savior. And so the very beginning point, the very first message, the bit of information I've got to communicate is the fact that this person, along with all of us Is a sinner that desperately needs a savior. Now I like to use words like we, us, rather than me, hey, you're a sinner. You're a sinner and you need a savior. Now there's I guess it's all right appropriate in some situations, but I usually try and say it like this, hey listen, we're all sinners. We need sin a savior And whoever's visiting with me, Derek or whatever, I'll say, you know, we're all sinner. Derek's a sinner. I'm a sinner. A guy down the street's a sinner, and you're a sinner. And we will need to communicate that. They are a sinner in need of a savior. If they do not understand that, they can't be saved. Let me put it this way: if they do not accept that truth, they can't be saved. On rare occasions over the years, on several occasions, I've had people say to me, I am not a sinner. On rare occasions. They'll say something like, I've never done anything wrong. I've never sinned. I keep the commandments. If somebody ever tells you they keep all God's commandments, ask them to name them. I have yet to have somebody able to name all ten commandments. So how can you keep them if you don't even know them? And so anyway, that must be communicated. Let me give you some verses. Now here's some other practical tips along the way. I highly recommend that you have a what I call your soul winning Bible. I think a soul winner, a Christian every Christian should have one Bible and all they use it for is soul winning Get a little pocket size fits in your purse or in your pocket and this one's getting wore out. I just carry it with me all the time And what you can do is these four facts that I'm going to give you here in a minute, what you can do is write them in the margin of your Bible. Now the first verses that I recommend you go to to communicate the fact they're a sinner And they need a Savior is Romans chapter 3. Now let me give you these verses. Verses 9 through 12. In fact, go ahead and turn over there. Romans chapter 3, verses 9 through 12. This is what the Bible says. Verse 9, it says, What then? Are we better than they? No, and no wise, for we have before proved both Jews and Gentiles. that they are all under sin. As it is written, There is none righteous. No, not one. There is none that understandeth. There is none that seeketh after God. They are all going out of the way. They are together become unprofitable. There is none None that doeth good, no not one. Not a pretty picture. But there is a verse that communicates the fact that we are sinners. We are not good enough to get to heaven. We need a Savior. Now the verse I like to use, sometimes I'll reference those I just gave you, verses 9 through 12, but I like to just go to verse number 23 For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Now that is a good verse to communicate to the person the fact that they are sinner. And they need a Savior. So what's the first truth I've got to communicate? That they are a sinner in need of a Savior. They cannot get saved. All the other facts Are based upon the beginning truth that they are a sinner and they need to be saved. Romans 623. Now here's what I recommend. This is what I was getting to in my Bible, and if Uh if you're say, well I don't know how I'd remember all these verses. What I'd recommend, and I'm kind of taking these little rabbit trails here, but what I'd recommend is get your little scroll-winning Bible, don't use it for anything else Don't mark any verses in this Bible except the ones you want to use to lead someone to Christ. I don't want all kinds of notes all over here If I'm showing them that Bible and I'm showing that verse, Romans 3. 23, for all have sinned become sure of the glory of God, and I've got notes over here, and I've got this verse lined there, and I've got draw a line connecting this verse. What are they doing? What's he wrote all over that Bible? What's he got written? And I'm losing their attention. So what I did is I highlighted the one verse I want. And that's the only mark on that whole thing. Whether you use a highlighter or a pen, underline it or whatever. Then in the margin of Romans 3. 23, in the margin, I want to put what my next verse is. Now the next verse I want to go to after Romans 3. 23 is Romans 6. 23. And I just write that right in the margin. That way when I'm there, I don't forget. I don't, oh what was that other verse preacher said? Start flipping around, forget it, you've lost them. But if I got that verse written right there in the margin, I can go right over to that next verse. So point first truth I want to communicate. They're a sinner, we all are, in need of a Savior. Romans 3. 23, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Then I want to go to Romans 6. 23, and that tells me there's a consequence for my sin. The wages of sin is That. So there I need a savior. And so um we're all sin all mankind has violated God's law. We've sinned. The consequences of that s of breaking God's law is death, and you need to explain to that person there the word death. It's not talking about physical death. It's talking about spiritual separation from God for all eternity in a horrible place called hell. Write this verse down. Revelation 21, 8. Now that goes along with it. You might not necessarily use all these verses when you're witnessing to someone, but on occasion they say, well, what do you mean? Revelation 21, 8 says all liars and uh um uh shall uh the um Well, let's look at it. The unbelieving and abominable and um but the fearful and unbelieving and the abominable and murderers and whoremongers and sorcerers and idolaters and all liars Shall have their part in the lake which burneth with fire and brimstone, listen to this, which is the second death And that's where you can explain to them. Physical death is one death, but there's a spiritual death, separation from God in the lake of fire, hell, for all eternity. And that's the consequence of our sin. Alright? So what do we say? Number one, we're all sinners in need of a Savior. Romans 3. 23 tells me that we've all sinned against God. Romans 6. 23 tells me the consequence of that is separation, is death, separation from God in hell. Now maybe we'll go into that in another time and how to communicate that, but I've got to communicate that. Number two, write this one down. This is the second piece of information I've got to communicate. Uh they can do nothing to save themselves. We can do nothing to save ourselves Man's initial reaction is, how many folks here, whenever you hear some bad news or a bad situation, you immediately start thinking, alright, how do I get out of this? Alright, how am I going to deal with this? Anybody that way? I think that might be a guy thing I found out my wife, if she's doesn't feel bad or her day went bad, she doesn't want me to tell me how to fix it. She doesn't want me to tell her how to fix it. She just wants me to feel sorry for her A guy wants to do what? Well fix it. Alright, that that happened. Your boss did said that? Well go and do this and that and the other. I don't want you to tell me what to do. I just want you to feel sorry for me. Oh okay. I can she's not here, so I can say this stuff. But natural man, what do we want to do? We want to try and fix it. What? I'm a sinner on my way to hell? Alright, well then I gotta get baptized. Well, then I gotta join a church. Well, I gotta start, I gotta change my life around. I gotta do this. I gotta do that. Listen, I need to make sure they understand there ain't nothing they can do to save themselves And that's important factor in sharing the gospel. Apart from Jesus Christ, it is hopeless There's nothing we can do. So we can do nothing to save ourselves. Man's natural response is I can do something to deal with this. I can change this. I can do that Listen, if a person is trusting in anything else, if they are trusting in their own efforts in any way, they are lost. What would be a good verse to use to point out to a person that they cannot save themselves? Anyone think of a good verse? What about Ephesians 2, 8 and 9? For by grace are ye saved, by faith, and that not of yourselves is a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. So that's a good verse to communicate. Listen, there's nothing you can do to save yourself. There's nothing we can do to save ourselves. Ephesians 2, 8 and 9. Let me give you the last one. I've got our three let me give you the last two here real quick and I'm running out of time. Number three, write this one down. I need to help them understand Jesus paid their punishment for them. That's the whole point. That's the gospel. I'm a sinner in need of a savior. I cannot save myself. Jesus Christ did everything necessary for me so that I can be saved. The word substitute is not in the Bible. Nowhere. It's not in there. But the truth of Jesus' substitution is all through the Bible. And he was our substitute. He paid those wages for us. And I must communicate the fact that Jesus Christ made salvation possible. He took the punishment for my sin in my place. For me. Now, it's very important that we explain to him that Jesus died on the cross for our sins in our place. He was our substitute. He took our judgment for us. We must communicate that to him. But we have to be careful we don't end too soon. There's part of the gospel more than just Jesus dying on the cross. What's the rest of it? He rose from the dead. Do not leave that off. When you're witnessing to somebody, Jesus died for you, he paid all your sins for you. Don't end there. Make sure you say he was buried and he rose again. They understand Jesus is alive from the dead. And that's very, very important. That's the gospel according to 1 Corinthians 15, verse 1 through 4. Christ died for sins, was buried, and rose again. That is the information they must get. But they must get that information in the context of understanding he did that for me. I'm the sinner. I'm desperate need of a savior. I cannot save myself. Jesus did that for me. He was buried and rose again. So I must communicate to them that Jesus Christ paid their punishment for them on the cross and rose again. Let me give you some verses for that. Romans 6. 23, the last part, lays us into death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ the Lord. Through Jesus Christ our Lord. Romans 5. 8, write that one down But God commendeth his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died what? For us. That's where the substituted. He took our place. He did it for us. Alright? And I think you ought to emphasize on this the fact that God loves them very much. It's amazing. As I was preparing this some time ago It struck me, and I don't not that I never paid attention to this before, but how often when the Bible talks about salvation, it brings in the love of God, the love of God, the love of God. And I think we need to emphasize that also. Listen, God loves you so much that He died and suffered hell in your place and rose again. Let me give you the last piece of information, and that is this. Four of them. Number one We're a sinner in desperate need of a savior. Number two, I cannot save myself. We cannot save ourselves. Number three, Jesus died for us and was rose again so that we can be saved. He did for us what we can't do for ourselves. And then number four is this. We must consciously, I must communicate to him that he must consciously decide to place his faith in Jesus Christ as his Savior. I like to say this when I get to this point, and we'll go through in a future time. I'll just go through like with an unsaid person what I say. But whenever we get to this point, I always like to emphasize this. Just because Jesus is down on the crossroads again doesn't mean everybody's going to heaven I can either accept that or I can reject it. I can either put my faith in Jesus Christ as my Savior or I can trust something else There has to be a response. Here's my here's my beef with other churches in our community. Not all of them, but some of them Is they'll talk about being saved, they'll talk about the need of being saved, they'll talk about the gospel, but they never bring people to a point where they have to make a decision to accept it or not. And so you have people walking out the door that know about salvation, know the importance of salvation, but they've never been saved because they've never been brought to a point where they've got to make a decision to accept Christ or not. You follow what I'm saying And so just telling a person that Jesus died for them is great. That's necessary. They need to understand that, but that's not enough. I need to uh uh communicate to them that they've got to make a decision There's a world of difference between believing facts in my head and trusting in something with my heart. Let me give you the verses for this point. Romans 10, 9 through 10. And if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in thy heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. Romans 10, 13, great verse. We just read it. For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. So just the fact that Jesus died on the cross was buried and rose again doesn't mean everybody's going to heaven. I've got to accept what he's done for me or or not. I've got to accept it to be myself And I do that by calling on the Lord, by putting my faith in Jesus Christ and trusting in him. Um I think Romans 10, 13, I like to zero in on that verse when I'm talking to someone and I explain what it means to call on the Lord and you've heard me say it many times like a drowning person. Help, save me. They're calling out, they're trusting, they're looking to a person. to save them from drowning and dying. That's the way we are. We're sinners and desperate need of a Savior. We can't save ourselves. Jesus already did for us what needs to be done for us to be saved. Now we call on him. We trust him. We put our faith in him. Lord I'm trusting. I'm looking to you to save me. God says when we do that, then God saves us. The Lord saves us. Most important message in the world is the gospel of Jesus Christ. I think you're here Wednesday night. I would say probably the vast majority, if not all of us, down inside our heart, we want to be a witness to other people. We would like to see other people saved. We would like for God to use us to bring others to Christ. Now we have to be able to communicate these facts. This is necessary information a person must have if they're going to be saved. Now what we need to do is when we understand these, then we need to study and work and pray that I can effectively communicate that. I'll tell you what I do. The sword of the Lord is tremendous. They'll have gospel sermons in there. I read every gospel sermon I can find because I want to learn how. To be able to more effectively communicate the gospel. Sometimes people say, oh, there's Baptists, all they ever do is preach salvation. You know what I find, I like to hear somebody preach on salvation because then that helps me be able to communicate a little bit better. They might have an illustration. They might have an insight that would help me communicate that to others And so study this. Practice, talk to people, and develop your ability to communicate the fact that we're all sinners and desperate need a savior. We cannot save ourselves Jesus did for us what needs to be done already in our place, and that we need to make a decision to trust Him as our Savior, to communicate that to a person. I'll try and give you some things in the coming this coming year and and maybe some tips on uh how to effectively do that. Was this helpful, you think? Just four things. If I can get those facts down And then work on being able to communicate that to others. Who knows? Number four, the verses for number four is Romans 10, 9 and 10, and then Romans 10, verse 13. Now, there are scores of other verses in the Bible along these same lines, but these are the ones that really nail it, are very, very clear, and you can use. I would venture to say within the next seven days, by next Wednesday this time, many of us will have had the opportunity to tell someone how to be saved. Now a great way to do that is the gospel tract. Give out a gospel tract. I've been giving these out. These are fun to give out. We got a thousand more ordered. They'll be here Tuesday. But um I tell you, even more effective is sitting down with someone and be able to one-on-one tell them and show them from the Bible how to be saved. Tremendous. I'd venture to say there's many of us who will have that opportunity between now and then. I don't think it's just coincidence that God has me teaching these when we do. I think God is sovereign and he knows. And that perhaps some of us will have somebody we'll be able to share this with. So let's pray and ask the Lord to help us and use us. Father in heaven, I I hope and pray this was helpful. I pray that every member of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church would be very confident. and very uh clear in their understanding of sharing the message, the information about the Lord Jesus to people who need to be saved. Lord, we'd love to see more people say. We'd love for you to use us. And so we're asking you to help us. Our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, preacher, between now and next Wednesday, I'm going to ask the Lord to give me opportunity To witness to somebody, to share the gospel with somebody. How many people would say, Preacher, that's my prayer? Between now and next Wednesday, I would like for God to give me that opportunity. Amen. Now listen God answers prayer. We better be ready, be prepared, overcome those obstacles, communicate this information, and I believe God will use us to see people say, Father, bless now. And uh help us, we pray in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Catherine's up here. She's going to play a few verses of invitation. Maybe you want to kneel to an altar tonight and say, Lord, now help me God fill me. Give me that testimony. Give me that boldness, that wisdom to share that gospel like I should. And I believe the Lord will help us. Sometimes we pray, Lord, don't ask Him to give you opportunity. Lord, help me to take advantage of those opportunities that you bring my way.