Now in chapter one, we're gonna look at the last verse of chapter one of 17. We're beginning the second stage of Jonah's chastisement. And um Remember that uh God called Jonah to go to Nineveh. That was God's call, then Jonah's contention with God's call. He didn't agree with what God was calling him to do. And rather than simply trusting God, doing it anyway, whether he agreed with it or liked it or not, he decided to take matters into his own hand and he takes all. And uh I think both of us mentioned this before in previous uh service we mentioned that sometimes uh we we have issues with what God is doing in our lives, right? I mean we just say, alright, I don't I don't agree with it. Well we know one or two things. We can either buck with the Lord And uh let's let's do what Jonah did and try and take those around. Or we can simply say, Lord, I don't like this, I don't understand it, not what I would choose, but I trust you, and I'll go ahead and cooperate with you and go along. That would be the ideal thing But uh that doesn't always happen and that's not the case here with Jonah. And so uh God begins his chastisement in two stages and Jonah's chastisement as we pointed out. First stage was the storm Toby gets the ship, he's heading off the car ships, and uh God intervenes. God sends a storm. Well he doesn't call that with the sailors and And they're trying to figure out what's going on and they deal with it. And finally their conclusion, Joseph's conclusion, is, uh, I'm running away from God, I'm a prophet of Jehovah, I'm running away from him. And uh the only thing is left to do is to throw me overboard and just basically telling them to do what Guilt is basically what you tell them. This throughout the overboard. And uh my as I study this and look at it, the way I see it is Jonan is just so hard-hearted Stiffen his next so much he'd rather die than do what God says. And it's amazing how many Christians would rather destroy their lives then simply trust God and obey him. And that's the way Jonah was. He throws a boatboard and the man in the boat gets saved as a result of it. God's mercy is able to use this terrible situation. And break some good out of it. But look at verse 17, this is where we're at. Now the Lord, now remember the situation. Jonah is Where's Jonah at as we go into verse 17? It's about it. He's loop, blue, loop. He's going down. Storms come. And um I don't see anywhere, correct me if I'm wrong later, but um I don't see anywhere that Jonah is on the surface. Help save me, help save me. The impression I get here is that he's sinking down in the water for whatever reason and he's not up on the surface. He's going down. Look at verse 17. Now the Lord had prepared a green fish to swallow up Jonah. And Jonah was in the belly of the fish three days and three nights. And um sometimes you eat the fish and sometimes the fish eats you. And I entitled this lesson tonight, God is Relentless. And I'll explain what I mean by that here a little bit. Let's pray. Father, bless our study of this verse here and old Jonah. I pray you fill me with your Spirit and teach us, Lord, Holy Spirit, I pray you teach us from your word. And we can grow in our faith, in our trust in you, and our understanding of maybe how you work in our lives sometimes. So bless this time, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. You don't have to read far into the Bible. And find out that even God's greatest men, God's greatest women, struggle with obedience. I mean you just get you don't get bored. In fact, you get to chapter three And you've got Noah, uh Noah in chapter three, channel. Uh you've got um uh Adam E. They're a perfect environment. And they struggle with simply trusting and obeying God. And then he goes on from there. And here we are with Jonah. Remember, Jonah's a prophet of God. He is, by all respects, a great man. He's a man of faith, he's a man of God in every sense of the word. And yet here he is, struggling with the will of God and struggling with obeying the Lord. As I said, he's in his second stage of his chastisement, where God prepares this fish, and the fish, uh, and uh it swallows up Jonah. This portion here, this verse in particular, chapter 2, in addition to this, is one of the most ridiculed and rejected portions of Scripture. You go to somebody that is an unbeliever and probably even some who can be a believer, and you ask them what part of scripture is the hardest for you to accept What portion of scripture of all of it you reject the strongest? And I'm telling you, this one here will be one of the top nonetheless, top ten. They will reject this idea that um that A giant fish, a whale, swallowed Jonah, and he lived in the belly of that whale for three days and three nights and survived through that. There's not one miracle in the Bible that is more scrutinized than this one right here. There's no miracle in the Bible, the book of more Jobs. in the liberal world than this one that we read right here. More ridicule. Even some professing believers would say, listen, I believe the Bible, but I don't accept this portion here. This says This is symbolic and can't be taken literally. Now there's a problem with that. If I reject one passage of scripture, I'm going to have to reject all of scripture. Because it is so intertwined. You find if if we would come to the conclusion that we don't believe verse number seventeen, then there's a number of other passages of scripture that we would not be able to believe Which leads to other passages of scriptures we would not be able to believe. For instance, let me put it this way: if I reject Jonah chapter 1 verse 17 and chapter 2, I reject that. Then I am rejecting the integrity of Scripture. Because this event is being presented in Scripture as if it literally happened. There is no suggestion here. that this is symbolic or this is some allegory or anything. This is given, uh you just read it for the moment for the for what it says. Surface reading. This literally happened. This is being presented. So this is not, if this did not happen the way the book of Jonah presents it, then we've got a problem with the integrity of scripture. If we reject this, then we're going to have to, it's a rejection of the reality of the miraculous If God can do these other miracles, he certainly could do something like this. And here's a very simple. The first one and this one are the two stimulants. If I'm going to reject the events of Jonah being swallowed by the whale literally and him actually literally surviving three days and three nights And coming out of that alive, if I'm going to reject that, then I must reject the deity of Christ. Now what do you say? You say, well, what is Jonah in the whale? What does that have to do with the deity of Christ? Why would rejecting this Caused me to have to reject the beauty of Christ. He was preserved and the side. Yes, Jesus referenced Jonah being a whale, three days and three nights as an actual literal thing. Now, if this did not actually literally happen, then two, one of two things is true about Jesus. Either he knew it wasn't true and he deliberately lied and presented it as true under false pretenses, or Jesus didn't know. And if Jesus lied, or if he didn't know something, then he's not who. He's not God. And if he's not God, then we don't have a sinless Savior. And if we don't have a sinless Savior, we don't have a Savior. Exactly. It takes it describes in the integrity of God and his ability to do the miraculous. And so you see what I'm saying, if we're going to reject this one verse, if we're going to reject this person structure here, then we've got all kinds of problems on our hands. This is the point I'm trying to make And that is this. We can't come to Scripture and just pick and choose what we want to believe. This thing is presented by God in such a way God's word is presented by Him. by him to us in such a way that either all of it is true or we can't trust any of it. And so uh this is a vitally important passage of scripture And uh it's very important that we trust God, take it for what it says, and uh believe it. And uh I think when we look at this, we're gonna find it's not that difficult To uh accept what took place here. Here's my outline of verse number 17. Number one, I know this, and this is what stood out in my mind as I began to really dig into this verse: the persistence of the Lord The persistence of the Lord. Look at the verses. Verse 17. Now the Lord, here's God again showing up. God refuses to let Jonah alone. Did you notice that? From the very first verse of this book, God is just relentless In his dealing with Jonah. Oh, he will not leave him. Oh, he's not going to let this man of God. They'll walk into disobedience and flat out walk away from God's command. God is counting him like a hound. That's why I need to do it. Um, he just keeps going after it. He calls Jonah to go to Nineveh, Jonah goes to Carson, God steps in, sets the store. Uh Jonah tried to hide down the belly of the ship and God just sent that storm stronger and stronger and stronger and stronger until Jonah finally said I'm not going to obey God. I'm going to die to forobe God and throw me overboard. God says, oh no, you're not getting away with the tangents And so God sends this uh giant fish, this whale, to come by. That tells me something about God's concern for the loss out of the wishing field. God is, mark it down. God is more concerned about unsafe people getting the gospel on the mission field than you and I are. God is more concerned about the loss than any church is. Now I like to think that we have a real heart for getting missionaries to the field. I would like to believe that our church is that way. But I look at God's burden, God's love for the unsaved, and I hold myself up to that and made alive unashamed. And my prayer is for myself and for our church that God will not leave us alone on this matter of giving the gospel to all the world. If we pull our debts at all, if we stack off a little bit and give the gospel to all the world I'm praying the Lord to step in and just stay on us and stay on us and stay on us that we keep this matter getting the gospel there. That's what He's doing here. He's not letting Jonah get away. There's a whole city that means the gospel. That means the word of God. He just gets over there and gives them the word of God. It's going to be taken care of. And he's not letting Jonah get away with that. And I really appreciate that on God's part. Romans 1129 says this. The gifts and callings of God are without what? Anybody know? The gifts and calling of God are without repentance. In other words, when God gives a gift to one of his people to be used to serve him, God doesn't take that gift back. If God calls someone, it's without repentance. God doesn't take back his call in someone's life. Now they may not fulfill it. They may not carry that thing out. They may live their life in disobedience. I just used this illustration in a message recently and I thought of it as I was studying this. The guy out in Indianapolis, memory telling the story, late 60s, very dignified man at the altar, just shallowly. I knelt down beside him and I liked the guy and uh I put my arm around him and I said, What can I pray with you? He said, God called me to preach when I was young. And I disobeyed that all these years I've been out of the willow God and it was just eating away a sin. And uh God's calling is not worth without repentance. God called Nineveh to go to God called Nineveh to go to Jonah. God called Jonah to go to Nineveh and God was not going to back up on that day. And he stays after it and stays after it. The persistence of the Lord. That word repentance there, I was looking it up and how it's used, and we understand what repentance is in change of mind. But it has this idea in Romans 11, 29 here. Irrevocable. If something's irrevocable, what's that mean? Can't take it back. He didn't think it back. Um, I was at a preacher's fellowship a couple weeks ago. Well, it's probably been a month or so ago, back in October, I think. And um I used to go to him a lot, and I got away from trying to get back out and get to know some of the preachers in the general area here. But um I went and uh priest, he pastored my wife's own church for a number of years He's over in Ohio now, and just a good guy, good preacher, country preacher. And he was preaching in his message, he gave his testimony of his call to preach. And he said, God began to open his heart and gave the particulars. And I remember him saying this. He stood on that point when he was preaching to us preachers. And he said, I told God, God, leave me alone. He said God was just working in his heart that we ought to be about to be a preacher. About the calling would be a preacher. And he says, I could not get away with it. It just pounded me and pounded me and pounded me. And I said, I had my plans for my life and I didn't feel like I was qualified as far as being able to do it. And he gave this all list of arguments he had against God calling him for him to be a preacher. And he said, I finally got the point I just said, God, leave me alone. He says, you know what? God didn't leave me alone again. And he said God just kept added, he kept added, kept at it. He said, So finally I said, Oh wait, we're gonna trust it. He says now I look back and say, well, praise the Lord, I'm glad that God didn't give up. And he says I'm happy as I've ever been. I mean in the world of God for all that. And so God cannot leave Jonah alone. He is pressing the issue and pressing the issue, even if it takes having him swallowed by a whale. God is going to deal with this here. My second point. So my first thought is this, the persistence of the Lord. And the Lord. Jonah's sinking down. I don't know about you. Do you ever think, boy, if I was God, did you ever have that thought? If I was God, this whole world would be in a mess, I'd tell you that for sure. But I was looking at this, if I was God, you know what I'd do? Probably? Alright, gentlemen, go ahead and think. I'll go get someone else. But God's not that way, and he's persistent. Number two, we have, I see in verse 17, not just the persistence of the Lord, but the preparation of a fish. Look again at verse 17. Now the Lord had prepared a great fish to swallow up Jonah. Now I thought it was interesting that God used the word prepare. He does not use the word created. I've had this in my mind for some reason over years that God had prepared, a specially designed, God had created a specially designed fish. that had a passenger department in its stomach. And uh, you know, just designed especially. But uh that's not what the Bible says This wasn't a special fish specially created just for this instant. I got looking up the word prepare, how it's translated other places in the Bible And it's translated with this idea, it's used with this idea, to appoint something for a position, to appoint somebody for a position, or to put something in a very specific place. Or appeared several times to line things up. I started out looking at that, and then the Lord had prepared The Lord appointed or put into a specific place or lined up a great uh a great fish to swallow up Jonah. You know what I think this is I think this is what's telling us, what God's telling us They've not had just the right fish, at just the right place, in just the right condition, at just the right time. This was a fish, a great fish that was prepared by God. In other words, of all the now, there's no doubt the skeptics don't have a problem with a fish swallowing Jonah. Right? There's tons of fishes out there that can and do swallow people old. There's all kinds of whales and sharks and different things. They're very keepable. I was watching, did you ever see that show on TV uh I was watching every now and then uh river monsters. You ever see that guy catching these gigantic fish all around the world? What a job of trying to get make a ministry out of that somehow. But uh travel around the world catching these fish with all this great equipment. And I at least caught some catfish on there that could very easily swallow a man. I don't know how big Jonah was, but um uh so the problem isn't finding a fish that could swallow a man. But the miracle is in the fact that Jonah survived. We'll look at that in a minute. But here's the interesting thing I thought. Of that great sea that he's in, the Mediterranean Sea there, which opens up out into the Atlantic. Of all the fish that are out there, having just the right one at that right place took an act of God. And I think that's what he's telling us. He's he's saying this, listen, doesn't matter how far away from me you can get. Doesn't matter how bad you can mess things up, I can still, in my sovereignty, line things up and have just the right thing in just the right place and just the right condition. to take care of whatever you're dealing with and get you back on track. Isn't that anything? I like that word repair in there. That stirred my heart. And so God is sovereign here. Uh it's not a apparently it's not a great white shark that would probably do what the Jonah? Right, the valley. Uh I'm getting a little ahead of myself, but it says it swallowed Jonah. It doesn't say he ate Jonah. There's a difference between swallowing something and chewing it up and eating it. So anyway, I thought that was meat prepared. Then look at this other term that's used here, now the Lord. The Lord prepared a great fish. That phrase great fish, the word great, had this idea of being enormous. Um uh I like this one definition being magnificently large. I think what he's telling us here is this fish was not just big enough to fit Jonah down inside its belly. I think this fish was huge. There could have been five Jonah's down inside there. This was a monstrous fish that uh there's no problem that fish just swallowed him like you swallow a gnat riding your bike in the summer down the road. Just go down before you go. And uh that's the idea here, that uh this gigantic fish swallows Jonah. Now here's where it gets miraculous. How in the world, what issues would we have to deal with for Jonah to survive being in the belly? And by the way, the term deli there means Yeah, that means uh uh intestine. Okay, I think we ever saw the little children's uh drawings. And Jonah's sitting in the belly of the whale and there's ribs there. He's got a little campfire and he's sitting there and he's just kind of waiting on things. Have anybody ever seen that little picture? That's just silly He's anybody here chewed it ever chewed a dare and gut the beer? And CB Robin does. This did last week. Uh and you gut that thing out and those test teams come out. You ever cut a fish? I caught a big old trout a couple weeks ago when my dad was here. I mean that thing was that thing was uh it was huge. And uh got that in the weather and castines coming out. That's the thing here. This isn't This is a blue SP. Now, if you've got a man down inside the intestines of this monstrous fish. What issues would you have to deal with to keep the guy alive? Okay, there's one of them. One how would you breathe? Yeah. Yeah, I I put down gastric juices. Just by I mean this these intestines are trying to digest it. You know, while they're trying to break him down into minerals and absorb them into the body. So that's one issue. Being able to breathe. Down and there would be an issue. This is a very unique situation for a man to be able to survive this. Now here's a question. And I I don't know the answer to it. I I go back to what I kind of had in my mind. What would those gas reduces do? What would those gas rate juices try and digest them? What would that do to the skin of a person? It would eat away at that thing. If you've ever caught a big bass, and inside that belly is another fish, that thing can't eat away. And uh I didn't have to suffer yet, something But that thing we have brought it away. And uh do you think maybe Jonah came out of that thing just all sparred up and it's skin skin and all that. You know what I think? I think it was just like Shadrach, Ishak, and Abednego came out of the fire and he never smelled it anymore. I can't prove that and Jonah didn't have the faith Shadrach, Ishak and Abednego did. But I know this, the very fact that he survived that was a miraculous thing. I don't care how big the fish was, there was plenty of other things that had to go through. for uh that for him to survive. It had to be miraculous. Every now and then you know I'll read a Christian article or something and I understand and I'm all for it and they'll say, well it could have survived in this circumstances And here they found this. I think there's a story of some guy got thrown overboard and swallowed, and a day later they killed the thing and the guy was still alive in there somehow. Listen, I'm not going to try and humanly explain this the way this is God doing this. Three days and three nights. And the reason one of the reasons I I hold to that was Jesus was dead in the grave three days and three nights. Jesus uses this as an example. That was a miracle for Jesus on Macdology. It was a miracle that Jonah stayed alive. So the preparation of a fish. Um and uh here's the thing. Uh the Navy, our country, did you see that in the news where they found that Japanese submarine just off of Hawaii just this past week or so? It's giant they never knew the thing existed. And here's this huge Yaku somebody from World War II at some we never knew it. Just off of the coast of uh Hawaii, so they may have been found some sort of beach or something, we don't know. But anyway. Man can make a submarine that can keep people alive in it for months at a time. Chip would tell me about when he worked on the submarine, he'd be down there, what was that, 68? Sometimes a shot and nuclear summary may just float all over everywhere. If man can make a vessel that can keep man alive For months of time. Don't tell me God can't make a fish, it can keep it personalized for three days and two minutes. And so this is God, this was a miracle. And this fish prepared. Oh yeah, surviving under there, yeah. Yeah. So I can do this. uh day three for dark soft or the high grade dark soft blood breathing category spells of breeze and then after the freeze was over this they come back Yeah, absolutely, absolutely. If you come, if you approach this with the frame of mind that God is God And he is all powerful. There's no problem worth believing this at all. But when a man comes and starts questioning God and doubting God and doesn't believe because he doesn't want to believe, then you've got issues with it. So first of all we have God's persistence. He is not leaving Jonah alone. He is after him and after him and after him. Then you have Jonah's uh the the preparation of the straight fish And then we thirdly, last of all, I put this down, we have the preservation of Judah. We've already dealt with this quite a bit, how God miraculously kept him alive. The word belly, as I mentioned there, is literally in estime I mean he's now inside there. And um uh uh so he's there I I wrote this down, I got ahead of myself in my notes here, but I wrote this down, regardless of how impossible of a situation we get ourselves into. And don't you agree with me he got himself into an impossible situation? He's going to this is an SP. Regardless of how impossible that situation we get ourselves into, God can get us out of it. Isn't that great? God lets us go through that. He gets us out of it. He can deal with that thing. And at verse 17, Jonah is now starting to turn. Get to chapter 2. The whole attitude on Jonah's part starts changing. And God does an amazing thing. This is what I want to end this with. God does not make Jonah go to Nineveh against his will. By the time God's done with them, Jonas weren't willing to go. But God is very good at making him willing to go. Right? I've often said this, how many folks here, you know someone or you work for someone that you're praying and trying to witness them and see them get saved? How many folks I've got people like that Does anybody here have someone you think I just don't see how in the world they would ever want to get saved? I got someone I just don't see that they their condition, their frame of mind, I just don't see that they would ever want to get saved. We got people like that I'm telling you, God won't save them against their will, because God is very good at backing them into a corner where they have nowhere to look but up. God is very good at changing their frame of mind to get up to where they would be willing to sit, you say. And that's the same thing that people live in I meant to look up the reference and I meant to get it done. But there in the Old Testament, I think it's back in Joshua, where God sent hornets in. To get those people out of that country so Israel would come in. And I don't remember what group of people it was. One of the knights, Ammonites, Moabites, and Mennonites, I forget which one of them. One but um That was one of those. But uh um and like the little song says at the end, God didn't make them go against their will, but he sure made them will again go. And that's what God is doing here. God is stirring him and getting him to go and be going to go through. Behind all these calamities that Jonah's going through is the hand of God. God is working, God is working. I struggle. I pray about every day. I pray that God will send missionaries to Kazakhstan. I'm just asking God. And I struggled early on on that side of authority, you know, people it just seems like folks don't want to know where to go. Even young people have just want jobs and they want money and all this and And uh when I was studying this, God stirred my heart. God's able to make people willing. God to do and work on parts. He's got the land. Every life. Brother Sprunger said Sunday. He told a story about, I think it was Brother Sprunger's Sunday told a story about Benson Feller went to England. And was a little concerned about saw me preach, and when he was done, there was a hundred people on their way to China as missionaries. I wrote my notes, I was sitting here, and I wrote my notes on what would happen if a hundred missionaries could go to Christ. One way if there was a hundred in the next few years we build it. What do you mean if that actually? How do you do it? Amen. And uh but we just need to be willing to trust him and pray that he calls them to be. Alright, let's pray. Father, we're glad you don't give up on us, Lord. Don't let us continue and sin, Lord, and pray and intervene there. We get away from your will and plan for our lives. We pray you intervene, dear God. Pray many years, God, you keep me on a short leash, and I think that's what you're doing to Jonah here. keeping them tight up and close uh and keeping them in your will to help us. I wonder whether he's found eyes closed. I wonder if there's something this evening before we go on.