Good. Genesis chapter eight. If you would turn there real quickly, I just want to look at one verse. I was going to try and finish out these last three, four verses here, but I just want to look at verse number twenty tonight and um Uh it's been a busy week. We got a busy week ahead of us with um uh fingerprints Fridays, uh th Wednesday, Thursday and Friday and then finishing out tracked month and I know it's been hectic for all of us Plus a big snowstorm coming in. And so um I just want to kind of give you one thought this evening. Uh three thoughts about one thought, and about fifteen subthoughts under each of those three thoughts And uh so we'll be probably like we usually are. No, I just want to give try and give you a thought or two. Notice verse number twenty. Noah has been in the ark. For uh over a year, maybe up to 370 days in this ark with all these animals. Finally the waters recede, the ark settles down. Uh he's still in there for a number of months, even after they've quit floating around or on dry gr dry ground. God's just giving time for uh the the ground to dry out uh from its saturation, perhaps maybe time for plants to germinate somewhat and have some some uh food for the uh the critters coming out. And so finally he gets to come out. And notice what the very first thing is that Noah does when he comes out of this ark. Verse number 20. Verse 19, they went forth out of the ark. Verse 20. And Noah builded an altar unto the Lord, and took every clean beast, and of every clean fowl, and offered burnt offerings on the altar. Very first thing he did when he came out of the ark was now bear with me here a little bit. I'm going to describe it this way. He worshipped God. Very first thing he did. Let's pray and we'll give that a little thought. Father Bless an hour, just a quick time in your word this evening. Challenge us. We do ask that your Holy Spirit would speak to our hearts. uh from this portion of scripture, this one act of Noah that is so significant. And here we are thousands of years later. And that act influences us and challenges us Holy Spirit, help us. I yield my body to you again tonight, Lord. Fill me with your Holy Spirit, I pray. Help us to leave here closer to you, rejoicing in your presence in our lives. Help us have a greater burden for the lost, more determination to please you with the things we say and do this week Help us, all of us, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. Now the question is, and we've dealt with this before, what does it mean to worship God I say I say Noah came out and he worshipped God. What what does that mean? You go to different churches as in so many things in religion and you get all different kinds of ideas Some people have the idea of going through some type of religious ritual, worshiping God. I've always avoided referring to our church services as worship services I don't know if you notice that, and I've explained it occasionally over the years. I I'm not being critical, good men call merci and service. I I I'm not against that. I've just avoided it for this reason simply. Not that we don't worship here at church. But my understanding of worship in Scripture is something that's an ongoing thing that takes place in our life not just Sunday morning, but Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday. Uh we uh worship isn't something that's restricted to the church house or to the church service. This is my definition of worship. Now maybe some of you have it written in your Bible. I I recommend it. This is The way I understand worship as I've studied it in the Bible, it's simply this. To recognize God's power and authority over my life. By humbly submitting to him, by trusting and obeying him. To worship God means I simply recognize that he is the authority over my life. And I submit myself to that authority. The word worship means the literal, strict definition means to bow, prostrate. But the implication of the word is to submit myself to God's authority over my life. And I do that humbly, trusting Him and obeying Him When Abraham went up to offer Isaac, the Bible says that they were going to worship God. He's about to offer his son on an i uh uh Isaac as a sacrifice. He said, I'm gonna worship God. You know what he's saying? I'm recognizing God's authority. God's instructed me to do this. That seems outlandish, but God is the authority. I'm going to submit to him. I'm going to trust him and obey him. So Noah gets off the ark. He has just been through the most cataclysmic event that has happened in the history of the world. Nothing is the same. Continents have been altered. Mountain ranges have risen up out of the sea. Perhaps mountain ranges that existed before are no longer there. The GPS after the flood does not work from before the flood. Right? The rivers aren't the same place. Nothing's the same. And what's the first thing he does when he comes out? He worships God. He builds an altar and he worships God. Now here's my first thought. The priority of worship in our lives. Now think with me. Everybody doing okay? Everybody happy? All right, good. Um Pat said, eh. All right. Um some people you no matter what you do, you can't make them happy. Now think about this. Put yourself in Noah's shoes. You've been stuck in this art for this whole time. And you finally get out, what I mean just I'm curious where your thought where your mind is at. What would be the first thing you would think of doing when you got out of the ark? You got your wife, kid their her kids, their wives. And you get out of the ark, all right, what do we gotta do first? Go to the dairy queen. That explains why some of y'all aren't happy right now. You're wanting to get the dairy queen. Well, be beside Dairy Queen, I would think you'd want to build a house. Right? I need to get some shelter. I need to get some place to live in to take care of this. Get away from these animals. You might want to think, alright, we got to get some provisions together. Gay, we got some provisions together. We need to make sure we got food, bring some of that food out. A shelter, maybe, I don't know about you. Some of you, I think, I would be curious. Let's check this place out. This is completely different. It's like we're on another planet. Let's go let's go find out what what what does brain do? You know, let's see if we can find dinosaur bones. Let's go do something. Let's check this thing out. But before Noah does any of that, before he builds a shelter, before he finds provision, before he goes exploring, he builds an altar to God. He stops and says, wait a minute, gang. Before we do anything else, we're going to worship God. We're going to recognize that God has authority over our lives. We are submissive to him. And we want to make that absolutely clear. God knows that, but we need to make it clear in our hearts and minds. What's Matthew 6. 33 say? Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness and what's going to happen. All these things. Now you've got to go to the chapter there to look, see what these things are. All these things, provision. Shelter, food, clothing, and all be taken care of if you seek me first Noah, I believe, understood that principle: that if he would make the Lord and his submission to the Lord a priority in his life. God would take care of everything else. Now I'm convinced that that principle is true for you and I today. If we will seek first the Lord, if we will submit, if we make a priority in our lives, living a life submitted to God and His will for me, God will bring all that other stuff into place. It'll all take care of itself. What does the Bible say? Trust in the Lord with all thine heart. Lean not to understand, and all thy ways acknowledge him. He'll direct your paths. So, uh uh the priority of worship in our lives. Can I offer he saying, well, how does that play itself out in a practical way in my life? Can I offer some suggestions? Um I don't know how these might go down, uh, but um how about church attendance? How about let's make that a priority in our lives? Huh? Come on, help me out now. It's lonely up here. Let's say, you know, as for me and my house, we're going to be faithful to church. Oh, we just got out. Oh, what about j what about house and with a garden and we gotta paint the trim and and uh gotta change the oil on the car? Great, but uh hey, let's first of all build that altar Let's first of all worship God. Let's first of all say not God's Lord of my life. I don't want to forsake the assembling of ourselves. Um, all right, that one overfair. Try this one. How about daily devotions? Why don't we make that a priority in our life? Altar, right? Time we give to the Lord. What about that personal altar? What about making it a priority in my life? That I'm going to spend some day, some some time every day letting God speak to my heart. I'm going to spend some time every day recognizing God's authority over me. And humbly submitting myself. You know what this book represents? God's authority. This is the word of God. You say, well, God's authority, how do I know what he wants me? Uh right here. This is the authority. So uh some suggestions, priority of worshiping God in life. Look at church attendance, uh deluitions. What about this? Prayer time. Now listen, I get convicted every time I read a sermon about prayer, every time I hear a sermon about prayer, every time I read a book about prayer, every time I preach about prayer. I have never yet in 30-some years of my Christian life have I been satisfied with my prayer life. Can I get a witness? It's a constant thing. Now, why do we do this? Why do we push prayer to the back of the list? We try everything else. Well, I guess there's nothing else we can do but pray. Now I understand, but think about what we're saying. Why don't we begin with that? Why don't we make prayer a priority? Huh? Come on now, talk to me a little bit. We're guilty. We get off the ark and We'll find out. Well I gotta do this. I got this. Good night. Where's my blackberry? I got a list of things I gotta do. This, this, this, this, this. And Noah didn't do that. He says, hold it. We're going to spend some time with God. Uh I put this down, witnessing. Boy, here's another one. What kind of priority is that in my life? Can I suggest to you that witnessing, sharing the gospel with people is an act of worship? It's part of my worship of God. It's recognizing God's authority. What was the Lord's last command to us? Go ye into All the world preach the gospel to every creature. Now if I recognize his authority over my life and I submit to that, then I'm involved in that in one way or another. So I notice here the fact that Noah coming off the art. Now I was trying to give some practical s suggestions or applications But he comes off the ark, and the very first thing he does, the number one priority, is to worship God. Second thing I noticed, what was his purpose? Why would he do that? Why would he come out and build an ark right away? I mean there's some other pressing things. The family needed a place to live. Can't you hear Mrs. Noah saying, I'm not spending another night in this ark? Can you hear that? That was not my imitation of my wife. I was just imagining what that would be like. But um Uh uh there there's a lot of things he could have been doing, but he says, nope, we're gonna build this altar first. We're gonna worship God first. And uh why would he do that? Can I give you some What I think? Some ideas. First of all, I think gratitude to God. The Bible speaks uh much about the sacrifice of thanksgiving. Coming and offering to God something that costs me something, some of my time and effort, some of my possessions, I freely offer to God simply because I'm grateful to God for what He's done. Has anyone ever done that for you? Have you ever helped someone or did something for them? And you didn't charge money. But they of their own free will came and said, hey, I made this chocolate chip cookies for you And um these are subtle hints I'm sending out. Uh I made these chocolate chip cookies for you and just want to let you know we're very grateful for what you've done. How many folks ever had somebody do that for you? Anyone? Sure Uh how many folks here you've done that for someone else? They did something for you and you said, you know, I want to I want them to know I appreciate it. And you spend some time, put a little effort, put a little money perhaps into something And you gave that to them as an expression of your gratitude. How many folks ever did that? You know what? That is exactly, I think, what's happening here. Noah was spared being drowned in this flood. Him and his family. What was it? What was it about God that caused him to spare Noah and his wife and children and daughter-in-laws? I heard it. What was it? Not Noah's righteousness. He was a righteous man, but that's not what prompted God to save him. God's grace. Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. What is grace? Grace is God doing something for me that I do not deserve. Now this might fly against the grain of our thinking a little bit, but I want to suggest to you, Noah did not deserve to be in that ark any more than anybody else deserved to be in that ark. He was a sinner just as much as anybody else was. I mean, not to the level of degradation perhaps, but as far as his standing before God. Last I read, my Bible says there's none righteous. No, not one. Huh? The only reason he survived that flood was God was gracious to him. God's grace. So that prompted Noah, I would imagine, to express his gratitude. Now, if Noah had survived the flood because he was good enough. Because he was righteous enough, because he deserved to survive that flood, that he could come off that ark and he wouldn't have to say thank you to God. Right? He said, I deserve this. I earned it. But he didn't deserve it. I didn't earn it. He's a sinner. And God in his grace and mercy, because Noah exercised faith, Hebrews 11. God spared him. And so his response was, God, I want you to know how grateful I am. You know what that tells me? Every aspect of our Christian life should be motivated by gratitude. By gratitude I put on Facebook last night, I said, I think it was yesterday, I put on the church, I put um, some folks are wore out from giving out the gospel today. And they were when when I parked that bus yesterday we got back, folks were getting off, uh they were worn out. They ran up steps, down steps, down this hill, up that hill. I found you know what since living here, I found out West Virginia's hilly. Really, it is. And they were wore out. Why in the world, why in the world would someone give four or five hours of their only day off from work to wear themselves out putting out little pieces of literature that a bunch of people get mad about, and the ones that do like it, we hardly ever hear from them. Why in the world would they do that? Can I offer some suggestions? I think primarily because we are really grateful for what God did in saving us from sin in hell. And we love him. We didn't want to do, Lord, I love you, I want to live for you. I am so grateful that you saved me and gave me a new life and saved me from hell. God, I just want to live for you. And so I think that was the uh purpose behind Noah building an ark was simply gratitude for what God did. Um I told you a story about the Seventh-day Adventist guys. visiting that lady and we're trying to sh witness and there are seven day events guys there and um they denied that they believed in work salvation but what they said they believed in work salvation I said we're saved by grace completely except And he got, remember I told that story? He got angry and slammed his Bible. He says, if I go to heaven just by God's grace, why should I bother reading this Bible every day? That tells me that him reading the Bible was a chore. It was a burden. Oh, I've got to read this Bible every day, or I'll go to hell. I said, I don't know why you read your Bible. I said, but I like to read my Bible because I love the one that wrote it. Grateful for what God means. This thing speaks to my heart and gives me direction. I find help and God, uh, the Lord saved me. You follow what I'm saying And so, gratitude. Our greatest motivation for committing our lives to the Lord is the gratitude to God for his great love and mercy in saving us from hell. So I think one of the purposes was to express gratitude to God. I think another purpose quickly was to glorify God. He was setting a precedent here, perhaps for himself and for his family. God is going to be glorified by my life. Now later on, he blows it a little bit, or pretty significantly. But he comes out here, I want Christ to be honored. What does it mean to glorify something? Literally the strict definition is to put weight upon something. In other words, he says, the Lord carries a lot of weight in my life. You know what I mean by that? Do you ever have a business or somewhere and say that guy carries a lot of weight around here? What's that mean? But he has a lot of influence. He's very influential. When we glorify the Lord, part of that aspect is saying God has a lot of influence in my life. He's honored. He's lifted up. And I think that's what Noah is trying to establish here. We're starting a new world, a new generation of mankind. We'll start this thing out and Christ is going to be glorified. He's going to carry weight. He's going to be exalted. Today, even in many of our churches, as Robin was saying, everything in the world is honored except the Lord. Everything is up. Good things are honored over top of the main thing. That's the Lord Jesus Christ. Psalms 12:8 says, evil prevails when the wicked walk on every side when the vilest of men are exalted. Well, we see that in our world, don't we? The heroes of our world, the people that carry a lot of weight in our world, are in some cases downright perverts. Am I right or wrong? And then we wonder why society is the way it is. Why don't we follow Noah and say, nope, the Lord's going to be glorified? He's gonna one that carries weight. He's the one that's lifted up. He's the one that's honored in my life. Last of all, what was the price What was the price of his worship? Well, look at verse the rest of verse 20. Noah built an altar unto the Lord. Look at this. And took of What's that next word? Every clean beast, and of every clean fowl, and offer burnt offerings on the altar What does that sound like to you? Killed them all, doesn't it? He took every and put them all. Now, there must have been little children born, little baby clean beasts or whatever, because obviously they need to what's the word I want, Sandy? Procreate. Is that right? Sandy's not answering me. She don't know. Uh the little children need the procreate. They're the little ones. But this is what I'm trying to get at. It cost him something. He's not allowed to eat the unclean beasts. He's cutting into his provisions pretty sharply here and giving them to the Lord. Now, I don't think Mrs. Noah said this. I don't think the kids or the daughter-in-law said this. But I can imagine something like this in another setting happening. Dad. What are we gonna eat? Sweetheart, you're giving all of that to the Lord. What about us? Huh? The Bible says in Hebrews, by faith, he trusted God. Um Living a life of worship, living a life of devotion to the Lord is not easy. It costs us sometimes. There's a price to pay if we're going to live a life of worship and commitment to Lord Jesus Christ. Listen, we don't like to hear this, but it's a fact of the matter. If we're going to live for the Lord, it's going to cost us some money. The Lord asks for at least ten percent. Doesn't ask, he expects it And then you've got faith promise. And if you go through the Bible, you say, well, we ought to give like they did in the Old Testament. Okay. That's about 35-40% of their income. There are people so in love with the Lord that they don't live in as nice a house as they could because they give so generously to the Lord. Now I'm not saying you should. I'm just saying that's true. That's between an individual and order. There are folks I could I could I could take you and introduce you to people Who don't drive as nice a car as they could if they weren't as generous in their giving to the Lord. Nobody's twisting their arm. Nobody's beating them over the head so they have to do that. They just say, I love the Lord. I want to worship him. I want my life to be committed to him. And it costs them something. Effort I have never been as proud of our church as I have been in the last couple years. Those ladies in that nursery this morning, Kathy, was telling me. Just a a little bus kid wed himself. Is that the correct story? And didn't have any clothes. You know what some people could have said? Good grief. What a headache. This is disgusting. You what our ladies did? They scrambled around, got that little kid cleaned up. One of the ladies ran home, got some clothes, put it on, and I never heard a word about it until my wife told me this afternoon. Isn't that sweet? That costs something. You know what that's a result of? That's a heart that worships God. I submit to God. I want to be a blessing. Help this little child. Effort. Time. Man, we go out, give out gospel tracts. I'm embarrassed her a little bit, but Betty Gallagher is on that bus every week, up and down the steps, running, run, and just going, going, going, giving out tracks. She could, as easy as anybody, say, you know, I'm just going to stay home today. Let the younger kids do it. Right? I'm not trying to put anybody on the spot. I'm simply saying. Effort, time, money. Noah had limited resources He is never going to get these animals back. He sacrifices them. They're gone. They're dead. They're burned up. He never gets them back. There's nothing he can do after he offers this to the Lord but live by faith. And that's exactly what he does. He just trusts God. I was reading this week about Caesar Augustus. Or uh I'm sorry, Julius Caesar. And he invaded Britain. And he has all his ships and he's got his men and and uh they're invading Britain, and he gets the guys, and I don't know where this is, but he got all his men up the cliffs of Dover. How many people anybody know where that is over in England? Somewhere, cliffs of Dover. It's along the ocean. And uh he gets all his men, all his men up in the cliffs of Dover, he stands them there, gets them information, he's given some instructions And it's taken a little while, and finally says, Alright, all y'all, uh, all y'all, uh, about face, go back to the edge of the cliff, and I want you to look down at our ships. And they all turn around and they march the edge and they look down and the ships are all on fire. He's burning them. He cut off all possibility of retreat. They only have one option conquer. All you can do, you can't go back. I thought of that When Noah offered these sacrifices. That was a great, great cost to him. Can't ever get him back. But he loves God and he's going to live by faith. Now don't misunderstand what I'm trying to say. I'm trying to glean from this event. And apply it to my life and our lives. I'm not suggesting that you give anything or whatever. I'm just simply saying, let's let God be God in our lives. You follow what I'm saying? Let's just worship him. Let God be the authority. You just trust him, whatever God tells you to do. Not me, God. Whatever he tells you to do, you just worship him. And see what he does in your life. See what he does in your life. Just as Noah came out of that ark saved from the flood, you and I get up every morning, saved from hell. Got eternal life. That great. Father bless us. I hope this something here would help us, Lord. We want to worship you. We want to be a people. I want to, Lord. People just worship you. We recognize your authority. We live in submission to you as you lead and direct us. God, as you challenge us in the coming weeks and months and years, that we'll just by faith trust you. We'll just by faith say, Lord, I love you and I am so grateful for what you've done. All I am is yours, God. All I ever hoped to be is yours. I put it on the altar. I think that involves church. I think that involves personal Bible reading. I think that involves soul winning, prayer time, all of that. Help us, Lord, we pray. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many say, Preacher, I want to worship God with all my heart? I want to be a man or a woman, a young person that worships God. In sincerity and in truth. How many, how many would like would say that's true? God bless you. My hand's raised. Of course we would want that. Goodness. Now whatever God leads us, direct us, let's act on that. Father, bless our imitation. I pray in Jesus' name. Let's stand together