I've got it on, but I don't think we're getting anything there, uh James. The lights on but no one's home. Oh there we go. How about that? Uh Mark chapter fourteen And uh I just want to read a couple verses, just a um little announcement. I think probably most of you already know this, but uh Kathy and I found out on Thursday that we are going to be grandparents. And so Sam called me up. He said, Dad, are you sitting down? And um actually I was laying down. I was snowed in in the motel room. And uh but uh he says uh guess what? You're gonna be a grandpa and so we praise the Lord for that. We're excited. And uh how many grand how many grandparents do we have here? Look at that. I am excited, I've been waiting for this uh from when they got married I said, all right, time to produce. And so uh we're ex we're excited about that. Now let me ask you this, how many Uh this this is my sentimental side I guess. How many folks when you found out the first time you're gonna be a grandparent how many folks cried? And you Oh look at that. Yeah. Good. I don't feel so bad now So I'm I'm a real sentimental kind of guy. Look with me if you would, Mark chapter 14. And come down, if you would, to verse number 6. Look at verse 6. And Jesus said, now Brother Grant just read the event here, the girl with the alabaster box breaks it, pours it on his head. And uh look what and the disciples criticize her. And he says, Let her alone, why trouble her why trouble ye her? For she hath wrought a what? A good work on me. A good work. That caught my attention. A good work. Now it's also interesting, come down to verse number 8, and the Lord again referencing this woman. We'll find out a little bit who she was. But he says, She hath done what she could. Sunday school class teacher had asked her class to bring in the next week to bring in some object lessons that taught something about a blur verse or a lesson they learned in the Bible. So the next week showed up Kids brought in all their little object lessons. First little boy stepped up and he had a glass of water. He said, my object lesson is a glass of water. And the teacher said, okay, Johnny, that's nice. What does that glass of water use to illustrate or teach? He says, this is to teach us that Jesus is the water of life. And the teacher said, Very good, that's a good one. Next and the next little girl came up. She had a bunch of flowers, some roses. She goes, This is my object lesson. The teacher said, Okay, sweetie, what uh what what is that teaching? What what does that remind you of? She goes, this is to teach. that Jesus is the rose of Sharon. The teacher said, very good. That's a good lesson. Next one came up and had a loaf of bread. And uh she said, this is my object lesson. The teacher said, um uh sweetheart, what uh what's that loaf of bread uh illustrate? What's that? Well Jesus is the what Bread of life. She said very good. Last little boy came up and he had a banty chicken egg. Anybody know what a bandy chicken is? Little tiny thing? And he held up that little tiny egg. And the teacher's, uh, what in the world what does that teach? And he says, She had done what she could. So let's pray. Father, we ask that we can learn from this passage of Scripture. Lord, uh it's been a blessing to be in your house today and glad for to see that sun shining through the windows, Lord. We're just so grateful for your daily blessings and your love for us, your attention to us. Now, Lord, we want to give you our attention. And we ask that you would open our hearts and minds and that we would be receptive to the truths that are given here. And this matter of good works and the role that they play in our lives as believers. I pray you'd help us and fill me with your Holy Spirit is my earnest plea. I yield myself to you, my will. I present my body anew, and just speak through me, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. See Ben here of this woman in the alabaster box and anointing the head of the Lord and the criticism from the disciples, and then the Lord Jesus Christ honoring her and making that great statement that wherever the gospel is preached This woman is going to be mentioned. It's going to be remembered as a memorial for her. All this took place as the Lord was making his final trip to Jerusalem. In just a couple weeks, Jesus Christ is going to be taken in the Garden of Gethsemane by the Roman soldiers. He's going to be brought before Pilate, before the high priest. He's going to be unjustly condemned. He's going to be beaten beyond recognition horrendously. He's going to be nailed to the cross. And he on that cross, he is going to take the judgment of God for all the sins of all mankind. Of course we know uh he's going to be buried three days later, three days, three nights later, he's going to send uh come up out of the grave. and uh and eventually ascend to heaven. So this is his final trip into Jerusalem. He is about to fulfill all that the Old Testament was pointing towards as far as salvation is concerned. This is a very significant time in the ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ. As he is making his way to Jerusalem, he comes through the little town of the little village of Bethany. He spends a few days there. While he is in Bethany en route to Jerusalem to be judged for the sins of the world that great event of of of the crucifixion and resurrection, he's invited in Bethany there, a fellow by the name of Simon the Leper. That's how he's known as invites the Lord Jesus Christ to come and have dinner with him in his home. Now what do we know about Simon the leper? What do we know about this guy? Well we don't know a whole lot We're not told who he is. He's called Simon the Leper. Now if we read this and think about it a little bit. Apparently, at some point he had leprosy, or why else would you call him Simon the leper? But it's very obvious that he had been healed from leprosy, or he would not be inviting people into his home to have dinner with him. There was very strict regulations for lepers for uh for sanitary reasons and for the health of society. They were to be quarantined They were not to interact with the public because of the the contagious nature of the disease and the deadliness of the disease. So the very fact that he's inviting Jesus and others into his home to have a meal indicates to us that he was healed of leprosy at some point. Now, the only person I know in Israel at that time healing people of leprosy was the Lord Jesus Christ. So apparently Simon was had been at some point had come across the Lord Jesus Christ, had been miraculously healed by the Lord Jesus Christ, and that indicates to me that Simon was obviously a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ. He was a saved man. Many times Jesus would eat meals with unsaved The Pharisees and publicans sometimes would bite him in, and he'd sit down with them and he would eat with them and try and uh teach them and win them over and and uh influence them But this instance, he's eating with Simon, who is obviously a healed of leprosy and a saved man. Now, this event is recorded in other Gospels. We're going to look in John here in a little bit. I believe it's a very real possibility that Simon the leper was, at the very minimum, a friend of Mary, Martha, and Lazarus. We're going to notice in a little bit that they were in that this meal with them. Some commentators suggest, and I don't know, to me it's a stretch a little bit, but I thought it was interesting. Some commentators suggest that Simon the leper may have been the father of Mary, Martha, and Lazarus, and that was actually their house that Jesus was invited in and was a part of. Now, if you would keep your place here in Mark, go with me to Gospel of John chapter 12. And keep your place at both, because we're going to kind of jump back and forth a little bit. As you know, many events in the ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ are recorded various times in the Gospels. If you read them very carefully, some of the events are worded a little differently. Some of the events don't match up word for word as it's recorded. The answer to that is very simple. Each of the apostles, each of the gospel writers, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, they would write down their observations of what took place. And so if you take all their records If you put them together, you get a little bit more detail on what happened. You get a little more uh accurate perhaps or full record of what took place. Well that's the case here in John chapter 12. And uh look with me. Let's begin in verse number 1 of John chapter 12. We'll read this through and then we're going to note a few things throughout the message. We're given a little bit more about this instance. So look at verse 1. Then Jesus, six days before the Passover, came to Bethany, where Lazarus was, came to Bethany, where Lazarus was, which had been dead, whom he raised from the dead. There they made him a supper. Alright, this is the same supper dinner that Simon the leper is inviting them to. They made him a supper, and Martha served, but Lazarus was one of them that sat at the table with him. Then took Mary a pound of ointment of spitenard, very costly, and anointed the feet of Jesus and wiped his feet with her hair, and the house was filled with the odor of the ointment. So let's stop right there. So what other information have we gleamed here from this event in Mark chapter 14. We find out that Mary, Martha, and Lazarus were there also. We find out that Mary was the one that had taken this um uh this box, uh uh uh this uh alabaster box and had broken it. But did you notice a difference in verse number three from what the record in Mark chapter 14 said Where did she pour that ointment on Jesus in Mark chapter 14? Poured it on his on his head in Mark chapter 14. Here we find her. Pouring it on his feet. Oh, there's obviously a contradiction in the Bible. You can't trust that Bible. It's no contradiction at all. The answer is simply she poured it on his head and his feet Mark simply record rec recorded that part of her giving it, putting it on his head. Uh John recorded the aspect of owners' feet. They all had their different perspectives. Things stood out in their mind And um uh and so there's no contradiction at all. Then said one, verse four, uh then uh then well verse uh three uh uh uh anointed the feet of Jesus, wiped his feet with her hair And the house was filled with the odor of the ointment. And we said one of his disciples, Judas Iscariot. We're not told that in Mark. Find out that Judas was behind the criticism, Simon's son. and uh which be should betray him. Why was not this ointment sold for three hundred pence and given to the poor? This he said, not that he cared for the poor, but because he was a thief and had the bag and bare what was put in. Jesus said, let her alone Against the day of my burying hath she kept this. For the poor always ye have with you, but mean ye shall not always have with you. Much people the Jews therefore knew that he was there, and it goes on And so we have this other record. We find out Mary's the one that broke this alabaster box. Lazarus and Martha were there at the dinner, and she anointed both the head and the feet of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now keep your place there. We're going to look at something in that a little bit. Come back to Mark. And this is what I want to zero in on, as I pointed out when I first read the scripture. In verse number six, she hath wrought a good work on me. This here that Mary did and taking a s uh alabaster box of Spikenard, uh ointment of Spikenard, and she breaks it and she pours it on his head, and then she takes and anoints his feet and wipes his feet with her hair Then the disciples come and criticize her, and Jesus said, don't you criticize her. She's done a good work. A good work. Now the Bible talks about good works. Ephesians 2, 8, and 9 says that we are not saved by our works, our good works. Listen, the Bible is very, very clear. The works that we do for God cannot and will not save us from sin in hell. Good works do not say we are saved by grace through faith. I cannot do enough work for God to earn heaven. You know what's tragic? All around this world there are quote unquote churches that are being taught and preaching that if you do enough good things If you give enough money, if you do enough alms, if you do enough of this and do enough of that, that uh maybe when you die, hopefully if your good works outweigh your bad works, somehow you might get into heaven. That is a lie of the devil. I am not uh nobody gets to heaven because of good works. Now, uh having said that, uh, does that mean good works play no role in the Christian life? No, if you'll read on in Ephesians, we're not going to turn there for sake of time, but if you'll read on Ephesians chapter 2, verse 10 The Bible says that God saves us unto good works. God saves us not by our good works. God doesn't forgive our sin and save us from hell and give us eternal life here and then take us to heaven because good things we do were good enough. But he saves us, does all that for us, so that we will perform good works. And it's important to understand, some folks get the cart before the horse. I do good works. I am to serve God not to earn my salvation, but because I am saved. And so here you have Mary. And it's important to point out, her doing this is not what is saving her soul from hell. As far as I'm concerned, that's already a settled matter in Mary's life. She's already trusted Christ. She's already been born again. That's a settled matter. Now she is doing this as a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ. And that's my message this morning. What role did these good works Play in Mary's life. What was it about these? And that's what I want to point out. This is my first thought. Number one: her good works were a display of her affection for the Lord. This good work she did wasn't trying to earn God's favor. It was because she was deeply in love with the Lord Jesus Christ. Her good works were a display of her affection. One thing is certain about Mary. She fulfilled the first and greatest command. And what do we know from Scripture that is the first and greatest command that God has from us is that we what? Love the Lord our God with all our heart, with all our soul, with all our mind, with all our strength. God wants his people, those who have trusted him as Savior, God wants us to love him deeply. God wants us to be passionate in our affection and love for the Lord God. God wants us to love Him And uh Mary was passionate about her love for the Lord, about who he was as the Son of God. The pure, perfect, loving, holy Son of God. That stirred Mary's heart as a believer and prompted her to love him dearly Mary was passionate about the Son of God and what he was doing in her life. Listen to me. The very fact that Jesus Christ would suffer hell for one of my sins would earn my uh deepest love. But the fact that he would die for all my sins, past, present, future. Mary understood that and she was very passionate about her love for the Lord. Somebody said, nothing great. Has ever been done in this world without passion. And Mary was passionate. She loved the Lord dearly. Hey, if Christianity is true. If what this Bible says about where we came from and how we got here, if what this book says is true about who and what we are, If what this book says is true about what the future holds, about the reality of heaven and hell, If what this book teaches us about what Jesus Christ has done for us in dying for our sins and rising again, if what this book says is true about who Jesus Christ is, God in the flesh. Then we ought to be stirred up about the things of God. We ought to be passionate about our love for the Lord. Mary was passionate. Her good works here was a display of her affection for the Lord. Her love for the Lord had to express itself. I get a little bit concerned when we as Christians sometimes we say how much we love the Lord, but yet there's little or no evidence of it in our actions. Can I get a witness? Boy, we'll say, oh, how I love Jesus. But then there's little or no expression of that professed love in our lives or in our behavior. Um if all if all our love for the Lord is a words on our lips And it never displays itself in our actions or our lifestyles. Something is wrong. Something is deeply wrong Mary could not contain her love for the Lord. She loved him dearly, and she was there in his presence. She could not but help but take and express that love in a very uh in a very dramatic fashion. And her love stirred her. We claim to love the Lord, but so often we have little or no passion for the Lord. I remember back in 1986. It's my final year as a senior in college. I'd been a senior in college for about three years at that point. And um I was a senior in college and I was traveling the summer with Neighborhood Bible time And uh we were sent to a church down in Tennessee, outside Nashville. And uh a little church, country church, and uh we were fired up, my partner and I, we're going down there, we're gonna do a rally. We'd been traveling a little bit that summer, we were a couple of three weeks into the summer And uh we showed up on the way from the airport to the church, we're driving along with the pastor, and I asked the pastor, I said, uh, all right, Pastor, we're stirred up, we're ready for a great week, we're excited, and uh I said, you got all your teachers picked out to teach uh the class? He goes, uh, not yet. We'll get them tomorrow morning before church. Now this is supposed to be planned weeks in advance. You know, this is a big rally. I said, okay. And uh praise the Lord. It's going to be great. We're going to go tear this thing up. And uh I said, um, did you get all your materials for the rally that week? He goes, you know, there's a couple boxes in my office. I wasn't sure what they were. I wonder if that's what that is. I said, Amen. And um So we got there and lo and behold un unopened they're all there and I'll tell you that week was I mean we gave it our all and we saw some people say we had some people out but there was absolutely no passion for what we were doing. In fact, one of the biggest nights of the week, the pastor said, I'm not going to be able to be here tonight. My son and I always work out on this night at the gym. We're going to be down at the gym working out And you go ahead and uh do the rally here. This is a big night, parents, everybody coming out. And uh he's down at the gym working out. You know what I noticed that week in the thing, they sang, Oh, how I love Jesus They talked about loving the Lord. But to be very honest with you, as a guest showing up there, there was little or no expression of love for the Lord. That was dead and as dry and as lukewarm a church I'd ever been in my life. I mean, as far as a Bible-believing church is. That wasn't true with Mary. Man, she stirred up. She loved the Lord and it expressed itself. It displayed itself in her life. About three weeks later, we flew up to Boston, Brother Brian. And we had a rally in Springfield, Massachusetts, out western end of the s uh middle of the state, I guess. And we got out there, church about the same size Church are very similar uh communities, what was down in Tennessee, except they talked funny up there. And um Uh one guy was telling us, yeah, we're going to shack fishing next week. I said, Shack fishing? Yeah, we're gonna catch big shacks. And uh so anyway, uh we get there. And uh I mean to tell you, the pastor picked us up. Amen. He said, We're fired up. We're gonna see souls saved. We're gonna get after this thing. I said, You got your teachers? Yeah, we got twice as many teachers as need. They're just ready on the side. In case we need more, they're ready to step in and do it I said, Amen. Amen. And uh I said, you got all your materials? Yeah, they're out. Teachers have their lessons memorized, they're fired up. I said, You do decorating. Good night, the whole place is decorated. And that whole week was excitement, kids getting saved And and the preacher was kind of very dignified. He's saying all this stuff, he's all excited, but he's very dignified. Uh Pastor uh uh Howell was his name uh and uh pastor ho H O W E and uh he's there uh uh yes we're yeah we're uh we're all ready and uh and we're all excited and then finally about a week about three four days into the week We had about 120 kids saved. All these little Puerto Rican kids are up there in in uh in Boston, you know, and these kids are coming out, getting saved, riding the buses packed out. And um he's very dignified all week long and you know he's all excited he's very dignified. Finally about Thursday we're going over the records. He goes, We had a hundred and some kids saved. And he went like this. Amen. We're like, wow But what a difference between the two churches. Not the same size, same resources. Both claimed to believe the Bible and love the Lord, but one place they couldn't contain it. One place it expressed itself. It was visible. in their attitudes and their actions and what they did. And that's the way Mary was. This good work that she did, very unique, we're going to look at it a little more detail. But it was expression of her love and and uh uh her affection for the Lord. Uh it had to display itself. Uh Mary's love for the Lord could not contain itself. It had to be expressed. So the Lord says to Mary, hey you guys leave her alone. They're criticizing her. He says, you leave her alone. She hath done a good work. That good work was an expression of her love. I put this down, second observation about this good work. It was a deliberate action. on her part. It was a deliberate action. Now, I'll be honest with you, some of the greatest blessings I've had in my life were the result of something I did spontaneously for the Lord. And some of you all can testify the same thing. Some of the greatest things in the Christian life are when we see an opportunity, something presents itself We didn't anticipate it. We didn't really necessarily think it through. But boy, that opportunity is there. And we spontaneously step in, take advantage of it, and boy, God does a great thing. Some of the greatest things in the Christian life happen spontaneously. Maybe it's just an opportunity to share a tract with somebody we didn't think we'd get to. Maybe it's an opportunity to get involved in a ministry. That we didn't really anticipate the opportunities there and we just act and we respond spontaneously, we get involved, and God bless in a great way. Maybe it It's an opportunity to help somebody that we really didn't think about. We don't even know about the need, but all of a sudden it's there and you say, you know what? I'm gonna step in here And what a great blessing that is. Opportunity to serve someone or do something. Many times it is the spontaneous opportunities. That bring the greatest blessings. And listen, we ought to be a little bit spontaneous in our Christian life. Amen. There ought to be an element of spontaneity there where uh well I really didn't plan that on that uh uh hey we have a chance to uh uh do something for the Lord. Well I really didn't plan that. I have my whole year planned out minute by minute, and uh that's not on my schedule, I can't do that. I think you missed some opportunities. Can I get a witness? Well, there's spontaneous ch opportunities. Sometimes they're the greatest. However There are some things that are done for the Lord that should be given careful thought first. There are some things that we do for the Lord that really should be prayed over carefully and diligently. Before we step into it, I do not believe that Mary broke this alabaster box. And poured it on Jesus' head and his feet spontaneously. I believe this is something that I don't believe she did this flippantly. That alabaster box was extremely valuable. I did a little research on this. The alabaster box itself, I'm not talking about the ointment of Spitenard that's inside it. The box itself According to folks that know this stuff, my research, that box itself was probably imported from India. The box itself was extremely valuable. Most women would not have had something like this. It was extremely rare Um, I got thinking as I was studying this and finding information about this alabaster box, I got wondering, I wonder if this was an heirloom. That had been passed down, maybe from her grandmother to her mother and from her mother to her. This was extremely rare. Not many women would have had something like this. This probably, one Bible scholar suggested, this may very well have been the most valuable thing she possessed, material-wise. So I don't believe she just off the cuff flippantly, oh, I'll just go and destroy this alabaster box, been in my family for years. Extremely rare, extremely valuable. I'll just go and do that. Not only was the alabaster box itself very rare, but the ointment was extremely expensive. That ointment was actually what we would consider to be perfume. Well we would refer to a perfume. Notice what the disciples said it was worth, if you would. Are you there in Mark? Look at Verse 4. And there were some that had indignation within themselves. John tells us that Judas was the one that instigated that. Why was this waste of the ointment made? For it might have been sold for more than three hundred pence. 300 pence, how much is that? Well, we know from study of the culture of that time, one pence was equal to one day's income. So, whatever a person would earn in a day, your average guy would earn in a day, that would be a pence. So, this is, in addition, this is 300 pence plus More than 300 pence. So that means this is very close to one year's income. Whatever your average guy would make in a year. Was the value of what she had poured out here? That's a lot of money by anyone's standards That box was extremely rare. Very likely an heirloom passed down in her family, maybe for generations. Very few people would have anything of a box like that, and very few people would have a perfume of that value. Now let me ask you a question. If you would have something in a box that is an heirloom, extremely rare, the perfume inside that box is worth one year of your wages. Where do you think you would keep that throughout time? Where would you uh store that? In our time, we put it in a safe. Well, let's put it this way. Would you agree with me? It would be somewhere very secure. Would you agree with me in that? How many folks still awake? Amen? Amen. Very good. How many folks freezing to death? Raise your hand. All right, good. I thought Carolyn would Um so I think it's safe to assume that this Alabaster box of Spitenard, ointment of Spitenard, very precious Very rare. I think it's safe to assume she probably kept that up somewhere very secure. Somewhere you could not get to very easily I I I could be wrong, but I'm hardly ever am. And um I'm kidding. Uh but I really do not see this just sitting on a shelf in the living room. Right? Where's this anybody could get to it? Uh so what am I saying? I really don't think That Mary just flippantly said, oh yeah, I know what I'll do. I'll just break this heirloom that's been in our family for years, worth a year's income, and I'll just break it and pour it over Jesus' head. You know, sometimes we do things off the cuff, and later on we say, you know, that probably wasn't the smartest thing in the world to do. Can I get a witness? Sometimes maybe uh uh we do something an emotional reaction, and afterward we settle down and we think, you know, I'm not sure that was really The wisest thing to do. This was not something that Mary, I don't believe, did in the heat of the moment, but I believe she thought it out. I believe she prayed it through. Now I have some scripture to support that. If you come back to John with me. And here again we have John's record of this event. He gives a lot more detail here But notice in verse number seven, Jesus is rebuking the disciples for being upset with her. In John 12, verse 7. Then said Jesus, let her alone. And I'll tell you, as I studied this, I hear in Jesus' voice, I hear a sharpness. I hear him saying, let her alone. Look what he says. Against the day of my burying hath she what? kept this. Huh. That's an interesting way of saying it. He doesn't say against the day of my bearing has she done this. The implication here is that she had been holding on to this for this very event. She was keeping this. Mary, why do you have that box out available? That's always secure. Why would that be out? Oh. I've been keeping it for this day. Now this is me. This is my speculation. But I believe she had been thinking about this and planning on this for this very opportunity. This was not a thoughtless emotional reaction to regret later. This is something she had decided ahead of time. Am I going to do this or not? I believe the Lord perhaps was stirring her heart about making this gesture to use as a part of Scripture to teach a biblical lesson. For thousands of years, and God had been stirring her heart about giving that. Did she struggle with it? We don't know. Maybe the first time God impressed her about taking this and doing this with the ointment and the uh uh box The alabaster box. Maybe at first she said, Lord, good night. That's a lot of money. That's in my family a long time. People won't understand. Maybe she struggled with the Lord. I don't know. But my impression is this is something that she had thought through, she had prayed about, and she came to this conclusion. Yes, Jesus is worth it. He is worth it. Now, there are some things, as I said, in the Christian life that I believe we ought to give some thought to. We ought to think things through. We ought to count the cost. Jesus said in another place in the Gospels, he said, you need to count the cost. So that you don't go out and start to build a house and then don't have sufficient funds and the house isn't done and people mock you. Don't start to build a tower and then you don't have the sufficient funds. And you can't finish it and people mock you, you have to war and you don't have the resources necessary. Don't just flippantly do something. Some things in the Christian life ought to be thought through and planned and counted the cost. Is this really what I want to do? Is this really what I want to invest in? Is this really worth it in my mind? I believe that's what Mary did. What are some things we ought to do deliberately? We ought to give some thought to and some thinking things through. I believe in this matter of giving my life to serve the Lord on the mission field. Ought not to be something done flippantly. We have a lot of folks that start out, but they don't count the cost. They really don't know whether it they're uh up to it or not. They just say, Oh yeah. and then they never make it there. I think if God's calling someone to the mission field, they ought to get on her knees before God. Uh somebody came to me just a week or so ago. They said, Preacher, I got a family member and they're asking the question, how do you know if God's called you to the mission? field or not. I said, well one of the first signs is you start asking, how do you know God's called you to the mission field or not? And what I said is you need to take time and wait on God and let Him lead and secure in your heart and make sure is Jesus worth giving my life to? Sometimes God stirs someone's heart about being in the ministry. God calling them, maybe a man, to be a preacher. Or some role or some ministry. Maybe a bus worker. We've been praying. I would love to someday start another route up to McHenry. And bring in kids and families from up in that area. Of course we got Pitsmo and all that and Terra Olda. I'd love to see us maybe uh add a few routes. I don't know how the Lord would leave, but I do know this We don't want someone just flippantly jump in that and then two weeks later said, ah, this isn't what I thought it was, and then drop out. Can I get an amen? We have enough preachers getting into churches and finding out it gets a little rough, a little tough, and then they say, oh, this wasn't what I thought it'd be, and then drop it out. We want folks that count the cost. Folks that say, yes, you know what, Jesus Christ is worth the rest of my life living for him. Yes, Jesus Christ is worth giving myself to go to a nation like Kazakhstan and represent the gospel and and give my life to uh see people saved and churches established. Yes, he's worth it not just some flippant thing But thought that thing through. And I think Mary gave this some real thought. And she prayed over this and you said, you know, Jesus Christ is worth This valuable offering I'm making. Let me take another one. I think our faith promise, we're coming up to our missions conference here in a few months I think our faith promised giving ought not to sit in that service and just flippantly say, oh, I'll give whatever. I believe Christians, Kathy and I are praying now. Lord, what would you have us to give? What would you have us to invest? And seeking the Lord, letting God lead us and direct us. And not just, I'm telling you, listen, don't misunderstand. Some of the greatest blessings are when we react spontaneous to something. And those opportunities are all around, but some things we need to just stop and say, all right, Lord, help me to think this through. Help me to count the cost. Maybe God's speaking to somebody in our church, somebody's, about giving their life to the ministry, going to the mission field, those types of things. My advice would be you seek God, you let the Lord direct you, you be sure this is God's will, and let Him make that clear in your life, and then once you decide, yes, this is worth it, yes, this is what God is calling me, then you jump in headfirst. And so I think this was a deliberate action on her part. She had thought this through. I think we ought to think through and pray over our faith promise, our life's ministry, God's call to the field, her full-time ministry. Something we ought to pray over and think and let the Lord lead. So number one, it was a display of her affection. Number two, it was a deliberate action. Let me give you number three real quick. It destroyed her assets Come back to Mark chapter 14. Notice how it's worded here, verse 3, Mark 14, 3. And being in Bethany, in the house of Simon a leper, as he sat at meat, there came a woman, we know those Mary from John. having an alabaster box of ointment of spark, not very precious, and she did what to the box? She break it. That word break there, I got looking at it, means to shatter into pieces or to crush She didn't just pop the lid off, say, you know, this is from India. This has been in my family for generations. I think I'll just pop the lid off and dump the little out. No, she completely shattered it. This one thing we know about the box, when she was done with it, it was of no use. It couldn't be used for anything else. It was done. And then it says she poured out the ointment of Spike on his head. John tells us and his feet also. There was no recovering this ointment. She couldn't she didn't have a box to put it back into. And she couldn't have gotten any of it back again either. It was completely spent. It was completely given over. This is my point. This wasn't a loan she was making to the Lord. This was a complete sacrifice. We have too many people loan things to the Lord. Oh, I'll give God Sunday mornings for an hour and a half, or the preacher's long-winded, hour and forty-five minutes. But the rest of the time is my time. We have folks, ah, I'll give the Lord Sunday morning, maybe an hour or so, Sunday night, but the rest of it's my time. She didn't take this ointment of spike nar in his alvest box and just kind of pop the lid off and dab a little bit behind Jesus' ears and dab a little bit on his ankles. No. Jesus Christ was worth all of it. All of it. To use for nothing else. It completely, she was not going to get any money out of this. She could have sold this and had a year's worth of income. She could have lived nicely. Off of this for herself, she could have bought nice things for her family. She could have sent her kids on vacations. She could have used this in any number of ways to enhance her life and make her life a much more pleasurable But she said, I love the Lord Jesus Christ with all my heart. And all to him I surrender. And I sacrifice it all to him. Paul put it this way: for I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless I live yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. You know what Paul said? My life is no longer my own. Oh, there's a lot of other things maybe I could do if I wasn't living for God. There were places I could go, there's things I could enjoy. If I wasn't dedicated to Christ, but I'm no longer my own, I've given myself to Christ. To be his and his alone. Completely destroyed her assets. She no longer had possession of this material. She no longer had control over it. She gave it to the Lord without reservation. She gave it to the Lord with no strings attached. Lord, I love you. This is the most precious thing I have. I give it to you. I think God calls us as Christians. Come to that point in our life. We say, Lord, my life is no longer my own I yield myself to you. What does Romans 12, 1 and 2 say? I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a what? Living sacrifice. You sacrifice something, it's over. It's no longer mine. It's all Christ. It's poured out as far as the world's concerned. I'm of little or no use or goodness good to the world. I'm all Christ. August 25th, 1985, and I've told you this before. I'd been in the ministry. I was wanting to be a Sunday school teacher or a school teacher. I want to teach little kids elementary grade I was working in the bus ministry, loved that. I was preaching in chapels around Chattanooga there. The church had started in the surrounding areas. I was preaching in the mission, uh down there, the gospel mission, union gospel mission Out soul went in every week. I mean I was just in over my head. Sunday night, preacher preached about giving our entire all to Christ. Here's the thing. I was doing all those things, but it was what I was planning to do. I was dabbing that on the Lord, but I still had the box and the ointment. I was dabbing pretty much on them, to be honest with you. That night in the evening service, I came to the altar and my life being the box, I said, God, I just dedicate my whole life and everything. You can take me and use me however you feel See fit. And I just shattered the box of my life on that altar. And I said, God, whatever you want me to do. I'm yours. And apart from my salvation, I believe that's one of the one of the one decision I am so thrilled I made. That I can invest my life in Christ. What about you? You say, well, I don't know. God's called me to preach. You don't you don't have to be a preacher to dedicate your life to Christ. She never became a preacher. The most precious thing she had, she poured out, never to be used for herself again. My life is yours, Lord's. I take my hand off of it. I thought about when I was studying this, I thought about, remember the widow's money? Jesus stand there watching the uh uh the the Pharisees and them, and they put a bunch of money in, boy they put a chunk of money in that offering plate The Lord didn't criticize them for that. But a little old widow lady came by. She put in one little mite, less than a penny. She put that in there and the Lord being He said she gave more than they did. I said, what? She gave everything she had. She just gave it all to the Lord. I think one thing that's hurting Christian's in Christianity's influence in our nation, our world. is that we have Christians who are dabbing the Lord with their love and affection. A little bit here, a little bit there, I'll drop a little bit in. And what God is looking for is somebody that will just break the box of their life and their future and just dump it on Jesus and Jesus, it's all yours. No longer mine. No longer mine. We could give illustration after illustration of missionaries on the field that did that very thing. They could be back here in the States living in nice houses, driving nice cars, making good money. And they said, you know, some things in life are more important than having a box of ointments sitting on a shelf. I'm going to take my life and invest it in Christ. So one, it was a display of her affection, this good work. Two, it was a A deliberate action. Three, it was uh destroyed her assets. I put this down real quick and I know I need a quick it displeased the apostles Boy, verse 4 and 5 of Mark 14, it stirred up their indignation. That means extreme displeasure. They were very upset John 12 tells us that Judas was behind all of this. He was the instigator. And it's interesting when Mary poured this out, broke the box, and poured it out. The first thought that came to Judas' mind, and the disciples went along with them, the very first thought that came to his mind is, how much is that worth? That tells me the most important thing, the first thing that came to the carnal apostles' mind was money. Everything was evaluated by its financial numbers. Not by whether it was for the Lord Jesus Christ, not by whether it was a love for God or not, not whether it was a fulfillment of the first and greatest command, but hey, what's the monetary value of that? I'm telling you, there are some things in the worship of the Lord that are more important than money. It's our affection. They murmured against her. In chapter 14, verse 5, it says they murmured against her. I got looking at that. That's an interesting word, that word murmur. It means this: to snort with disgust. So I was in the I was in the motel room this week snorting with disgust to try and figure out what it was. How would you do that? Man, any of your wives ever do that? Do you? Right? And so the disciples say, What? And the disciples are going, they're disgusted with her. My experience has taught me, and I think the Bible confirms this, that those who get on fire for God are many times more criticized by other Christians. Than they are by the world. Years ago I knew of a husband that was, he was saved, his wife was, he claimed to be saved. His wife wasn't. He always said, Pray for my wife, pray for my wife, she gets saved. Pray for my wife, she gets saved. I'm the only one in our family saved. And he come to church, pray for my wife, she didn't say. Lo and behold, his wife got saved. But she didn't just get saved, she got on fire for God. And she started going soul winning and she started changing their convictions in the house and and uh the stuff that they would have in the house and what they'd watch and how they dressed and all that and she said, hey, we're gonna we're gonna live by the Bible. We wanna do right. All of a sudden the saved husband wasn't so excited Also he started criticizing her and he started dropping out. He eventually ended up leaving her My experience has been you get a Christian gets on fire for God and say, I want to live my whole life for God, no holes barred, I'm just selling out, no strings attached, I'm no good to the world anymore, I'm all Christ. Won't be long. You might hear some Christian family members. Oh, brother. God called me to go down to the Bible college and at that point in 1981 I guess it was then um I didn't know what the future was. I just knew God wanted me to go to Bible college and I had not immediate family but I had some extended family members come. Also in their time, what are you gonna do? What are you doing now? What are you gonna how are you gonna eat? You're not gonna make any money. Looks like I've been eating all right. And I took more, I'll tell you, I took more resistance of going off to Bible college from saved family members and from church members I was in than I did from any unsaved person I worked with on the job. The unsaved on the job said, Hey, good for you. Congratulations. I think you're going to make something in your life. Christians said, Why would you go to a strict school like that? Why would you want to do that? What in the world do you want to do there? The disciples of all people. The world and carnal Christians don't mind lukewarm Christianity. Well when they get on fire for God, boy, then they get upset. You know who the most criticized Christians in the world are? Christians on fire for God that want to live for God, want to do something for God. You know who you know what churches in communities take the biggest heat? Are the churches on fire for God, out there knocking on doors, running buses, trying to win souls? Very seldom do I knock on an unsaved person's door. And they say, oh, you guys are a bunch of. Sometimes they do. We get a little heat. But I'll tell you what, I'll have folks that get most upset with me. They'll say, oh, you guys preach once saved, always saved. You guys run in those buses all over. So she was she displeased the apostles, and then last, and I gotta quit with this, she was dignified by the Lord's approval. Very few people in the Bible were honored like this woman. I don't know anyone else that Jesus said that wherever the gospel's preached, this person's going to be recognized and memorialized. Mary understood what the Lord was about. She loved the Lord more deeply than the disciples did at this point. She did not seek the disciples' approval. She did not seek their attention. She never said a word. She doesn't have one word recorded in this whole thing. And the Lord says she's done a good work. A good work. I think it's interesting. She didn't rebuke the disciples. If that was me, I'd have said, you idiots, I'm doing more than you guys are. I'd have rebuked them. I said, what are you snorting about? She didn't do any of that. She just loved the Lord. She focused on him. She poured out her affection on him. And she let the Lord deal with them. She let the Lord take care of it. The only good works honored by the Lord are those that come from a believer's heart. Those whose sole motivation is express their love for the Lord. I look at this, this week as I was studying this, I looked at this gal, Mary. And what she did and just how she went about it. And I looked at my life and I wondered, do I really love the Lord like that? Do I really love God like that? There was a girl down at Bible College, single gal, she was probably mid to late 20s at the time. She didn't hold any positions. She didn't receive any awards. She got no recognition. But that sweet gal worked on that bus ministry and those inner city projects. She would go out Saturdays and visit those homes. And some of those, listen, I'm telling you, some of those homes were so nasty. There were some homes I'd get into, I absolutely could not breathe. They would invite me in, I couldn't go in. It was so nasty. And this gal would go in there with buckets and bleach. And she'd scrub those people's homes. Didn't even come to church. And she'd scrub that home down for them. I mean absolutely reek. She'd come Sunday morning, she'd be out before anybody showed up, she'd be out there and she'd be cleaning those buses off. Just cleaning them, cleaning them, cleaning them, cleaning them. Nobody ever recognized her. She got no awards. She got no recognition. She quietly graduated and she went to Suriname. And the last I heard last summer She's been down in Suriname, a single gal, probably in her fifties, about my age, singled out, been down there all these years, no recognition in the sword, no announcements on FBN No publications of her whatsoever. And she's been down there all these years serving others, serving God, sharing the gospel. And she broke her life and poured it out for the Lord Jesus Christ. I thought, what a rebuke to my Christianity. How shallow my love is. I'm all worked up about this and having that, and this will cost that, and boy, I don't give that How much do we really love the Lord? How much, what do our works really consist of? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us. To love you. I don't know how you apply this to our lives, but I know it challenged my own heart. My personal walk with you, my understanding of who I am and what's important, what isn't And I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder how we'd say, preacher, I gotta be honest. I don't love the Lord like I should, always done for me And I need God to stir my heart, that I just love Him, and that love be expressed in how I live my life. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand preacher? My heart stirred to love the Lord like I should. God bless you. Bunch of hands all around. You know what? Maybe we need to kneel at an altar and say, God, restore me the first love. God, stir up a passion in my heart for you that my life will count for the cause of Christ. That people could look at me and see that God is working in my life. I wonder if there's someone here this morning to say, Preacher, I don't know for sure that when I die I'm going to heaven. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know I'm going to heaven when I die. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. God will help me settle that. Any at all Now, Father, bless our invitation. I ask, Lord, I went a little long, but I pray that you'd help us, stir us to be like Mary, I ask, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together.