Chapter three, we're getting into the second half of the book of Jonah, and this is the part where most people don't know anything about what happens after the whale vomits him up on dry ground, then everybody's That's where the story ends in a lot of people's minds. That's just getting things started. And uh so now we're going to look at the second uh half we've kind of got started last week with a little bit. While you're finding Job chapter 3, Job, Jonah chapter 3. What did the mama cow say to the baby cow Said it's pasture bedtime. I thought it was better than that. Alright, I like this one. I like this one. What did the skeleton Well think carefully. What did the skeleton order at the cafe? A coffee and a mop. The skeleton ordered at the cafe a coffee and a mop. Alright, let's try this one. Why did the cannibal break up with his Valentine? She didn't suit his taste. These are really bad, aren't they? Alright, one more and I'll quit. Oh, this one's for you ladies. Uh a woman was applying for a job and she said to the boss, I could do the work of three men, but I'd have to work slower. So the ladies like that, huh? This is a tough crowd here tonight. I'll tell you what. Alright, Jonah chapter three, I'm gonna read verses one through four. Jonah three, one through four. I think I'm on, Brother James. Oh my end. Verse 1 of Bible says, and the word of the Lord came unto Jonah the second time, saying Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and preach unto the preach unto it the preaching that I bid thee. So Jodh arose and went unto Nineveh according to the word of the Lord. Now Nineveh was an exceeding great city of three days' journey. And Jonah began to enter into the city a day's journey, and he cried and said, Yet forty days, and Nineveh shall be overthrown. I've called the message tonight. I've taught I titled it Jonah's Great Commission. And so let's pray. Father, bless our study of your word now. I'm grateful for the midweek prayer service Pray this would be a time we would uh hear from you, and then Lord, in a little bit you'd hear from us in our prayers. And so fill me, I ask with all my heart, fill me with your Holy Spirit. Help me be faithful in teaching your word. In Jesus' name I ask. Amen. Alright, notice in verse number two, this is where I get the title for the message, the thought, he says, Arise and what's that next word? Go. I circled the word go in my Bible. Now read on. Arise, go unto Nineveh, that great city, and Preach unto it the preaching that I bid thee. I circled the word go and I circled the word preach. Go preach. That immediately brought to mind Mark chapter 16 and verse 15, where the Lord told the disciples, go ye into all the world and Preach the gospel. Go into all the world and preach the gospel. And so here we have very similar to the Great Commission. Jonah's told to go To this area, uh Nineveh, and preach to them what I tell you to preach. We're told by Lord Jesus Christ to go into a specific area, all the world And preach what the Lord told us to preach, and that is the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. So the Great Commission is given to Jonah, and the Great Commission is given to the church. Now here's my thought going into this. And this is what kind of Captured my thinking. This is an overwhelming commission that the Lord has given Jonah, and that's going to be my message tonight. This is an incredible task. That God has commissioned Jonah to do. To go to Nineveh. And we're going to look at the particulars here, and I think you'll end up agreeing with me This is uh pretty overwhelming, to be honest with you. Go to this great city, a foreign city, a heathen city, and just go in there and preach this little message Then I got thinking about our commission that God has given to us as a church, and we are to go into all the world. Now that commission is given to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. That's a little bit overwhelming. For us to go into all the world uh and preach, what are we supposed to preach? This little simple message, how that Christ died for our sins according to scriptures, was buried, rose again the third day according to scriptures. That little message And we're supposed to take that into all the world. It's a little bit overwhelming. I found, as I was preparing this and thinking this through It seems like God has left a record in throughout Scripture where He uses inadequate resources And he accomplishes miraculous results. And we'll look at that. But here you have Jonah. One guy supposed to go all the way to Nineveh, this great, exceeding great city, and preach to that whole city this little message. And God does amazing things. Here's my outline. If you're taking notes and writing down outlines, here's my outline. Number one, I want us to consider the immensity Of this task that Jonah has given. I don't know if I'd be honest with you, I never stopped and looked at it from this perspective before. But this task that God gave to Jonah, this commission, is absolutely immense First of all, think about it with me, the incredible distance that he has to cover. Now we're not told where Jonah's starting out from. We assume Jerusalem That would make the most sense. He's in Israel at the very least. And so he's supposed to go to Nineveh. Now we're going back in time, thousands of years. No airplanes, uh no trains No cars, no scooters, uh nothing but the most primitive forms of transportation: horses, mules, walking. Uh so he's going from, let's say, for Lack of more information, we'll assume he's leaving Jerusalem. I got looking on various Bible maps and different things. From Jerusalem to Nineveh, just going straight as the crow flies. Is 600 miles. Now for you and I to travel 600 miles, we'd jump in a car, we'd do it in a few hours. I got my Google Earth out. And I went uh from six hundred miles from Oakland we'd get to Saint Louis. Now my best figuring you could probably drive there in about ten, eleven hours to get to Saint Louis. Does that sound right? Some of y'all will be five or six hours, but um uh ten or eleven hours we could drive six hundred miles. Now that six hundred miles going from Oakland to St. Louis But all I did was took that little ruler. It's just a straight line. We're not talking about going around curves, highways, up mountains, around rivers, cross bridges and all that stuff And so God tells Jonah, without a car, can't go down to the airport, get the can't call his travel agent, get a plane ticket, fly out there. There's no Amtrak. Can't hop hop in a car, can't hitch a ride in a truck. He's got to huff it the whole way, 600 miles. Um and again, this is 600 miles straight across. He's not walking, he's not traveling 600 miles straight across. He's going around mountains. He's got a Ford rivers. There's no doubt roads he's following to some degree. And they're winding around This is an incredible effort that he's making. I got looking uh doing a little study. I'm told, I can't prove this, I'm told the average person, the average man in decent shape On flat level ground, easy traveling, can tra can walk about three to four miles an hour. That's what uh I'm told. And so uh on flat easy ground, three to four miles an hour If he's gone 600 miles, and it's at least that, because that's straight across. It's more than that. But if he's traveling 600 miles on foot at three to four miles an hour That is 150 hours of walking. Now, if you broke that down, let's get this picture of what he has to do here. If you broke that down. And into say 10 hours a day, going 150 hours walking, at say he's walking 10 hours a day, that's how many days? 15 days. So he's so to get from Jer to get where God's telling him to go. Chances are he's walking. It's possible. We'll look at a horse transportation here in a minute. But if he's walking this And he's putting ten hours a day walking. He's got fifteen days of straight walking, walking ten hours a day. How many people walk ten hours a day? How many people here have ever got on your treadmill and stood there for ten hours and walked for ten hours in your treadmill? I don't do it for ten minutes. But um uh but uh uh I mean this is an amazing thing. I doubt seriously he's walking ten hours straight. Uh he's stopping to take a break. Alright, let's suppose he's uh traveling on a horse. I thought I figured out a horse here. A horse is a horse, of course. But um uh a horse would go a little quicker. I thought I had that down, but I don't. So here's the point I'm trying to make. When God says to Jonah, all right, I want you to go to Nineveh I don't know how you're thinking. I'm assuming his mind starts calculating a bit. Nineveh, that is a long way off. Uh we're looking at perhaps a month traveling to get there. This this isn't something you just hop on. A horse, of course, pro of course uh be a whole lot quicker. Um but uh to travel to this country is a significant task to get to this city. Now I'm thinking back into our commission. God has given us a commission also to go into all the world and preach the gospel That requires that's a significant task that he's asking from us. Uh now we live in a day of tremendous travel. In fact, I have the old My own kind of take on it, Daniel kind of hints that in the last days travel will be expedited tremendously. And you can see that a little bit in Daniel. But in the day we live in, we can travel around the world, but still it's pretty significant, cost-wise. Think about our missionaries. We had about five or six missionaries just in the last two, three weeks that traveled to the foreign land. Knickerbockers are over in uh Nepal now. Uh the um the uh who's going to uh Papua New Guinea? The uh Florence? They were in Papua New Guinea now, packed up all their belongings. They had to work hard, raise the money, save it, use it wisely, get tickets. to fly their family and ship all their uh belongings over there. What I'm trying to say this is to go into a foreign mission field like Jonah is, is a significant task And uh these missionaries coming through here, we need to keep in mind that God has called them to do something that is immense to leave their homeland, take their families, and go to a foreign land. Think about the money that's cost that Jonah would need to travel that far. He's going to have to uh He's packing his food with him the whole way? I doubt it. Uh he's having to purchase food as he goes. Uh no doubt he's having to purchase stay in inns and those types of things, you know, whatever the setup was in that day. Uh supplies needed. Uh those types of things. So that was a significant challenge in his day, and it kind of made me feel for missionaries today that um uh you know this isn't some vacation our missionaries are on. This is uh this is an immense task so the immensity uh of this task that God gave him. First of all, you have the incredible distance. Then under that I have number two, the incompatible culture. He gets to Nineveh. Think about this. Now I've got missions thinking on my mind. I think Jonah, the book of Jonah, is a missions manual of sorts. And he gets here in Nineveh, I don't know if he's ever been there before, I seriously doubt it. He shows up, he is Entering into a culture that is has nothing in common with the culture he grew up in. The Nineveh have a completely different worldview and mindset than what the Israelites did. He is showing up in a city, no doubt, that is unlike any place he'd ever been before in his life. Their lifestyles are different. Their values are very different than Israelites. Their dress, no doubt, was very different than the Israelites. Remember The Israelites, God had given you know very uh uh had had them dressed modest, you know, given them very uh guidelines for how to dress, how not to dress. Here you had the Ninevehite, they didn't have any of that They're just pagan, they're just they had no uh standards to go by or anything. And so their lifestyle is different, their dress is different, their priorities The Israelites, you know, they had, even though they were outward superficial at some points in their existence, but for the most part, uh they had godly priorities God had laid out for them what should be priorities in life. What should not be him? What's important? What is it? Ninemites didn't have any of that. They just fabricated their own priorities And no doubt, knowing their background, the absence of biblical influence there, their priorities were very fleshly, their priorities were very man-centered rather than God-centered So this is a completely different culture he's walking into. Their background and their history is completely different than Israel's. Israel had a godly history Israel started out with the voice of God on Mount Sinai in many ways. Nineveh wasn't that. It was just pagan, ungodly background. Their worldview, the food they ate Their family structure, uh no doubt, was very different different than the family structure that Israel had been taught of God in the home, the uh husband and wife loving each other and the children and submission to their parents and godliness and kindness and respect being taught in the home. Now he shows up in Nineveh and there's none of that. They weren't taught any of that. They were just whatever their basis, most pagan understanding was That's how it developed in the family. Uh as I was giving thought to this, I thought about Steve Siddler when we were down in Dominican a few weeks ago. And I was talking he was telling us about when he uh started the church. Remember I was telling you he reached the kids And he just didn't get too far with the adults, so he just zeroed in on the kids, taught them, uh trained them how to live for God and leadership and how to serve God. Now these kids fifteen years later are grown up, they're families and uh they're out starting churches and serving God. One of the reasons he did that, several reasons, one of them was this. None of the adults were married. It didn't even enter their mind. That they should be married. So they grew grandparents, grandma and grandpa never been married. He said the the they'd have kids by multiple partners Just kind of come and go here and there, whatever. And he says, How do you develop spiritual leadership in the church when uh guy's kids, half the kids, uh the women's kids don't know who dad is? And uh he said it was just chaos And he said, so I had to zero in on the young people and teach them the biblical principles for marriage and home and what all that involved and what God expected from us And it's paid off. He has good, godly young people now married and raising their kids in a good godly Christian home. But he said we didn't have any of that. Uh there's a book we had it back on the table several years ago by a missionary in Central uh America. I think it was Honduras or one of those. And um it was called Grapefruits, Spiders, Grapefruits, and something Something and something and something else was the title. But um anyway, he got down there and uh he started getting people saved. And he said this. He said we went, we had this couple say and uh growing and we're going to have a wedding. And they're all like, what are you talking about? So he went down to the courthouse to get a license to get him married, and the courthouse says we haven't given marriage license out since the courthouse has existed. And they got looking and and going back in records and that entire province or county, whatever they called that part of the country, uh they had no record on the history books of the county of anyone ever being married Now that is, for you and I, we react that way. What? Are you crazy? But in these cultures, that's the way it is. In these cultures, marriage is a non-existent concept in their mind. And so we need to understand, as missionaries, when we send missionaries out, or God calls missionaries out, we need to understand many times they're going into a place that is far away. It takes a lot of effort, a lot of logistics involved in just getting there. And then once getting there, we find out that culture is so foreign to what we've grown up. We need to understand how blessed we are to have grown up the United States of America. Now we're losing a lot of that, but thank God there's enough of us around. We've experienced a little bit of what it's like to have a at least nominally Christian culture And uh so these missionaries going on these farm fields. That stirs my heart. We need to pray for these missionaries. And they get immersed in these cultures that do not share the values that we share, uh do not have the standards of morality that we have. And uh it is so far. And they're eating foods we uh uh you know we step on when we go out to the car. They're eating that stuff. And so um here's Jonah. Think about what God is asking him to do, not asking, calling him to do. I want you to travel at least 600 miles. That's a job. And then once you get to, I'm calling you to a city, a people, that is so different from anything you've ever experienced. Nothing about them, nothing about their culture has anything in common with what you grew up with. Then the third thing I thought about concerning the immensity of this task, what God is asking, calling Jonah to do, not just the incredible distance, the incompatible culture, what about their intense corruption? Now we talked about this when we first introduced Jonah, and we talked about what Nineveh was and what they were known for. This city, these people were extremely violent. In fact, they were known for their cruelty and and just brutality and mercilessness. And if you remember, we had mentioned, I looked some of this up again, it's just uh You know, one of the things that they gloated in, they just absolutely celebrated, was the fact that they would skin their enemies and prisoners and people they liked. They'd skin them while they're alive And that was like, you know, a sports game for us. Go to a Friday night high school football game, they go down and say, hey, they got somebody, they're gonna skin them alive. Yeah Unbelievable. The intense corruption that was here and the the self-centeredness of these people. You read the history books of it And it was just impossible to get along with. The perversion, absolutely no moral values whatsoever, as we understand. Near total absence of any morals And think about Jonah. He's growing up in Israel. Now they they were far from what God intended them to be, but they were nothing like the nations around them. God had given them very clear, very pure morals, very pure lifestyle they were given by God to follow and live by. And here you take Jonah, this man God calls him to travel so far, that in itself is a challenge. Then to get there to a culture that is so foreign and a people that is so corrupt It's almost overwhelming. And so my first thought here is God says, Go and preach unto the N go to Nineveh and preach what I bid thee. Jonah gets up and he goes to Nineveh according to the word of the Lord. I'm just thinking in my mind, what is he going through here? Uh what is going on? Then I have a fur ther fourth thought under um uh the intensit the immensity of the task. Number one, they're uh the the distance, the culture, the corruption. I put this one down. Uh the intimidating size of the city. I got looking at this. Look here at verse number uh verse number um 3. So Jonah rose and went unto Nineveh according to the word of the Lord. Now look at this. Now Nineveh was an exceeding great city. That word exceeding means magnificently. It has the idea of just almost indescribable great Look over, come over to chapter 4, and look at verse 11. Now, God is in an argument of sorts with Jonah. And Jonah's griping as he does almost the entire fourth chapter. And notice what God says, verse 11. Should not I spare Nineveh, that great city Wherein are more than four or more than six score thousand? So score is twenty. Six times twenty is a hundred and twenty. So you've got a hundred and twenty thousand persons. Now look You say, well that's not that many. Wait a minute. Hundred and twenty thousand persons that cannot discern between their right hand and their left hand Now, what kind of persons cannot discern between their right hand and their left hand? Little small children. How old does a kid start deciding what between their right hand and left hand? Moms, you should know that stuff. Two five or six that old? I thought it was young. I was thinking two or three. I was like one month and I knew it immediately. It was that was easy. So there's a heap of kids, little children, 120,000 in this city. And you think of mortality rates back in that day? uh without the medical care. So the fact you got 120,000 is old children, this is a pretty good sized city. Then he goes on, look what he says. He he expands on a little bit. Now Nineveh was an exceeding great city, a three days journey And Jonah began to enter into the city, uh a seedy great city, here's what I want, of three days' journey. Well that stopped me in my tracks. I'm working away down through and thinking, boy, that's I see that, I see that of three days' journey, what's that mean? That cannot mean it took three days to get from where Jerusalem to Nineveh. That's I mean unless God did a miracle. That's not what it's talking about. Aha. So I got looking up what men that know more than I do about this stuff, and there were several suggestions. One suggestion was that it was three days to walk from one uh side of the city to the other. Take three days to walk through it. And that's That could very well be, I don't know. But I read a few others and they suggested that the excavations in the city of Nineveh, that they determined that the walls around the city of Nineveh, it was eight miles You start on one end, you go around it, it was eight miles. So is that the circumference? Right? The perimeter of it. Uh circumference is the perimeter. I know all those were big words. And um so it was eight miles around that. So what would that make it from one end go across? How far would that be It wouldn't be eight miles. So it would be less than eight miles. So it doesn't take here's my point. If that's correct, and it may not be, but if that's correct, then it wouldn't take three days to walk across the city So assuming that those excavations are accurate, then that when it says a three days uh exceeding great city of three days journey That wouldn't be it. So then the other suggestion was, well, the three days are what it would take to walk around the circumference of the city. But again, it wouldn't take three days to walk eight miles, assuming that these excavations, archaeological stuff, is correct So I got looked around, that was most of the suggestions, three days to get across it, or three days or go around it. Then another fellow had a suggestion, and this one kind of intrigued me He said actually the city of Nineveh itself, the city proper within the wall, that was eight miles around. But we found from history and excavations, there was actually huge suburbs outside the wall. And when they were attacked, these people would flee into the city. And there was what we would call suburbs, sap towns. to some extent some fairly decent sized cities that were actually made up the metropolis that we would call uh Nineveh And this fellow was suggesting maybe what he means here by the three days journey, it would actually take three days if you were going to go to all of these different parts that made up the city of Nineveh. And that appealed to me. I thought, well that makes sense. And we'll see here in a little bit why that kind of fits in there. It's kind of like I grew up in Philadelphia. I always say I'm from Philly Well technically I'm not. I'm in a little town that was outside the city limits of Philly, but that whole area is referred to as Philadelphia. And so I believe that's what's taking place here. Now, again, I'm speculating, we don't know for this, it doesn't tell us uh exactly, but uh that idea kind of appealed to me that if you were going to go to every area of the city that makes up the city It would take three days to do that. And so here's my point I'm trying to make, given all this stuff. This is the thought I'm trying to make. What God is asking Jonah, what God is calling Jonah to do is almost overwhelming. For one man to go and do this is incredible. Which leads me quickly to my second thought, and it is this: the inadequacy of the resources All right, here's the job. A city, 600 miles away, that's a challenge in and of itself. It's so completely different their culture than anything you knew, that would be tough. And then you've got the intense corruption here. I mean so corrupt. You'd be endangering your life perhaps just entering the place. That that would be a challenge. And these are things our missionaries face, right or wrong? Sure. We've lost listen, we've lost missionaries on foreign fields that have fallen into the sins that are so prevalent and undeterred in city. Over in Europe, there's parts of Europe where absolutely uh perversion is rampant, prostitution is just completely In Amsterdam, place like that, legal, and we've had missionaries that we supported friends of mine that got over there and that corruption just overwhelmed them and they failed, they fell in the head of Isn't that tragic? And so what a task is facing Jonah. Now we look at the inadequate resources. And this is what I got thinking. First of all, God wants this city To be warned of coming judgment. He's got to get his word to them. Now, if I was God, and praise the Lord, I'm not, none of us are. Amen. But I would say we're going to need at least 500 preachers or more to reach this city. I mean, we're going to have to have a thousand At least a thousand preachers. I'm going to call a thousand prophets if we're going to get that far and get that city, the the word, God's word to that city. But God doesn't do that. You've got one guy And he's what kind of guy is he? Not very reliable. I know. He doesn't want to be there. He's very carnal in a lot of ways. He's dishonest. A lot of ways. He is not your ideal prophet of God. He's no Elijah, let's put it that way. He's lacking in integrity in a lot of ways. So God, here you have this huge city with all these undaunting tasks there. He calls one guy, and he I'm not real impressed with him. And then here's the other thing. He's only got 40 days. That says forty days. When he shows up there, you know when he shows up, I don't know when the clock started, I would assume whenever Jonah showed up. Yet 40 days! And Nineveh will be destroyed. He's got 40 days to get that message to every person in Nineveh. Now, if I was God and I'm not, praise the Lord. I'd make sure he had a hu really huge megaphone or something. Some sort of means mass communication But he does it. He doesn't have email alerts, he can't text them, he can't buy an ad in the paper. There's no channel three public service channel on television. Uh they were all state-run. They had a state-run television. And um uh there is there's no radio stations Now think about that. You've got this city million or more people sprawled out 600 miles away. They speak another language. They uh have a totally different culture He calls one guy, he's not very reliable, sends him over there, and he's got forty days to reach this whole city. Would you agree with me? The resources were inadequate. Really, humanly speaking, there needed to be a lot more papellas, and uh they needed a whole lot more time to do this. But Here's what stirred my heart. Throughout Scripture, God constantly is using inadequate resources to do miraculous things. Can you think? Y'all are staring at me. Can you think? Give me some illustrations of instances in the Bible where God had inadequate resources. Besides Jonah, and he did miraculous things. What comes to mind? The little boy's lunch. Exactly. Jonah was that little boy's lunch. Nidab was the thousands of people. What who else? I got a whole list of them here. What else? What? Gideon. Gideon. In fact, I thought of that. In fact, God boils it down. Gideon had, what did he start out with? 300,000 guys? Something like that? I'd say yeah, bring them on. Bring your brothers. Get me bring your kids. We need more. God says, I don't know. Weeds it down to uh uh three hundred. I don't know if I meant my First figure correct there was 300 guys. God did an amazing thing, inadequate resources, they didn't have the weapons. What else? Come on, there's some real obvious ones here Joshua. Joshua invading the land? He says, We're in we're like grasshoppers in their eyes. Uh what about David and Goliath, a slingshot, an untrained kid. And uh here you got this champion that was a warrior from being a kid. Uh who else? Yeah, Moses goes in against the entire Pharaoh administration and uh confronts him and and God does amazing things. So here's my point. You and I look at what God has called us to do. I want to say that, God, you want me to talk to people about Jesus Christ in such a way that they got Saved, I could never do that. I I might as well go 600 miles into a foreign country that doesn't speak my language and try and do it. I could never help to somebody and tell them how to be saved. That's the whole point We can't in ourselves, but God takes inadequate resources and does miraculous things through it. So he says, what? Our church get uh have an influence in Kazakhstan? Humanly speaking, there's no way. We can't do that, couldn't I? We're just a little church in the Appalachian Mountains. Here's a country fifteen thousand fifteen hundred how many miles away is it It's more than six hundred, I'm sure. Um and uh all the way over there. And what we're gonna have some kinda I don't know, but God does amazing things. All he needs is somebody who would be willing to let God use him And God can do amazing things. God is not dependent on our abilities and our resources. He is dependent upon our obedience and our willingness to do what he says. And the whole first two chapters, that was my message the other week, the whole first two chapters was God getting Jonah to the point where he could use them. Didn't matter what his resources were He didn't have any gifts, he didn't have any skills, he didn't have anything to uh here's the amazing thing, we're gonna find this out later on in this chapter. When Nineveh started getting saved, none of the Nineveh said this. Boy, that That Jonah, he's an amazing preacher. None of the Ninevehites said, Man, what a great man of God He wasn't an amazing preacher. He wasn't a great man of God. He was simply someone that let God use him. And you know what the Ninevehites said? We better get right with God. And they rent their clothes and they repented of their sin. Say, well, I could never speak. Doesn't matter. Just be willing to let God use you. However, And God will use you. He'll direct you. He'll lead you. Whatever your Nineveh might be. Your Nineveh might be your neighbor's house. I can never go over there and invite them to the wild game dinner. Are you crazy? They think I'm nuts. Well maybe you can't, but go ahead and trust God and do it. And you never know what God might do. And whole family might get saved. What? Go out and work on a bus for that what? What I'm saying is this when God calls us to do something He's not calling us because we have anything to offer. He's calling us because he wants to do something through us. Am I making any sense? And so here you have Nineveh, this is an overwhelming task. There's inadequate resources. And by the way, what did Jesus say? The harvest is great. But the what? Labors are few. We were talking I was talking with somebody, Mark or somebody, or some of the folks in the various ministries. And I thought this for years. Now you know we've got a long way to go to be everything we should be as a church. But I'll be honest with you, from my perspective, I think we're doing a whole lot more than we're really able to do The amount of people we have, the resources we have, God's doing stuff through us that we in and of ourselves are not able to do. Amen or not. God isn't looking to use somebody that's great and all wonderful and boy, I'm really the catch me out. Not what he's looking for. I was talking to Chip on the phone just before he called up. And uh we were talking a little bit and he was telling me, I was telling him preaching on Jonah, and um he says, you know, my life mirrors Jonah He goes, I was a teenager, I ran from God. He says, I ended up in the belly of a whale in the bottom of the ocean. He was a submarine guy for a year. I mean literally and he said that thing spit me out. And now he's also serving the Lord. And he said that. I said, you know, I'm studying Jonah and I think, man, Jonah, what a mess. And then I get up and I look in the mirror. And I say, hi, Jenna. It's not us. It's not our abilities. It's not our resources. It's God. But we just say, okay, God, I'll go. I'll do it. I'll obey you. I'll go knock on that door. I'll give out that track. I'll witness that person. I'll go to that class. Whatever. I'll take a route. And God says, Ah, good. Now I can do it. Now the next thing I want to look at is the message, and this is my last point, but we'll do this next week. The intensity of the message It was like how many words? Nine words. And it brought revival to the whole city. Not us, not great. We just got a simple little message But boy, you give that message of the gospel out. And boom, stuff happens. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us, Lord, to see what you were showing Jonah And it wasn't about him, and it wasn't his resources and his abilities and his gifts and his skills, Lord. It was you Lord, you can take our little inadequate resources and give us a huge overwhelming commission. And then Lord, you accomplish great things and you get all the glory for it. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder if there's some tonight say Pastor, I know God is stirring my heart to step out in faith and maybe get involved and serve him in one way or another. He'd say, I just really feel like I can't do it. It's too much Maybe tonight Jonah's speaking, this message from Jonah's speaking in your heart, and God's saying, listen, I know it's too much. That's the point. I just want you to trust me and let me work through you and use you. And uh is there any like that? Say preacher, there is someone on my mind. It just seems awfully hard to talk to them or something God stir in my heart to serve them. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Anybody at all? God bless you. Several hands are around Yes, there is something there. It just doesn't feel like I could do what God is asking me to do. Maybe it's a matter of faith promise, missions, local soul winning. Maybe I don't know what it is But if we'll just trust God and say, Yes, Lord, I'll go, I'll do whatever it is, I'll trust you. I don't know what it is God's leading you. If it is trust him, let Him take care of it, then God does it through us. Father, bless us, Lord. Bless our missionaries that have said yes to you and are now either out there or heading out there. And we We want to stand behind them in prayer, and God, we want to do our part as you lead us in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads above eyes