Chapter number nineteen, I'd like for you, if you would, notice with me verse number thirty. And uh there in your homes wherever you are, I want to invite you to read this passage out loud along with me, if you would John chapter 19, verse 30. Ready? Let's read it together. When Jesus therefore had received the vinegar, he said, It is finished. And he bowed his head and gave up the ghost. I want to preach this morning on that little phrase that Jesus said. It is finished. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to bless our message. Father in heaven Lord, we come to you and Lord, we're very grateful. All that's going on in our world and all the changes taking place, how we're having to adapt Lord, sometimes it gets a little overwhelming. We fail to stop and realize how good you are, you have been, and you are to us. And so we're we want to begin this Sunday morning, this resurrection Sunday, just expressing our love and gratitude to you, Lord, for your goodness to us. We ask that you now would speak to our hearts from your word. I pray you would challenge us. I pray that any that would be listening in, that do not know for sure their sins are forgiven on their way to heaven, that today they would call on you and trust you as their personal Savior and get that matter settled I pray that those of us that know you as Savior, you would help us to walk with you, to love you, and to live in the light of the fact that you are alive and you're coming again someday. So Lord, I yield my will to you. I present my body anew, and I ask with all my heart that you fill me with your Holy Spirit. I pray, Lord, it would not be me speaking here this morning But I pray it would be you speaking your word through me and to hearts and lives. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. About the beginning of November, we usually uh Pastor Matt and I get together and we kind of finalize our calendar for the coming year. Every November we put that together, get it uh get it in the books and um and then make it public. This past November, as we were planning for uh twenty twenty Uh we were working on Easter and some big days. We have track month. We'd be in the middle of track month. We usually have a big candy hunt. Choir has big specials and We're excited about what we had planned. And to be honest with you, none of us ever expected that we would be holding this type of service on Easter Sunday in the year 2020. But nevertheless, here we are. In fact, two weeks ago, we were hoping that maybe we'd be able to be back together as a church and uh have uh some sort of Easter service here together. And and again, it seems like things are just changing on a weekly basis and we've kind of gotten to the point where we're hardly planning anything. We'll just take it a week at a time and see what the situation is and then take the ball and run with it And um the word that came to mind as I was thinking of that was blindsided. We kind of got blindsided by this. Um we didn't see it coming and uh we didn't really uh that weren't able to prepare for it. So uh but I as I was thinking about that I thought about the disciples um back on the week that Jesus Christ was crucified Tuesday night, uh, they're having their evening meal, the Passover meal with the Lord Jesus Christ. This is a man that they love dearly. They had forsaken all to follow him. The disciples there were convinced. That he was the Son of God, God in the flesh, they were absolutely convinced that he was who he claimed to be, the Messiah, the promised Savior. That had come to provide salvation. Now, of course, they didn't understand what all that meant, but they were convinced that this Jesus was who he claimed to be. Enjoying a nice meal together Little did they realize that within 24 hours, Jesus Christ was going to be crucified and buried dead in the grave. He had given them a heads up on that leading up to it in the weeks leading up to his crucifixion, but they didn't really grasp it, they didn't really get what he was saying. And the disciples were blindsided Uh their world was turned upside down. They uh uh they uh or had questions, no doubt. What in the world? This is not what we expected. We didn't plan on this. We didn't see this coming. They were in a state of uncertainty. In fact, they're all scattered. Not together. And the disciples got blindsided on that week when Jesus Christ was crucified. Uncertainty, changes, questions. You and I are dealing with them now. But I said all that to say this. This is what I'm trying to get at. In a world that is changing almost daily, literally changing. We don't know week to week what our situation is going to be I'm glad that we have a God that does not change. He is the same yesterday, today, and forever. And the God that formed Adam from the dust of the earth is the God that is with you and I today. The God that parted the sea for the children of Israel as they came out of Egypt. is the God that you and I pray to and look to and trust in today. God is unchanging. There is nothing uncertain about our Lord. I want to say this also. The word of God is unchanging. We have the Bible yesterday, today, forever. God's word stands. Heaven and earth shall pass away, but God's words will never pass away. And so in a in a changing, uncertain world, we have an unchanging Absolutely certain God. We have an unchanging, absolutely certain Word of God that we can go to to find direction, to find strength, to find correction, find instruction God can help us and He will. We have an unchanging gospel that we preach. Nothing has changed about the gospel of Jesus Christ. Nothing has changed about man's need of salvation. If you're listening in here, you're watching on the computer or whatever, however you may be listening in, uh if you don't know for sure your sins are forgiven, if you've never been born again To use the Bible term, the most pressing need in your life, the most important issue in your life, is knowing for sure that God has forgiven all your sins. And that Jesus Christ is your personal Savior because no man can come to the Father apart from the Lord Jesus Christ. And so none of this has changed. The gospel, the need of salvation, God's love for sinners has not changed. God commendeth his love toward us while we were yet sinners. Christ died for us. God loves us. His love hasn't changed. God's power to deliver us from sin, to transform our lives, that has not changed. I was thinking this week is preparing for today. I thought back to uh uh this um let's see in in three weeks It'll be 41 years ago when I bowed beside my bed up in the attic of the home we were living in, and I called on the Lord Jesus Christ to be my personal Savior. And what a change he brought to my life. What a transformation he brought to my life in the peace and the purpose and the direction in life and the assurance of a home in heaven. And that hasn't changed at all for God. He can save your soul. He can change your life. So the gospel hasn't changed. God hasn't changed. The Bible hasn't changed And so when we come to a resurrection Sunday or Easter Sunday as we know it, we come to a truth that is unchanging. If we were going to sum up what Easter means, if we were going to sum up what today represents, at least for you and I as Bible believers, we would put it in one little phrase, the gospel of Jesus Christ. That's what Easter is all about. The death, the burial, and the resurrection of Jesus Christ. That is the gospel. That is what Easter is all about. And we praise the Lord for it. Actually, every Sunday. is about the resur the crucifixion, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. We had a fella um years ago, we were giving out gospel tracts down at the prayed we have in October here in Oakland Every year we give out, oh, we usually get, I don't know, about 2,000 tracks out, somewhere around there, 1500, 200, 2,000 tracks, sometimes a little more, great crowds. And uh we give these tracks out. We've been doing it now 20 some years And um twenty-six years, I guess, and uh giving him out. One year we were doing that and I uh came across a fella, got talking to him, he had some children And I asked him about church. No, he doesn't go to church. I said, we'd love to pick up the kids on the Sunday school bus. He thought that was great. Got the information. The kids began riding the bus and he rode the bus with them uh came into church oh for about a month or so and then uh they disappeared and um uh we didn't know what happened to them they had moved away and lost touch with them there for uh uh several months and Uh one one Saturday I was out knocking on doors on the south side of town, good ways out of town, and lo and behold I came by the fellow he's living at the house there and Got talking a little bit, invited him out to church and uh we didn't get too far. A couple of weeks went by. He never did show up to church and uh I sent a couple ladies out to go visit him. I said, go visit those kids. Maybe we can at least get the kids coming out again And so they did. They came back and they said, Preacher, we went out and visited so-and-so to invite us in. It was nice enough. But he said he ain't coming back to our church no more I said, well why not? He said, uh they said, well he told us that every time he goes to that church, all he ever hears is, You gotta get saved, you gotta get saved, you gotta get saved. He said, I'm tired of hearing, you gotta get saved And I said, well, what did you ladies say? They said, well, we just told him he needs to get saved. And uh so nothing changes about the gospel. That's what church is about. That's what Easter is about. People getting saved. The gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. I believe the greatest proof that God has ever given that He loves us. Sometimes people say to me, Preacher, I don't even know if God loves me. I'm telling you, God loves you, God loves me And the greatest proof he's ever given that he loves us is when he died on that cross for you and I and suffered hell for us. The greatest proof of the love of God is when Jesus Christ gave himself and he suffered the judgment of our sin upon himself on that old cross and rose again. God loves you. It's unchanging It's unchanging. We live in uncertain days. We don't know from week to week what's going to be, but I know one thing, week after week after week after week. The gospel is the power of God unto salvation. God loves you and I dearly. God is not changed. He will not change. His word is not changed. His word will not change. And so we praise the Lord for that. We praise the Lord for it. Now, I want us to notice our text here. I want to notice a couple things here, just briefly, from John chapter 19. If you would notice again with me, verse 28 Says, after this, Jesus, knowing that all things were now accomplished, that the scriptures might be fulfilled, saith, I thirst. Now there was set a vessel full of vinegar, and they filled a sponge with vinegar and put it upon Hyssop and put it to his mouth. When Jesus therefore received the vinegar, he said, It is finished. The first thing I want us to notice in this passage here is this pronouncement that the Lord Jesus Christ made. He said, It is finished. What a pronouncement. It is finished. He actually made seven statements from the cross. Let me give them to you very, very quickly. Seven statements. that Jesus Christ made from the cross. Number one, first statement he made is found in Luke 23, verse 34. He said this, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. They had nailed the Lord Jesus Christ to the cross and they were mocking him. And God and Jesus Christ, the compassionate, tender heart and love that he had He cried out, Forgive them, Father, for they know not what they do. The second statement from the cross is found in again in Luke chapter twenty-three, verse forty-three He says, Verily I say unto thee, today shalt thou be with me in paradise. He was speaking to one of the two thieves that was crucified with them. They were both mocking him and reviling him initially. But one came under great conviction, and he realized that he was being crucified, he was uh being put to death justly, he was a criminal, he was a murderer But Jesus Christ was innocent. And he said, Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom. He called on the Lord to find mercy and forgiveness and salvation. Even on the cross, Jesus said, Today you'll be with me in paradise. That thief got saved. He trusted Christ. Today he's in the presence of God in heaven with the Lord Jesus Thief on the other side rejected Christ, died in his sin, and is lost, separated from God for all eternity. Jesus said to him, Verily, today thou shalt be with me in paradise. The third statement from the cross is found here in John chapter 19. We read it a bit ago, verse uh 26. Uh uh yeah, verse 26. Pastor Matt read it a little bit ago. He said, Woman, behold thy son Then he turned to John and said, Behold thy mother. What a touching statement that is. Here, Jesus Christ is in unthinkable pain, suffering, torture, dying. And he thinks of his dear mother there. And then the fourth statement from the cross is found in Matthew twenty seven, verse forty six. He said, Eli, Eli, Lama Sabakphani That being translated means this, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me There on that cross, Jesus Christ experienced the reality of hell. God, all our sins, all the sins of mankind, every individual sin. was laid upon Jesus Christ as he took responsibility for the sins of mankind. And God, in his holiness, in his holy wrath, had to turn his back on his son, separated from his own son. And that's when the darkness settled down onto the earth at that time. The darkness of hell, I always thought, Jesus cried out, why have you forsaken me? Jesus was suffering the judgment for our sin and our place. And he cried out, why hast thou forsaken me? The fifth statement from the cross is here in verse number 28 of John 19. He says, I thirst. He's fulfilling a very specific prophecy given in the Old Testament about his crucifixion. And then in verse 30, he says, it is finished. It is finished. We're going to talk about that. The last statement from the cross is found in Luke 23, 46. He says, Father, Into thy hands I commend my spirit. The Bible says he gave up the ghost. He died. He died. Now I want to look at this statement here in verse 30. The sixth statement from the cross. It is finished. All these statements have significance. You can preach a sermon, you can preach a series of sermons on every one of these seven statements from the cross. But I want to suggest to you That when Jesus Christ cried out, it is finished. That was the crowning statement of all the seven statements he made. What a significant statement that was when Jesus Christ cried out, it is finished. Now let's think about that for a moment. First of all, we need to understand this was not uttered in despair or defeat. Jesus wasn't just giving up, oh, it's finished. He wasn't saying, he wasn't uh saying, by the way, notice he didn't say this, I am finished. He says, it is finished. Jesus was not defeated on the cross. Jesus was not in despair. This wasn't the uh end of Jesus Christ. Satan had tried to finish off Jesus when he was firstborn. He had Aaron kill all the children Uh Jesus was out to derail Jesus Christ, or Satan was out to derail Jesus Christ all through his uh three and a half years of ministry tried to get them to sin, tried to get them off track, and Satan failed every single time. Jesus didn't say, I am finished. He said, It is finished. And it's interesting if we would look back in Matthew, Mark, and Luke, their account doesn't have this statement, but they tell us that when Jesus said it is finished, he didn't just mutter it. It wasn't just uh uh just uh uh something that very weakly said off of his lips, but no, they said it with a great cry. He shouted out, It is finished. And his voice echoed there off of Mount Calvary, crying out for all the angels of heaven, all the devils in hell, all of mankind to hear, it is finished! It's been accomplished. What a powerful statement from the cross. Now what does he mean when he says it is finished? It is finished. The word finish there means, perhaps what you would think it means, there's a lot of meaning to the word, it means to be fulfilled. It is finished. It has been fulfilled. It means the duty has been performed. It means the duty has been completed. It's fully carried out. One definition of that word finished in our language where it comes from is paid in full. When Jesus Christ from the cross cried out in victory and in confidence, in declaration, it is finished. He was saying it has been paid in full. The mission has been accomplished. The duty has been fulfilled. What a great statement. And by the way, the word there is in the perfect tense, which means this. It's a once-for-all action. It is finished and it will remain finished for the rest of eternity. It is finished. Now he says, as I pointed out, he doesn't say, I am finished He says it is finished. Now, what is the it that he is referring to? What is he talking about when he says it is finished? Well, I want to suggest two things, and maybe there could be others added to this But the one it that has been finished, one aspect of that is his assignment was completed His assignment was completed. Jesus' primary mission in leaving the glories of heaven and coming to earth was to provide salvation for all of mankind. God created us in his image. Mankind is created in the image of God. We, through Adam and Eve, have sinned against God And we're separated from God. We're under God's judgment. God is a holy God. The God that created us and designed us is a holy God. He is not sinful. He is not impure. He is pure, perfectly holy. And that is a requirement. That is the standard that is required of us to be accepted by God. And we've sinned, and we've fallen short of God's holiness, we've fallen short of God's glory. And so God loves us. He created us. And he came down in the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. And he sent his son to be the propitiation, to be the payment. So that we can be forgiven and saved and be restored in our relationship with the Lord. John 3:16, most famous verse in all the Bible. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. God sent Jesus Christ to earth for a mission to pay the price for our sin, that whoever believes in him shall not perish but of everlasting life. Matthew chapter twenty, verse twenty-eight, Mark chapter ten, verse forty-five, first Timothy chapter two and verse six all tell us that Jesus' mission, primary mission on coming to earth was to pay the price for our sin, pay the ransom for our sin. So that we could be freely forgiven and we could have eternal life. All through the Old Testament, from Genesis chapter 3, all the way through Malachi, over and over and over. God had promised, I will send a Messiah, I will send a Christ, I will send a Savior. Isaiah 53 is a tremendous passage. prophesying the coming Christ and the crucifixion, psalms, references, the crucifixion of the Lord Jesus Christ Jesus Christ came to earth on a mission to seek and to save that which was lost. And on the cross he cried out, It is finished! The mission has been accomplished. I've paid the price for man's sin. The debt has been paid. It is finished When he Jesus said it is finished, he was declaring for all eternity that the sin price has been paid. The debt has been paid. You remove the cross from the Bible and you have an empty book. You remove the plan of salvation from the Bible, and all you have is an empty book. But the message of the Bible and the purpose of Christ was that man's sin debt would be paid and that we can be forgiven and saved. So when he said it is finished He was referencing in one aspect, his assignment was completed. The sins of all mankind, he had paid that price. And it was finished. Then also along those same lines, but when he said it was finished, he was saying this: the sin debt was fully paid That phrase finished there, telesti, is the Greek word it comes from, and I'm not a Greek scholar, but it has this idea, one of the aspects of its definition is paid in full. I tell you, one of the great blessings is maybe you borrow money and you purchase a car several years ago I bought an old beat-up truck, and by the way, it's still old and it's even more beat up than when I bought it But I tell you what, it sure was nice when I finally was able to pay that thing off, that old beat-up thing, and I get the statement, and it says, paid in full, get owed zero. Oh, what a blessing. When Jesus Christ said it is finished, he said that sin debt is paid in full, there's nothing more to be done, there's no more payment to be made. Man's sin has been paid completely. There's nothing more to be done. What a blessing. It is finished. Jesus' precious blood and the violent death that he suffered on that cross Satisfy God's holy judgment for your sin and my sin. I love that old song. Jesus paid it all. All to him I owe Sin had left a crimson stain. Jesus washed it white as snow. He paid it all. He paid it all. He said, Preacher, what do I have to do to be saved? You can't do anything to be saved. It's already been done. We just receive it by faith. It is finished. It is paid in full. Jesus cried out this pronouncement. It is finished. The mission has been accomplished. The debt is paid. Nothing more needs to be done. Now the second thing I want to notice, want us to notice here real quickly, is the proof of this truth. The pronouncement, it is finished. And then we are given at least four proofs that what Jesus said was so. You know, it's one thing to cry out, oh yeah, it's finished But we ask, is it really finished? Has the debt really been paid? Is God's wrath for our sin Satisfied. Is what Jesus said really true? Here's the amazing thing. Every claim that Jesus made in the Bible was backed up by something to verify and certify that what he said was so He claimed to be the Son of God. Oh, anybody can claim that. Yeah, but he raised the dead. He healed the sick. He walked on the water. He calmed the storms. He could verify, he had criteria to verify that when he claimed to be the Son of God, he actually was. Now he claims to have paid sin's debt. He claims that it is finished What criteria do we have? What do we have to verify that this statement is show? I believe God gives us at least four proofs. That when Jesus said it is finished, it was actually finished. Number one, and this we could preach a series on each of these But one proof that God was satisfied, that the sin debt was paid, is that the temple veil was rent in two Here's a fascinating thing. We don't think of this much. We don't talk about it much. But when Jesus Christ was crucified, there in the temple where the Holy of Holies was Where the only the high priest once a year could come in and offer the uh the atonement uh for on the Day of Atonement and sprinkle that blood on that altar to cover man's sin Nobody had access into that altar. Nobody had access into the presence of God but the high priest under very strict uh uh ceremonial process But now that veil was ripped in two, meaning everybody has access. Now, because of what Christ did, because the sin debt was paid You and I as believers can come directly to God and uh and uh approach Him in prayer and personal fellowship with Him. By the way, the Bible says, and you can read this in Matthew 27, Mark 15, Luke 23. You can read this there, but the interesting thing is the Bible points out that that veil was read from the top to the bottom. Telling us that only God could do that. You know what God was saying when he rent that veil? He was saying, all right, I'm satisfied. My holy judgment on sin has been met, and now man can come directly to me. I don't know where you are, I don't know what your situation may be But I know this, if you're not been saved, you can come directly to God in prayer. Bow yourself, call on Him and trust in the Savior. You don't have to go through a priest. You don't have to go through a church. You don't have to go through a baptistry. In fact, all of those things are hindrances. But rather you come directly to the Lord God Himself. And calling on Jesus Christ to be your Savior. Those of us that know Christ as Savior, we can come directly with God in our prayers. We can come boldly to the throne of grace. making our needs known unto him. And so the veil was rent. God saying, Yes, it's finished. The debt has been paid. You have access to my me now even in his holiness. Another proof That the debt was paid was the resurrection of Jesus Christ. That's what we celebrate today. I was on this morning and putting announcements out about social media, and everything I saw, all the posts coming up Resurrection Sunday, he's alive. I'm getting texts all morning. People texting me, he's alive, he's alive. Yes, the Lord is alive. And that is proof that the debt's been paid. What is the wages of sin? Help me. What is the wages of sin? Death. And Jesus Christ paid that wage. He paid that. He died in our place. And the debt no longer needs to be paid. And he came back back out of that grave. He paid it fully. Jesus Christ rose from the dead. We serve a risen Savior. And the resurrection of Christ is a powerful testimony of the fact. The sin debt's been paid. The wages have been paid. And then a third proof is Jesus ascended to the right hand of God. Read Philippians chapter 2, how God exalts him above all else because of what Christ did for us. God says, yes, son, you've paid the price You fulfilled your mission. Now you come. And he's exalted at the right hand of God. The book of Revelation is about the exaltation of Jesus Christ the Savior of the world who was dead and rose again and lives forevermore. And then the fourth proof is God sent the Holy Spirit to indwell believers. Say, preacher, how do we know that that debt's been paid? Because when we trust Christ, the Holy Spirit of God moves within us. The Old Testament, he didn't do that. He came upon the believers in the Old Testament, but he didn't indwell them. Why? Because that access to God, that fellowship with God was still broken by sin. All the blood of bulls and and goats and and oxen, it covered that sin judgment for a while. It pay it uh put it off for a while. But when Jesus came He paid it in full. And now God dwells in the believer. The most amazing thing in the world to me is that God Almighty, in the person of the Holy Spirit, dwells in the body of the believer, and proving That Jesus Christ paid it all. The debt's been paid. The debt's been paid. D. L. Moody was a great evangelist back in the early 1900s. Very, very famous and uh millions of people come to Christ saved through his ministry. And uh one day he was traveling from one city to another on a passenger train. And the engineer up in the front of the train got word that the famous evangelist, D. L. Moody, was on his train. He sent the conductor back to uh get in Mr. Moody and invited him to come up into the engine room up there and sit up there with him And uh uh Del Mooney thought that was interesting. He says, that wouldn't be enjoyable, I'll do that. And so he went up there and for the next several hours as they made their way down the tracks He sat up with the engineer, and uh he said that engineer proceeded for the next hour or two to tell him what a great guy that engineer was He told him how religious he was and he was doing this and he was confirmed and he was baptized and he kept the commandments and just went on and on and on And finally, as they got to the end of the trip, Mr. Moody looked to the fellow and he said, Sir, let me say something to you. He says, you're too late. He said, what do you mean? He said, all the work you did, it's too late. He said, what do you mean my works are too late? All this I've done. He says, you're too late. It's already been done for you. Jesus Christ did everything that is necessary to find forgiveness of sins and to be accepted by God You're listening this morning. You don't have that assurance in your heart and soul that God has accepted you, that you have eternal life, that your sins are forgiven. I want to give you opportunity here on this Easter morning. And you could bow your head and bow your heart before Almighty God and come directly to Him, not through a preacher, not through a priest, but just you coming directly to the Lord. And you could call on him, and he would forgive you and save you. Now you need to understand, you and I, all of us, we've sinned against God The Bible says, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. There's none righteous, no not one. We've broken his laws We've lied. We've taken his name in vain. We've disobeyed him. We could just go down the list. But we're sinners. We know it in our heart and soul. We know it. And God knows it. The Bible says that the wages of sin is death. That means separation from God for all eternity. If we die in our sins and we die unforgiven, our soul, our spirit, what we really are, separated from God for all eternity, in a place that Jesus described as Jesus called hell. He described it as a horrible place, unending, no escape. That's the wages of our sin. But God loved us so much as we tried to point out from the Bible that Jesus Christ, He didn't want us to go to hell. He came down and said, I'll suffer hell for them, the sinless, perfect son of God. And he says, I'll take responsibility for your sins. And I'll take your judgment for your sin upon myself. And he did on that cross. God turned his back on him. God forsook him. And he suffered hell. He's buried, he rose again. He's at the right hand of God. The Bible says, for whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Right there, where you are, in your home, living room, wherever you may be. You could bow. You could get on your knees there by your sofa or at least bow your head in your heart. You could call on the Lord and say, Lord, I need you to come in my heart and life. I'm going to offer a simple little prayer that you could pray, calling on the Lord. Now I want to caution, just saying these words is meaningless Just saying, repeating words uh is just empty religion and ritualism. But if from your heart you say, preacher, I've I really do want God to save me. I want to know that God has accepted me. My sins are forgiven. I go to heaven when I die. I'm going to offer a simple little prayer. If you pray it from your heart, meaning it God will hear you and God will save you. Let's bow our heads and our hearts. And here it is. I offer this little prayer, and I invite you, if you've not been saved, to pray along with me. Here it is. Ready? Here we go. Dear Lord Jesus, I know I'm a sinner. I've broken your law. I believe you died for my sins and rose again. I'm calling on you this Easter morning, trusting you as my personal Savior. In Jesus' name, amen. If you prayed that prayer just now and you meant that, I hope you'll send a little message to us. Let us know that you pray. Send us an email, give us a call, a letter. Somehow, get word to us. That you trusted Christ. We can give you some literature about how what it means now to be a Christian, what it means to be saved and forgiven. And uh we want to encourage you and help you in your faith in Christ and help you get that uh understand that if you've been saved and you've not been baptized It's an important step for a believer. And I know the situation we're in now might be a little challenging, but uh we'll figure out a way. We want to help folks follow Lord in baptism And then those of us that know the Lord, it's so important we walk with him. He's a living Savior. He loves us. And we can walk with him. He'll lead us and direct us as we trust him and follow his word.