Chapter two, if you would, Revelation chapter two. Well, I don't get the fanfare that the president gets when he gives the State of the Union address. But uh that's fine with me. I want to uh give my second annual official state of the church address And uh don't worry, I'm not campaigning or anything, uh, but uh just some things that uh uh some things I want to state about our church and some things that we're anticipating and maybe challenge us. in a few ways here uh concerning our church in the coming months and years. Revelation chapter 2, notice verse number 1. The Bible says unto the angel of the church of Ephesus Right. These things saith he that holdeth the seven stars in his right hand, who walketh in the midst of the seven golden stand candlesticks, I know thy works, and thy labor, and thy patience, and how thou canst not bear them which are evil. And thou hast tried them which say they are apostles and are not, and hast found them liars, and hast borne and has patience, and for my name's sake has laboured and hast not fainted Nevertheless, I have somewhat against thee, because thou hast left thy first love. Remember, therefore, from whence thou art fallen, and repent and do the first works Or else I will come unto thee quickly and will remove thy candlestick out of his place, except thou repent. But this uh but this thou hast, that thou hatest the deeds of the Nicolaatians, which I also hate He hath an ear, he that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches. To him that overcometh I will give to eat of the tree of life which is in the midst of the paradise of God. Let's pray. Father, bless now tonight and Lord, I pray that maybe we could lay some groundwork for the coming year and see you work through us and use us and help us grow. And Lord, if you tarry, and next year, this time we're here, I pray we'd be a stronger church and uh closer to you and more uh the church that you would intend for us to be Again, fill me with your Spirit, Lord, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I just read the first letter of a series of seven letters that were written to seven actual real literal churches. Uh there's a lot of debate and I there's no way I can discuss and expound on uh everything here, but it's written to seven churches just like Mountain Lake Independent Baptist churches, varying sizes varying levels of spiritual maturity, varying uh degrees of of uh their obedience to the Lord. And uh what we learn from these seven letters is this, and this is what I want to bring out. We learn that God was very much aware of and very much concerned about three things. He was aware of their works, what they were doing, the service they were doing, the things they were involved in. You could say this way, he was aware of their church calendar. What their weekly events were and all of that. He was aware of that and he was very concerned about it. He addresses you see there in the first part, he says, verse 2, I know thy works. I know what you're doing is. I know what your schedule is. He was also concerned about their doctrine. This doesn't come out in the Church of Ephesus here so much, but other ones is a little more so But he was concerned that the churches keep their doctrine straight. Keep it right. Have Bible doctrine. That's significant in the day and age we live when churches have been now for many years playing down doctrine and uh pushing it aside, saying it's not important, but it is important to God. He knew what their church's doctrine was, and he was very cons much concerned that it was correct. Then the third thing I pick up in these seven uh letters here is that the Lord is very aware of and very much concerned about the spiritual maturity of that church How strong they were in the Lord, how strong their faith was, how mature they were, how uh how uh how much the fruit of the Spirit was evident. In the church body and in the individual lives. So their works, their doctrine, and their maturity, their spirituality, you could say. If they are important to the Lord, they ought to be important to us. If God's concerned about our works, then we ought to have some works, first of all. Amen. Works don't save us, but we ought to be working for the Lord. We ought to have some works, and they ought to be right. Uh we ought we gotta have doctrine and it needs to be right. We need to be s growing spiritually and uh we need to be getting stronger. Here's my here's my state of the inner address, first thought, state of the church address I want us to consider the excellence of convictions. Now I'm using these words that try and alliterate here, but what I mean by that, in this matter of convictions, every church should have convictions. Strong stand on what is right and what is wrong. Every church should have convictions. You show me a church that doesn't have convictions, and I'll show you a church that's not too pleasing to the Lord. There must be convictions. Hey, let me put it this way. Every individual should have convictions. Every Christian should have convictions. Bible convictions on what is right and what is wrong. A new Christian ought to establish one of the first things a new Christian should do is establish Bible convictions. A long-term Christian, what a long-term Christian should do is make sure their convictions are biblical and then never change them Amen? Convictions. We want to be exactly. What I mean by that is we want to be exact what the Bible says we should be. We want to measure up to Scripture. There's certain philosophies, there's certain movements within Christianity, and I use that term a little loosely. There are certain movements. I like to put it this way. If you're involved in that movement, you cannot take the Bible, you cannot strictly go by the Bible and also function in that movement. You follow what I'm saying? If I'm going to be involved in that movement, then I've got to be loose on my interpretation, application of Scripture. I want to be what the Bible says. Our strength, here's a good quote for you. Our strength is in our conviction. Our strength is in our convictions. Now, what do we mean by convictions? Let me give you a few. Doctrinal convictions. Let me, I would encourage you to get a pen. You ought to write this in your Bible somewhere, a fly leaf of your Bible. I'm just going to go down through it quickly. Some of you perhaps already have it But some doctrinal convictions, as long as I am pastor of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, and as long as I have my mind We're going to hold to these Baptist convictions or Baptist distinctives. Let me give them to you. Take the word Baptist. And the letter B will have it stand for this. The Bible is our sole authority. I give my word to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church as pastor of this church. As long as I'm pastor, this book will be our sole authority. Now listen, if you if you don't if you're a little confused about what Bible we're talking about, we're talking about the good old King James Bible We are not changing that. We are not wavering from that. We feel very strong. We have convictions about that. We have a Bible basis. For our position. So I'll write that down. B, Bible is our sole authority. Put down this letter A The autonomy of the local church. The autonomy of the local church. What do we mean by that? There is no organization That has authority over our church. Jesus Christ, and He alone is the head of this church. We have no denominational authority, there's no denominational hierarchy, we are autonomous. Uh often when I preach on that or I mention that or I teach it in Bible Institute, I think, Helen, of Mr. Cotton. Do you remember Mr. Cotton? You know why I think of him? He thought it was the greatest thing in the world that our church was an independent church Independent baptism. He says, What do you mean by that? And I explained it to him. He thought that was the most wonderful thing in the world. I always think of him. He's been gone many, many years. But autonomy of the local church. Put this down, letter P We have convictions about this. P, the priesthood of the believer. Now that's a fancy way of saying this. Every saved person has direct access to God. Now it's uh somebody mentioned, as I know it's Paul or someone, thank God for Christians who pray for one another. Amen. I think our church is good on that. I thank God for that. But wait a minute. You don't need me to pray for you. You can pray for yourself. You have direct access to God. Hey, excuse me, but the priest downtown that says you have to approach God through him, he is lying. That is unscriptural. Priesthood and believer. Put this down. T, Baptist, B-A-P-T, two offices, pastor and deacon. He says, I thought we got Sunday school superintendent and trustees and all that. That's all just aside. The two biblical offices are pastor and deacon. Numbers, letter I not number I, letter I. B A P T I, Individual Soul Liberty What in the world does that mean? I'll tell you what that means. That means you can study and learn this Bible for yourself. You can pick this thing up and study it and come to your own conclusions. God can speak to you and will speak to you directly. Through this book, Individual Soul Liberty. I've got to keep going. I can't spend time on each of these. S, E-A-P-T-I-S, Saved and Baptized Membership. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church must never allow members of this church who are not saved and baptized. That is Bible doctrine. Saved have a testimony of salvation and believers' baptism. And by baptism, we mean immersion. Just as the Bible. We're sticklers for the Bible. And so, Baptist B, Bible Soul Authority, A, Autonomy of the Local Church, P. Priesthood of the Believer, T, two offices. I, individual, soul liberty, as saved and baptized membership, T2 ordinances, baptism and Lord's Supper. None of the sacrament business. Amen? Not bringing any of that in. Baptism, Lord's Supper. Two ordinances God has given us. Then one more S we tackle in here. Baptist separation of church and state. Separation of church and state. This is our conviction. As long as Dennis Leatherman is pastor of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church will be a Baptist church. We're going to leave that name on the sign, by the way. It's conviction. That's where we're at. And so excellence in our convictions. Want to be exactly what God wants us to be. Doctrinal convictions. Uh let me give you I put it this way, discernment convictions. Now I'm trying to alliterate this here a little bit, but what I mean by that is letting Scripture determine for us what is right behavior and what is wrong behavior. Not just doctrine, but our behavior Ah, we don't lean on our own understanding as to what is right and wrong. We go by what the Bible says is right and wrong. We don't take a survey from the community to tell us what they think is right and wrong. We take a survey what does the Bible say is right and wrong? If I want to say I've said this many times over the years, don't do what you think is right. Don't you dare do what you think is right. You do what God says is right. Convictions, personal convictions, determining, letting the Bible determine what is right and wrong. In philosophy of ministry Um uh State of the Church address. This is your pastor talking to you. Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is not a contemporary Christian music church. It's not gonna be. You're gonna have to run me out of here before that happens. I give you my word on that. Uh uh you cannot Uh, this is what I was saying. You cannot be involved in contemporary Christian music and hold strictly to Scripture. You have to compromise Scripture to be involved in that. I've never had anybody show me from scripture that I was wrong on that. I had people not like that. People get mad because they like uh you know why um uh If you're not mad at me by now, you will be in a little bit. Uh you know why folks have rock and roll music in their churches Because they like rock and roll music. Has nothing to do with the Bible. Has nothing to do with spirituality. Has nothing to do with godliness and reaching the lost. They like that music Um ecclesiastical versus ecumenical ministry. This is these are sixty-four dollar words. What do you mean by uh uh ecclesiastical uh uh separation is what I'm talking about. In other words, what this we're not joining the ministerial association. We're not joining up with uh other churches outside our faith. We are s uh we are separate ecclesiastically, we are separate, we are not ecumenical. Um here's one that isn't usually uh real popular, but I'm telling you, I believe, I believe before I came here, and uh I'll believe it when I leave, uh Lord Willen. Uh Modesty versus immodesty The Bible still teaches that people are to dress modestly. Now, come on, help me. You can dress in modestly and get a lot of attention, but you're never going to get any respect. You say, oh, but the world, uh listen, I'm not concerned about the world, I'm concerned about Christ. This church is gonna maybe we don't preach as much as we should, I don't know, but uh we're gonna preach modesty Uh and and the biblical principles of modesty. Uh here's another one. Uh usually gets quieter as I come down here. Um Uh gender uh I put it this way, I'll explain what I mean. Gender specific versus gender neutral dressing. You say, what in the world does that mean? Uh it simply means this. I'm convinced from Scripture that men ought to dress like men, ladies ought to dress like ladies. Now God bless you ladies. Um I I I thank God for you. I'm proud to be your pastor. If we're up at the Fellowship Hall, Walmart, and um Uh if we're over the fellowship hall and you're not dressed the way I preach, I'm not going to say a word about it. I'm not going to look down on you. I'm proud to be your pastor. Uh I'm not going to criticize you at all But I tell you what, I sure wish you'd follow my teaching and preaching from the Bible. That's all I'm saying. Um fellas, if I get up to Walmart and I see you in a dress You're gonna hear about it. I mean people are glad. Yeah, amen. And um you know, I I know it. I know I'm not the most popular uh uh person in the world when I'm talking about this. But I have yet have somebody come to me from Scripture and show me that I'm wrong. I believe if you would give me time and let me sit down with you one-on-one, I could convince you from scriptures that women ought not to wear men's clothes and men ought not to wear women's clothes. I'm simple listen, I've I said this the first month I came here as pastor I preached this. This church held to this for years. All I'm trying to tell you is, don't worry, I haven't changed. Still hold to that. I had convictions before uh uh before I ever met my wife, I had convictions I was not going to wear pantyhose. Uh how many people are glad? I've asked this before. How many folks would be disappointed if you went to uh Walmart and saw your preacher in a dress? How many people would be a little disappointed? Yeah, I would too, believe me. Uh and uh uh Kathy had convictions before I ever met her. I see she left here when I started talking about things There she is. Uh she had convictions for uh before I ever met her that she wasn't gonna wear pants. Just wasn't gonna do it. Now, you say, preacher, uh listen, I understand. God bless you. I'm proud to be your preacher. But uh if you give me a chance, I think I can show you from scripture, principles from scripture, that that is uh that's Bible. Couple amens here and there. Thank you. Thank you. I'm not mad at you, so don't get mad at me. Alright. But uh I'm telling you about convictions. We're going to preach that. Personal separation. You say, but preacher, what's wrong with being in style? There's nothing in the world wrong with being in style as long as it doesn't violate scriptural principles. Amen. There's nothing wrong with uh uh uh with technology. As long as it doesn't violate scriptural principles, I got a cell phone. Um, preacher, do you text? Yeah, not dormant church though. I can't, I'm preaching. But uh as long as it doesn't violate scripture. And so what am I saying? I'm saying this: we need to have excellence in our convictions. We are called to be distinct. We live by a higher standard. This Bible was given to us for a reason. It's for us to live by and follow the principles and teachings here. And uh that's where we're at. That's where you say, preacher, no other church in town preaches that. Well, if it's in the Bible, we're gonna keep on preaching it. If you can show me it's not in scripture, then I'll change my position. But that's where we're at. So number one, if you knew how fast I was going through these notes, you would all be shouting, glory to God. Hallelujah. Amen James set the standard pretty high this morning, getting out as early as we did. Number two, I want to address the effectiveness of our obedience. The excellence of our convictions, the effectiveness of our obedience. Our church has a great responsibility given to us by God. Mount Lincoln Independent Church has given us a tremendous responsibility, and that is this. Go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. That is our responsibility to take the gospel into all the world. Now, if you look at our calendar, how many folks got a church calendar in the mail from the church in the last several weeks, within the last several weeks? If you didn't We need to get you one. If you'll look at our church calendar, you'll notice that the overwhelming emphasis of our schedule has to do with taking the gospel to lost people. If you'll look at it very, very carefully. Let me highlight a few events. Our missions conference. I consider the missions conference in May 16th through the 20th the most single most important meeting we have of the whole year. Missions commons, that is what we exist for. To get the gospel into all the world, to be challenged with our own personal involvement in world missions and us as a church doing what we can Another, the Sword of the Lord Conference. We emphasize soul winning, revival, getting uh reaching our own communities and being personal soul winners Neighborhood Bible time. You know what neighborhood Bible time is about? Reaching the next generation with the gospel. I'm so excited about our Bible time rally this summer. Uh the wild game dinner. Why do you do that? You like hunting and fishing? Well we like that, but you know why we do it? I do that for one reason. So we can get a lot of people to hear the gospel that wouldn't normally come to a church service That thing has been effective over the years in reaching people with the gospel. Wild game dinner. I'm excited about that. We've got we have the most unusual wild game dinner planned for this coming year I put down this teen rallies. What a testimony, Elizabeth, a teen rally. God calls her missions. Other decisions made. Revivals throughout the year. What about that Dr. Williams. Man, we see visitors come out, gospels preached, people saved. What a great meeting that has become over the years. Hasn't wavered a bit And we just keep on doing it, keep on doing it. This will be 20 years this coming year in a row, we've had Dr. Williams here. And we're just going to keep on doing it. It's effective. Now, track month has been a blessing. I've been waiting all week to say this right now. I'm gonna savor the moment. People want to hear about track month this year. Hold on a second. We have Dan Hummel approached me last year. He says, uh have you ever put anything together? He said, what would you think about putting that together? Just like a manual or something. And he says we can promote that to other churches and get other churches doing that and uh get that thing multiplied. I said I never thought of it. I I don't know how to put the man together. He says, write down what you do Go through there. And so I took a little time, went through, had some guys look at it and give their two cents and put it together. And um we mailed that thing out. I had Paula before church tonight type up, here is a list of churches that are getting involved with track month this year. 30 churches, counting ours. Lewis Howe down in New Zealand's going to have track month the same month we do. West Virginia, about five, six churches, West Virginia, Pennsylvania. A church in Nebraska found out about it They got the manual. They're having track month in Nebraska. Down around Washington, D. C. Several church plants up in Pennsylvania. Listen to this. Dublin, Ireland. Dan Hummel's, uh not Dan Hummel, Dan Canavan, emailed me back. He said, that is the greatest track outreach I've ever heard of in my life. He says we are put going into it 110% we're going to reach Dublin with the with the gospel tracts. Now over there, you can stick them in the mailboxes. Imagine that. Hon don't do that here. Uh Honduras. Brother Gowens down in Honduras having track month. Using our manual. Pastor Savali in Samoa. Where in the world is Samoa? They're having track month. He's already ordered the tracks. Giving them out. Uh Nebraska. Anybody know where Cebu is? C E B U. It's a country somewhere. Where's that at? You know where it's at? Yeah. Oh. Yeah I know where it is, just don't call on me. Um I don't know where it is, but a preacher in Cebu is having track month. Email me. Isn't that incredible? Uh I go down through here, Virginia, all these churches. I started praying. I told Brother Hummel, I said, let's pray, and I'm asking our church to pray that we can see 500,000 gospel tracts given out this year through churches haven't tracked month. Who'd have ever dreamed Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church in Garrett County could have a part in a half a million gospel tracts being given out around the world? Isn't that an amazing thing? That if I had hair, I'd be standing on end right now. Now that's not the exciting part about track month. That's just the appetizer. Lee Bowman. Got my challenge for track month. I got an email back about 20 minutes later. You know what it said? He said Calvary Baptist Church of Mannington, West Virginia challenges Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church to track month competition, see which church gives out the most tracks in the month of April. I said, that guy's nuts. This is crazy. I told James, I said, man, no cream us. He's a fanatic. He's a jihad of tracks. And James said, being a good assistant, he said, We gotta do it, preacher, we'd look bad if we didn't So I accepted the challenge. So this year, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is challenging uh Calvary Baptist Church to see which track and we're going to set up a sound system. We're going to go back and forth each Sunday, give the report. We'll keep a record how many their tracks their church is given out and how many we're giving out. Now he's got Fremont uh Fairmont right there. Uh he's got three hundred people in his church. They they we're gonna have to work like crazy. And uh and all God's people said Amen, preacher. What'd you get us into? And uh we're just gonna have to get after this thing, and what we're calling it is this track wars And uh we're getting pictures made. Him and I am going over this Friday. We're getting pictures made back to back. And uh I mean this is gonna be full blown competition. And uh we're just gonna listen, we're gonna we have to, we cannot let them beat us. Under no circumstances can Lee if he wins, I will never hear the end of this So I'm excited about it. Can you I've set a goal. This afternoon I prayed and prayed and prayed. This afternoon I set the goal. Our church, I th you're I'm crazy, and this is ridiculous But I set a goal for our church to give out fifty thousand tracts in the month of April. That's how many a week? 50. That's 12,000 five well we got five weeks, so that's ten thousand a week. Ten thousand a week. So that's fifty people give out two hundred tracks a week. We got it. Doesn't sound that hard, does it? And so uh we're going after it folks, we're going after it. And um uh I'm excited about this. What about personal goals? I still I've been praying for this year's, this is state, this is just sharing my vision of my heart for the church Uh I've been praying for years. I would like to see us baptize 50 people on our 50th anniversary of the church. Listen, that doesn't just happen. We got to work at that We gotta get out and share the gospel with people. Mike Kathy and I have set a personal goal. We're shooting for September And we just started this about a week or so ago, but we've set a personal goal of bringing fifty people to church in our car, bringing them, not inviting them to have them show up, picking them up and bringing them here, fifty people uh hopefully by September and we're working towards that. I want to challenge you. Set a number. Say I want to get some people. I want to get it where I can pick up some people and um hi Caddy. It's okay, just have a seat right there. And uh I want to challenge you on that. Set a personal goal. Uh bringing them in. Uh weekly soul winning. Um I think I was listening to testimony tonight. We have a tremendous church family. Do you agree with me? Just ignore these people down here. We have a trend tremendous church family, but wait a minute We've got to reach outside the doors of our church. If all we do is have this nice little happy family here and we pat each other on the back and we shake each other's hands and that's fine. I'm not I thank God for this. This is the this is the best church I've ever been a part of. But we've got to reach outside the doors. We've got to get outside our family and reach other people and bring them in and put as much effort into that. I believe our sunny stool is the strongest it's been since I've been here as pastor. Brother Mark and Jackie have done phenomenal work in getting that organized and providing leadership there, and I thank God for them. Dave and Becky and and down in Children's Church run in and uh Whatever your wife's name is, um Ronnie Carroll, I'm sorry. Uh down in children that children's church is incredible and all the workers down there, thank God for it. Now let me tell you where I think uh weakness is I think our soul winning, getting out knocking on doors. I thank God for the folks. We had a good team tonight. Tom and Jerry led a lady to the Lord this evening. But I'm not satisfied with that. I'd like to see more people involved on getting in the training. We want to provide soul-winning training and getting out in the article. Say, preacher, we already knocked on those doors. Jesus didn't say go into all the world and knock on the doors once He said, just go, go, keep going, keep going, keep going. Listen, if we can stay as excited about it the 50th time we did it as we did the first time we did it, we'll see the same results we did the first time we did it And so just getting after it. Then last of all, and this is what I really wished I could spend time on, but I can't, is the extent of our devotion. Look with me, if you would, again, and finally at verse number four in Revelation chapter 2. Now, this is where the conviction sets in. A lot of excitement, a lot of hoopla. Look what he says. Nevertheless. Verse 2, he said, I know your works. Man, you guys are busy. You've got track month, mission trips, you've got soul winning, you've got institute, you've got all these things going on. You're busy. You're hard at it. You have a vision. Look what he says in verse 4. Nevertheless, I am somewhat against thee. Because thou hast what? Left thy first love. They didn't lose their first love. They left it. It is possible in an active, busy church To get so busy about doing stuff for the Lord and these goals that we forget to love the Lord. And we lose, we forget what we're doing. This is out of love for the Lord. We must keep our devotion. To God, we cannot let that dry up. We cannot lose that first love Now how do you avoid losing your first love? Listen, I hope you'll stay- I hope you get half as excited about what this year holds as I am. I'd love to see everybody here just fully engaged in what we're trying to do for the Lord. But listen, we've got to keep that devotion, that love for the Lord alive. If that dries up, then everything else is vain. How do we do that? We push it so much. We've got to have those daily devotions every day. I have got to open my Bible and let God speak to my heart. And several people brought this out recently. It has to be more than just quickly read this so I can get through here. I've got to hurry up and read this. No, let God speak to your heart. Read those verses, have pen in hand, and let God touch your heart Have a time of a of a time when God, on a daily basis, where God can speak to your heart. How many people know what I'm talking about when you have devotions and God speaks to your heart? You know what I'm talking about? We need that. On a daily basis, I challenge you. This year, make daily devotions a part of your everyday life. Determine that it has to be. Give God time to speak to your heart. I put this down: keeping the love alive. Keep short accounts with God. Listen, we all struggle with this flesh. We all struggle with sin. If any man says that he's without sin, he's a liar. You know what I need to do? When that sin comes up, deal with it immediately. Acknowledge it, forsake it, get taken care of, do what I gotta do to make that right what I did wrong. And keep those short accounts. Here's what happens. If I do wrong, or if I omit something I should do, and I don't deal with it, you know what happens? A heart gets a little harder. My love gets a little colder. I've got to keep that short account, short account, short account. By the way, that works in the marriage too. If you say something to your spouse that's a little short, don't let that drag on. Come right away, as soon as you realize what you did, come and say, listen, sweetheart, I'm sorry. Shouldn't have said that. I'm sorry. I was wrong. Keep those short accounts. I put this down. Be at home at the altar. This old-fashioned altar ought not to be a stranger ought not to be a stranger to the old-fashioned altar. How many folks here have you ever heard preaching and God dealt with your heart, something in your heart and life, your walk with God? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Spirit of God dealt with your heart. You know what we ought to do? Every time God does that, you know what we ought to do? Well go to the altar and say, Lord, here it is. This is what you dealt with my heart about. We ought to make it right. Listen, I've been here long enough. You know me. I'm not trying to just fill this altar. Good grief. We want to keep from losing our first love. We tend to, if God speaks to our heart about something, we say, yeah, I'll take care of that someday, and we walk out and never do a thing. We get a little harder, a little harder. But boy, while that iron's hot, while God's deal with it, let's humble ourselves before the Lord. Say yes, Lord. I want this to be right. I wanted to make the changes. I want your health. I need your filling. Whatever it is. And then earnest prayer. Brother Mark's been talking about this, and God's been dealing with my heart. About praying earnestly. And not just praying, but seeing God answer our prayers It's nothing that stirs your heart like God clear and direct answer to prayer. We had an answer to prayer in our family this past week. In my mind has stirred my heart. It is such, in my mind, it is such a clear and direct act of God stepping in and intervening that I haven't seen in a long time. I tell you what, that stirs your heart. That keeps things tender. Keeps you in love with the Lord. Earnest prayer. And then I put this down, investing in others. Investing in others. That keeps our heart tender. I tell you what, I've never been a part of a church, and Lord knows this, I'm not trying to flatter anything. I've never been a part of a church where folks Have cared for other folks in the church as much as this church has. I'm not talking about pastoral or pastoral staff. I'm talking about people out here Visiting. George in the hospital's been getting visits from folks all over. Brother Paul, folks in the church coming out. Others. Listen, let's keep that alive. Let's care about other people. Listen, you start getting down, feeling a little dumpy, self-centered, a little self-pity. You know what you can do? Go and bake you a bunch of cupcakes and take it to a shut-in. Go visit Nina. She'll probably sleep the whole time you're visiting her, but it'll do something for you. Huh? Go make some cookies and find a neighbor, shut-in neighbor nobody likes. Go and give them some cookies. Have a word of prayer with them. I visited with a couple this evening. I think people know who Ma and Pa Kettle are. This was Ma and Pa Kettle of Garrett County. Bless their hearts. You know what most folks would have done would have just probably said, oh brother Uh they said, Come in. So I went in. You know what? I had a time of my life. We laughed, read scripture, prayed. I don't know if they understood a word I was saying. But we had a great time. I came out of there thinking, Lord, you're good. Lord, you're good. And uh get out and involved in other So here we are, fifty years. Ed Wilch shows up, 1962, starts knocking on doors, got a handful of folks. He told me, he was here I don't know how many months, he said the same people that invited me to come told me I should pack my bags and leave Thank God he didn't, huh, Brother Miller? He stayed. And here we are 50 years later. We are not going to change. Not bringing new styles of music. We're not changing our doctrine. We're not using other different Bibles. We're not changing. And we're going to work on our responsibility of getting the gospel everywhere. We're going to hold the standards high, from the pulpit to the pew. We're going to hold the standards high. And most importantly, we want to stay in love with Jesus. Amen. Father, bless us, Lord. Help us this coming year. It has to be you, Lord, doing it. And uh stir us and give us a vision, personal, give us goals, Lord, accomplishments for you and your glory, the reaching of the lost. But Lord, don't let our hearts get hard. Don't let us get cold. Don't let us get lukewarm, dear Lord. Stir us and help us. And keep that love alive. Father, keep those devotions warm. And we need you to help us. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many say, preacher, God stirred my heart tonight in some area, some way? I want to be all that God intends for me to be, and I want to see Him do great things in my life and the life of the church he's made me a part of. How many by the uplifted hand? God bless you, hands all around I don't know what God may have spoken to your heart specifically about. I shared my heart with you tonight. The way I see it as pastor, where I'm coming from. And I hope God's stirring your heart also. Father, bless our invitation now, I pray. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How about