Take your Bibles, turn back to Luke chapter number nine. We just read a few moments ago, Luke chapter nine. A chicken and a pig were walking down the road. And just talking, enjoying the day, looking around. Lo and behold they came around a corner and uh there was what we used to call years ago uh an old gospel mission. Does anybody know what I'm talking about? A gospel mission? I think they call 'em like homeless shelters now and different stuff like that. But it was basically a place for folks that were down and out and uh you know and sin had destroyed their lives. They had no place to live, they had no income. They could go to a gospel mission And they'd get a meal and they'd sometimes put them up, they'd have a place to stay, and they'd preach the gospel to them. I preached him one down in Chattanooga. on a weekly basis for about four or five years when I was in Bible college. And uh so this chicken and pig are walking down. They come around. Here's a gospel mission. Folks out front they had a big sign. They said uh help wanted And they had a list of things they could use, and they stopped and got looking at it. And finally the chicken said to the pig, he says, you know, we ought to help them out here. This is a good work. And uh they're helping people and we ought to help them out. And the pig said, Yeah, that'd be a good idea. What do you got in mind? He goes, Well, I'm a chicken and you're a pig. We could give 'em eggs and ham for breakfast, you know. The pig looked at the chicken and said, Listen, that's easy for you to say. For you it's a gift. For me it's total commitment. I think that is what our Lord is addressing in our text here this morning. Look, I'd like for us to read together verse number sixty-two of Luke chapter 9. I'd like for us all to read together in unison. And I've actually adjusted the message a little bit. It's a different title than what's in the bulletin. But let's read together verse 62 and I'll explain that. Already? Everybody got it there? Luke 9, 62, all together, here we go. And Jesus said unto him. No man having put his hand to the plow and looking back is fit for the kingdom of God. I've entitled the message this. Three would be followers of Jesus Christ. Three would be followers of Jesus Christ. Let's pray. And let's ask the Lord to speak our hearts and help us. Father in heaven, Lord, it's good to be in your house. And Lord, the Lord's day, your day is always very, very special to us that know you as Savior. And we've assembled now in your name, Lord, and we've tried to sing praises to you. We've enjoyed fellowship one with another. The music's been a tremendous blessing. Now, Father, I ask that you please challenge us from your word. God, I present my body anew at this hour. I yield my will to yours, and I ask with all my heart Once again, that you fill me with your Spirit and that you speak through me. And I pray that our hearts and minds would be open to your word and what your will is for our lives. Lord, I pray that there not be one person under the sound of my voice that does not have assurance of their salvation that would leave this service. Without getting that matter settled, they know for sure they're going to heaven, not to hell. So please bless now. Help us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I just want to say this and I hate to say it, but you know, just with the crowd sometimes you have to. I just uh I believe I uh we're of the conviction around here that the preaching of the Word of God is the most important thing going on And I know this is a big week in our country and down at Washington, D. C. , but I'll be very frank with you, and I'm not trying to be sensational, and I'm I believe this with all my heart. What is about to take place in the next few moments is more important than anything that's going to happen in Washington in the next five, six, seven days. It's the preaching of the Word of God. Not because I'm the one preaching it, Lord knows that. But it's God's word and um and that is eternal. And so we ask that with that in mind, if folks would, just kind of put the phones aside and And uh give attention to the Word of God and we ask that folks not walk in and out during the service unless it's an emergency. Uh if it's Something going on then we want you to go out, trust me. But um but unless it's necessary, uh we ask that we give our attention up here. Sometimes Jesus would go into an area. We have his three and a half years ministry recorded for us in the Gospels. And sometimes Jesus would go into an area. And the response to his ministry and the response to his preaching was phenomenal. It was some cases we have recorded where it's it's just almost overwhelming. How people would respond to the preaching of Jesus Christ. Of course, healing the sick and the blind, making the blind to see, the deaf to hear. You know, that was all a factor that would attract tremendous crowds. But sometimes he would preach, and you read his messages that Jesus preached as they're recording the Word of God. They're very powerful messages. He didn't mince words. He didn't tickle ears to use that term. He shot straight. I was telling Brother Brian we were shaking hands this morning. I was going, I guess it was last night, I was going through some of my notes from years going by and different things and I Came across some notes uh by an old preacher, brother Jack Wirtson. And he was up out in New York, I think Brian was saved under his preaching up in Boston. And um and the message was why we're all sinners. And man, he goes down there and he shoots straight. He doesn't tickle anybody's ears. He just lays it out, tells us from the Bible why we're sinners. Well that's the way Jesus' preaching was. And sometimes people, as I said, would respond positively and they'd receive what he had to say, and they would respond in faith, and they'd turn from their sin and their lives were changed. Sometimes he'd go to another area, another city, another village, and he'd preach the same messages, and maybe he did miracles, and there was almost no response. In fact, there's several instances recorded in the scriptures where he didn't do anything. He preached, but the people didn't believe and they would not receive. His message and his word, and thus there was few results. Well, the case in our scripture here this morning is a situation where people did hear. And they did respond. And in the passage we read in our scripture reading, we have the record of three men Who are confronted with the opportunity to become followers of Jesus Christ? Now, I want to stop and explain a little bit what we mean by being a follower of Jesus Christ. As I looked and I studied these men, there's no doubt in my mind these men were saved men They had come to the point in their life, and through the hearing of the Word of God, as Jesus was preaching it, they came to the point in life that they recognized that they were sinners. And you don't hear that term used very much in the world today. In fact, you don't hear it in the media at all. Nobody in Hollywood is going to talk about sinners in a biblical sense You're not going to hear that from the politicians. In fact, I hate to say this. You're not going to hear teaching and preaching on sin from our a lot of our pulpits. A lot of your TV preachers aren't going to touch that. But nevertheless, Jesus mints no words, and the Bible is very, very clear that all of us are sinners. We are born with a sinful nature. So these three men here, they recognize the fact that They were born with a sinful nature. They had broken God's law. They had said things they ought not to say. They had done things they ought not to have done. They had uh thought things they ought not to have thought No doubt there were sins of omission, there were things they should have done that would have been the right thing to do, and they did not do it, and that's just as much sin as not as doing the thing ought not to do And so these men had come to the point in their life where they recognized that they were sinners, and as a result of their sin, they were under the judgment of God. The Bible says that the wages of sin is death. Back in the Old Testament, the book of Ezekiel, he says a number of times, he says, the soul that sinneth, it shall die. Now the death in Romans, the wage of sin is death, and the death in Ecclesia in uh Ezekiel is not necessarily speaking just about physical death. We all understand You know, death is very real. It's a result of sin. But what he's referencing there is spiritual death, the soul. That sinneth, it shall die. And because of the reality of sin in our lives, we are born naturally, spiritually dead. And the biblical definition of death is separation from God. It does not mean to cease to exist. It means to be separated. When I die physically, my soul and my body are separated. My soul goes either to heaven or hell. My body goes in the grave. Spiritual death, the soul dying, soul death is separation from God. So, sin, the wages, the consequences, the judgment of sin is death, which is separation from God. God is a holy God. God is pure and just and right And no sin can be in his presence. And because of our sin, we are separated from God. And if I die physically, In my sins, with my sins unforgiven, I am separated from God for all eternity. Jesus used very descriptive terms To explain what it means to die in my sins, to die unforgiven of my sins. And the term he used and used throughout the Bible is it's the idea of going to hell The consequences of sin and the and to die in unforgiven sin, to die in my sins, is to be separated from God for all eternity in a horrific place called hell. Ultimately end up in the lake of fire, Revelation tells us. And so we need to have our sins forgiven before I die physically. There's only one way to find forgiveness of sins. And by the way, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church cannot forgive your sins. Getting baptized. Lord will, a little bit, where I'm a young man, follow the Lord in baptism. Baptism is very important. It's part of spiritual growth, it's part of my Christian growth. But getting baptized does not wash away my sins. When we're done baptizing, there are a bunch of sins in the bottom of the pool there, you know, and Washington. Doesn't happen, it doesn't work that way. In fact, there's nothing you and I can do to cleanse us of our sins. Only Jesus Christ can do that for us. Jesus Christ went to the old-fashioned cross, the old cross many, many years ago. And as the perfect pure Son of God, as Jennifer sang a few moments ago, God's gift to us, God's Son, sinless, pure in every way, kept God's law perfectly. And he gave himself to be our sacrifice, to be our substitute, and he stood in our place, and when he was on that cross, he took upon himself the responsibility for all your sins and all my sins. And God, the holy creator God that exists from all eternity past to all eternity future, God poured out his judgment On Jesus Christ for all my sins and all your sins. He was our substitute He took responsibility for everything that I have ever said or done that is displeasing to God. Jesus Christ took responsibility for every thought and act and word, sinful thought, act and word that you and I have ever committed, all mankind has ever committed. And he took that judgment on himself. The Bible says a darkness settled down over the earth as he hung on that cross, suffering and and uh and um uh That darkness settled down on uh over the earth. I consider that the darkness of hell, the darkness of the absence of God's presence. And because of our sin being placed upon Jesus Christ, the Holy God, could not be in the allow that in his presence. And Jesus cried out in that darkness, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? The reason God forsook him, the reason God separated himself from his own son was because Jesus Christ took our sins upon himself. That was the judgment upon him. That is death. Spiritual death separated from God. Jesus Christ gave up the ghost. He said it is finished. To thy hands I commend my spirit Jesus died physically. And because he was the sinless Son of God and there was no sin of his own, he rose from the dead. Three days later. And he's alive today. He's a right hand of God. And he promises us that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Whosoever by faith accepts that Jesus Christ died on the cross for my sins, he paid the punishment for my sins. He suffered hell for me in my place. as my substitute. And if I will by faith accept that to be true and put my trust and confidence in that. That act that Christ did for me and in Him individually, trusting Him as my personal Savior, God forgives our sin, cleanses us from all unrighteousness, and we can know for sure we're going to heaven when we die, and not to hell. There's people all across this auditorium can testify to the fact there was a day I trusted Christ as Savior. He forgave my sins, and now I have assurance from God's word in my own heart that when I die I'm going to heaven, not to hell. Amen or not? So that's where these men are at. Now they're looking forward. At this point, Christ is on his way to the cross But he had assured them that they'll trust him, but their faith in him, that whosoever believeth in him shall not perish, but have everlasting life. And they had made that decision. There's no doubt in my mind, these are saved men. They had trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. They have that matter settled, looking forward to the cross. Now let me stop there and make this statement. You're here this morning, and you don't know for sure that your sins are forgiven. There's a doubt in your heart and mind at all about whether you're going to heaven or hell when you die. I plead with you, as your friend, and as a preacher of the Word of God, I plead with you, get that matter settled today. It is too dangerous to put that off. You say, oh, one of these days I'll get that settled. Listen, one of these days may never come. It's a lot of people burning in hell right now that were going to get saved one of these days. And so That's my plea to you. If you don't know that for sure, that you're going to heaven when you die, your sins are forgiven. My plea to you this morning is come to Christ, trust Him as your personal Savior, find forgiveness. And God will give you eternal life. So, these guys, uh these three men here that come to the Lord Jesus Christ, they have this opportunity not just to be a believer in Jesus Christ, not just to be saved. Have their sins begin, but now that they have the opportunity to become a follower of Jesus Christ. Um He had been preaching salvation for uh about three years. Not one time had Jesus ever refused anyone who came to him in repentance and faith, and they had settled this most important issue in life. I look at this and uh I see here, ah, these look like saved men. They've trusted Christ. Their sins are forgiven. They're on their way to heaven. Another thing I notice here about these men, and I may be speculating here a little bit But I think they're happy men. Ah, they look like to me that they're uh they're uh they love the Lord to some extent and they want to be a follower. They love the Lord and we want to invest our lives in Him. They appear to me by all appearances to be happy men, saved, happy Christians I look at them here, verse 57 to 62, and I don't see any glaring sins mentioned There's no reference here to them going out, getting drunk, and living it up and drinking Saturday nights and carrying on. There's no reference to that at all. I don't see any reference here that they're uh running around and sleeping around and living in immorality like that. There's no reference to that. Doesn't look to me like they're I don't see any reference, they're blaspheming God's name, taking God's name in vain, or or uh dishonest in any way. I don't see they're stealing any money or embezzling anything. They look to me like saved folks that are fairly happy in their Christian life and and uh going along there. Let me say this, let me say a word to folks, maybe you've already been saved. I guarantee you one thing. As a saved person, as a person that's accepted Jesus Christ as Savior, if I allow sin into my life I do not lose my salvation, but one thing I do lose is the joy of my salvation. You will never find a happy, sinning Christian Oh, there may be some pleasure in that sin for a while, and there may be some laughter coming off the lips, and maybe yucking it up in sin, but as a child of God You and I allow sin into our lives, it's going to bring the chastening hand of God on our lives Hebrews chapter twelve. We get accused sometimes. Sometimes folks have come to us and I haven't recently, but in years gone by when I first showed up, the first probably ten years I was here, I'd run into this fairly regularly Folks would come up and say, Pastor Letheman, you're the preacher out there at the Baptist Church. I said, Yes, amen. So let me ask you a question. You believe once saved, always saved? I say, as a matter of fact, yes. I do not believe you can lose your salvation. I had a lady come to me one time. She goes, I'm going to ask you a question, and I want you to answer yes or no. Nothing more, just yes or no. I said, oh brother, I'm getting set up here. I can see that. I said I'll be glad to answer your question, but I'm not promising it's just going to be yes or no. She says, Do you believe once saved, always saved? I said, Yes. And I if you'll give me 10 minutes, I can show you from the Bible why I believe that with all my heart. She has, well, then you just believe in a license to sin. And I said, No, I don't There's nowhere in the Bible that God even remotely suggests that we have a license to sin. There's nowhere in the Bible that God even remotely suggests that because I'm saved, I can just live however I want. No, the Bible is very, very clear. If you take the time and study Hebrews chapter 12, the Bible says if I'm a child of God, if I've been saved, if I've accepted Jesus Christ as my Savior God is my father now. I am born into the family of God. Jesus told Nicodemus, you must be born again, born into the family of God. And when God becomes my father, God functions as a very good father. And no father that loves, nobody that we would describe as a good father lets his kids have a license to sin. No good father just lets his kids run wild. And God is a good father, and he doesn't let his children, he doesn't let Christian children just run wild instead. Hebrews chapter 12 tells us that once I'm his child and I allow sin into my life, if I do not deal with it, if I do not confess it and forsake it and repent of it, if I don't get it out of my life, God will chasten me. God will correct me. He doesn't send me to hell, but he does chasten me. How many people recognize the term being taken to the woodshed? Can I get a witness? Can anybody testify as to being taken to the woodshed? Yeah. You know what I'm talking about. It's well, when I was a kid we called it getting a whooping I was young. Did I ever tell you about the time I started a fire in the basement? Anyone? It's a true story. My mom had an old, remember the old wooden yardsticks? Psh! They were flimsy. They last about two swats and shattered in pieces. Then it was the old wooden spoon. What I'm trying to say is this. When I accept Jesus Christ as my Savior, for me it was May 7, 1979, when I accept Jesus Christ as my Savior, my sins are forgiven. God gives me eternal life, not temporary life, eternal life. And I'm born into God's family. And as a child of God, if I sin, if I disobey him, deliberately disobey him, do wrong, God chastens me, he corrects me, he takes me to the woodshed. And the whole purpose is to correct me and get me back where I should be, living a good, happy Christian life. I wish I could tell you I never experienced that, but I've experienced God's woodshed. And many of you know what I'm talking about. So I look at these guys and I don't see that they're living in sin and and uh God's dealing with them in a way. They seem like just Happy, normal guys, they've trusted Christ, they're saved, their sins are forgiven, they've got assurance of that. Uh they appear happy. I wanted to reference in Psalms 51 David got King David, tremendous man of God, messed up, bad, really bad, committed adultery, a man of God. And for a year plus he tried to hide it and lied about it and tried to cover it up, ended up killing people. Finally, God approaches him and God chastens them and God corrects them. And I'm not saying this happens all the time, but in David's case, his child died as a result of his sin. He lost most of his kids. And David in Psalm 51 is confessing his sin. He's making alright. God had been chasing him. If you read Psalm, I believe it's 32, he talks about the conviction that he was under. how God was dealing with him and dealing with him. And finally he comes clean and he confesses his sin. And he makes this prayer request. He says, Lord, restore unto me the joy of thy salvation. The sin had taken the joy away, the sin had taken that peace from his heart, and under God's chastening, he was not a happy man. But when he confessed it and forsook it, God restored the joy again. So I said all that to address the fact that These three men that have this opportunity to become followers of Jesus Christ, by all appearances, they look like saved men to me. They look for the most part by uh happy men that are excited about the Lord. They're talking about becoming followers. And so my message this morning is really to save people. My message this morning is to folks you've trusted Christ as your personal Savior and you're living for God. Maybe there's no blanton sins in your life. We're always constantly dealing with it, but you're not out of fellowship with God necessarily. And maybe you're at the point in your Christian life where God has given you the opportunity to enter another level of Christian living. And by that I mean going from simply being a believer in Jesus Christ, someone who has accepted him as my personal Savior, to becoming a follower of Jesus Christ. To becoming somebody that puts Christ first in my life Notice here, if you would, if you got your Bibles still open there, in 57 I see the word follow. In verse 59, I see the word follow. In verse sixty-one, I will follow thee, follow, follow, follow A follower of Jesus Christ, not just a believer. I've been saved, trusted Christ, got that settled, but now I want to be a follower of Christ. I got looking up the word follow and how it's used different places and fascinating definitions. The word follow itself means this: to willingly submit myself. To another's leadership and direction, willingly Submitting myself to another to lead me and direct me in my life. Now, I think the key word there is willing. If I'm forced to follow somebody, I'm not following, I'm being drugged. Right? I come down, I'm gonna get Jerry to follow me. So I put shackles around his neck and I get a leash and come on, you're gonna follow me, I'm dragging him along. My wife had this little video of a dog didn't want to go out in the snow and the they're calling him and the dog's just laying there, they're dragging them along. It's cute. She shows me those little videos trying to convince me to buy a dog It's not working. So it's willingly. I make a conscious decision That I'm going to submit myself to the leadership and direction of Jesus Christ. Not forcing me. The invitation, the opportunity is there, and I can willingly make a decision. I am going to submit to the leadership and direction of the Lord Jesus Christ. I found this other definition, a little different take on it. To submit myself to the authority of another. I am no longer going to be the authority in my life I'm going to submit to Jesus Christ as the authority of my life. Now, being saved, having my sins forgiven, having eternal life, that's simply receiving a gift. The gift of God is eternal life. That saves me. But once I had that gift, once I'm a child of God, now I have the opportunity to make the decision. I want to be a follower of Jesus Christ. I want to submit to his leadership and him give direction in my life. Not me calling the shots anymore. I'm going to follow him. I'm going to submit to his authority. I am not my own authority anymore. Jesus Christ is my authority. Another definition was this: to yield my allegiance to another. I am pledging my loyalty to Jesus Christ. He is the authority of my life. He is providing the direction and leadership in my life. I am following him. And another take on the definition was to conform to another person's will or advice. So it's no longer my will, but Christ's will, His will for my life. And so that's where these three guys are at. I think they're saved men. I think for the most part, as much as I can tell, they're fairly happy and all that. But now they have an opportunity in their spiritual life. To not just have my sins forgiven on my way to heaven, things are wonderful and fine, but I'm going to make a decision To submit to Jesus Christ, his authority, and let him lead me and direct me in my life. See, there's a lot of Christians. I'm I'm no doubt in my mind I'm talking to maybe a bunch of Christians this morning. You've been saved, there's no doubt about it. You're trying to live for God, but you've never come to the point in your life where you've let Christ become the authority in your life. You're living for God your way. You're living for God within your Uh your acceptance by your standards Christ, you can't honestly say that Christ is your sole authority, that Christ is leading you and directing you in life. You're pretty much calling the shots. Well that's where these guys are. And now they have this opportunity. Now, I want to point this out also. I was looking at this. I believe there's a subtle difference between being committed to Jesus Christ And being a follower of Jesus Christ. Following has the idea of submission. I'm not going my own way anymore. I'm submitting to his authority, his will, his direction, his leadership in my life Now I can be committed to something and not necessarily be submitted to it. Follow what I'm saying I can be committed to a cause, you know, and endorse it now and then, maybe send some money to it, but I'm not yielded to it and submitted to its authority. You follow what I'm saying? I think we have Christians that are committed to Christ to some extent, but they're not submitted to Christ. We'll give him lip service, and I can be committed to Christ yet still be pretty much in control of my life. I can be committed to Christ and not necessarily be following Him, not necessarily willing to give up my will for His. I got looking in my Bible, I got my concordance and got looking around. I can't find anywhere where Jesus Christ invited believers to commit themselves to him. Nowhere. None of the twelve disciples did Jesus come and say, commit yourself to me. I want you to be committed to me. It's not in there. He never said that one time. But over and over and over and over, Jesus would say this: follow me. Follow me. Follow me. It's a whole nother level. It's a whole nother level. Um let me Give direction to your life. Let me call the shots in your life. Let me be your authority. John the Baptist understood this. In John chapter 3 and verse 30, he said this. He must Increase, but I must decrease. You know what he's saying? It's less and less of me living this. It's less and less of me make the decisions. It's less and less of me uh giving direction to my life, and it's more and more and more Jesus Christ. The Apostle Paul put it this way, for I am crucified with Christ, nevertheless I live, yet not I But Christ liveth in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. What Paul was simply saying was this I'm not calling the shots. I'm not the authority. I've yielded, submitted to Christ. He is the one that is the authority in my life. And so we have these three guys Saved? Yep. Happy in the Lord? Yeah, probably. For the most part, I don't see any glaring sins. But they're not surrendered to Christ. They still got their hands on the reins of their life. And they're given the opportunity, To let go. They're given the opportunity, no longer me, no longer me calling the shots Christ following him. Now I see three characteristics. Now these, my title is this, these are would-be followers. And by using the term would-be followers, it implies they ended up what? Not actually being a follower. They had the opportunity. It's there. But let's see what happens. The first one I notice, and I'll go through these very, very quickly. First one I notice is an impulsive follower. Impulsive. Look at verse 57. And it came to pass that as they went in the way, a certain man said unto him, Lord, now this guy comes to Jesus. Look what he says. I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest. Wow, that's a grand promise, isn't it? Lord, wherever you go, I'll go with you. If it's Russia, if it's New York City, wherever you go, I'll go with you no matter what. That's a tremendous statement. I no doubt this guy was very sincere. But it was pretty impulsive here. So we're going to see. Now I want to throw this out. There's nothing necessarily wrong with being impulsive in and of itself. I think there's an inherent danger in being impulsive. I tell you, there's a lot of folks that ended up getting saved that ten minutes before they got saved had no intention. They weren't even thinking about it. But God gave them the opportunity and they said, hey, that's what I want, and they accepted Christ as Savior. I'm thinking about a lady down in Chattanooga when it's in Bible college. Uh I was trying to visit uh one a bus family and I went to the wrong house I knocked on the door and uh said so-and-so and and I don't remember the names and she goes, No, no, they don't live here, they're there. I said, Oh, by the way, uh while I'm here, can I just leave a gospel track And lo and behold, in a few minutes she prayed and trusted Christ as her Savior. And I believe she's every reason to believe she was totally sincere. Wasn't something she'd been thinking about for five months. Opportunity was there She saw it and uh she took it. And by the way, if you have an opportunity to get saved, you ought to take it. You gotta be careful about this. Well, I just need to think that through a little bit. I'll be careful about that. You've heard the story of D. L. Moody in Chicago preached one Sunday night. Great crowd, thousands, many, many unsaved people. He gave the gospel. And he said, I'm not going to invite you to trust Christ tonight. I want you to go home and think about it for a week. Guess what happened that week Chicago fire broke out. And hundreds of those people that were in that service that heard the gospel. That did not he did not give an invitation. Hundreds of those people were killed in that fire and went out into a Christeless eternity. After that was over, Moody was devastated. He said, I will never ever give the gospel without giving opportunity for somebody to trust him as their Savior. So being impulsive in and of itself is not that necessarily wrong But this fellow here, he was impulsive, but apparently he was kind of ignorant about the decision he was making. He didn't really know what he was getting into And I don't know what he was expecting, but I know most of the followers of Jesus Christ at this point in his ministry were expecting Jesus to go down to Jerusalem, declare himself to be the king of Israel, and rise up in a rebellion against Rome and establish an independent state of Israel at that time. And everybody was anticipating he is the promised king coming. And I wonder if this fellow wasn't thinking, hey, this is the king that God has promised that's gonna deliver us from the Roman oppression and I want to get in on this and maybe I can be in his cabinet, or maybe I can get in on uh what's happening, and I want to be a part of that You know what he was talking about? Jesus did not come to be king the first time. Jesus is coming to be king the second time. And so he was very impulsive, but he didn't know what he was getting into. And the Lord clarifies here. Notice in verse 58: the Lord says unto him, the foxes have holes, and the birds of the air have nests. But the Son of Man hath nowhere to lay his head. He said, the foxes out in the woods and the birds up in the trees have more than I do. They have greater physical possessions than I do. And he doesn't turn the man away, and he doesn't rebuke the man. He simply says, Do you understand what following me means? Do you understand what giving up your will for mine, what that involves? And I think he's communicating to this fellow here: listen, if you're going to be a follower of Jesus Christ, you're going to live by different values than what this world lives by. You're going to have different principles, you're going to have different priorities, you're going to have a whole other mindset than this world does. The Lord's not asking for pity here. Is all the birds have nests and the foxes have holes but I don't have anywhere to sleep. That's not what he's doing He's saying, listen, those things are no longer a high priority anymore, the material things and cares of this world What he's saying is, if you follow me, your investment is not going to be in the temporary things of this world. Your investment is going to be in eternal things. Laying up treasures in heaven. So, he's not asking for pity, and he doesn't turn the man away, and he doesn't rebuke him, he just simply says, wait a minute, you understand what living for Christ really means. This is what I've always thought is amazing. That God would freely forgive me for my sins. God would freely forgive me. And then He invites me to live for Him. And if I live for Him, I won't necessarily have a lot of stuff down here on earth. But he says, I'll reward you richly in heaven. That's an amazing, amazing thing. And so this guy is impulsive. And I I kind of get the impression here that he's thinking if I become a follower of Jesus Christ, man, I'm going to have a nice place to live, I'm going to have a good bank account. God's going to take care of good care of me in a worldly sense. And there is a and there is a mentality in Christianity today that we've got to watch out for. The idea is this, if you live by faith and you trust God and you live for God You'll never get sick and you'll always be rich and you'll live in nice houses, and God will do all these wonderful things for you, and nothing is farther than from the truth. God doesn't promise any of that But he does promise us rewards in heaven. So the first fellow I notice here is an impulsive follower. Then the second one, verse 59 and 60, I notice a procrastinating follower. The first guy really didn't think it through. He had a total misconception of what it means to be a follower of Jesus Christ. The second guy probably has a good idea that it's not living for the world, it's not getting rich in this world It's serving God, it's investing eternity. But he's a procrastinator. Look what he says in verse 59. And he, Jesus, said to another, this one, God's inviting him to follow him. Christ is inviting him. He says, Follow me. But, he said, Lord, suffer. Now I circled the next two words. Suffer what? Me first. Well, anytime you see that, there's trouble. Suffer me first to go and bury my father. I'll be honest with you, I thought for years, when he says, Let me go bury my father, I had the idea that his father was probably dead. Right? Generally you bury dead people, not living people. Right? That's the plan anyway So he says, Let me go bury my father. He's not. I always had the idea, well, his daddy's dead, he needs to go bury him, then he's going to come and follow Christ. But the more I got studying it, I don't think that's what he's saying. He's saying, I'm not ready. He's saying this. I'm not ready to follow you yet. I'm going to wait until my father passes away. Now that could have been years down the road. This man isn't refusing the call to follow Christ. He's just postponing it. You know, I love my dad, I love my family. I I don't I don't know if I'm really ready to follow you. Yeah, I want to, I'm willing to, but let me live out my life and let me uh accomplish some of these things and there's some stuff I want to happen first and there's a few things I want to do and then I'll follow you And I'm afraid this guy has love for man superseded his love for the Lord Let me say this and let me back up, talk about salvation a little bit. There is no person in the world that is worth going to hell for No person in the world is worth going to hell for. It's all if I get saved, you know, I'll lose my friendship with this person. If I get saved, I'll I'll uh lose my relationship with there. My parents won't like that. My brothers or sister. My kids will turn to me if I trust Christ. Listen to me. Nobody in the world is worth going to hell for This guy says, and he's not talking about salvation, but he says, I'll follow you, Lord, but you know, I got my family, I got my daddy, and I got all of this stuff, and I want to take care of that I have people on a regular basis say, yes, someday I'm going to get saved. Or somebody, people, somebody says this, someday, preacher, I'm going to get baptized. I'm just not ready yet. Someday, preacher, I'm going to join the church. I'm just not ready yet. Someday I'm going to start going soul-winning. Someday I'm going to start telling others about Christ and get involved. Someday I'm going to get involved and start serving the Lord in church. One of these days, preachers, I'm going to do that. Let me go take care of this first, and I've got to get this in place, and I need to do this first. Someday I'm going to dedicate my life to Christ. Someday I'm going to serve God. Listen, there is nobody and nothing in this world that is worth disobeying God for. It's a real danger among young people sometimes is, you know, if I if I live for Christ, if I become a follower of Christ, if I sell out for the Lord and start letting Him be Lord of my life and Living for him the way the Bible says, I might lose some friends. I want to suggest to you, if a friend leaves you because you're following Christ, that's not much of a friend I thought I had all these friends when I got saved, all these buddies we were partying with and carrying on with, and I got saved, and then back of my mind I thought they'd be glad. Man, my life is straightened up now. I got this garbage out. I got some peace of mind. I've got real joy for the first time in my life I've got purpose and meaning, and why would these guys not get behind it? And they all started, boo, you're nuts, leather minute. And I found out that what I thought were friends weren't much of friends at all And so this guy, the procrastinator, I want to, I'll serve God later, but I gotta take care of my friends, and I gotta this and I've got to take care of that, and later on I'll follow you, Lord. Then my last one fella here I noticed. is what I'm calling a pessimistic follower. The first one's impulsive. Yeah, I'll follow you wherever you go. The Lord says, you know, you're not going to have a place to live. You know, you're not going to live in a mansion, you're not going to be the most popular person. It's going to cost you material. Second one, the Lord says, hey, you come follow me Ah, I will, Lord, but let me first go do these other things. I will. Just give me, I'll be back. And this last one, I think, is pessimistic. Look at verse 61. And another also said, Lord, I will follow thee. But let, there's that phrase again, let me first go bid them farewell, which are at home at my house. Now I looked at that and I thought, what's he saying here? And this is my conclusion. This guy says, Lord, I want to follow you. I'm saved. You saved me. I'm happy in the Lord. You know, I just want to I want to follow you. I really do. And I want to yield my will to you and live for you completely. Let me go tell everybody goodbye because it's going to be miserable I'll probably end up living in a hut, mud hut in Africa somewhere. It's gonna be horrible in India and some ghetto in India I just have to go tell everybody, I'll follow you, Lord, but it's going to be terrible. That's my impression, what this guy here is I'll probably end up in some polluted river ghetto in uh India somewhere. I think what this guy had, I think this guy still had a hankering for the world. I still want to enjoy the things of the world and all this. And if I follow you, Lord, I'm not going to be able to enjoy all the stuff of the world anymore. I believe this guy was a double-minded man. He wanted to live for this world and then also live for God's kingdom. And look what the Lord says in verse 62. And Jesus said unto him: No man having put his hand to the plow and looking back is fit for the kingdom of God. is fit for the kingdom of God. Now here's what I noticed, these three guys. One was impulsive, the other was a procrastinator, the third one was pessimistic. Oh, I guess tell everybody goodbye. It's going to be terrible. But the thing I notice about every one of these fellows, not one of them said, I can't follow you, Lord, because of some sin. It was sin wasn't the issue. None of them said, I like my liquor. I can't follow you. I want to keep drinking. None of them said, I like my party and I'll follow you, but I don't want to give up partying. None of them said that. I'll follow you, Lord, but I want to uh I want to keep my running around and my lust I didn't say any of that. Every single one of them, the issue was a lack of surrender. Lack of surrender. I am not willing to give up control of my life. I am not willing to surrender the authority of my life to the Lord Jesus Christ. Isn't that exactly what Adam and Eve did? God said, you can eat anything in this place, just that one. God's in the authority. They said, oh no, no. We'll decide whether we eat from that or not. All through the Bible you find that same thing. Our whole problem is this, as Christians, isn't necessarily always sin. We're just not willing to surrender to God. We want to serve God. We want to be committed to God. We want to uh serve Him, but on our terms. In my way, in my timing, according to my terms, I will serve you, Lord. Now Lord says, until you and I let go of everything. Until you and I yield completely to him, we're not fit to serve him. He needs 100%. F. B. Meyer was a great preacher, years gone by. And I'm not big on dreams and all that, but he said he had a dream. And he said he dreamt that his life was a house. And there were all these different rooms in his house. And he went through and he had a key to each room, every different compartment of his life was represented in this dream by this house. And he gave the key to this room to his life, and he gave that to the Lord, and he gave this key to the Lord, and he gave this key to the Lord to all these various rooms of his life. But there was one room. He got to that key, he said, no Lord, I'm going to keep that. That is my room. That is what I'm controlling. I am not giving up authority of this part of my life to you. And in his root in his dream he said, the Lord Took all the keys that he had handed, he gave them all back. And he said, I will not take them until I get them all. And what Christ wants is every single part of our lives. Every single area. Effie Meyer said he woke up and was greatly convicted, and he knew immediately from his dream what that one area was, and I found out years later what it was. It was a sin he was tolerating in his life. And he said, finally he came to the point. And he said, Lord, I give all the keys to you. I give it all to you. I become your follower. And I yield and surrender my authority, my control of my life over to the Lord Jesus Christ. And God used them in great, great ways. Are you familiar with the song, All to Jesus, I surrender? All to Him I Freely Give? It was written, Brother Brian, by Judson Van Deventer. The fellow uh he was a Christian man, obviously. He loved the Lord. And he was serving God on the side when he had time and in his way, on his terms, he would serve God. And God began dealing with him. And as I understand the story, he was preaching down in Florida at a Bible conference. He did some preaching on the side. And God had been dealing with his life about just dedicating his whole life to Lord Jesus Christ. Now, what I understand he was, he was an artist. And he was kind of doing his artwork and different wh how whatever it involved he was doing all that on the side. And he would kind was doing that. And he would kind of serve God on the side. God was dealing with his heart about just giving all of that up and becoming a follower of Christ and serving Christ. And he struggled and he tried negotiating just like these three guys did And finally at this Bible conference he was preaching, God broke his heart. And he said, he says, for some time I had struggled between developing my talents in the field of art and going into full-time evangelistic work. At the last, the pivotal hour of my life came, and I surrendered all. A new day was ushered into my life. I became an evangelist and discovered down deep in my soul, a talent hitherto unknown to me. God had hidden a song in my heart, and touching a tender chord, he caused me to sing And he wrote this song. Listen to the words. All to Jesus I surrender. All to him I freely give. I will ever love and trust him. In his presence daily live. All to Jesus I surrender humbly. At his feet I bow. Worldly pleasures all forsaken. Take me, Jesus. Take me now. All to Jesus I surrender. Make me Savior wholly thine. Let me feel the Holy Spirit. Truly know that thou art mine. All to Jesus I surrender. Lord, I give myself to thee. Fill me with thy love and power. Let thy blessings fall on me. I surrender all. I surrender all. All to thee, my blessed Savior. I surrender all. As a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, you and I have the opportunity To give ourselves completely to Christ and say, I'm going to be a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ doesn't necessarily mean he's going to call you into preaching or whatever. But it does mean this. He becomes the authority. And he leads me and directs me in my life. And I trust him. And I submit to him and let him lead me. Does that make sense? If you're here this morning and you don't know for sure your sins are forgiven, that you're going to heaven when you die and not to hell, I plead with you, get that settled today. We can show you from the Bible how you can know your sins are forgiven and know you're going to heaven. If you know Christ as Savior today, here's the opportunity that these men had. To say, Lord, I'm going to yield my whole life to you. I'm surrendering to you. I'm going to be your follower. And submit myself completely to your authority and your leadership in my life. And I'm telling you, God will bless you for that. I got saved May 7, 1979. On August 25th, 1985, my senior year of Bible college. I was serving God. I was doing my thing. I was preaching and going on and just serving God. I wanted to live for God. And Sunday night, preacher preached, and my heart was so broken, and I realized that I had never come to the point where I just surrendered my whole Being the Christ. And I knelt by an old-fashioned altar down at the Highland Park Baptist Church, and I knelt it on a Sunday night, August 25th, 1985. And I said, Lord, it's no longer I that live it, but you. I'll be your follower. I believe it's the second greatest decision I ever made. One is getting saved. Number two, becoming a follower of Christ And I invite you to do the same. Father, I pray you'd take these words. I feel like I maybe kind of stumbled through them a little bit this morning. But Lord, I pray that the truth would grip our hearts. And in this old sinful world, and as this day of evil men and seducers are getting worse and worse, I pray you'd stir the hearts of your children. of believers and that we would make the conscious decision to voluntarily submit ourselves to your lordship and your authority in our lives. And let you be our Lord. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, preacher, I know I'm saved. There's no doubt about it. I'm trying to live for God. But I don't know that I've ever come to the point where I've just said, all right, Lord, I dedicate my life completely, totally to you. I take my hands off, and I become a follower of Christ. And maybe this morning God's stirring your heart And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. I want to be a genuine follower of Jesus Christ, no longer me living, but Christ living in and through me. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, that's my desire. God bless you. There's hands all around. It's a conscious decision where I say, Lord, I'm not calling the shots anymore. I'm not in charge anymore. You are And you lead me and direct me. How about it? Any others? How about some young people say, I want to give my whole life from my youth up to be a follower of Jesus Christ? How about it? God bless you. That's a decision we make. Maybe I'm talking to some Christians. The issue at this point isn't so much surrendering to the Lord's, but maybe there's some sin there. Maybe there's something got in and the joy of the Lord is gone, and you cannot honestly say, I have the joy of the Lord in my life. I know I'm saved, but I do not have the joy of the Lord. That sin is stolen away. Now that's between you and God. It's none of my business, to be honest. But it is my business as a preacher to challenge you and stir you to say, listen, this morning, get that taken care of. Confess it, forsake it, get back, get the joy of the Lord back. If we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us and cleanse us. One last question. Just someone here this morning said, Preacher, I'm not sure I'm going to heaven when I die. You say, Preacher, I don't want to go to hell. And I would like to know for sure in my heart that God has completely forgiven me and given me eternal life and saved me. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I don't want to go to hell when I die. I want to know for sure I'm going to heaven. Is there any like that at all this morning by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure I'm going to heaven when I die Now, Father in heaven, you know our hearts. A lot of hands raised for various things. I pray you'd help us, Lord, to make the right decision now in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed.