Keen, I'd like for us to read together if we would, verse number five. Psalms one hundred and sixteen, verse number five Now you ready? You got it there? Let's read together. All together. Here we go. Gracious is the Lord, and righteous. Yea, our God is merciful. gracious, righteous, and merciful. I want to speak this morning. I read this in my devotions about a week ago. I was coming through here, reading through this part, and um man, that verse just caught my attention Three wonderful things about our God. Three wonderful things about our Lord. He's gracious. He's righteous And he's merciful. I underscored it in my Bible. And I want to try and preach on this passage this morning. So let's pray. Ask the Lord to speak to our hearts and have his way in our lives. Father in heaven, we come to you on this Sunday morning And just a blessing to be in the house of God with the people of God. And uh Lord, I've been encouraged just by the fellowship We're always glad to have visitors in the service and folks uh coming out, and uh Lord, it's such a blessing to talk and laugh and and a fellowship together a little bit. Lord, singing has been a blessing. These old hymns just stir my heart. We've sung them so many times and Lord they're they're so encouraging. I thank you for the hymns, the choir The ladies singing, Lord, we do need you. And now as we have your word open before us, I'm asking God that you would speak to every one of our hearts. Lord, I know that in and of myself I have nothing to offer of any eternal value or spiritual value, really. So I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will. Sent my body anew as a tool in your hands. And pray that you, as I said, would speak through me and challenge us, convict us. Open our hearts and minds to your will as expressed in your word here this morning Help us know you, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Back in Genesis, the first couple, three chapters of Genesis, we have the biblical account of the creation of the world and the creation of man. Somebody asked me one time if I believed that Genesis, uh the first six chapters of Genesis, if they were literally true, or if they were just kind of a myth or an allegory, just kind of a story to teach us lessons. And my position is that what the Bible says in Genesis is exactly what he means, what God says. God created the world in six literal days Just as the Bible says. Listen, if we're not going to believe the first couple chapters of the Bible, then we might as well just throw the whole thing out. Because that's the foundation of the rest of the Bible. Our introduction to God and how we came about and why we're here. And so we have the account of God's creation of man And immediately upon his creation of man, God begins teaching man. He begins giving him instruction. He tells man, first of all, what his purpose is. We're told back in Genesis 2, he said that he put man in the garden. He said he was to till and to keep the garden. And he was given a responsibility. He was given a purpose. The idea is this, that God created man to be stewards Of God's possession. We sang a little bit ago, this is my father's world. I want to remind you, this world is not ours, it's God's He created it, he owns it, and you and I are to be stewards of it. Everything you and I possess. You say, Well that's my house. I got news for you, it wouldn't be your house unless God made it possible for it to be your house. My car is not my car. My wife and I, when we got married um uh we our car, our home, one of the first things we would do We got a new car, uh new for us, I should say, but we'd get us a car, one of the first things we'd do, we'd pray over that thing, we'd say, God, this is not our car, this is your car. Our home, our attitude is, God, this is not our house. This is your house. You've just entrusted it to us. And so we are stewards, the Bible teaches. So God instructed man right from the beginning. He begins teaching him. And he told him what his purpose was to use what God gives him for the purpose God has for it. And God has a plan and purpose for your life. God has a plan and a purpose for my life And he allows into our lives and he entrusts us with material things and opportunities that we use those resources even trusted with us, the opportunities he entrusts us with, he instructs us to use them for his glory and for his purpose. So he begins teaching man. He gives man not just his purpose, but right there in Genesis chapter 2, and he gives man the perimeters for his life. In other words, there are some things we are to do, and there are some things we are not to do. Somebody says, oh, you Christian, you're just legalists, do this and don't I got news for you all through the Bible that we're told to do some things and not do some things. Now not for salvation, it's not our works that saves us It's not us keeping a list of dues and avoiding a list of don'ts. That's not what saves us. We're saved by the grace of God and the grace of God alone. Nevertheless, God does instruct us that there are some things that Christians ought not to do. Amen. There are some things that we as God's people should do. And he begins right off from the bat when he creates man. He says, all right, here's the perimeters. You can eat any of this fruit of the garden here, but this one tree, the knowledge of good and evil, don't eat of that. Perimeters. And God has created us. Now get this. This is important God has created mankind to operate within the perimeters of his holiness. In other words, if we step outside and we begin to operate and behave and and talk and do things and live our lives outside the perimeter that God has established, we are going to start having problems. Would you agree with me? This whole world has problems. You know why this world has problems? You know why humanity has problems? Because we stepped outside the perimeters of God's holiness. We were designed. We were created. Let me just illustrate. You and I, mankind was designed, created to be honest. It's the way our whole psyche is made up that way. Our spiritually, mentally, physically, we are designed to operate in honesty, in integrity. We step outside that perimeter and we start being dishonest and we start operating without integrity. Guess what? We got problems. We got problems. That's just one illustration. And so God began teaching, right from the get-go, we began teaching what our purpose is. what the perimeters are in life. You know, we're designed, as I said, we're designed to operate as God within God's holiness. Within what God uh what is right and wrong according to the holiness of God. We're to operate when we operate in that perimeter, we do fine. We get outside of that, we start having problems. Breakdown. How many people are aware of the fact that if you put gasoline in a diesel engine, you got problems? A number of years ago we had a fellow And um uh he call he he was down filling the the we had some diesel buses. He called me up and says, Preacher, something's wrong with this bus. I said, what's it doing? He said, oh, it's knocking and banging around, won't hardly drive, something's wrong. I said, well what'd you do? He says, well I put gas in it. I said, that's a diesel bus, my son. And uh we had some problems And just like putting gasoline in a diesel engine, it's not designed to run on gasoline. It's not made that way. It's not designed that way. And you put that in there, you're going to have problems And you and I put sin in our lives and we disobey God and we ignore his instructions and we ignore his commandments, his requirements, and we just say, well, I'm going to do it my way. I'm going to lean on my own understanding Just like putting gasoline in a diesel engine, we're going to start having problems. We're going to start breaking down. And that is exactly what we see happening to mankind. And so God begins teaching man about himself, about God. He teaches man's purpose. And all through Scripture, we find God teaching us. teaching us. We call it doctrine. By the way, let me just throw this out. There are some certain uh circles within Christianity that are trying to put aside doctrine. They say doctrine divides. Doctrine is not important. Doctrine is what it's uh is not what it's about. I tell you what, you're going to put doctrine out, you might as well throw your Bible out Because the Bible is doctrine. It's teaching. Our faith is based upon Bible teaching. We do not have a blind faith. Our faith has a sure foundation. It's the Word of God. Our faith is very clear. We believe what God says, the teachings of the Word of God. And so all through the Bible we find God teaching us. God teaches us about our lives. He teaches us, as I said, what's right and wrong. If you listen to what the world says about your life, if you listen to what the world says about life and what it's all about, you're going to get wrong information. But God tells us in his book what life is all about. If you listen to the world, if you let the world, I hope you'll get this, if you let the world determine for you what is right and wrong, you're going to get bad information. In fact, I've said this often, I've repeated it again this morning, this world has perfected the ability to make that which is wrong seem so right, and that which is right seem so wrong. And so God teaches us in his word what is right, what is wrong, what's true, and what's false. He teaches us about spiritual realities. I'm here to tell you this morning, you and I are much more than just flesh and blood. We are much more than just physical beings. There is a spiritual aspect to every one of us. We are, when God created man, the Bible says man became a living soul. He didn't say became a living body. So we became a living soul. You and I are spiritual beings. The Bible teaches us all about the spiritual world. Did you know there's a reality just as real as the physical world? There's a spiritual world. Do you know there's a world of spiritual of angels and devils just as real as you and I are sitting here? There is spiritual beings. I'm convinced. There's no doubt in my mind. I was convinced of this years ago. No doubt in my mind. When we meet here There's a spiritual warfare going on in our very midst. We don't see it, we can't hear it, we don't smell it, we can't feel it, but it's just as real as these pews you and I are sitting on I believe there's spiritual, I believe there's angels fighting over the souls of men with devils from hell. I believe there's spirit there's angels, godly, holy angels And devils in hell fighting over the Christian's life, what decisions we make, how we respond to what God says. You and I are in the midst of a spiritual warfare. And the Bible teaches us all about that Come through the Bible, he teaches us about the spiritual realities of life in the world. The Bible teaches us about life beyond the grave. Talked to a fellow a number of years ago out by the lake and we were going door to door and fella says, I said uh let me ask you a question. I said, Do you know for sure that when you die you go to heaven, not to hell? He goes, I know exactly where I'm going when I die. I said, where's that? He says, I'm going to the grave. That's it. It's all over. Kaput. Just go to the grave, see no more. I said, I'm telling you, buddy, I said, according to the Bible, you're dead wrong. No pun intended But you're wrong. There is life beyond the grave. The Bible clearly teaches that. Jesus clearly stated that Remember the thief on the cross? He said, Lord, remember me when you come into your kingdom. What was Jesus' reply? Today thou shalt be with me where? Paradise. Jesus saying, hey, there is life beyond the grave. Every single person sitting here, every person listening to us online or on a recording somewhere down the road, every single one of us are going to spend eternity in either heaven or hell. The Bible is very, very clear. And by the way, I'm not going to stop preaching that till the Lord calls me home. The Bible's clear. The Bible's clear. So the Bible teaches us. We have this, it's called doctrine. About what our life is, about spiritual realities, about what is right and wrong, about life beyond the grave. And the Bible teaches us, God teaches us in His Word, about Himself. God wants us to know who He is. God wants us to know what He's like He wants us to know what he desires and what he does not desire, what he expects from us. God teaches us all in the Bible. He teaches us about Himself. I want to suggest to you the greatest subject a person could ever study is the subject of God Almighty. Let me ask you a question. Now think with me. I know it's Sunday morning, it's cold out. Say, preacher, I'm not used to thinking Sunday morning. Well, I want you to think with me, okay? We're going to be do things different. Think with me. When you hear this word, picture something in your mind: a theologian. What do you picture in your mind when you hear that word, a theologian? I don't know about you, but what comes to my mind is some uh uh some uh professor in a seminary someplace He's got big thick glasses. He's probably bald. He's got a cluttered office. Books stacked everywhere. And uh anybody got that picture in your mind? A theologian. Uh this is what we think of. Just some dry as dust seminary professor, that's some egghead that's uh sheltered up in an office with 5,000 books. That's our picture of a theologian. Do you know what a theologian is? Theology, I find this fascinating. Theology is in its most strict definition, the word theology means this to study or to think about God. Theos, the uh Latin for God, ology, the study of or the thinking about So a theologian is somebody that reads or studies or thinks about God, the concept of God. How many people here ever thought about God? I mean, even uh an atheist thinks about God to some extent. They think, oh, I don't believe it We all have given thought about God, what he's like. We think about. You know what that makes us? We've got a room full of theologians here this morning. How about that? God wants us to think about him. God wants us to consider Him. God wants us to study, if you will, and I assume the majority of the people here this morning because you want to learn something about our God. You want to learn something about our Savior, His will for my life, His purpose, how to help me in my issues and my struggles in life. Theology is thinking about or studying or giving consideration to this being we call God. And God wants us to do that. He wants us to think of him. He wants us to study about him. Now we come to our Psalm 116. I like to read my Bible. I like to read it in the mornings and I read a little bit at night before I go to bed. I enjoy it. It helps me. God speaks to my heart as I read His Word. And as I said, about a week ago, I'm working my way through Psalms. I'm in Psalm 119 right now, towards the end. Read a little bit every day. And about a week ago, I guess it was, I got to Psalm 116 Now I was reading down through here, and God stirred my heart. Now this Psalm 116, if you look there in verse number one, if you got your Bibles open there. In verse number one, notice what is above the verse number one. What's there? Nothing If you look at other, if you go back a little ways, you'll get to some chapters. It'll say a song or a psalm of David or uh have a little title there, sometimes given to the penman is a little background. Psalms 116 we're not told who the penman is. Now I did a little research, see what some other guys uh thought about it, and there's a number of Number of suggestions. Many believe that David was the penman behind this. That could very well be. We're not told one way or another. Uh Psalm 116, I came to find out, is a part in the Jewish Bible, as I understand it correctly, in the Jewish Bible, Psalm 115 through Psalm 118 make up basically one chapter. And this Psalm, Psalm 116, along with Um ch uh 115, 116, 117, 118. The Jews for thousands of years Would sing or quote these chapters, our chapters 115 through 18. They would sing or quote these at the Passover. In their homes. They would get their old testament out and they would read these as a family in their home when they celebrated the Passover in the synagogues. They would read these at the temple. The priests would read these passages. They were very precious to the Jews. Even to this day, if I understood m what my study correctly, even to this day, in many Orthodox Jewish homes, when the Passover comes They'll read this chapter along with the others before and after it. It's a section together. It's a song. These are psalms of praise. Whoever the penman was, he is praising God. Whoever this penman was, he knows God. He's given some thought. He's done some study. He knows who the true and living God is, and he knows some things about him. If you would, look with me at verse number one. It says, I love the Lord, because he has heard my voice and my supplication. Whoever this penman was, he has a personal relationship with God Almighty, the Creator. He has a personal relationship with him. He says, I, me, my. You read this and you find that there is personal interaction back and forth. He's talking to God. God's responding back to him. He has a personal relationship. He has a passionate relationship with the Lord. In other words, he didn't just know stuff about God. He didn't just have facts in his head about God The brother, he was in love with his God. Do you notice verse one? I love the Lord Because he hath heard my voice in supplication. He hath inclined his ear unto me. Therefore I will call upon him. Come down to verse 9. I will walk before the Lord in the land of the living. He says, I'm going to walk with God. I'm going to live live for God right in front of this whole world in all the land of living I don't care what anybody says. I don't care what anybody thinks. I don't care how anybody responds. I'm going to walk with God. I'm telling you, he's passionate about his relationship with the Lord. He's passionate. He's in love with God. Look down there, if you would, with me at verse number 14. He says, I will pay my vows unto the Lord now in the presence of all his people. Jump down to verse 18. I will pay my vows unto the Lord now in the presence of all his people. He loved God. He had made some promises to God. God, I'll be faithful to you. God, I'm going to trust you. God, I'm going to live for you. And he says, I am going to keep those vows. I believe a church ought to give an invitation. I believe when a preacher preaches, he ought to give an invitation. I believe he ought to give opportunity for people to respond to what God speaks to their heart. I'm all for it. Many of us, myself included, we've been at old altars over the years. We've knelt at old altars and we made decisions. God stirred our heart. God has helped us. God's done things for us. And we say, God, I want to live for you. God, I want to be a witness. God, I want to do right. I'm telling you, if we love the Lord, that's not just going to be vows coming off our lips, but that's going to be something we hold to. You follow what I'm saying? He says, I'm going to keep my vows. I love God. I'm not supposed to make empty promises to him. And I'm not just going to lip service him. I want to live for him. I want to be for real. I want to be genuine. I got studying this, I read this psalm in my devotion. I thought, man. God stirred my heart and I got studying it and I found out this penman, whoever it is, maybe David, whoever it is He's not just a theologian. He doesn't just think about God. He doesn't just have facts about God He was an individual that had a personal relationship with his living God. And I'm here to tell you that's what Christianity is. Christianity is not joining a church. Somebody says, if you go to church, going to church doesn't make you a Christian. How many people understand that? Well, going to church doesn't make you a Christian. All it means is you went to church. And I'm all for going to church. I like what Billy Sunny said. He said, going to church, sitting in a church doesn't make you a Christian any more than sitting in a garage makes you a car. Good point. And this man wasn't just outward, it wasn't just some, he had a personal relationship with his God. And that's what Christianity is A personal relationship with Jesus Christ. I say this often. I guarantee you, there's folks sitting down at the Long Branch Saloon last night that could quote you, John 3. 16, but never been born again. They die in their sins, they'll split hell wide open. By the way, there's folks sitting in churches all across around this world who could quote John 3. 16, never been born again, die and split hell wide open. Christianity is more than just a religion, it is a personal relationship with a living Savior. I like that old song, He Walks With Me, and He Talks With Me, and He Tells Me I Am His Own Personal relationship. And that's what this guy has. You can't read Psalm 116 and not come to the conclusion, this guy knows the Lord on a personal level and he loves them. He's living for him. And uh one amazing thing. I notice there in verse number three. He says the sorrows of death. Now I don't know what the background is of this. I don't know what prompted him to pen this other than the moving of the Holy Spirit. But he says, the sorrows of death compassed me, and the pains of hell got hold upon me. I found trouble and sorrow Would you agree with me? That sounds to me like he's going through a tough time. And the sorrows of death, the horror uh the uh pains of hell, trouble and sorrow I don't know what he was going through, but he was going through a tough time. And notice verse 4, he sought the Lord He says, then, in the midst of his sorrow, in the midst of the pains of hell, in the midst of the trouble and sorrow of death, then called I upon the name of the Lord Oh Lord, I beseech thee, deliver my soul. Listen, I don't know what you're going through this morning. I don't know what kind of troubles you had. You may have Wept and cried your heart out last night, cried yourself to sleep. I don't know what troubles you're going through, but I know this: you can call upon God in the midst of your troubles, and God will help you Look at the next statement. Look what he says there. He said, I called uh uh um then called I upon the name of the Lord. I beseech thee, deliver myself, look down At a verse 6, the Lord preserveth the simple. I was brought low, and he what? He helped me. Thank God we have a God who'll help us if we ask him How many people here have ever been through a tough time and you sought the Lord and God helped you? And again, witness all across here. We could stand up all day today, give testimony that God helped us when we went through dark times I'm telling you, there's some folks here, myself included, we've been through some deep valleys. And there's some folks here, we've been through some hard times. Since we've been saved, we've been through some horrific storms, emotional, spiritual, physical storms. I'm telling you all across this auditorium, folks could stand up and say, preacher, in the midst of that heartache, in the midst of that valley, God helped me God helped me. This guy, his relations, his relationship with the Lord was more than just a head knowledge. He knew God. He'd been through the storms. He'd been in the pains of hell, he says. The sorrows of death. And he said, I call on the Lord and God help me. I'll know about you. I thank God we have a God who help us I love these young people here. I love them. All the young people in our church. Aren't you? Don't you thank God for young people in our church? I pray for them. Brother Matt, I preach my heart out. We try to do everything we can, but I tell you, and I'm I'm not trying to be unkind, I'm just trying to be honest, these young people, they've got some heartaches ahead of them, don't they? We've been through it. We're on the other s we're on this side of it. I tell you, they got some they've got some uh their hearts are going to be broken. They're gonna go through some storms and they're gonna go through some deep valleys And we need to pray for them, and we need to encourage them and we need to urge them to look to the Lord and trust God and call on Him and let Him have His way. Amen or not? Us older folks. Storms don't end when you turn 21. In fact, they're just starting. Oh, really? Storms don't end when you retire. I tell you, till we cross over Jordan and we enter that fair land, we've got storms. We've got sorrows. The pains of hell we deal with. I'm so glad. This is what I'm trying to say. I'm so glad forty coming up on 44 years, and some of you longer than that, I've been knowing the Lord. And I've found that when I go through a valley, when I go through a heartache and a difficulty, I found without fail, God has been faithful. And I can come to him and call on him and look to him for help, and he'll see me through. He doesn't always take the storm away, but what I found is he strengthens me to be able to endure the storm He helps me through it. Remember when they threw those three boys in the fire there back in the book of Daniel? Because they wouldn't bow to the false God? And they threw Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, they threw them in that fire. And old Nebuchadnezzar looked in there, and he says, I see four in the fire. You know who that fourth one was? The Son of God Almighty. And he came down in that fire with them. I'm glad we got a God comes down in the fire with us and helps us through that. Helps us through that. Then he says in verse number five, and this is what stirred my heart, and I got wound up there. But he makes three statements about God. He gives us three wonderful truths about our God. And that stirred my heart. The first one he says, the Lord is gracious. The Lord is gracious. What does it mean to be gracious? He says, the Lord is gracious. Well, what in the world does that mean? Well, just I'm simple-minded. I try and boil it down the most simple concept. To be gracious, the word itself simply means to be kind. To do good things for. Somebody is gracious. They want to do things that benefit somebody. They're being somebody's being gracious to me. They're trying to do things that are kind to me. They're being compassionate to me. They're trying to do things that benefit me and help me, do good for me. To do that which benefits another person. Our God is gracious, the psalmist said. He'd been through some fires. God allowed things in his life, no doubt, that he could not explain and made absolutely no sense. But he called on the Lord and God helped him. And he says, you know, God is a gracious God. I've learned that he's gracious. He's kind to us. He's good to us. And though we don't understand it, he allows things in our lives that don't make sense to us, but he knows they help us and they benefit us. I wonder how many of us would say, you know, I think I'm a little bit better person. My faith is a little stronger because of the trial I went through and what God taught me through that. Amen or not? God is gracious. Now there's a little bit more to that concept of graciousness more than just being kind or just being good or beneficial. It has the idea of being kind to someone that doesn't. Deserve being treated kindly. It has the idea of showing compassion to somebody who really doesn't deserve to be shown compassion. It has the idea of trying to benefit somebody who really has not earned being benefited. You follow what I'm saying? The simple definition of I've given of grace, which graciousness is grace in action, my simple definition of grace is having something given to me that I do not deserve. Of receiving a blessing or a favor from God that I do not deserve. I'm here to tell you, we don't deserve the least of his favors. But yet God is good to us. How many people are here are glad, how many people here are glad that God's good to us even when we don't deserve for Him to be good to us? I tell you, I've said some things. I've said some things I'm so ashamed of. I've done some things that have grieved my God. And yet, in spite of it, God has still been gracious. He's still been good. Now y'all look at me so pious. You've done the same things. But God is gracious. God is good. God is good. The psalmist says God is gracious. The Lord's graciousness, now I've used this word, it's a Bible word, but I'll explain what I mean. God's graciousness is unfeigned. Unfeigned. That word unfeigned it comes from the book of Timothy. It talks about Timothy's grandma, had unfeigned faith. In other words, it means this, it's genuine. God's graciousness to us is not just some superficial thing. God, in his very nature, his very character, is good And God does good. And God is very nature, his very character, is to be kind and compassionate and gracious. All through the Bible, Exodus 22, verse 27, God says, He says to Moses, I am a gracious God. In Exodus chapter 33, verse 19, he repeats, I am gracious. Chapter 34, verse 6 of Exodus. The Lord is gracious, Moses says Nehemiah, twice in the book of Nehemiah, Nehemiah speaking about God Almighty. He says he is a gracious God. You come down into Jonah. Jonah said, I know that thou art a gracious God. 1 Peter 2 and verse 3: The Lord is gracious. I'm here to tell you, we say God is gracious, it's not just some anybody here ever with somebody and they're being nice to you, but you knew they didn't mean it You know a salesman? Oh man, you're the smartest. You're the you're the smartest customer I've ever had. Yeah, right. You know what I'm saying? They putter you up. They uh butter you up and uh they patronize you and oh I'm glad I'm glad God isn't phony God genuinely cares about us. God genuinely wants to bless us And help us. God is gracious. It's unfeigned. It's unchanging graciousness. Listen to James chapter 1, verse 17. Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above. That's God's graciousness. He gives us good things. And then he goes on and says, and cometh from above, cometh down from the Father of lights, with whom is no variabless, neither shadow of turning. God never changes. Let me ask it. How many folks here you're saved you know it? Say amen. How many folks here God's been good to you in the past? Would you say amen or raise your hand or say oh my God's been good to you in the past. Amen? I'm here to tell you, God's graciousness is unchanging. He'll be good to you in the future. Here's what we do. God gets us through a storm. God helps us through something. God meets a need, teaches us, and then we see another one on the future, off on the horizon, another storm coming, and we say, oh no I'm here to tell you, God was good to us yesterday, he'll be good to us tomorrow. Doesn't mean he'll move this remove the storm, but if we'll let him, he'll give us strength to go through that storm. God's graciousness is unfeigned. It's sincere. It's genuine. It's not phony. It's unchanging. He's good yesterday and he'll be good tomorrow. It's unbiased. God is just as gracious to Zach as he is to me. He's just as gracious to me as he is to James. He's just as gracious to Donna as he is to Courtney. God isn't biased in his graciousness, his kindness, his compassion, he shows us. Now it may be displayed in different ways But God doesn't love some more than others. John 3:16, for God so loved the world. You know what that world means? Everybody. Everybody. God is gracious. It's unbiased. Red and yellow, black and white. God is gracious to everybody. Uh tall, dark, and handsome, short, fat, and ugly. Uh God's gracious to everybody. I just like saying that. Educated, uneducated. Americans and anybody all around the world. God's gracious to everybody I just got back from uh Australia, New Zealand. You know what I found out? There's people down there that that praise the Lord because he's so good to them. Last November we were in Dominican Republic. Poverty, like you wouldn't believe. And people down there singing, praising the Lord, because he's so gracious, so good to them. It's unbiased. It's unbiased. You can't find, you can't look in the eyes of any person on planet earth without seeing somebody that God loves and cares about. God is gracious. What a wonderful truth about God. It's unearned his graciousness. I can't earn God's goodness. Well, preacher, you've got to be good enough, and then God will be good uh gracious to you. Oh no, no You can't buy God's graciousness. You can't work for God's graciousness. While we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Even the worst sinner, God offers his grace of forgiveness and salvation. The worst backsliding Christian, say, preacher, I've gotten so far from God, I don't think he'd ever take me. I'm here to tell you God will take you back like that. It's God's grace that saves our soul. It's God's grace that keeps our soul saved. I didn't earn God's grace to save me. I don't earn God's grace to keep me. I'm in the hands of Almighty Gracious God. Would you agree with me? It's a wonderful truth that God is a gracious God What a wonderful thing. Number two, he says that God is righteous. And I've got to just give this quickly. The Lord is righteous. See there in verse 6. Gracious is the Lord. Then he says, number two, and righteous You can't read through your Bible without coming across the statement, God is righteous. I'm working on my 45th time reading through the Bible. You know what I found? You can't read the Bible without coming across the fact that our God is a righteous God. Psalms 11. 7. I wanted to turn these, we don't have time. Psalm 11. 7, the righteous Lord loveth righteousness. Psalm 112, verse 4. He is righteous. Psalm 119, 42. God has everlasting righteousness. Psalm 145, 17. The Lord is righteous in all his ways. Daniel 9, 14, the Lord our God is righteous. Matthew 6, 33, seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. Bible's clear. This God that created the world, this God that we can't see, we can't feel him, we can't smell him, but he's real and he's here. He's in our presence right now, Almighty God. And this God that is among us is a righteous God. Righteous. Old and New Testament both declared that God is a righteous God. Now, what does it mean to be righteous? What does it mean that we say this ever-present God that He's righteous? What simply the word itself, again, the most simple, strict definition, the word righteous means straight. Has this idea of being honest? Just. It means to operate by just and right principles. When the Bible says that God is righteous, it means this. God will always do that which is right. God operates with a straight measure. Nothing crooked about him. Nothing dishonest about him. God cannot lie. Our God is a God of integrity. He'll do right. We can trust him to do right. To do what is right regardless of feelings? Here's a problem with a lot of people. Oh, we'll do right as long as it feels good. And I'm telling you, I'm being honest now, a lot of Christians, it's not right and wrong principles that dictate their actions. It's whatever I happen to feel at that moment is what dictates my actions God doesn't operate that way. To do right, regardless of feelings, regardless of circumstances, this whole world turned against God. He's still going to do right. So we're all reject his son. He's still going to do right, regardless of circumstances, regardless of consequences. God doesn't just do right, He is righteous in His very nature. God is just in all His actions, God is honest in all His operations, God is upright in all His ways. Our God is a God of integrity. You introduce somebody to a man, you say, this fellow here is a man of integrity. And what are you saying about him? You're saying what? He's honest. You can trust him. He's going to do right. I have some folks, there's folks in this church, I have some dear friends. I would put my life in their hands. I trust them. There's some folks in my life that I trust I would take every possession I have, put it in their hands, I trust them because I believe they're people of integrity. Now may and fail. They could fail me. Would you agree with me? Some of y'all are looking at me. You're a fool. You trust somebody with all that. But I do. I'm here to tell you, God is integrity at perfection. Flawless Our God is a righteous God. He's gracious and He's righteous. There's no other way that God can act other than perfect righteousness. And because God is righteous, hey, get this. Would you agree with me? This world's pretty unrighteous. Anybody notice a lot of times the bad guys get away with their badness. Anybody notice that? You say, what in the world? Is there no justice? Is there no righteousness? I'm here to tell you, there's coming a day. When our righteous God, our righteous judge, is going to hold every man, woman, and child accountable for their actions There is a day of reckoning. You mark it down. And our righteous God is going to hold man to righteous judgment And I thank God for Jesus Christ was judged in my place. But God will make things right. You mark it down. God will make things right. So number one, he says God is gracious, God is righteous. And last of all, let me end with this. He says, our God is merciful. Our God is merciful. A sinner's greatest need is God's mercy. Mercy is the heart of biblical and genuine salvation. What does it mean? What does mercy mean? What does the word mercy mean? It means this: here's my definition. To compassionately withhold judgment. To be patient with someone who deserves condemnation. Our God is merciful. That night, May 7, 1979, I knelt by my bed, an old drug addict, drunken pervert. I knelt by that bed worthy to die and go straight to hell. I called out to God, God have mercy on me. God in his compassion removed his judgment off my life. Because of faith in Jesus Christ. That's mercy. Our God is merciful. It's the very basis. It's the core of our hope of salvation. God's mercy. That He forgives us and removes His judgment from us. God's mercy is everlasting. Forty-one times the Bible says his mercy endureth forever. I wish we had time to look at the verses. I like the way one preacher put it: God's mercy tank never runs dry. Say, preacher, uh, I messed up today. Hey, tomorrow morning his mercies are new every morning A full tank the next morning. Say, preacher, I used a oh God's mercy today. Ah, they're new. There'll be a full tank tomorrow morning. God is merciful. Merciful. He withholds judgment. He displayed his mercy when he gave Adam and Eve coats to cover their shame. He displayed His mercy when He had Israel establish that mercy seat, and they come and put the blood of bulls and goats, and it covered their sin. And the greatest display of God's mercy when Jesus on that crossed. Took the judgment of you and I, and he said, Father, forgive them. They know not what they do. The mercy of God, the mercy of God. The demands of God's mercy, it has to be received. God's judgment on those who refuse his mercy. You're listening to my voice this morning, or you're here in the service, and you've never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior? You need more than anything else in your life, you need the mercy of God. And it's found in receiving Jesus Christ as your personal Savior I say it often and I don't apologize for it and I'm going to keep on saying it. The worst thing that can happen to a person is to die in their sins unforgiven and be separated from God and the judgment of God for all eternity. What a sinner needs is forgiveness, and that comes through God's mercy. Mercy. Or God is merciful. God is gracious, he says. You know what? If God's so gracious, then we ought to praise Him, amen. God's been so good to us, we ought to praise Him. Some of us need to quit murmuring and griping and complaining and start praising God for how good He's been to us. If God is righteous, if He has perfect integrity, if He's going to do right no matter what, then we ought to trust Him. We ought to do what he says. Amen. God tells us what to do, he's righteous. I ought to do it. If God says, don't do that, he's righteous. I better listen to him. I'm not going to do that. Trust him. If he's gracious, let's praise him. If he's righteous, let's trust him and follow his instructions. Do what he says. And if he's merciful Let's live for him. Do you agree with me? If you were drowning in a lake and somebody dove in there, risked their own life, came and rescued just as you're about to go under the third time They rescue, pull you out of the lake. Would you agree with me? You'd owe that person something. See, I want to honor. They saved my life. I'm here to tell you, our Savior saved our souls. We ought to live for Him. We ought to live for Him. And we didn't have time, I didn't I I closed my Bible, but a few verses down there, this psalmist says, What shall I render unto the Lord? For all his benefits he's done unto me. You know what the answer to that is? Give your life back to him. God's been so gracious. He's so merciful to us. So dear lady, I mentioned her often down in Chattanooga, Tennessee. I thought of her as I was reading and studying this. Anna Nixon T. She lived in the projects of Chattanooga. We had a bus ministry in there, Sunday afternoon, Sunday school it was. We go through those projects, and I'm telling you, I'm uh I'm telling you the truth. If I ever happen to tell the truth in a message, I'll point it out. I'm telling you the truth There was literally syringes, drug addict syringes along the sidewalks. There was no grass. It was all worn off. Beer bottles, whiskey bottles, you name it, prostitution, gangs everywhere. In fact, when we started visiting in there, the guy that was introducing me to the ministry, he says, always carry a big Bible with you. I said, why? He says that way they know you're not the narcs or the police. You're a big Bible, and they will leave you alone. I bought the biggest Bible I could find. Lesson wrong We came across this dear lady lived in that project. Anna Nixon T. Grass was worn graffiti all over, it's government housing graffiti all over And you go in her little house and she had one chair, one old worn-out sofa, a light bulb, not a lamp, a light bulb hanging from the ceiling. I'm telling you, the old Mrs. Anna Nixon Tate was the happiest Christian I ever knew in my life. She loved the Lord. She had nothing. Lived on a little government. Widowed three times. Picked cotton down in southern Alabama. Years back in the early 1900s. Just rough background. Mistreated. Hated for no other reason than the color of her skin. I'm telling you that lady understood the graciousness of God. We'd knock and we'd come in. She called me Brother Danny. Oh, Brother Danny, come on in. And she'd, oh, God's been good to me. I love the Lord. She'd say, get your Bible out and uh go to Psalms, and she'd say some psalm. And she goes, see if I got this memorized right. And she would quote whole chapters. She was couldn't hardly see it all. I got her a big magnifying glass. It helped a little bit But she had memorized huge portions of the Word of God. And she loved her Savior And she understands that a light bulb hanging in a government housing building, rat-infested, drug-infested neighborhood, that God was good to her. She had eternal life. She loved her Savior. We'd leave there. I told her, I said, Ms. Tate, this little apartment of yours is a haven of rest to me. Now you can go in the homes of some Christians and they have 25-foot TVs across their wall. They've got lush carpet and fancy cars. Most luxurious sofas and fancy clothes, and they got everything their hearts desire, and they're miserable Because they don't know much about God. They don't understand the graciousness of God, the righteousness. The mercy of God. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you'd help us to know you. And Lord, I pray that maybe something from your word, some truth or some principle Would stir our hearts. I wonder how many this morning would say, Preacher, I know I'm saved. I've trusted Christ. There's no doubt about it. But you'd say, Preacher, I need to quit griping and start being grateful God's been too good to me for me to complain so much. God's been too good to me for me to criticize And murmur. Is there any like that? Uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. I've gotta, I've gotta get focused on the graciousness of God I wonder if there's some this morning say, preacher, I need to start doing right. If God is righteous, I need to trust him and do what he says. Maybe there's some areas in your life you know it isn't what God says And it ain't God that's wrong. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. I know there's areas of my life I need to get lined up With the righteousness of God. Is there any like that by the lifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I know it. I've got to trust them. Any others? God bless you. Hands all around. I wonder if there's some this morning say, preacher, God's been awfully merciful to me. He saved me from sin in hell. I need to start living for him. Be a witness. Tell others of God's mercy. Tell others of this wonderful Savior. It's already like that, preacher, pray for me. I'll live for God. Be that witness of His mercy. God bless you. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jay's playing the invitation hymn. How about an old-fashioned altar on this morning? Three wonderful truths about the Lord. How about