And uh they had about five or six owls lined up there and then seven uh I think they were falcons. I'm not sure. I don't believe they were hawks, I think they were falcons and had them lined up across there and they gave a little bit of the history of uh falconry and hunting with birds. That is just Fascinating. I would love to be able to go with them sometime and uh just watch that. He had some video of how these hawks and these falcons would catch go after squirrels around the tree and after rabbits. Just a fascinating thing. And then Brother Hall Howard Caldwell, his daddy, uh took took that thought and went on and talked about liberty and gave an excellent Bible challenge from the Word of God, a challenge to folks to be saved. When it was all said and done, we know of at least ten folks had called on the Lord, trust the Lord as Savior. So we praise the Lord for that. There was a number of other folks that came up and talked afterward, and um I got a little note on the computer last night. I checked my email and stuff before I went to bed And somebody, I don't know who they were, had wrote and sent me a little note, said, Praise the Lord, my nephew got saved at the wild game dinner last night. So that was Nito. She would look us up and be able to s and send a note along those lines. So we just rejoice in God's blessings last evening. I tell you, as Pastor, I want to thank our church. I was so proud of our people. Worked so hard And uh so many people gave so much time and effort and some cases money and got door prizes and that thing came together last evening, just absolutely beautiful. That building was packed out There was no seats. There's people standing in the back eating the food standing in the back there's some sitting along the walls. We had twenty-five or thirty folks came, saw how crowded it was and left Which we hate that, but um I mean it was absolutely a tremendous success. So again, thank you very much for everyone that worked hard and uh had a part in that and God blessed in a wonderful way. And we trust that there will be fruit in the coming months in the and years as a result of God's word going out to so many people. Luke chapter 9, um uh I just want you to notice I'm not going to read the whole section that Pastor Grant read, but I want you to notice in verse 57, this fellow comes the Lord Jesus Christ, and he says, Lord, I'll follow thee whithersoever thou goest. And Jesus addresses that. Then in verse 59, Jesus says to another fellow, follow me. And the guy responds to the Lord's call. Then verse 61, another comes to meet Jesus, another fellow comes to he says, I'll follow thee. And uh but he puts some conditions on it, and the Lord addresses that. And so this morning I want to talk about this matter of following Jesus. What exactly Does that mean? What does it entail? And is that something for you and I to consider following Jesus? So let's pray Ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father in heaven, thank you, Lord, for a good evening last evening. Lord, we just what a joy to serve you and to see so many people uh be introduced to the Word of God and be challenged from the Word of God. And to have a part in that, Lord, that was a blessing for me. Now here we are today, Father. I ask that you would use this portion of Scripture in particular to speak to our hearts, touch our hearts, Lord, open our hearts to your will for each of us as individuals. And I pray with all my heart, dear Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit and that you would speak through me. And today we would leave here with a clearer understanding of your will for our lives And Lord, that we would be yielded to that will, and that you could use us for your glory, and the purpose for that our creation, our existence would be fulfilled. Help us, I pray, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. As pastor, I'm often concerned for the spiritual well-being of our church. That's my responsibility as pastor. And I think we have as a church, congregation, and as individual believers, we have a real spiritual danger we face. Now I don't know, and I've been mulling this over in my thinking this past week. I don't know if it is more of a danger at this time of year than perhaps other time of years when uh when winter seems to drag on. Uh does it seem like to you winter has lasted fifteen years It seems like fifteen years ago, uh, it wasn't winter. And it just seems to drag on and on and on. I saw about 25 Robins yesterday. And every one of them were saying I could hear 'em talking and they were all saying, Man, we came up here way too soon. What are we doing up here already? And uh it just and I don't know if If it's the weather, the time of year, whatever. But it seems like there's a real danger of us getting to the point where we just go through the motions of our Christian life. Do you know what I'm talking about by that? It just it seems like we get in this dazed mode and uh we get in some sort of rut And we just, and if we're not careful, now listen, if we're not careful, we can get to the point where we're just going to church. And we get to the point where I'm just reading my Bible, and if we're staying up on it when we do it, it's just something we're in a rut. And uh we just go through the motions and we seem to lose that spark in our Christian life. We seem to lose that enthusiasm. of being with God's people and serving the Lord and being a part of God's plan. And uh we lose that spark And we have to watch out for that. What happens is we come to church maybe, or we're reading our devotions And the Holy Spirit of God will speak to our heart and stir our heart. And we're in this we're in this mode of uh just kind of in a uh a rut, just going through the emotions. And when God does speak to our hearts, We just kind of let it roll off our back like water on a duck's back. And it really doesn't take root. God will point out to us from his word some clear instructions. Something that I'm to do or something I'm not to do, something I'm to avoid, something I'm to incorporate into my life. And if we're not careful, we're in this rut mode, we just uh kind of push that aside We just brush it aside. Now how do we how do we guard against that? Maybe I'm talking to someone, maybe you go home and you look in the mirror and you say, you know, you talk to yourself in the mirror, you look at yourself and you say, you know, you're in a rut. You're just going through the motions right now. You've lost the fire of your Christian life. That enthusiasm, that first love is fading. How do I deal with that? How do I correct that? Well, I think one thing is we need to ask the Lord to help us stay tender-hearted. Stay tender-hearted. What does it mean to be tender-hearted? Um I smashed my finger yesterday. I was moving a grill for the Wild Ganger, and I smashed my finger. I mean, it smashed it. Thank you. Man alive, right? This tough crowd here, man. You don't have any sympathy at all. I mean there's a little red spot there, you know. It's bad. And uh it hurts me. And um uh you know what? That little finger is tender. I went to trim my t my nails and it was like, ah if something is tender, it's very sensitive, uh, something touches it, some little pressure on it, boy it responds, it feels that, it reacts to that. So we ask God to help us be tender-hearted. What does that mean? That means when the Spirit of God speaks to my heart, I respond. And uh there's some instruction in God's word when I respond to that. My heart's tender. It's sensitive to the Lord's leadership. Instruction. Ah, we gotta watch out. We get in a rut. We get we're just going through our emotions, we lose that tender heart. And when the Spirit of God speaks to our heart, we just kind of brush it off. And uh we really don't pay a whole lot of attention to it. And so we have to ask the Lord to help us be tenderhearted. The other thing, and this ties right in with it, I feel like we have to deliberately be responsive. If we see something in Scripture that addresses my situation And we see God challenges me from His Word to respond to something rather than waiting till I really feel like it or waiting until I really Want to do it, I just say, you know, that's the right thing. That's what God says I should do. I'm going to deliberately respond to that I'm in a rut. I'm aware of that. I'm kind of going through emotions. I'm aware of that. I want to change that. And so I am going to make the decision. Whether it's comfortable or not, whether it's maybe it requires a little bit of effort, but I'm going to make the decision to step out of that rut and trust God and do what He's instructing me to do. Am I making any sense this morning? Follow what I'm saying And I think we've got to watch out for that. And I don't know, as I've said, whether the time of year has something to do with it, you know, or uh uh the weather dragging on, but we just kind of get in this cocoon mode and we're just going through the motions And we have to watch out for that. Now, as I look in scripture, as we read scripture we find that God wants two things from mankind. I thought of this last night as I was sitting along the side and the Caldwells were going on about the birds and I looked out over that great crowd of men, mostly men, some ladies and children, and um I don't know if we made a mistake last night or not. We gave knives to all the kids, so I'm not sure that was the smartest thing to do, but We did it. But anyway, I was looking out at that great crowd, and I thought, what does God want from all these people here? What does God want from these people? He made and gave them life here on planet Earth. What does God want from them And the fact is, the Bible says God looks for two things from mankind. Number one, he wants every person on planet Earth to receive him as their personal Savior. As I looked out over that crowd last evening, I thought every person here, I know one thing God wants from every one of them, that they accept Jesus Christ as their personal Savior, that they be saved. God is not willing that any should what? Perish. God wants all men to come to repentance. God wants everybody to be saved. He has commanded all men everywhere to repent. God wants everybody to be saved. You're here this morning by chance. I know it's not our biggest crowd of the year, but this morning by chance you're here, and you don't know for certain that God has forgiven your sins, cleansed you from all unrighteousness. and saved you and you know they're going to heaven and die. If you don't have that matter settled, I can tell you what God's will is for you this morning. It's God's will if you accept him as your personal Savior. That's what God wants from all men. But as I study scripture, I find there's something else. Those that do accept Christ as Savior I would say most of us here, not all of us, we've come to the point in our life we've accepted Jesus Christ our personal Savior. Say, preacher, what's God's will for me now that I'm saved? I can tell you what God's will is. God's will is that you follow Him. That as a believer, I become a follower of Jesus Christ. Now, here's my question, though, and I read about these three fellows here, the Lord addressed this matter of following him. Although what does it mean to follow Jesus Christ? What is he talking about? What does that entail? Well, if you're going to follow somebody Uh one thing is the case is you're gonna let that person go before you. Correct? It's kind of hard to follow someone when you're in front of them. Can I get a witness? And so it's like the old say, uh how many of 'em were they? Which way did they go? How fast were they going? I need to know I'm their leader. That's what I feel like sometimes a pastor. But uh if you're following somebody, you let that person go out in front of you saying, oh we're going to go to Baltimore to the Beast Feast next Saturday night. Munchy guys, uh I'll tell you what, we got a couple cars loaded. Uh we'll follow you. You know how to go. So you let that guy pull out in front And so if I'm going to follow Jesus Christ, I let Jesus go out before me. He's ahead of me. It literally means that he is determining the direction of my life. Now, don't miss that. If I'm a follower of Jesus Christ, that means I am submitting my will to his will. I am yielding up my right to make decisions in my life and I am yielding them over to him and he is making the decisions for me He decides, as I'm following him, if I'm following him, he decides where I turn. He decides where I go straight. He decides where I stop He decides how fast I go. He decides how slow I go. It is literally yielding my will over to Jesus Christ. Now, what am I saying? How many folks here you're saved to know it? Say amen. Amen. I can tell you this. I know what God's will for you as a child of God, as a saved person, I know what God's will is. God's will is that you follow Jesus Christ. Then you become a follower of him. You've accepted him now as your Savior. And now he says, Alright, follow me. I want you to yield your will to my will. Let me make the decisions in your life. Let me determine the direction of your life. And you just trust me. Let me lead you and direct you. Ephesians 3, uh 5 and 6. Test the Lord with all thine heart and lean not into thine own understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall what? Direct thy paths. And so, what's that mean? It means I'm following him, I'm letting him lead me and direct me. Now, here's the thing: the Lord never glamorizes what it means to follow him. The Lord doesn't say to the disciples and the folks that are saved. He says, all right, I want you all to follow me. He doesn't say this. If you follow me, I promise you you'll be the most popular person in Garrett County. He never makes that promise. He never says, listen, if you follow me, the whole world's going to think you're the greatest thing in the world. When you walk in the room Uh uh when you walk into Walmart, the whole place is gonna break out for he's a jolly good fellow. That's not gonna happen He never glamorizes what it means to follow him. He doesn't make all these tremendous, he doesn't say, listen, if you follow me, oh, pleasure is forevermore. He didn't say, if you follow me, oh, you're going to prosper in incredible ways. He doesn't make those promises. Now he does promise. If we follow him, he'll provide for our needs. Matthew 6. 33, seek ye first the kingdom of God, his righteous. All these things will be added unto you, food, shelter, clothing. He says, I'll take care of you. If you will follow me, if you will trust me, do you let me make be the decision maker in your life? Do you let me lead and direct the direction of your life? Ah, I promise you this, your needs will be met You'll be taken care of. Now here in America, Brother Caldwell was talking about this. Here in America, that doesn't mean a whole lot to us. You say, well, my needs are met, whether I follow Jesus or not. There's people that blaspheme God's name. There's people that deny his name. And they've got nicer houses they live in than some of us. Amen or not? Sure. Uh I'll tell you what, you get some of these other countries where that's not the case, and they get they get a hold of that promise. That if I'll let Jesus Christ be Lord of my life, I'll trust him and leave him, God's going to take care of me, that means something to them. And they see that in a very real way, on a daily basis, how God provides them. I've met these people. And uh so he does promise uh not great pleasures and prosperity and popularity and all that. He doesn't promise that. He says He's not trying to glamorize what it means to follow him, but he does say, I'll provide for you, I'll protect you. He does say this, you come to the judgment seat of Christ when it's all said and done. You follow me, you let me lead right, you'll I'll honor you, I'll reward you for that. And so uh it it it it Prosperity and popularity and pleasures and all that's not what following Jesus is all about. Um these guys on TV, can I give you a word of caution? These preachers on TV, you watch out for them. They're making promises God never gave. God didn't promise all this stuff these guys are saying. In fact, we're going to see here in a little bit. Lord tells us many times we follow him in this life it costs. Many times in this life, there's a price to pay if I'm going to follow Christ. And so be real careful. Oh, now that's not the case with receiving them as Savior. He never turns anyone away. He said, Whosoever will may come and take of the water of life freely. He says, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. When it comes to the matter of salvation, having my sins forgiven and be in uh escaping hell and promised of heaven, then the Lord says, Hey, you all just come. He doesn't say there's a price to pay to be saved He says there's a price that's been paid so that we can be saved. He did everything needed to be done for me to have my sins forgiven and become part of the family of God. But once I am saved, then he says, ah If you're going to follow me, then there is a price to pay. If you're going to follow me, then it is going to cost you something. If you're going to be a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. So following the Lord There's a price to pay for that. Now I believe, I believe, that every genuinely born-again person, sometimes you'll hear preachers say, a born-again Christian. That's kind of redundant. Because any person that's you if you're not born again, you're not a Christian. Right? And if you're a genuine Christian, it implies you've been born again. So it's a little bit redundant. But um uh but every person that's saved, person that's been born again, whatever term you want to use, I believe Down inside the heart and soul of that person, there is somewhere a desire to follow Jesus Christ. To follow Jesus Christ. Now, that desire isn't always acted on. And that desire, the Bible talks about quenching the Holy Spirit, grieving the Holy Spirit. It's possible for me to get saved. It's possible for me to accept Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, and the Spirit of God puts down in my heart a desire. I want to follow Him. I want to live for the Lord. I want the Lord to lead me and direct me and uh uh and uh uh direct my life and what it is and what it consists of, and then see that price to pay and quench that desire that the Holy Spirit puts there. And puts that down and say, you know, I'm glad I'm saved, but I really don't want to follow the Lord. I'm glad I'm saved, but I really don't want my life to be directed the way God is wanting to direct it and quench and grieve that spirit. I tell you what, that brings great grief to the life of a Christian. To do that. So the Lord wants us to follow him. That's my premise this morning for the message. The Lord wants us who are saved. He wants us to follow him. To submit our will to his will, to let him determine the direction of my life. Let him be the decision maker in my life in these areas. And I want to yield to him and trust him and surrender over to him my life so he can lead me and direct me. He wants us to be a follower. Now we come to Luke chapter 9 and this passage of scripture, verse 57 through 62. And we have three fellas that are confronted with this matter of following Jesus Christ My voice is on the verge of losing it. So you pray for me. Don't pray that it goes off the edge, alright? Pray that it holds out for another hour and a half. I knew you'd appreciate that. Three men here. Uh the Lord addresses them a concerning Following. Number one, I look in verse 57 and 58. I put it this way, and let me explain what I mean. I don't mean this to come across unkind. But the first fella, I put down this, an ignorant follower An ignorant follower. Look at the verse with me here, verse 57, Luke chapter 9. And it came to pass that as they went in the way, a certain man said unto him, Alright, this guy comes up to Jesus and he makes this statement. Lord, I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest. Question, is that a good statement? Sure, that's a great statement. God give us people who say, you know, I'm just going to follow the Lord wherever it leads me. Mission field, ministry, take a stand at the job, be a witness, make whatever changes in the hominy, whatever it is, Lord, I'm going to follow you wherever you go. I believe, in studying this fellow in the brief statement here, I believe that this guy had good intentions. I believe he sincerely wanted to follow Jesus Christ. I believe he was a saved man. I think all three of these guys were saved men, my opinion. And that they had come to the point, they understood what Christ was doing for them, what it meant to be saved. They understood who Jesus Christ was as the Son of God, the Savior of the world. They understood all of that. And this guy comes and says, you know What Christ has done for me, my heart is stirred. And I want to be a follower of Him. I'll follow you wherever you go His intentions were good, but when we read the Lord's response, we find that he really didn't know what he was getting into. And thus I use the term he was ignorant. I don't mean ignorant in a bad way. I mean ignorant in simply he didn't have all the information Of what entails in following the Lord. Now, several observations are made. I put this down. He had misplaced confidence. He had misplaced confidence. Look what it says there. And I underline these two words in my Bible. Halfway through, he says, Lord, I will follow thee. Now, as I read that phrase, I underscored those two words. I will. My impression is his confidence in his ability to follow the Lord was where? In himself. He had misplaced his confidence. He says, Yeah, I'm up to this. Sure, Lord, bring it on. I can do it. I'll follow you wherever you go. I've got what it takes. I can handle this. I'll be honest with you, there's not a person in this room, there's not a person on this planet can handle following the Lord in and of themselves. We need God to give us that ability. And I get the impression in studying this fella that he had placed his confidence, he had misplaced his confidence in and of himself. Uh it was not listen, it's somebody says, Oh, they're such a great Christian. I can never be the kind of Christian they are. They just have something I don't have. Listen, if you're saved, you got the same thing they've got. It is not in our gifts, it's not in our intelligence, it's not in our determination, it is not in our self-confidence that makes us good Christians, it is in our surrender to Christ that makes us good Christians. And so this guy he's looking to himself. And he just doesn't understand how this thing plays out. What it means to follow the Lord. You say, Lord, you say, Pastor, I'm sitting here. I'm glad Christ saved me. That means the world to me that he would save me from sin and hell. And I really want my life just I just want to follow him And uh how do I do that? Uh uh I have people say, uh uh how do I how do I do that? Uh preacher, I don't think I have the ability. Hey, that's a good place to start Say, Lord, I don't have the ability. I'm going to look to you. I'm going to trust in you. My confidence is in you to enable me to be a follower of yours. I've had people over the years say this to me, and they use it for salvation They'll say this. I'll say about being saved, trusting Christ, and they'll make something to this effect. They'll say this. Preacher, I'd get saved, but I just don't think I could live it. I'd accept Jesus as my Savior, but I just don't think I could live the Christian life. I could never do that. You know what they're saying to me? They're saying this. Let's put it in the context of our message. They're saying, yes, I'd be willing to accept Jesus as my Savior, but I don't think I'd ever be able to follow him. You know what my response is to that? I say, join the club. The fact is, none of us can live the Christian life without the power and ability of God giving it to us. Can I get an amen there? And so here's this misplay. I tell this story fairly regularly, but I had a couple years ago. That Satan, I'm telling you, there's such potential for the Lord. And they came in my office and they had little struggles going on, as everyone does in Christian growth and different issues, and you know, you work through them and you you go on for God and they had some issues and I was helping them and giving them something and uh the the gal says she sat there and she hit my desk something to this she goes preacher we're never going to sin again I said oh brother And their intentions were well. I think that with all their heart they wanted to do right, but where were they looking for? Where were they looking to to find the ability to be what God wanted them to be? Looking at them themselves. I think that's what this guy's doing. Uh oh well uh he was he meant well, he no doubt, but he's a little ignorant. He had his confidence in himself. I put this down also about this fellow, and I don't think I'm reading too much into this. I believe he had misplaced expectations. Not sure where he thought that following Jesus would end up. Not sure he may have had the idea, hey, if I follow Jesus, he's the Son of God. He may have had this kingdom expectation we've been talking about in Sunday school, where Jesus is going to be king and throw off the Roman Empire and Boy, he's going to establish his government and he's going to be the ruler that God had been promising Israel for all these years and Jesus eventually will be, but that wasn't his role at this point. And maybe this guy misunderstood and he thought that following Jesus perhaps would lead to prosperity and great wealth and position. And he perhaps he had misplaced expectations and someone says, Yeah, you know I'd like to follow the Lord Jesus Christ. If I follow Jesus Christ, I'll be popular. If I follow Jesus Christ, everybody will think highly of me. If I follow Jesus Christ, I'll be up in front of everyone and I'll be this and I'll be that. The Lord says, you don't understand this. If you want to follow me, there is a price to pay. Look what the Lord says in verse 58. Now, verse 57, everything's fine, but the Lord knew the situation, and he says in verse 58, Jesus said unto him Let me put it in my own words here just to try and illustrate. Jesus says to him, okay, you want to follow me? Think about it. Foxes have holes. I don't know about you, but I don't want to live I want you know, that'd be tough to live the lifestyle of a fox. You know? I mean it's day-by-day sustenance, day by day survival, especially those hawks flying around we saw last night Uh, foxes have holes, birds in the air have nests. I'd sure hate to be a robin in Garrett County right now. But the Son of Man hath nowhere to lay his head. What's he saying to this guy? He's saying, listen, you understand. This may cost you dearly. This doesn't necessarily end up where you think it does. I think the Lord saying to him, Listen, when you follow me Your values are going to be changed. Those things that were so important to you Maybe before you got saved, those things that are so important in this world we live in, you start following me, you're going to find out they're not so important anymore. The priorities that you have. If you let me make the decisions in your life and you let me lead and direct in your life, you're going to find those priorities changing. And the things that are so important to the world, and things that are such a high priority in the world, you start following me, they're not going to be the same priority. There's going to be some other priorities take their place. This doesn't lead to the place you think it does. Now, is it wrong? Foxes have dens. Is it wrong to have a place to live? Yes or no? No. There's nothing wrong with having a nice place to nothing wrong with having a nice place to live. There's nothing wrong with having a nice big house to live in. Nothing Come with that It's nothing wrong with things. It's nothing wrong with the things of this life. But he's saying if you follow me, you're not living for those anymore. Those things are no longer uh what it's all about when you're following me. Um I use my dad a lot for illustration, but um uh he's such a profound impact on my life. As a Christian spiritually on my life. And I saw when my dad got saved as an unsaved teenager, and I saw what how my dad was following the Lord Jesus, and my dad did yielded himself to Christ and regardless of what the family said, regardless of what circumstances were, regardless of what the results would be, he had made up his mind. I'm going to follow Jesus Christ. I'm going to let him through his word decide the direction of life. I'm going to let him through his word direct me in uh in how I live and and uh uh what I am And as an unsaved kid, seeing that in my daddy's life, I said, man, there's a price to pay. One thing that came to my mind was, you know, not just any church would do. My dad drove completely across through several towns to get to a church that preached the Word of God. He drove a he passed probably 30, 40 churches to get to a church that instructed and taught and desired to be followers of Jesus Christ. Uh there was what when I when I first got saved Monday night. Did I ever tell you I got saved on a Monday night? And um 1030 And uh that next Sunday, my heart was stirred. I had five days, six days in in the Christian life, and so many changes had taken place. It was incredible. And my heart was stern. I thought I'm going to go to church Sunday. And for some reason, knucklehead I was, I didn't go to my dad's church. I thought, well, there's a church right down the road here, just less than a mile away. I'll go to that church Now get this. I'm six days old in the Lord. I'd have been in a church service for years. I didn't give a thought. That was Sunday before. The last thing in my mind was to go to church. And so I got this Bible that I'd gotten used, that I was gotten saved, I've been reading, had my Bible, and I had my bell bottoms. And my black silk shirt and uh had the button open and you know and the necklace down there. I mean I was dressing up for church and uh had my hair back, ponytail, and I was good to go And I even took a shower. Um and so I have my Bible and I can walk y the thing you don't believe is the ponytail part. I know it is we can And uh I come walking in there, you know the first thing I noticed, nobody coming. I noticed this, six days old the Lord. I noticed nobody else had a Bible. So, huh. I got in there and they had some sort of Sunday school class and they sat around, they talked about uh something. We never opened our Bibles. And I thought, well that's strange. Six days old in the Lord, I didn't know nothing, but this didn't seem right. I got in there in church and there's a handful of people, and I noticed nobody had Bibles and Sang a couple songs, the guy got up and talked about something. And I went to church and left church and never used that Bible one time. No reference to it, no verses read out of it, no sermon from it, nothing. I thought, you know what? I'm not much of this Christian business, but I really want to follow the Lord, and I don't see how you can follow the Lord and not at least open that Bible at some point. And so uh I saw that in my and then later on I got uh you know next week I got my head on straight, started going to the good church, dad. And so uh what am I saying? I'm saying this Lord's telling this man, listen It's a good thing you want to follow me. That's a good thing. And that's what I want. But you're a little bit ignorant here. You don't understand. This doesn't lead to where you're thinking it does. There's a price to pay. When a person is going to follow the Lord, we are then going in a different direction than the world is going. Follow what I'm saying? Um would you agree with me? Would you agree? Let's just disregard scripture at this point just from what we see going on in our world. Would you agree with me that our world spiritually and morally is degenerating? That is obvious. I've got a fellow I've been witnessing for years since we since I moved here. Uh did his wife's funeral. And that fellow is not Chris, well, he made a profession, his wife's funeral, but uh nice guy. Uh I consider him a friend. He's a good bit older than me. Just about every time I see him, you know what he says? He doesn't know Bible verse. You know what he says to me? He said, boy, this whole world's getting bad, isn't it? I think that the end's real close, isn't it? Isn't that something? Here's this guy who doesn't know his Bible, but he knows enough look around, see what's happening. He knows something's up And uh he you know what, here's the sad thing. He's got a little more spiritual sense than some say people do. When I follow the Lord Jesus Christ, that's what the Lord's telling him, this guy. He means well, he really does, but he doesn't know what it's about. He thinks it's this way. And the Lord says, you start following me, you're going against the grain. This whole world, this whole world, you don't have this world's priorities anymore. You don't live by this world's values anymore. Good night. Look at the world. They've been worshiping their priorities. They've been enjoying their pleasures. They've been living by their values. How's that working out? He says, you follow me, you're going a different direction. It's not going to be about how much stuff you have. It's not going to be about all the pleasure you can grab. It's not going to be about all me and what I can do. The world has all that and it's killing them. Here's what tears me up: I see churches, good churches, that are adopting the world's values. That are bringing the world's entertainment in and living by the world's moral values and living by the world's standards, if you want to call it that. And yet you look around, you see what it's doing to the world. Why would I want to imitate that? The Lord said, if you're going to follow me. It's gonna be a bit of a price to pay. You live by different values. Well I was talking with a fellow last night at the Wild Game Dinner and um he came up a uh big old burly guy And he came up talking to me about uh just different things that's going on in the world and boy how we need Christ and uh uh by looking at it, but I said, are you saved? Are you saved, man? You know the Lord and Savior? Oh yeah, definitely I'm saved. And um he says, uh he says, you know, it's just tragic. How our country is just abandoning God. And he says, you know, we're a country that is on its way to hell getting high on pot. I read an article yesterday, can I just bent a little bit? I read an article yesterday, there's about 15 other states, ours included, where they are pursuing the next election cycle to have legalized pot in those states only also. He says, we've he said, this guy's telling me this, big old burly guy. He's telling me, he says, sodomy has absolutely taken over our society. It's worship, they're exalted, it's cool. He says it's wrong. It's wrong. It's sin against God. It's abomination. It is just as ungodly and wicked as adultery is. Amen. It's just as wicked as ungodly as fornication is. And Jesus is saying, listen, if you want to be a follower of Jesus Christ, you want to follow me, this doesn't lead to where you think it does. You're going to go against the grain of this world. You're not going to be living by this world's values. You're not going to be living by this world's principles. You're not going to be living for this world' Pleasures anymore, you've got a different focus in mind And so the first fellow that he approaches, he's a little bit ignorant. He don't understand all that, and the Lord has to clarify it Now, so the first guy, verse 57 and 58, I put down, this guy's an ignorant follower. I don't mean that in an unkind way. He just doesn't grasp what it's all about. Then the second fellow, verse 59 and 60, I put this down, and this isn't the exact word I want, but I'm using it. He is an inactive follower. Look at verse 59 with me if you would. And he said unto another, follow me. And Jesus said to another, follow me. And he said, this is his response to the Lord's call, suffer me first to go and bury my father. I use the word inactive. The word I really want is to procrastinate. He's a procrastinating follower. Oh, Lord, you want me to follow you? Okay, I will. Later. First of all, I need to go and bury my father. Lord, you want me to follow you? Sure. You're my savior. You You uh you uh are gonna die for my sins and you've promised me eternal life. I recognize that. I put my trust in you as the Messiah, and I'll follow you, Lord But not right now. I'll follow you, Lord, when circumstances are just right. Lord, I'll follow you. I can't just write now. Now it's kind of interesting. I'm not sure what the significance is. The first fellow volunteered. He came to Jesus, said, Jesus, I'll follow you. Jesus said, listen. Are you sure you know what you're getting into? You understand what this entails. The second fellow, Jesus, comes to him. First fellow is volunteered. Second fellow, the Lord's calling him. He says, You, hey, you. Follow me And his initial responses initially his response is good, I will Lord, but suffer me first. He doesn't say I followed you. Lord says, follow me. He doesn't say, are you crazy? Man, I like the way I'm living. I like my rock and roll. I like my partying. I like all this. Lord says, why don't you follow me? No, he doesn't say that. Because, yeah, you know, and I I can hear him thinking, you know, that'd be a good thing. Something inside me says, yeah, I ought to follow the Lord Jesus. I that's good. And so he doesn't refuse the Lord He doesn't refuse the call to follow the Lord. He just procrastinates it. Uh okay, Lord, but I've got to take care of some stuff first. I've got to go bury my father. Now, when he says, let me first go and bury my father, be careful. This isn't suggesting that his daddy's dead yet. In fact, as I study this, I get the impression I gotta wait until the end of my father's life, and when he's dead and we bury him, then I'll follow you. Now we're not told what the circumstances are. Maybe he's in business with his daddy. I'm speculating, but I can see this. Maybe he's in business with his daddy and He's thinking, you know, I can follow the Lord. You know, I heard what he said to the other guy. It's going to cost something. Uh I I I I need to wait until daddy dies and I inherit the business and I can sell the business and I'll be in s financial state where Boy, then I can follow the Lord. And I don't have to worry about not having a nest or a or a den. I don't have to worry about needing these things. I'll be in good shape, and then I can follow the Lord wherever he wants Whatever the case was, this fellow doesn't refuse following the Lord, and perhaps he understands a little bit what all it entails. He's just not ready to do it yet. He just has to wait until everything is just right, and then I'll follow the Lord. Tell you, I think that I think that response is more common than we care to admit. Preacher, how many times have I heard this? Now don't necessarily How many times are preacher? I know I should go soul winning and one of these days you're gonna see me out, I'm gonna go soul winning. One of these days I can't this week, but one of these weeks. Well, I I know I should tithe. I know I ought to give that tithe, Lord, but and you know, one of these days I'm going to start tithing. I know I should get that music. I know that music's not right. I know it has a bad influence on me spirits. I know it doesn't please the Lord. And you know, one of these rays, one of these days I'm going to make those changes. In the meantime, the changes aren't made. In the meantime, the souls aren't gone. In the meantime, the tithe is not given. In the meantime, I'm not following Jesus. Come on, am I right or wrong? We're guilty. I got some preacher friends of mine, one in particular. I mean for 15 years, no exaggeration, 15 years. Every time we talk, we say this. We need to get together and lunch. And guess what? Guess how that conversation always ends up? One of these days, we're going to get together and have lunch. Guess how many times we got together and have lunch for 15 years now? Zero. Well, yeah, we will. One of these days. Someday we will. You know what's tragic about that? We can't even begin to guess. How many people are right now, as you and I are sitting here, how many people are burning in hell that we're one day going to get saved? I know I need to be saved, preacher. I know. I'm just not ready yet. I die and go out in eternity. Gonna get saved one day. Just not yet. Just not yet. We had a fella a number of years ago, older fella. And uh came to see he came a couple weeks. Uh remember Don and Bernice Williams, Bernice Williams? They brought this couple, they they witnessed to everybody. They brought this couple and they came for about a month. They're new to the area. Came to Sunday school Sunday morning. Occasionally they come Sunday night, not too much. One day he came to me between Sunday school and church, right back at the door back there. I was went back there to Sunday school and church Shaking hands like I always do. And he pulled me aside. He said, Pastor Leatherman. He goes, I'm not saved. I said, okay, well. He goes, this is the way you word it. He said, I've got it here. But I don't have it here. I said, I know exactly what you're talking about. I know exactly how to correct that. I said, let's take five minutes. We've got fifteen minutes for each one to Let's take fifteen minutes, let's take five minutes, come back to my office, and let's get it from here to here right now. Anybody want to guess what his answer was? Oh not right now. Oh not right now. Not right now. I addressed them for the next five years I'd say I mean they they quit coming short shortly after that I'd see it. I'd say, hey, we need to get together. We need to take care of that. Oh, I know it. I know it. I'll I'll I'll get a hold of you. If he's still living, he's gotta be up up there in his mid late eighties. Lord, uh I'll follow you. But just not yet. You know, my dad, and we got the business and there's other things, and Lord, I Later on, some other time, the first fellow is ignorant. Lord, I'll follow you. But the Lord says, okay, good. But you understand, you're going to be it's not what you think it is. There's a price to pay. It's not it's not a he's saying this. It's not a luxury cruise liner you're joining up. It's a it's a battleship you're getting. norm. You're going the opposite direction of this world. The second guy, the Lord comes to him and says, hey Barn't you f you follow me I want to lead you in life. I want to give you a life that has purpose and meaning, that is far greater than anything this world has, that ends up in a place where God is glorified and you're rewarded for living for me. And God says Uh, just not yet. Dad. Um, there are always reasons We're very would you agree with me on this? And I say we, we are very, very good At coming up with reasons why we should postpone our obedience to God. We are good at that. And don't think preachers are exempt Human beings have perfected the ability to come up with excuses as to why I cannot obey God now. Someday I can. One day I will, but not now. I can't now. I'll follow you, Lord, but I can't let it interfere in my life at this point. I'll obey you, Lord, but I just can't right now. So you have first of all you have the ignorant follower. He really didn't know what he's getting into. You have the inactive, which would really be a procrastinating follower. He's not following the Lord now. He's going to someday, but not now. And I put down, last of all, the insincere follower. Look at verse 61 with me. And another also said, Lord, I will follow thee. Here's another volunteer. That's a good thing. Lord, I will follow thee, but let me first go bid them farewell, which are at my home, which are at my home at my house. All right. Here's another volunteer. But notice, he says, all right, I will follow thee, but let me first go say goodbye to those that are at my house. I put it this way, he's looking at two directions. Um, question, is it wrong to say goodbye to your family? No. There's nothing in the world wrong with that. But the Lord saws through his phony offer to follow the Lord. And I say it's phony because of the Lord's response. Look what Jesus said. Jesus said unto him, No man having put his hand to the plow and looking back is fit for the kingdom of God. You know what I believe the Lord is saying to this fellow? I think in so many words the Lord is saying, you never really have any intention of following me Your offer to follow me is insincere. Oh yeah, you'll take the plow. But your whole mind is back there with the old crowd. Your whole mindset there is back with the old lifestyle. And your volunteer, your offer to follow is an insincere offer The Lord's response, I believe, in verse 62, reveals he has divided loyalties. He's wavering between following Christ and still being out in the world. Again, there's nothing wrong with that. When I went off to Bible college, 1981, moved to Tennessee, farthest I'd ever been from home, other than one time I went to Florida, I was going by myself, dropped off in Chattanooga, Tennessee Um, I had no family, I had no friends, I didn't know one person within 500 miles of where I was being dropped off. Twenty-one years old, new Christian. And um uh guess what we did before we went down? A bad man told us we all get together, we had a good farewell party. And um uh we had uh cake and ice cream and I remember the cake and the ice cream. That was and some more cake and we had ice cream. Was it wrong to say goodbye to them? No. But I wasn't doing that with the intention of getting out of following what the Lord was leading me to do. You follow what I'm saying? This fella, apparently the Lord saw through that and said, hey, you look back, it ain't gonna happen. An insincere follower. To follow Jesus Christ requires us to be single-minded. Alright, I'm going to follow Jesus Christ. The world, anything that would hinder or keep me from following Christ has to be put aside. The Lord is not suggesting he be unkind to his family and friends. The Lord is not suggesting he shun them, but he is saying don't let them keep you from being yielded to me. From being yielded to me. To follow Jesus Christ requires us to be single-minded. Let me ask you this question. How are you with me? Are you listening? Answer this in your own heart and mind, would you? How would you describe your commitment to Christ? Don't flatter yourself. Don't be dishonest with yourself. Seriously, before you and God, how would you dis and this isn't for my benefit, this is for us as individuals. How would I describe my commitment to Christ? Is my am I following Jesus? Well, first question is, am I saved? Do I know I've trusted Christ? I trust for this crowd, majority of us at the very minimum, we've say, yes, I've trusted Christ. Alright, the question is, am I actually following him? Am I letting him go before me? Or my is my will yielded to his will? Is he the one that makes the decisions in my life? Am I living by the Word of God, letting him lead me and direct me? Or am I calling the shots? Or am I trying to do like some of these guys where I want to f simultaneously follow the Lord, but also live my own life and do my own thing. It doesn't work. Uh we had a preacher show up last night, Pastor Fry from down in Frederick, Ambassador about the church. He's been coming up to our dinner for years. And he showed up like about an hour before the thing began. A lot of people showed up an hour before. And I said, hey Brother Fry, good to see you. He says, yeah, I got a van load. He says, they went some other way. I don't know where they're at. And they showed up about 5 o'clock right when it started. Well, I understood them. They were supposed to be following him. But they got the one road and apparently they thought, ah, I know a better way to go than the preacher does. And so they made the decision, they're going to follow him, but they're going to follow him their own way. And it didn't work out. And they showed up just barely got in there in time and got seats and everything. And that's the way a lot of us are. We want to f oh yeah, I'll follow you, Lord, but I'm going to follow you my way. That's impossible. So what is my commitment to Christ? Am I a follower of Jesus Christ? Am I letting him lead me and direct me? Am I prospect? Yeah, you know, preacher, I know the Lord spoke to my heart about some things in one of these days One of these days never comes. I thought of this, and I'll end with this. I was in Bible college. And uh I was probably down there two, three maybe three, four years. I get a four-year degree and uh man I worked hard at that and got it in in six and a half years, and it really worked out good. About three, four years into it, I roommate I roomed with a fella, a dear friend of mine, and um sold out for God, come from a a family that had missionaries in the family, ministry, their family was in the family. ministry, daddy and some brothers. I mean just a good humble guy. And we roomed together this little apartment. It was actually a garage that they had put a bedroom in, bathroom, and a little sink and kitchen. We shared that the two of us. For about a year. He met a gal. That claimed to be saved. She was in Bible college. It's a university. There's about five thousand students at this point. She was, I think I can honestly say, probably the most worldly girl I had ever met in Bible college. She didn't agree with any of the rules. She broke them every opportunity she had. She had no convictions, no dress standards, other than having to do what the school said, and if she could get around it, boy she did. She would go home at breaks. She worked in a rock and roll station. And Dan met this gal, fell in love with her. I mean they fell in love. And we're like, come on man, are you serious? Just goes rocking and rolling, she's You know, this isn't even anything close to what God would want for her life or for you. Oh no, we're going to straighten it out Come around, she'll come around. They got engaged. And we're like, man, oh you're ruining your life. Everybody saw it. Everybody saw it. About a month before the wedding, he said, I can't do this. I can't do it. It's not right. It is not God's will. This will ruin my life. And to his credit, and I'm telling you, tough decision. I mean they had the plans, the dress was ordered, I mean it was it was a go And he said, I need to follow Christ. He broke it off. Kaboom people met, family met I was on my knees, thank you, Lord. Thank you, thank you, thank you