Tonight. Uh 1 Thessalonians chapter 4. If you didn't, I guess you can just share or just sit there and look at me. 1 Thessalonians chapter 4. And I got a letter. Sunday morning in Sunday school, Brother Charlie read prayer letter from I think it was this Sunday from Mrs. Gail Huffman who was our missionary to France. Very good. Bob of course went to be with the Lord what was about a year ago? Helen, has it been that long? Anyway, uh she gave us a good report and uh real blessing and encouragement. It might have been a week or so ago, but we got a letter came yesterday, I think From Ms. Huffman and just a personal letter to the church. And uh it was a real blessing, and I thought I'd read it to you tonight. Don't normally do this, but it's dated December 14th, uh, came from France, and it's Says Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, dear folks, thank you for your faithfulness in praying and giving towards the ministry here in France. Knowing you are behind us is a blessing and encouragement. Now listen to this. She says, do you realize you have been supporting us since nineteen seventy-six? Supporting them over in France. So that makes thirty-five years. What a blessing. pray for you there in Oakland and I trust the Lord continues to bless each missionary in outreach of the church. I appreciate the newsletters you send by email and uh Um and says a few things there about that. She says, Have a blessed Christmas and New Year in two thousand twelve. Isn't that a blessing? And I tell you she is Such encouragement to my heart just staying faithful. You know, her husband passed away. She could have just packed it up and come on home and um and settled it and but she didn't. She's over there heading up Iwana and doing Different things, but thirty-six years, thirty-five years, and uh we praise the Lord for that. I feel like I'm just a tad bit strong. I'm afraid to raise my voice. 1 Thessalonians chapter 4. I'm going to read verses I'm going to read down through verse 12. I'm going to start in verse 2. Now we're not going to be dealing with all of this tonight, but I want to read it for the context. Look at verse 2, 1 Thessalonians chapter 4. For ye know what commandments, plural, we gave you by the Lord Jesus. So he says uh you you re he's reminding them the commandments he gave, then he goes back and he restates them Verse 3, for this is the will of God, even your sanctification, that ye should abstain from fornication, that every one of you should know how to possess his vessel in sanctification and honor. Not in the lust of concupispiens, even as the Gentiles which know not God, that no man go beyond and defraud his brother in any manner, because That the Lord is the avenger of all such, as we also have forewarned you and testified. For God hath not called us unto uncleanness, but unto holiness. He therefore that despiseth, despiseth not man, but God, who hath also given unto us his Holy Spirit. So there's the first command. And then he gives the second one, verse nine. But as touching brotherly love, ye mean not that I write unto you, for ye yourselves are taught of God to love one another, and indeed ye do it toward all the brethren which are in Macedonia. But we beseech you, brethren, that ye increase more and more. So there's the second command that he had told them before. Now he's restating. Then look at verse 11. And that ye study to be quiet and to do your own business and to work with your own hands as we commanded you. There's the third command. Here's one more in verse 12. that ye may walk honestly toward them that are without, and that ye may have lack of nothing. So I see here four commands. that Paul had given to the church at Thessalonica when he was there. Now he's writing back to them, and for whatever reason, the Lord had a plan. These four issues that he touches on he felt need to be reiterated again. And we'll, as we work through here, we'll suggest some reasons maybe why that was so. But I want to look at the first command tonight. Actually, we're not going to get this done. I'm just going to lay a little groundwork, and then next week we'll get into a little more. But the first command, which is really a command for purity Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless. Father, as we look into your word here, before we go to prayer time, I ask that you would take the Word of God and apply it to our hearts and lives. Lord, we live in a day and age where this issue is uh so important, affects uh really in some ways nearly all of us So I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. Help me, Lord, to be faithful as I teach and preach the Word of God here Again, apply it to our hearts and lives as you see fit. I present my body, yield myself to you, and again, fill me, Lord, and speak through me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. As I pointed out as we were reading through here, I see, and spokes could take issue, you might see some more commands than the four. You may combined a couple of them and have a few less, but I I pulled out four commands that he had given on a previous occasion, and now writing to the church, he's reiterating these, he's re-emphasizing them, reminding them about it. Now a thing to remember here in verse number two highlights this. These are the Lord's commands. They're not Paul's. He's not giving his opinion about something. He's not uh coming up with his own idea, his own agenda. These are the Lord's commands. I think a pastor, uh depending on what position you have, If someone's in a position of pastor, it is good and sometimes uh he should give his advice on some things, right? Sometimes the pastor said I try when I'm preaching, if I have an opinion or just something that's from my way of thinking, not necessarily straight from scripture, I try and point that out. This is my thought, this is what I would say And so I think a pastor is in a position to that. He can, in instances, give his opinion, but that's not what this is here. Paul is saying what God had clearly commanded, what the Lord Jesus Christ had clearly stated. Now the four commands I see are this. I see in verses 3 through 8 the command for purity. In verses 9 and 10, I see the command for brotherly love. In verse 11, I put it this way: the command for quiet, having a quiet disposition. And then verse 12, a command for integrity. Now over the next month probably I want to break these down and look at each of these commands. Tonight, I want to look at that first one, the command to purity, and I just want to lay some groundwork. Apparently, these issues were very important to the Lord. Apparently, God, not apparently, obviously, God has recorded these instructions that Paul gave to the church at Thessalonica. God preserved them for you and I. So these are something, these are issues that relate to you and I These are issues that the Lord feels are very significant, obviously, and He wants us to be aware of them and take these very, very seriously. Now, this first one, verses 3 through 8, the command for purity. Look how he states it in verse number three. For this is the will of God. Now, he's not stating it as a command. But nevertheless, it is a command. He's saying, This is what my will is as God. Now, what is the will of God for an individual person? There are some general Let me put it this way. The general will of God for all people is made abundantly clear. First of all, we know from Scripture, it is God's will that everybody be saved. God's not willing that any should perish. God uh let me restate this, and uh uh it's it is very important whether we realize it or not. God does not choose some people to go to heaven and some people to go to hell. God wants everybody to have their sins forgiven, be saved, and know they're going to heaven. God doesn't desire anybody to go to hell. So we know that's clear. The Bible makes that very, very clear. God wants everybody to be saved. If by chance You happen to be here this evening and you don't and and you're unsaved, you've never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, I can tell you very emphatically, it is God's will that you trust Christ, accept him as your Savior, and be saved. We can say that dogmatically There's other issues concerning God's will that are true for all men. The other one is this, another one is this. It is God's will for those who have trusted Christ who are saved It is God's will for us to share the gospel with other people. We know that very clearly. God has made that abundantly clear over and over and over. He wants us to share the gospel with other people. He wants us to tell other people how to be saved. Do everything we can to persuade them to trust Christ here in our own community and around the world. That's God's will. Somebody says, What, preacher, what's God's will for my life? Well, one, to get saved, two, tell other people how to get saved There's a slew of others we could spend a long time on, but I want to zero in. Here we find another issue that is God's will for all Christians. And that is this. Look again at verse number 3. This is the will of God, even your what? Sanctification. There's that big word we reference a lot. We find it throughout Scripture. The word sanctified or sanctification, most of us are aware of, means to be set apart from something or to be set apart to something. In this case and in other places in Scripture, it means for a person to be set apart from the world To the Lord. Now, what does that mean? It means God's will is that we as believers be distinct, that we be separate from the world's values. The world's principles, the values that the world operates by, we are to be distinct from that. We're not to be a part of that. The world's values are not to be our values. The world's priorities are not to be our priorities. We are to be sanctified, set apart from that. But there's more to it than just being set apart from something. It is also the idea, as we emphasize so much, is to be set to something, apart, set apart to something. In other words, we are to be distinct from the world's values and accept and take for ourselves the Lord's values. Biblical principles. We separate from the world's principles. We accept and incorporate into our lives biblical principles. We don't have, God does not want us to have the priorities in our life that the world has, but rather we are to have the things that are priority to the Lord, those are to be priorities for us. Am I making sense? Everybody, it's very basic. Sanctified, set apart from one thing to another. Now it does not mean that were to come out of the world. That would be impossible It doesn't mean we're to come out of society. Not even we're not even we're not uh doesn't mean we're not sub uh we're to separate ourselves from society as far as our physical presence is concerned Um uh that that's not what he's talking about. That would be impossible. Religions have tried that over the years. They'll build convents up in the mountains and these little things and we're not even going to associate with society. That's not what this is talking about We gotta go to the store. You gotta go to Walmart. Right? And so, but we are not to adopt the values of the world. And notice what he says here. He says, this is the will of God. I do not want my people Living by the world's standards, I want them to adopt my standards, is what God is saying. I don't want my people to hold the world's priorities, I want them to hold my priorities. That is my will We don't value the things the world values. We don't prioritize the things the world prioritizes. We don't even view the world the way the world views it. But rather we view the world as God does. As believers, it is God's will. Now, we're going to talk about, and next week the Bible is very specific here. It gets into the nitty-gritty about sexual purity. Now we're going to talk about that. We're going to preach right down through here, but I think there's a foundation being laid. And that is this. Purity in my physical body, in my relationship with others, is a result of my sanctification, my values. My principles. Here's the problem the world has. The world is trying to get keep people, keep the young people in particular, from uh hurting themselves in the area of sexuality. Right? I'm trying to be discreet They're trying to, but they don't have any principles. There's no values, no convictions to go by for them to build Their purity upon. You follow what I'm trying to say? There has to be a foundation. There has to be a core set of values If purity in this area of life is going to be realized, there has to be a foundation. And that is sanctification. There's two aspects of being set apart from the world to the Lord. There's two aspects. One is Passive. Now what do we mean if something's passive? If somebody's being passive, they're doing what? They're easy going. They're doing what a lot of you are doing right now. Nothing. You are passive participants in this sermon. Follow what I'm saying? In other words, I'm doing all the work. Y'all are just sitting there. There's an aspect of my sanctification, me being set apart to the Lord that I'm passive in. I have no part in. I'm not involved in it. And that is what we would call positional. I'm getting a little theology here. Bear with me. There's a reason for this. In other words, the moment I trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, the moment I was born again, this is true for you also, if you trusted Christ, the moment I accepted Jesus Christ as Savior, I was saved, I was born again In God's mind, positionally, as far as God is concerned, I was no longer a part of the world, I was part of God's family. I was shut apart from the rest of the world in the eyes of God. Much like your children Are set apart from all the other kids in the world. Your kids in your mind are set apart from all them. You know what I'm saying? When your children were first growing up and starting to do things out with other kids, you go to the playground, there's 25 kids there. Where are your heart and mind at the whole time those 25 kids are? Right on yours. You follow what I'm saying? That's that's they are set apart in your mind. In in uh in your attention. That's passive sanctification. The moment I trust in Christ as Savior. As far as God's concerned, I've been set apart from the rest of the world. I have a distinct relationship with the Lord the world does not have I have a distinct position with God the world does not have. I am sanctified. That is passive sanctification. I just accept Christ. Boom. God does it all. It just happens to me. Isn't that great? I mean people think that's great. Say amen. Come on, be a little active here. Now you're taking this passivity to extreme. Then there's another aspect of sanctification. That's the passive part. God does it all. He sets me apart in his mind. But there's an active aspect of sanctification. And that is my part. And it's basically this. I'm probably oversimplifying here a little bit, but it's basically this. It's me living up to what God sees me to be. At least an attempt. I'll never be everything in practicality what I am positionally with the Lord. So that is what he's talking about here. Look what it says. For this is the will of God, even your sanctification. All right, this is what you've got to do to make this real. This is what you've got to do if you're going to be set apart from the world. Now that's where he's laying the foundation. Look what he says. For this is the will of God, even your sanctification, that ye should abstain from fornication. This passage is telling us to be sanctified, to be set apart from the world in our attitude towards and our behavior sexually. He is saying this. And fornication is simply the physical relationship, physical intimacy between anybody outside of marriage. Fornication we generally associate to with before marriage. Adultery you associate after a person's married. Either case, fornication is used interchangeably. It's talking about physical intimacy between two people who are not married. Now I try to use avoid using the world's terminology on this. I try to stick to biblical terminology, but The Bible's uh the world would understand it as our sexuality. Sexual involvement with other people. Now God says that in that realm Our attitude towards and our involvement in that behavior is to be based upon God's values and God's principles and God's standards concerning that. You follow what I'm saying In other words, I am to view as a child of God, it is God's will that I not adopt the world's values concerning sexuality The world's principles concerning sexuality, but I am to be separated unto the Lord and I am to adopt God's values, God's principles concerning that behavior This is the will of God. Because even your sanctification that ye should abstain from fornication. Then he goes down through here, verses 4, 5, 6, 7, 8. He's very, he goes into very specific instructions as to what part this sexuality is to have in the life of a believer. By the way. And he gives us here the principles, the values that we as believers are to live by in this matter of physical intimacy. And that's what I want to deal with next week in a little more specific. But what I want to do tonight, and what I'm attempting to do, is this: being pure, abstaining from fornication. is more than simply not engaging in that behavior. He is saying it is a whole different way of thinking about it. It's a whole nother sort, set of values concerning it. For instance, and I'm getting a little ahead of myself As far as the world's concerned, the physical relationship between a man and a woman, there's nothing sacred about it. It is simply a pleasurable act. Am I right or wrong? As far as the world's concerned, it's exploited. It's perverted. It is simply an act of pleasure between two people. That is not the way God sees it. God, and we're going to see this in this passage and we'll bring in others, God views it as something that is very sacred Something that is has spiritual overturn over uh over what Not overcoat, um, overtones. There's a spiritual aspect to it. Um And that is what he's saying. And that's what you say, Brother Leatherman, the teenagers need to hear you preaching this. They need to hear this. You know what I got studying in my Bible? You know what I found out in the Bible? The people that fell into sexual sins in the Bible, 10 to 1, it was adults over teens. It is not an issue, please bear with me, it is not an issue of raging hormones. It is an issue of the way we think. It is an issue not of my physical development, it has to do with my spiritual understanding. There is a spiritual undertow to this whole subject that most people completely dismiss. And well, I don't want my daughter getting pregnant before she's married. Well, I'm glad to hear that, but there's more to it than just keeping your daughter from getting pregnant before she's married. Come on now. We want them to understand the biblical concept of us. We want to have some convictions, some values. Not the world's values in this matter, not the world's view of this and priority of this, but what is God's value? What is God's And if we can get our hearts established on that and have our uh our understanding of this on a biblical foundation, then we're going to be a whole lot more successful in dealing with this area This is, he notice he doesn't say in verse number 3, this is the will of God that ye abstain from fornication. He doesn't say that, does he? What's he say? This is the will of God, even your what? Come on now, be a little active. Even this will of God, your what? Your sanctification. He's laying some groundwork. He's saying, listen, it's not a matter of just don't touch. It's a matter of thinking correctly. It's a matter of having some value, some substance to who and what you are as a person, and your relationship with God, and then your sexual purity is an outflow of that. Is a result of that. This is for all ages. I found that in the Bible more adults failed in this area than young people did. I can find a few instances where it was perhaps a young person. I thought of Amnon and Tamar. We don't know how old they were. They were maybe early twenties in their teens perhaps. And uh they fail uh Amnon particularly failed terribly. Uh but for the most part you find people who are failing committing fornication, you find Samson It's a grown man. David was perhaps a grandfather. And you go all the way down through here, the woman taking an adultery in the gospels. She was an adult woman, it wasn't a a young lady, young woman. And so don't get in your mind, oh, I'm past that age, and you know, these young people need that. Hey, every single one of us need to have a c a correct biblical foundation in our heart and mind in this matter along with other areas. You follow what I'm saying? And so I thought it was significant That he begins this whole subject. And as you go down through here, he says, every one of you should know how to possess his vessel in sanctification and honor. What's the vessel he's talking about there? Come on Your body. He's saying your whole attitude towards your body, your physical being, is to be affected. Look what he says: possess your vessel in what? Sanctification set apart in God's values and in honor. Person engaged, and I'm getting ahead of myself here, but a person engages in fornication, they are dishonoring themselves. It's more than just an act of pleasure. It has to do with my honor before God and man Look how he does not in the lust of conscucience, in other words, just engaging in pleasure, as the Gentiles which know not God. He's saying, listen, you have a higher standard You have a core set of values that the world doesn't have. There's more significance to who and what you are than the world sees themselves. In other words, I think he's saying something like this. You're better than this. You're more significant than to lower yourself into this type of behavior. Look what he says. That no man go beyond and defraud his brother in any matter. That's talking about adultery. Because that the Lord is the avenger of all such. As we have forewarned you and testified, God several places gives very clear statements that a person engages in this behavior faces the very particular judgment of God. God considers a very sacred issue, and to violate it brings very pointed response from God. upon the person. For God has not called us unto uncleanness, but unto holiness. That's another form of the word sanctification. He therefore that despiseth despiseth despiseth not man. In other words, he's saying, listen, you're bristling at what I'm saying. You're getting mad. Because I'm saying you shouldn't engage in this behavior. You're not getting mad at me. You're getting mad at God. God's the one that's established this standard. But who hath also given unto his Holy Spirit. So he goes down and he deals with this. But what I want to leave us tonight with is this. God's will for you and I, regardless of what our age is, regardless of what our standing is in life, wherever we're at, God's will is that we incorporate into our hearts and minds our thinking the values, the principles, the convictions, the standards that God has established. And do not lower ourselves into adopting the world's values. Do not view this behavior the way the world views it. See it as God sees it. And once we understand that and have that incorporated into our hearts and lives as a core value is the term I keep coming up with. As a core value, then We have we have some substance to be able to deal with this. You follow what I'm saying? And so I thought he begins this with a very unique Very interesting way. It begins with our separation unto the Lord. Then he addresses this. Now, as I said, next week, we're going to go in and break down this a little bit and talk about it in a little more detail. We'll probably have the biggest crowd we've had in a long time next week. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I do ask that you would help us in all areas of our lives, myself included, that we would uh Adopt your values and understand the sacredness of life and the significance of who and what we are as children of God. And help us, Lord, to be separate from the world in these matters, in our thinking and our values. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many would say, and this is, how do you give an invitation on this? But how many would say, preacher, I need to give a little more attention to the Bible's perspective on the issues of life? I'm afraid all of us. Listen, I'm afraid all of us have allowed the world's values to creep in to some degree and to affect our thinking and our perspective on some of these issues. What we need to do is push that out and replace it with the Lord's values. And how many would say, preacher, pray with me that I would I would be able to do it, I would be active in incorporating the Lord's values in my life and pushing the world. out. Anything like that, Black of the Hand, God bless you, hands all around. Of course we want to do that. All stages of life and all issues of life. It's a constant thing. Father, you know our hearts, you know where we're at. We need your help in this matter. And so have your way. We know this is your will. And so help us, Lord, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bound, eyes are closed.