Chapter number three, if you would, in your the Old Testament, if you go to Psalms and then you're probably pretty much in the middle of the Bible, and then work towards your right a little bit You'll come into the Book of Ecclesiastes, chapter 3. And it's good to have Mrs. Gray visiting with us tonight. We're glad to have you here. And this is our first time here. I failed to recognize her earlier. And so it's always a blessing. And uh Jacob has been twisting my arm to tell you this fantastic joke that he has. Where you at, Jacob? So I'm saying this now because if it bombs, it's Jacob's fault that it bombs What stresses out a coral reef? Current events I'm telling you it's Jacob's not mine, so how was that? Jacob pretty good? Did I do it right? Yeah. All right. Ecclesiastes chapter three. As we are no doubt aware, if you've been around here, we've been preaching from the book of Ecclesiastes. We're working our way kind of verse by verse through the book. And it appears that Ecclesiastes is actually a divine record, divinely inspired record of a sermon that Solomon preached in Jerusalem uh in the later years of his life. Of course he was king of Israel uh up until his death. Um he is noted Solomon is noted primarily for what? His great Wisdom. Jesus referenced the wisdom of Solomon. And uh but what sometimes folks Christians I think are might not be aware of, uh the latter years of his life, he messed up bad And he got far from God. And uh the Bible says that the uh he married many women, he loved many women and married all these wives. Can you imagine seven hundred wives 300 concubines, that's a thousand mother-in-laws. Imagine that. No wonder he got messed up But seriously, the Bible says these women were not godly fearing uh God-fearing women. They were very wicked women, and just that whole idea of having that many wives uh is ungodly And so they drew him away from the Lord. And perhaps I have a feeling his tremendous wealth, his tremendous success and prosperity always Almost always has a negative effect on people if we're not careful. And nevertheless, he got to the point where he wanted to live his life without God. He wanted to push God out of his life. And this book, the Ecclesiastes, is this sermon he's preaching, and I think he's telling folks, uh, I think he's um uh uh uh uh uh conveying How he descended into this point of being so far from God. And he begins with his conclusion. He says, Vanity of vanity. All is vanity and vexation of spirit. But he explains himself with a little phrase, and most of us here are familiar, we've repeated this often, and it's repeated often throughout the book. Under the sun. Under the sun. Under the sun. And he's simply saying this. I have lived my life, these years of my life. I've gotten to the point I am trying to find purpose. I'm trying to find fulfillment. I'm trying to find meaning in my life with God excluded, just living for what I can experience under the sun. Nothing beyond, no spiritual life, no God. I'm pushing that all out. And he makes uh tremendous efforts to find meaning and purpose. And every single time, without fail He comes to this conclusion. Life under the sun, without God, without considering my spiritual well-being, pushing all that out, that life is empty. It is vain. It is frustrating, and it is miserable. So he's trying to find purpose, meaning in his life, fulfillment without God. He's trying to live independent of God, and it's not working. It is not working. So we get to chapter 3, the end of chapter 2 and chapter 3, and he starts acknowledging some things. Now I don't know if down in his heart and soul he's reaching back to the days when he was walking with God. when he had God's blessing and he was living for the Lord. But he begins acknowledging the fact that God does exist. Although he's tried to push him out of his life, he can't deny God's existence. And we say this so often, but But there is no doubt in my mind, even the most outspoken atheist knows down in their heart and soul there is a God. They know that. And Solomon cannot escape that. As hard as he has tried, the wealth he has amassed, and the education he's gotten, and the works he's done, and the the debauchery and wicked life he's indulged in, he cannot escape the fact that God is God exists. And uh he inevitably ends up acknowledging God. And the second thing he recognizes, and we see this in the first half here of chapter three, is he recognizes God's sovereignty. Not only does he have to admit God exists, but he has to admit this also. God really is in control. God is in control. And he's honest enough to admit that, that he cannot get around that. Everything he's trying, no matter what road he pursues, he ends up running into God. And God is working. God is working his life and God is there. Now in our text. I didn't read the text yet, did I? I got going here. Look at verse number 14. I want to read verse 14 and 15. Chapter 3. This is Solomon. Again, he's speaking, he's preaching. He says, I know that whatsoever God doeth It shall be forever. Now think about this. This is a guy that has pushed God out of his life. He's desperately trying to live without God. And he has to make this acknowledgement. I know that. I know. I know That whatsoever God doeth, that it shall be forever. Nothing can be put put to it, nor anything taken from it. And God doeth it that man that men should fear before him. Verse 15, that which hath been is now. That which is to be hath already been, and God requireth that which is past. I want to speak, I'm gonna try and be Get right to the point here. But uh God's power in God's plans. Let's pray real quick. Father, bless now our time in your word. And I ask again, as always, when I speak and preach, Lord, I want I ask that you please fill me with your Spirit And I give myself anew that you would speak through me. Teach us, Lord, how desperately we need you. Teach us, Lord, how we need to acknowledge You're working in our life, and we want your will to be done. In Jesus' name, Amen. In our text here, I think what Solomon is doing, he's acknowledging the fact, he's recognizing the fact that God is active in the world. He's trying to ignore it. He doesn't want to think about it. He wants to live life without it. But he cannot escape. He has to acknowledge God is active. God is working in our world. Look at verse 14, the first statement. I know that whatsoever God doeth. He's acknowledging here that God is active. God is doing things. Solomon is saying this: though I've pushed God out, I've tried to live like he's far away and not involved. God is involved. He's not some faraway God that is not active in our world. Several years ago, it's not been too long, a number of years ago, I was visiting down here through Mountain Lake Park And I was going down one of the streets, not far. You almost throw a rock down where I was, and I knocked on I was knocking on doors and just talking to people by the Lord, inviting them out and introducing myself, and I knocked it On a fellow's door, went up the steps on his porch, and he answered the door, and I said, I'm Pastor Leatherman of Matt Mountain Lake Baptist Church, just right up the road here. Want to leave an invitation with you and your family, come visit with us And uh wondered if you have a church you attend anywhere. And he was very cordial, he was very nice, and he said, Pastor Lennerman, he says, um, I am what you might call an agnostic. And I knew what he meant. He says, I believe, and in our conversation he made this, he explained this to me. He says, I believe there is a God. I don't deny that. I think that there is a God. Can't prove it, can't prove he is, can't prove he isn't. But I don't believe God is active in our world. I don't believe God is involved. I think He is just a deity that's out there somewhere and really does no effect upon our everyday life Solomon came to the conclusion, as he tried to push God out, that God is active. in our world. God is working in people's lives. He is acknowledging the fact that God does exist. God is sovereign. He is controlled. And he is acting. The word doeth there in verse 14, I know that whatsoever God doeth, the word doeth there means to work things, to perform, to bring things about. And God is working. And if you've been involved here at the church and the ministries of the church, we've seen so many times undeniable evidence of God working in people's lives. God things not just coincidence, but obviously divine appointments happening on a regular basis. And uh and by the way, I don't believe any time we we we're here, whether it's me behind the pulpit or brother Hummel or somebody, Pastor Brett, or somebody like that Uh whoever is preaching with God, I don't think it's coincidence that the audience out there is who they are sitting there. I think it's God's plan That were under the Word of God. So before I get into what he says about God being active in our life, I want to give you three truths that apply to this passage. I want to encourage you to jot a few statements down. I'm going to give you through three. They're not directly from this passage, but I believe they apply. To what is being stated here in this passage. Three truths about God that apply to this passage. Number one, I encourage you to jot these down. These aren't new. Number one, God loves me. And God wants what's best for me. Because God loves me, He wants what's best for me. Those of us that have children, every one of us would would agree with every one of us agree with this statement. We love our children very much. Amen or not. We love our children. And because we love them, we want what's best for them, right or wrong. Now, raising our boys They're I've always l I've always loved 'em. I love them dearly. I try to send them on a regular basis, tell them I love 'em, messages or call or whatever But I've always wanted what was best, but I didn't always know what was best for them. Anybody know what I'm talking about? My heart ached. I want what's best for him, but I didn't really know what was the best thing for it. God loves us, and he wants what's best for us. Number two. God is all-wise, and He knows what's best for me. Unlike me, a human father, I love my sons very much. And I want what's best for them, but I didn't I'm not all wise. I'm not all knowing, and sometimes I didn't know what was best for them And then seek the Lord and try and figure out and do what was best. God know, not only does He love me and want what's best for me, God is all-knowing, and He knows what's best for me. Isn't that a wonderful thing to know? Number one, God loves me and wants what's best for me. Number two, God is all knowing and knows what's best for me. There have been times with my boys that I loved them very much. I wanted what was best, and in a particular situation I knew what was best, but I was unable to do What was best for them. I'm limited. Anybody here ever have a child in a situation, your heart just aches, you went, but there's you feel like there's nothing you can do. Anybody know? They just kind of have to go through it and you want to help and you and you think you know what's best, but I'm limited and I can't do what's best, what I feel is best for them. God never has that problem. One, he loves me and wants what's best for me. Number two, he's wise, all wise. He knows what's best for me. And number three, God's all-powerful and he can do what's best for me. He's not limited in any situation, in any circumstance, God is able to do what is best and work things out and bring about uh my uh what is best for him and for my good and his glory. And so I believe all these factors, these three factors, God's love, his wisdom, and his power. all apply to God's actions that Solomon touches on here. Now I want to show you the, I want to touch on, and I'm trying to give you this quickly, I want to touch on three actions of God. Three factors about God's actions. He says, I know that whatsoever God doeth. And then he references three things. Number one, God's actions, number one, are forever. Forever. Look what he says. I know that whatsoever God doeth, it shall be forever. What I'm trying to what I think he's saying here is when God does something, God does it right. Anybody here see somebody some of you builders you've come across no doubt I know none of you guys would do this but no doubt you've come across some shoddy work Anybody know what I'm talking about? What do you mean when we say they did shoddy work? What do we mean? Terrible. Done hold up. I didn't put things the way they ought to be. It wasn't done right. It's very unstable. It's shoddy. It's not going to last. A little storm comes along. The whole thing's going to fall apart. When he says, I know that whatsoever the Lord doeth, it shall be forever. What he's saying is this, God doesn't do shoddy work. When God does something, it's gonna last. God doesn't do just something superficial. We lived in Colorado, I would preach up in Wyoming sometimes and up into Montana and we'd try drive up there that I'm trying to remember the Route 25, I think it is, goes up through uh east central Wyoming, and it is just kind of these rolling hills and Uh antelope there's more antelopes than there are people up there. I mean just everywhere. And so if you wanna if you want to elope, go out there. There's lots of antelopes. That was dumb. I don't even know why I said that. But um we get up there and every now and then you come across some little hill and down in the valley in this area here you'd see this town. And it looked like a town, but if you paid close attention, it wasn't really a town at all. It had a street. And it had the fronts of stores, but there was no building behind the store. Anyone know what it was? It was old movie sets. Where they do a western, you know, and shoot 'em up and cowboys and Indians and da da. And you look on there and on the screen on the on the show, it looks like a f uh a town and everything, but it wasn't really It was just phony front. It was just a facade. I mean what he's saying here is God never does facades. Just to show. A storm comes through there and those things all fall over and they're all knocked down. Whatsoever God doeth, it shall be forever. God doesn't do shoddy work. God doesn't do superficial work. In other words, when God creates a universe, it's going to last until he's done. This whole universe isn't going to wear down. God is going to be in place. It's going to do what it's created to do until God's done with it. I saw a news report, it's been a number of years ago, big headline, the sun is burning out. I thought, good heavens, I need to get flashlights And I got reading it, and according to their statistics, in one point two billion years the sun's gonna burn out. I said, Well my grandkids will worry about that. I'm telling you, the sun ain't gonna burn out till God's done. Whatsoever God doeth, it shall be forever. It's gonna last. It's not shoddy. It's not going to break down until he's finished. Now, at his point in time, this whole world's going to burn up and he's going to make a new heaven, new earth, but it ain't going to fall apart before he's done with it. So when God creates a universe, it lasts. When God gives his word, it's going to endure. Whatsoever God doeth, it shall be forever. When God gives his word, it's going to endure. I got some references, and for sake of time we won't turn to them. Let me give them to you. Psalms chapter 12, verse 6 and 7. It says, and I'm not quoting this exactly, but it says that God's word shall endure to all generations. We don't have to worry about God's word deteriorating or going bad on us God preserves his word to all generations. Psalms 33, 11. The counsel of the Lord shall stand. Whatsoever God doeth, when he speaks, when he gives his word, it's going to stand, it's going to endure. Proverbs 19, 21. So when God does something, when God does a work, Solomon is acknowledging that when God does something, when he works, whatever he does. It's going to be forever. It's not going to be shoddy. It's not going to be sloppy. It's not going to be superficial. It's going to last. It's going to door. He creates a Universe, that universe is going to be right what it ought to be until he's done with it He gives his word. That word is going to last forever. Let me give this one to you. When God saves a soul, that soul's secure. Listen, if sometimes people say, well, I'm saved, but you can't know that you're going to save, you can lose it, or they'll say something like that. The only way I could lose my salvation is if I was the one saving me Right? But I'm not the one saving me. Jesus is the Savior. And whatsoever He doeth, it shall last forever. When God stains a soul, that so is saved. He gives it everlasting life And so there's a tremendous statement on Solomon's part, recognizing that not only does God exist, not only is God sovereign, but when God moves and when God acts, when he does something, it is forever. And when he creates a universe, that universe is going to be in place. When he gives his word, that word is going to adore. When he saves a soul, that soul is secure. Whatsoever God doeth. It lasts forever. Solomon is looking to man and all he sees is temporal. He's tried works, didn't last. He's built buildings, collapsed. He's got education, his mind deteriorates. He's lived wild living, it's corrupted his body. But when God does something, It lasts. It endures. It endures. So number one, God's actions are forever. Number two, I see in verse 14, God's actions are flawless. Are flawless. Look what he says. I know that whatsoever God doeth, it shall be forever. Now look at this. Nothing can be put to it, nor anything taken from it. Why can nothing be put to it or anything taken from it? Because it's perfect. You can't make it any better. You can't tear it down. God's works are flawless. And the implication here is that man cannot improve upon what God has done. Don't d doesn't man constantly do that, try and make what God has done, oh we need to improve this. You can't improve it. It can't be done. They're trying to do that to the Bible. Oh, here's a new improved version of the Bible. Give me a break. You can't improve on perfection. Too often we get in our heads. Tell tell me if I'm right or wrong. Too often we get in our heads that we know better than God does. Don't we? Well I know the Bible says, but I know God says we shouldn't do this, but in this case I know I ought to, God instructs me to do this, but you know, in my situation, no, no, no, don't try to add to what God has instructed or take away from what God has done. God's work is flawless. God never does anything too late, and he never does anything too much or too little. Whatsoever God doeth, you can't add to it, you can't take away, it is flawless. God's works are unfailing. God's works are flawless. Man's works constantly have to be corrected I'm kind of fascinated by the NASA and I follow them on the computer. They put little things out. And they got this little they got this little robotic uh four-wheeler, a rate remote controlled four-wheeler, up on Mars. Well you talk about long range remote. That's long range remote. Now throw things been cruising around. Anybody see that Pathfinder up there? And that thing's cruising all around. I had a picture the other day I followed on my computer and it looked back and it showed its little tracks going over Mars and little Martian there. And uh You know what that thing and others they sent constantly had little glitches in. They gotta fix that and they gotta do this and they gotta tweak this and the thing goes dark for a while, then it comes back on. And uh everything, man's best works. are constantly have to be modified, they have to be corrected, they have to be repaired. When I was in school, you know, and studying different subjects It was like every other year they come out with new books because they had to modify something they had in the previous book. Anybody know what I'm talking about? It's always something, some little thing there. What I'm trying to say is this God's works don't have to be modified. They don't have to be corrected. They don't have to be repaired. What God does, you can't add to it, and you can't take it away. And I really wanted to dwell on this, but I'm not going to. This is what I think he's saying. God makes no mistakes. God makes no mistakes. How terrible would it be to have a God that made mistakes? Wouldn't that be awful? But our God makes no mistakes. Whatever he does, it lasts forever, can't be added to, can't be taken away. It's forever, it's flawless. And last of all, I notice here in the last part of verse 14 It's fearful. When God works, it's fearful. Look at the last part. Nothing can be put to it, nor anything taken from it. And God doeth it. Why? That men should what? Fear before him. Fear before him. Our God is an awesome God. And when I say that, I mean to use the word awesome in the true sense of that word Now we use it flippantly. I even catch myself sometimes using it flippantly. And nowadays anything, it's been replaced by the word cool, basically. We say, oh, that's awesome, man. And what we mean is it's cool, it's neat, it's nifty, it's fiffy, um, it's groovy. Right, I'm trying to get the lingo. But when we say God is awesome, we're not saying God's cool. I I don't like this idea that we have a cool God. No, we don't. We have an awesome God. And by that we mean an awe inspiring God. Produces all fear inducing the whole concept of all If I am in awe of something, it's almost overwhelming. It is fearfully overwhelming. The phrase fear God or fear the Lord is used more than 114 times in our King James Bible Fear God. Fear God. Fear God. Fear the Lord. Does God want us to be scared of him? No, he wants us to reverence him. In all. Fear inducing all. He is so holy and so powerful. And his works are so perfect. That it produces a reverential fear in my heart and soul. A number of years ago my son was working out in Colorado and he was doing the guide service there in Gypsum, Colorado. I went out, uh a group of us, Dr. Williams, a few others went out and uh another time I went out myself and we went early in the mornings a couple hours before daylight. And we rode these horses and we're way back up in the Rocky Mountains. I mean we are up there And uh we're up on top of this mountain and we're set up in place and he was going to do this calling and find out where these elk are, but it was a good while before daylight. And I'll tell you, there is nothing like being on top of a mountain out there before daylight with nothing obstructing that night sky. And I'm telling you, those stars, and you could see just billions and billions. I never saw anything like it. And I'll be I'll be honest with you, I was it was almost fearful. The immensity Of that night sky. And this thought came to my mind. God just spoke that into existence. And you think, what kind of power is behind a God that can just say a word and that comes into existence? I'm telling you, it was almost fearful to think about the power of this God. That I have to answer to, that I have to live for. And Solomon is saying, the works of God, whatsoever God doeth, one of the purposes is so that man will reverentially fear and respect God for who and what he is. God spoke that into exactly a couple years ago. It's been a while now, it might be ten or more, I don't remember, but there was a storm going on, it was a rainstorm in summertime. There was a lightning storm, thunder and lightning going on And we were at the house and we're in the back room and it was just at dusk. We got a it's gone now, but we had a big pine tree, went up just by the corner where my deck is back there that I almost catch on fire every summer. And um It's a big old pine tree. We're sitting there and just I don't know what we're doing, just not much going on. We're sitting there and all of a sudden, kabo! Lightning struck that pine tree. I'm telling you from Tom away from me. I'll tell you my teeth flew out of my head and my socks blew off. It was like, good night. And I'm telling you, in that instant, we sat there just shocked. At the power behind one little strike of lightning. And I thought, how powerful must God be? And Solomon is saying, under the inspiration of God, he says, God does his works. Whatever he does, it lasts forever. It's flawless. And it is designed to produce fear, not scared, but reverential fear before the awesome power and holiness of our God. My grandfather, my dad's father, Sam Leatherman, Grandpa Leatherman, I I feared him. I wasn't scared of him. He never hurt me. He was the most gentle, godliest man I've ever met. But there was a, as a young child, there was a reverential fear. of Grandpa Letterman. There was something about him that was just put awe in my heart and mind. Does anybody know what I'm talking about, what I'm trying to describe? I'm telling you, we would get together at Thanksgiving, and I wasn't unsaved. My parents weren't even unsaved at the time. But we'd get together for Thanksgiving dinner, and Grandpa Leatherman would pray And I'm telling you, I'm a little eight-year-old kid sitting there, and it was like God was there at the table, the presence of God. And you're almost not fearful, not scared. But almost tremble just in awe of the presence of this man, God, God Does works so that you and I learn to fear him. Not scared of him, but reverential. God, I don't believe the Lord wants us using referring to him as the old man upstairs. God doesn't want us the dude or anything like that. God wants us to reverence him. And the works he does, he does to produce that reverence in our heart and minds for the God that created us. I wanted to go to, and for sake of time, I wanted to go to Isaiah chapter 6. And the Bible says in the year that King Uzziah died, Isaiah was a friend of the king. And his friend died. And he says, the year that King Uzziah died, I saw the Lord high and lifted up. And the smoke of his train filled the temple. And he says, when he saw this and the seraphim cried out, holy, holy, holy, it's the Lord God Almighty. Isaiah didn't say awesome into that. Oh, God's cool, man, into that. You know what Isaiah did? He fell on his face and said, Woe is me. For I'm a man of unclean lips. You know what he's doing? This God is an amazing God. And I fear and reverence him. Not scared of him, but I reverence him. And God came and touched, took the coal from the fire, you know the story, and touched and said, get up, your sins are forgiven God does a work. Solomon's saying, he's trying so hard to live without God. He says, I can't. I keep running into God. And I see he's in control. And I recognize that everything he does is forever. It's flawless, and he wants us to fear him. And let's live this week. Let's rejoice in the Lord. Let's rejoice in our salvation. Let's rejoice in God's goodness, but let's never lose our reverential fear of God. And respect him and humble ourselves before him. That's what God's looking for. Amen?