Two um first John chapter five, if you would turn there. First John chapter five While you're turning there, Brother Davis, of course, flew out this morning, headed back, Davison headed back to uh Oklahoma, and uh he left some CDs here. We're gonna Shipman Backey said if we wanted to put them out, if anybody else was still interested, there's a few of them back there. And I know uh uh Uh no the the ones in the hard case are ten dollars and if anybody purchas them we'll be sure and send the money to 'em. And there's one back there still, it's in a soft case like a paper sleep type thing. That one's 14. And then there's still some literature. So if you wanted to get some and you were unable to, they're still available back there. We might leave them out through Sunday And then we'll send them back to them. Another thing before we um get into a little lesson here this evening, we got our our uh our uh report off of our website uh for the month of August. I don't think I got to share this with you But um uh we have on our archive of sermons on our website, uh we have one thousand fifty-one sermons available on there now. So it adding up over the years. In the month of August, there was 924 sermons downloaded. Did I already share those? I don't think I did for August. 924 sermons were downloaded, so that's up significantly from previous months. The number one sermon downloaded 51 times was a Wednesday night message, what to do with our treasures. And then a couple others on there. And then the number one I thought I shared this. The number one uh yeah, all over again. Number one state was Nebraska. A hundred and four sermons downloaded into Nebraska. Isn't that incredible? I don't know what in the world's going on out there. And uh there is a total of 42 different states downloaded sermons. The number one country, Germany. 50 sermons downloading the Germany, United Kingdom, Philippines. Canada, Zambia, Vietnam had six. Australia, South Africa, New Zealand had five. Saudi Arabia four Kuwait had some, Uganda, Barbados, Algeria, Ghana, Haiti, India, twenty-one different countries. Isn't that something? I tell you, I always enjoy getting that and just seeing what's going on out there. Jane uh 1 John chapter 5, and I want you to notice with me verse Uh uh verse number three. First John five and verse number three. Let me get here. For this is the love of God that we keep his commandments. Now if you remember in John chapter 14 He says repeatedly, if you love me, keep my commandments. He that loveth me is he that keepeth my commandments. And here he uh John's kind of reiterating that, and he says, For this is the love of God. Now we keep his commandments And his commandments are not what? Grievous. His commandments are not grievous. It's the first Wednesday of the month. And what I've been trying to do is give some soul winning tips on the first Wednesday of the month. Now, what I have is a soul winning training lesson, I guess you would call it. We put this together years ago. We've taught it here Many, many times in different settings and uh in an in-depth way. What I'm my plan is that through the winter months I want to take that soul-winning lesson and just work our way through it, not in the depth that we would in a classroom setting like we've done before, and I hope to do again, but take some take kind of the cream off the crop uh off the top of it and uh give you some things and so it's gonna be a little helder skelter. I just want to give you a few few thoughts tonight. We've you know we had a big night last night, Monday night, and then all day Sunday. So I want to give you a few thoughts and we're gonna spend some time in prayer. But um I entitled it tonight, Five Key Words of Soul Winning. Now I'm really not going to talk much about the five key words of soul winning. That's what we're going to do in the coming months. I'm going to give them to you, and then I want to give you some thoughts, uh, some other thoughts, and then We'll pray and go home. But let's pray right now. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now. And Lord help me bring these thoughts together, kind of scattered, but I pray that we can bring it together in a coherent way. And that we would be able to apply these to our lives and be able to be effective witnesses for you in this world. I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. And speak through me. And in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. When you think about soul, when you think about approaching a person, confronting a person or engaging a person is another way of putting it with the gospel and then being able to accurately share the gospel with them, tell them the good news of Jesus Christ. what he did for them and what they need to do as a lost person, unsaved person, to make Jesus Christ their personal Savior. And then once that's done how they can really be sure that Jesus has saved them, that they're born again, they're a child of God, they have eternal life, and then how they can go on and grow as a Christian. All of that is part of soul winning. So here's the five keywords. I'm not going to say a whole lot about each of them. I want to give you some other thoughts afterward. And uh we'll develop these in the coming months as we look at this. But the first key word, if you want to jot these down, I think it'd be helpful in your mind to as to think about uh this matter witnessing to folks. Number one is the approach. is the approach. In other words, how do I take some person and get the conversation On to spiritual things. How do I get this conversation? Whether it's a total stranger, I'm coming up and knocking on their door, which is Mm a lot of my soul winning is that way. Uh just knocking on their door, approaching them, and then turning the conversation, the spiritual things particularly uh their salvation or whether it's somebody at work in these disguised work I've never witnessed to them. Maybe you've given them some tracks but you want to talk to them and the idea is all right how do I approach them How do I engage this person in a way to get them talking about salvation? There's a lot of different approaches we can have, but we want to be a little tactful. We want to approach people. I'm of this persuasion. Persuasion. I'm convinced that just about anybody will talk about spiritual things if you approach it the right way. Um whether it's a young person, a senior citizen, all that, if you approach it the right way, people are more than willing The talk about spiritual things, their opinions about God and heaven and hell, and you can engage them. So the first word of the five key words of soul wedding is the approach We'll work on that and talk about that in another month. The second key word of personal soul winning and sharing the gospel, and I've alliterated these just to help us think. So we have the approach number one, number two, the atonement The atonement. What do you think we mean? Uh what do you think I mean when I say the second key word is the atonement? What what am I talking about? Yeah, I'm uh j just to simplify it, it's the gospel itself. I used atonement just for the letter A, but If I'm going to win someone to Christ, if I'm going to see a person saved, they have to hear the gospel. I've got to be able to communicate to them Accurately the gospel of Jesus Christ. Nobody is ever saved apart from the gospel of Jesus Christ The power of the gospel of Jesus Christ is the power of God unto salvation. Paul said, I was sent to preach the gospel And so I've got to be able to, if I'm going to win people to Christ, I must be able to approach them and engage them in this subject. Then, once I've got that, I need to be able to accurately communicate to them the atonement or the gospel of Christ and be able to explain to them very thoroughly, very clearly, very simply How to be saved, what the gospel entails. And there's various uh ways of doing that, and people have different little formulas I personally like and I teach, encourage others to use what we call the Romans Road, all from the book of Romans. Romans chapter 3, Chapter 6, Chapter 10, Chapter 5. Go through there. And we'll talk about that in the coming months. So Number one, the approach. How do I approach a person with the gospel? Number two, the atonement, sharing with them accurately, clearly, simply the message of the gospel. Bay number three, I put this one down, and this is part of our lesson, is the appeal. The appeal. In other words, appealing to that person to make the decision to put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. Here's what happens, I believe, in a lot of churches, and I picked this up when we moved to Garrett County and I began engaging people and seeing things. I think there's a lot of churches And they talk about the gospel. And I think there's some churches that actually preach the gospel to an extent. But I think what a lot of them lack is making the appeal for people to make the decision to personally accept Jesus Christ as Savior. And I come to that conclusion out visiting They believe the gospel, they believe they need to be saved, they believe that uh heaven and hell, they believe Jesus is the only savior, they believe Jesus did what needs to be done, but they've never made the decision to personally put their faith and trust in them. They've never been presented with the appeal to actually trust Christ. Paul said, knowing therefore the care of the Lord, we anybody remember the next word? Persuade men In other words, Paul says, listen, I'm out there, I'm not just telling people they need to be saved, I'm not just telling them the gospel, but I'm persuading them, I'm pleading with them, I'm trying to do what I can to appeal to them to make that decision to trust Jesus Christ as Savior. Did you ever see, or maybe you can imagine this in your mind, there's a house is on fire. And there's a person up there in the uh window and the fire's up and there's no escape through the back of the house. The only escape for them is to jump out the window, and they're standing there, and the firemen are down there, and they've got their big um uh Uh what do they use? What do you call that thing? Big blanket or whatever. They've got that big tarp or something And uh the person's up there and they're scared and they don't want to do, and the fire's here, and it's a couple stories down, the firemen down. What are the firemen saying? Go ahead, jump, you're okay, it's safe. They're appealing to that person to make the decision, to trust them, to cast themselves into their tarp. so that that person lives, so they don't die. Well that's what we're talking about here, making that appeal. Listen, you can trust Jesus Christ. You can make that decision. and uh pleading with them. Uh we don't, and I'm getting a little ahead of myself, I don't know, we'll deal with this later, but we don't want to be indifferent As to whether people trust Christ or not. And I try to, in my preaching, when I give the invitation for people to be saved, I try to be very, I try to be very earnest. And stating the importance of trusting Christ and making that decision. And we don't want to talk somebody into doing something they don't want to do. They've got to willingly trust Christ But we do want to make that appeal. So number one, we have the approach. How do I approach somebody? How do I start the conversation? How do I turn a conversation The atonement, presenting the gospel very clearly, simply, thoroughly. Then the appeal. The fourth one that we want to cover in the coming months is the assurance. Giving assurance. I like Romans 10. 13. For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord, what's the last phrase say? Shall be saved. Not might be, not can't be, not hopefully will be. Paul said um Uh uh persuaded um uh knowing uh Timothy, help me out here. Um being persuaded uh let's turn now to what brother Davison did the other day. Let's make sure we got it right. Uh Timothy, first Timothy chapter one, verse twelve. Nope, second Timothy chapter one, verse twelve. He he says this For which cause I shall be these, for I know whom I have believed, and am persuaded that he is able to keep that which I have committed unto him against that day. I wrote in the margin of my Bible, besides 2 Timothy 1. 12, assurance. Assurance. These things have I written unto you that believe in the name of the Son of God, that ye may know that ye have eternal life. If I have the opportunity to go through the gospel with somebody simply, clearly, thoroughly, they make the decision to accept Jesus Christ as Savior. I'm not done with them yet I'm going to leave them with assurance that if they meant that, they were genuine, sincere, and putting their faith and trust in the Lord Jesus Christ, their personal Savior, then they can have the assurance they have God has forgiven them, God has saved them, they have eternal life. And that's an important part of leading a person to Christ. That's an important part of soul winning. Being able to communicate to that person insurance from the Word of God that their sins are forgiven and they're on their way to heaven. Then number five, and this is kind of an aside, but I think it's an important part of follow-up and helping them go and live for the Lord. Uh the fifth word I put down is the agreement. Agreement. So let me go over them. Number one, the approach. How do I engage them The atonement, sharing with them very simply, thoroughly, clearly how to the gospel of Jesus Christ, how to be saved. Making an appeal For them to make a decision to put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. If they do that, I leave with them assurance from the Word of God that God keeps his word. He says what he means. And then the agreement. And the agreement involves this is now that that person has trusted Christ, I've shared with them from the Word of God assurance of salvation. Now I want them to come to church. I want them to grow, get it in place, get a get things started, so now they can grow as a Christian. Follow the Lord in baptism, they can become a a part of a local body of Christ, and they can start reading their Bible. And I want to get something from them. That they're going to start to grow, that they're going to get involved and agree that maybe I'll come by, pick them up Sunday and bring them to church or whatever. But I want some agreement from them that we can go on and take this to another level And that, to be honest with you, is where a lot of breakdown, I know for me uh over the years, that last part of uh, you know, boy, if they got saved, praise the Lord, you walk off and just kind of leave them hanging. I don't want to do that We want to get an agreement from them where we can work together, maybe get them in a discipleship or begin a relationship with them of some sort. we can help them grow. So the five uh the five key words of soul winning, and as I said through the winter months we'll cover these. The approach, the atonement, the appeal, the assurance, the agreement. Now I've got a couple minutes, and I want to give you a couple of other things Kind of an aside along this this way, along with this, is this, is um uh how to become a lifetime soul winner. How many people here ever, and not just necessarily witnessing, but in any area of your Christian life, maybe you came to a meeting like we just had, the preaching conference. And you get stirred up about something. Maybe you got stirred up about your Bible reading, or you got stirred up about attending church, or you got stirred up about I'm going to get the junk off the TV and out of the computer, I'm going to get all things You got all stirred up about I'm going to start witnessing, I'm going to start going out soul wedding. Uh you got all stirred up about it, and a little bit of time went by And it kind of faded out and you kind of fell back to the old old rut. Anybody, can I get a witness? Anybody know? Yeah, we got a handful of honest people here. And uh we're all guilty of that How do I get when uh when I get stirred up about this, about this matter of somebody, not being so sporadic How can I make it a lifetime a lifetime service to the Lord Jesus Christ? I found that generally the most effective soul winners that have the most effective influence on people's lives are folks that aren't sporadic at it. But it's a consistent week after week, month after month, year after year, decade after decade, just getting and being a witness and sharing the gospel with people and trying to get people to say it We had a lady a number of years ago coming out visiting and different things and she made this statement. She was very frustrated. She said, I made she made this statement. She said uh She goes, man, I go witnessing all the time and I never see anybody saved. Then she added this little statement on the back. I don't know why I even bothered doing it. So, well, uh, you know, the results are in God's hands. That's up to the individual. God has told us to go, and I I assured her, you just stay faithful at it. You just keep doing this, you just make this a part of your life. God will use you in great ways. You may never see the results yourself, but God's word does not return void, and God blesses obedience, and God blesses faithfulness. So how can I get to where I just stay at it and I stay consistent and I stay faithful at it? A I want to use the word lifestyle soul winning, but I want to be real careful. A number of years ago there was a theory going around in churches and maybe pastors would be more aware of this than other folks, but uh the idea of lifestyle evangelism. And that whole concept was unscriptural as it was presented. idea of lifestyle evangelism was, well, I'll just live a good lifestyle. I'll just live the Christian lifestyle. I won't actually talk to people. I won't actually engage them Or approach them with the gospel, I'll just be a good Christian. They'll see what a great Christian I am. They'll want to be like me, and they'll come to me and ask me how to be saved. Now, in theory, that sounds great But it doesn't work in reality. It's not scriptural. Nobody can get the information of the gospel simply by watching how I live. Now I can enhance it. I can adorn the gospel with a good lifestyle. But the gospel contains information. It is a historical fact that Jesus died for us. on the cross, was buried, and rose again, and I must communicate that to people for them to be saved. I think I've used this illustration before. But suppose I come in here one Wednesday night, suppose I would have come in here this evening. I'm standing at the door back there. Folks are showing up. And I've got a huge black eye, a gigantic knot over my eyebrow. My eye is swelled up, black and blue. And uh everybody comes in and uh they see it. And um they say, what happened, Brother Leatherman? Say, I'm not going to tell you, I'm just going to be here and you'll observe from my black eye, you'll figure out what happened. Well, what would you immediately assume So a big black guy and not a ri Come on, say it. You'd think Kathy bot me with a frying pan, right? Well, you would have no idea. I might have walked into a door. I could have fallen and busted my head. I could have gotten to a bar fight, for all you know. Just seeing that does not communicate what took place. Uh I how many folks here ever saw a Mormon? And uh did you ever notice They look like great independent Baptists, just the way they dress, their hair, everything about them, very respectful. Anybody know what I'm talking about? You're looking going by lifestyle, man I knew a Catholic lady years ago when I was involved with hospice. What a she was a nicer lady than a bunch of Baptists I know. And just a sweet lady engave herself and as lost as a drunkard in the streets of New York So the lifestyle is not enough. Is it important? Absolutely. And so how do I get where when I'm talking about lifestyle evangelism What I'm talking about is sharing the gospel with people is just part of their life. If we could all get a hold of that, if all of us would just witness and share the gospel, engage people on a continual basis We really wouldn't need a scheduled time of soul winning. We would just all be doing it. But the problem is, well, most of the time we don't do that. And so we need a schedule. We need to get, all right, this is the time I'm going to go out and confront people with the gospel. So how do I develop this Here's another title. I have about four titles I put for this. How to enjoy soul winning. I'm just going to give you a few here real quick. Number one, I put this down. Understand that the command to go soul winning is not grievous And we just read that here in 1 John 5. 3. For this is the love of God that we keep his commandments. His commandments are not grievous. We've got this idea, and I think it's our flesh, has convinced us that going out and talking to you about the Lord Jesus Christ, it's one of the toughest things in the world to do Oh that is and uh all Thursday, you know, if you if you've ever been uh the if you've ever been out Thursday night, all day Thursday The old flesh is coming up with reasons why I can't make it out tonight. I've got this, I've got all these things. You know, it's not grievous. When God commands us to go and take the gospel to lost people We've got this idea that, ah, that's a hard thing. That's a grievous thing. The word grievous there means to carry a heavy weight. Oh, oh, this is terrible. This is awful. This is just a tough thing. It's really not. And if I can get to the point where I'm confident and comfortable talking to other people about the Lord Jesus Christ, I'm telling you, it is absolute blessing. To be able to engage people and talk to people about the Lord Jesus Christ. But for some reason we convince ourselves it's just a hard thing, it's a terrible thing, oh, this is awful. And I'm telling you, I've been doing this a long time. I've seen so many people show up on a Thursday night and they're just as tense as can be. Oh, we're going out so when maybe it's their first time and they're just nervous and scared to death. And we go out and we talk to people and we just have a wonderful time, whether somebody trusts the Lord or not. And when it's all said and done, they're just like, oh man, that was great. I enjoyed that. That was a blessing. And so we've got to get past this idea that what the Lord calls us to do are some terrible, difficult things. I came across a thing today I saw. It was about work, but I adjusted it. This is the statement. It says It is a privilege, now I'm going to give you the way I got it, and then I'm going to adjust it. It is a privilege to work because it's a gift. To be able to work. The ability to work is a blessing, and the love to work is success. The privilege of working is because it's a gift. I can work. It's a gift. That I have the ability to work. That's a blessing of God And then when I can get where I love my work, I was asking James uh how he liked his uh um uh new job, and he was talking to Diane, so I interrupted him. But uh anyway, I asked, how do you like the new job? He goes, Oh I love it. Man, what a blessing to have a job that you love it, right? That's a that's a blessing. And so what about soul winning? You know it's a privilege To be able to talk to others about the Lord Jesus Christ. There's a lot of people on their way to hell don't have that privilege. The fact that we are able to do that is a tremendous blessing And when we can get to the part where I love to talk to people about the Lord Jesus Christ, man, I'm going to be an effective soul winner. So uh it's uh the Lord's command is not grievous. Number two, here's the second one I put down Anything of value is worth investing in. Would you agree with me that a soul being saved from hell is a valuable thing? Do you agree with me? Sure. Man, here's a shoal. We often use the illustration of firemen in the middle of the night there's people trapped in a house. Man, that that's a that that's worth In that's worth inconveniencing myself. That's worth endangering myself to rescue that person from dying in that fire or a coal mine or trapped down there and risk their lives. Get down and get those guys out of that mine. Jesus put it this way in Matthew 13, 44, he says, The kingdom of heaven is like a treasure hid in the field, the which when a man hath found, he hideth, and for joy thereof goeth and selleth all that he hath. And buy it that field. In other words, the value of that person's soul is worth investing into it And so I can enjoy soul winning can become a lifetime activity when I understand how valuable a soul is. Jesus said, he says, what shall it profit a man if he gained the whole world? And what? Lose his own soul. Jesus said that soul is worth more than the whole world. And so that's worth it. Number four, I put this, number three, put this one down. The Lord doesn't lead us to be inconsistent. What I mean by that, when we're on again, off again, hot, cold, all fired up, and uninterested, that's not the Lord leading us to do that. God says, I wish you were hot or cold. But because you're lukewarm, that turns me off. I'll sput you out of my mouth. And so the Lord doesn't lead us. What does 1 Corinthians 15, 58? Therefore, my beloved brethren, be ye steadfast. Unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, for as much as you know your labor is not in the vein of the Lord. That person at work, or a neighbor, or family member, or a friend, or a community When they see that we are constantly concerned for their soul all the time, and we're on a tactful but continual basis Addressing their need of salvation. That has a profound impact on them. And we need to understand that's that's not the Lord when we're just hot again, cold again, off and on. I put this down, number five, it's a little repetitious, but soul winning is precious. I mean, this is uh this is a very precious thing. Jesus said that there's uh joy in heaven over one sinner that repenteth. When I give myself to reach them, let me uh uh put this one down, number next, whatever it is. The Lord calls people out into the field. He's calling us. He says, then said his disciples, the harvest truly is plenteous, but the laborers are few. Pray ye therefore the Lord of harvest. He will send forth laborers into the harvest. Now I'm telling you, there's more lost people in Garrett County than there are saved people. And God's calling us to take the gospel. There's more lost people in this old world. around the world and there are saved people. And he's calling us to take the gospel out to them. Uh next one, what number are we on? Six? We've been called for such a time as this. It's not a coincidence that we're alive right now in this place that we're living where we live. It's all part of God's plan. What did uh Esther say? She says um our our um uh what was her uh uh uncle um Mordecai says to her, he says, um, who knoweth whether thou art come to the kingdom for such a time as this? Apply that to us. Who knoweth whether thou art living in your neighborhood for such a time as this, or you're working on that job, or you're in that class in school, or you have that area of influence. Is it just coincidence? Well, I'm just no no. We believe in the sovereignty of God. We preach on that. God has us where we are and the people we have influence on for a purpose, and that is to get the gospel to him. And when we understand that purpose behind it, um that uh we're where we are. Anyone here ever say this? I've said this just strange Oh, it'd been neat to live back a hundred years ago. Anybody ever think that? Oh, if I'd live in another time or if there's just a time machine and I could go back. Uh you know, I don't think it was as great as what we think I just when I go to the dentist, I like it when they have Novicaine. You know, I like that. And so uh and so we're God's giving us right here. I give it I got two more. Uh number eight, we gotta understand number seven, we gotta understand this. Satan opposes us witnessing. Satan will fight it tooth and nail to keep us from sharing the gospel with people. I'm convinced This is my thinking, my theory, but I'm convinced that Satan's greatest efforts are put into keeping people lost. I think his secondary efforts are people who are saved messing up their testimony. But his intense effort is keeping them lost in the first place. And so we've got to understand, if I'm debating whether to witness and I'm standing in line at Walmart and there's that gal and God's on my heart, I ought to give her a tract and I'm struggling, just remember it's not God trying to talk you out of giving her that track. It's not God trying to talk me out of witnessing that person. Satan is the one that does not want them to hear the gospel. Now, I need to be tactful, I need to be spiritual about it, not be rude or arrogant, but it's not God that's opposing me witnessing. Satan himself. And then the last one, and this one's pretty obvious, and we've touched on this a number of times, is we've got to make a commitment. We've got to make a commitment to do it. Here's what we say. I'm guilty. Here's what we say. One of these days, I'm going to go and talk to so and so about Christ. One of these days I'll drive around here. I just did it last week. I was driving through a neighborhood. I thought, man, I need to visit this neighborhood. One of these weeks, I'm going to visit down through this neighborhood. Guess how many neighborhoods I've said that One of these weeks, one uh someday I'm gonna do that. If it's always someday, when's it gonna happen? Never gonna happen Oh, I've used this illustration a lot of times. We were just talking to Brother Davidson about Brother Jim Moore in um Hagerstown. Every time I talk to Brother Jim Moore, just about every time, we'll say this Brother Moore, you and Bonnie and Kathy and I, we've got to get together and have lunch one of these days. Yes, one of these days we need to do that. We've been saying that for twenty years. Guess how many times we've gotten together and had lunch together? Hadn't happened You know why? Because we never schedule it. Uh Brother Bowman was here. We were talking. We said, all right, next Tuesday at 11 o'clock at the Rising Creek Cafe outside of Morgantown. We're going to get together with a couple other preachers. We're going to have coffee and lunch together and just fellowship and talk about the ministry together. We've got it scheduled, and unless something comes up, it's going to happen. And that's what I got to do with my witnessing. One of these days, I'm going to witness that person. One of these days I'm going to go out on visitation. One of these days, one of these days, one of these days And it doesn't happen that way. And we're just that kind of creature. And we just have to say, all right, I'm going to do it. That's why I think, Pastor, I think having a scheduled visitation time for the church is so important. It's so helpful. Where I can put that on my schedule. That's when I'm going to get out. I'm going to go talk to somebody. I'm going to go visit that person. You know, I could say we got lots of visitors come through. I could say, you know, one of these weeks we're going to go follow up those visitors If I don't have it scheduled, it's probably not going to happen. And so we gotta schedule it. We gotta schedule it. So if we incorporate these things, Into our thinking, into our life, I believe we can be soul winners, we can be effective witnesses for the Lord for an extended period of time, and we can actually enjoy it. We can actually enjoy it. Alright? I hope that's helpful. Let's pray. Father in heaven, a few thoughts tonight. I ask, dear Lord, that you would help me to be the example as the pastor in this matter of And proaching and uh people with the gospel and sharing it. I pray that this would spread through our church. We have a whole congregation, young and old, of people very confidently, joyfully Be able to share the message of salvation with lost people all around us. And we ask you to help us with this. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many of you say, Preacher, you know, I really want to step up my witness. I want to be more faithful. I want to be more part of my Christian life. of sharing the gospel with lost people. Is there anybody like that tonight? I really do. God bless you. My hands raised. I do. I always want to be better at this More faithful at it, more confident and comfortable with it. And God will help us. When that's our desire, we have the heart of God. We really do. He's on our side on this matter. And so we could ask him, and maybe tonight we had great preaching the last few days, maybe tonight just say, Lord, now take me and help me to be bold and confident and joyful in sharing the gospel. I believe the Lord, I really believe the Lord will help us if we ask him Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed.