Turn with me, Joshua 14. Some of it we've covered, so we won't spend too long on it, but other things I'd I'd love to share with you Joshua 14, five lessons from the life of Caleb. Joshua 14, verse 6, to begin. There the Bible says, Then the children of Judah came unto Joshua in Gilgal, and Caleb, the son of Jephunah the Kennassite, said unto him, Thou knowest the thing that the Lord said unto Moses, the man of God, concerning me and thee in Kadesh Barnea. Forty years old was I when Moses, the servant of the Lord, sent me from Kadesh Barnea to espy out the land, and I brought him word again as it was in mine heart. Nevertheless, my brethren that went up with me made the heart of the people melt, but I wholly followed the Lord my God And Moses swore on that day, saying, Surely the land whereon thy feet have trodden shall be thine inheritance, and thy children's forever, because thou hast wholly followed the Lord thy God. And now, behold, the Lord hath kept me alive, as he said, these forty and five years, even since the Lord spake this word unto Moses, while the children of Israel wandered in the wilderness. And now, lo, I am this day fourscore and five years old. As yet I am as strong this day as I was in the day that Moses sent me As my strength was then, even so is my strength now for war, both to go out and to come in. Now therefore, give me this mountain. Wherefore the Lord spake in that day, where thou heardest in that day how the Anakims were there, and that the Cities were great and fenced. If so be, the Lord will be with me, then I shall be able to drive them out, as the Lord said. Joshua blessed him, gave unto Caleb the son of Jephunah, Hebron, for an inheritance Hebron therefore became the inheritance of Caleb, the son of Jephunah the Kennesite, unto this day, because that he wholly followed the Lord God of Israel. And the name of Hebron before was Kirjath Arba, which Arba was a great man among the Anakims, and the land had rest from war. Caleb to me is just one of the most interesting people, not only in the Old Testament, but perhaps for me in all of the Bible. He was a man of great spirit. I think he was a man's man in the in the most ri way that we can think of that. But I also think he was a godly man, and I love how that goes together. He wanted Kirjath Arba Arba was a a great man among the Anakims. The Anakims were what we might call giants. They were a very large race of men, Goliath. was part of that crowd. And so the the possession that God gave to Caleb was not an easy possession. You know, a lot of times these days it seems to me that everybody wants something easy to do. And I've noticed over the years that life ain't all that easy. And getting done what we need to do for God and for our families and our churches, it's not always easy, but men step up Whether it's easy or not, they step up to the task. And I love Caleb because he looks up at that hill, that mountain, and he says, Yeah, that one. That one where the giants are, that's my mountain. And I don't need it to be easy. I just need you to say go. And I know that God will climb that mountain with me and God will clean out the giants before me. Because God promised me forty-five years ago that mountain was mine and I've not lost that dream. Boy, would to God we'd have that kind of spirit. Now, I think as we study the life of Caleb and we've got nine minutes left, you might be late for lunch. I I just want you to Pick out with me five things, we have time six, but five things that we can learn from Joshua. Here's number one He was not defeated because of what people might have thought about him. He was not defeated because of what people might have thought about him. I don't know about you, but I love, especially in the Old Testament, to find names, what the meaning of the names might be in the Hebrew. Now, having a doctorate in the ancient languages Yeah, that's not true. I don't have any knowledge of Hebrew. I took elementary Greek 49 years ago, so I am an expert there. But but how but I got a strong concordance and it makes me dangerous sometimes, okay? And so I looked up the name Caleb and I'm thinking to myself, it's gonna be like Prince of the people, glorious man of victory. I'm fantasizing what it's going to be. And I look it up and I was shocked when I looked it up and it says dog. Yeah, bark like a dog. That's the meaning of Caleb. And I thought to myself, well, I don't know if that's fitting of Caleb or not. Until I decided it this way. I think what God was saying in our vernacular might be, Caleb was a pit bull. But he was a pit bull for God. And once he got a hold of something, you were not going to shake it out of Caleb's thinking and out of his desire God told him he could have that mountain. God, he's got it in there and he is going to take that mountain. Now, as if his name were not enough, listen to a little bit about his heritage. Let me take you back many years to Judah himself. And Judah had sons, and one of Judah's sons was Ur. Ur died as a young man and was not able to give his wife a child. And so it was the custom in Israel that the sons of the father then were given to that wife so that she could raise up a child to be in the place in the uh uh the genealogy of that dead son But the sons of Judah refused to take Tamar into their home. They didn't want her. And so when Judah would not enforce that She finally came to the place where, okay, and I don't I don't ascribe this as godly, but I'm just telling you what she did She played the harlot. She set up a tent or whatever along the side of the road and dressed herself as a harlot. And Judah Not being a man evidently of great character, went past that place and went into her thinking she was a harlot. impregnated her and now she is uh with child of Judah himself. I won't go through all the story for the sake of time, but When she does deliver her child, it's twins. She has uh one son named Faraz, one named Zira. Ferez grows up and has a son named Hezron. Hezron grows up and has a son named Jephunah. And Jephuna grows up and has a son named Caleb. You say, preacher, what are you saying that for? Because in a land where genealogies are important, where who you're connected to is very important. When you chased out Caleb's genealogy, he was from a harlot. He was from an illicit relationship between Judah and Tamar. And I'm not saying I don't I wasn't alive then, believe it or not. I'm not saying I don't want to over-dramatize this, but I'm telling you, knowing all that I know about the genealogies and about the importance of knowing who you came from and the status of family. I would just say in Caleb's life, living out in the mountains with the Kennesites and being as close to the Edomites as they were They were not the clan that you looked at and said, wow, they are great people. They were from Tamar. And Pharise. But you know what? Caleb never let that stop him. Because Caleb knew He was with God. And I don't know what your background is. I don't know if you've been to Bible college or not. I don't know if you know Greek or Hebrew. I don't know Whether you came from the streets or from a good home. I don't care. I loved what old Dr. Seitler said one time in a message. He was preaching when uh when they took Mephibosheth out of Lodibar. And in that message he said, I'd just as soon sit next to a saved prostitute as a saved banker. And I'm I'm saying that from the life of Caleb It's not important where you came from. It's important where you are in your walk with the Lord. And how you've given your heart to the Lord to be used of the Lord. And Caleb said, you can look down on my heritage. You can look down on my name. You can look down on my family. But I'm telling you this, I got a heart for God and God said I could have that mountain and I'm taking that mountain. Here's number two. Caleb was never influenced by a negative majority. Again, I won't take too much time, but He stilled the people before Moses and said, let us go up at once and possess it, for we are well able to overcome it. Ten princely spies, ten men that carried maybe articulate voices. And they're discouraging the people and putting the people into a mood of despair. And Caleb speaks up. And I and I think I take note of this. I don't know how important it is, but But Joshua's standing there, and Caleb is standing there, and those ten spies are telling people we can't do it. And it doesn't say that Joshua spoke up, it says Caleb spoke up. They said, stop it. We are well able to overcome that. We can take that land. And I'm just simply saying that Even though there was ten princely guys saying out of all their intelligence that you couldn't, Caleb said, we can. And may I say this to you? One of the reasons to never follow the crowd is that most of the time the crowd is going the wrong direction. And don't be the kind of man that has to have consensus of all the other men to decide to do right for the Lord. One of the things about being a man is being alone in your decisions. I told you at the outset, I was not an outdoor, I was born on asphalt. I've never been on a farm, never milked a cow, don't want to, okay? But my staff knew that if they ever wanted to go hunting, they needed to get me interested in hunting. And so they would tie deer up to the tree or lead them past me and I would shoot them. And uh I never I you put me in the woods and within 30 seconds I am dead lost. I one time had an orange cap on And it got caught in the tree and I didn't I didn't notice it pull up my head and an hour later I'm trying to walk straight out and I come back to my orange hat. And I said, Well, I guess the Lord intended me for that hat, okay One night I was out with my assistant Pastor, Pastor Tanjman, and I stayed out too long and it was dark and I could not find my way back. I mean I was lost in the woods. You ever been lost in the woods? In the dark, with lions and tigers all around me. And I remember saying to myself, be a man. Sit down till Pastor Tanzman comes and gets you. Just be a man. I'm just telling you, sometimes being a man means you have to stand alone. And that's who Caleb was. Kayla said I'm not going that direction. I see all these teenagers. I'm just telling you guys, sometimes you've got to be the only kid. And if it means you sit at the lunch table or nobody wants to go with you, you know, go with God. Because ultimately that's what makes a great life. He remained steadfast even though he had to wait 45 years. I kind of covered that in the first message. I won't go to seed on it. But I will say this about it. Our generation loves instant gratification. I want it now. And I don't know about you, but but I know that even though we baby boomers are sometimes People think we had it easy. I just want you to know that nobody ever gave me nothing. Okay? And what my wife and I have, we worked a long time for Somebody said, well, you built a church when it was easy. Really? Because when I went to the bank in 1982 to get a loan, interest rates were 21%. So boo-hoo on your six percent. I'm not trying to sound like an old man. I I'm just saying But I'm good at it. You got to admit that. I'm just saying sometimes you got to work over a lifetime, and sometimes you don't get what you want right now. And when you don't get what you want right now, you don't quit and go home. You don't fold up the tent. You stay at it. You stay at it. You stay at it. And at 85 years old Caleb, because he stayed at it, gets the opportunity to get what he didn't get the opportunity to do at 40. What if he had folded his tent up? What if he'd have walked away from the Lord? What if he got bitter and said, well, I was right. I wanted to do that thing. You know what I think about Caleb sometimes? Caleb wandered 40 years in the wilderness with those same morons that said we can't do it. I'd have been bitter I'd have said, God, if you're going to make me do this when I did the right thing and now I'm here wandering this wilderness and we don't have enough water and we don't know what that we man we have to live by. God, it's just not right. I did the right thing. Shut up. Sometimes men just shut up. And they just walk on. And they just do what is right, and they just trust the Lord for tomorrow, knowing that they did what was right, and knowing that God can vindicate them and bless them. I'm simply saying that for forty-five years That guy just kept doing the right thing. How about this one? Number four. He continued to serve even though he was in second place to Joshua. Let me just remind you of some things. Caleb was of the tribe of Judah. Judah was known to be the tribe that the kings were going to come from. They were known to be the tribe that was Messiah. Messiah was coming from Judah Joshua was of Ephraim. They were the first tribe to go into apostasy. They were always on the edge. And here they are. Caleb speaks up. Joshua remains silent. And I think they're of similar abilities and and and in the end, when it comes down to who gets to follow Moses Joshua is chosen and Caleb is not. What do you do when that happens to you? Well, I'll tell you what, you get mad and go to another church. Not if you're a man. If you're a man, you trust God and the choices he makes. If you're a man, you say, God, you know, you know what you're doing in my life, you know what you're doing in their lives, and God, I'm going to trust you, and Lord, I'm not going to get a bitter spirit I'm going to be obedient to spiritual leadership. I'm going to follow him, Joshua. I'm going to be a help. But God, don't forget, that mountain is mine. Here's number five. He did not let his age become a reason to quit. 45 years, 85 years old. Now I know it doesn't maybe translate to exactly the same thing to us today, but but can I tell you one of the greatest fears of my life? One of the greatest fears of my life is that I come to the place in my life where my heart says, you've done enough. You've given enough. You've studied enough. You've gone soul winning enough. Let somebody else do it. To every man over 50, over 40, I think that's the most dangerous place to come in our lives. There's not one single day I don't need God on my life. For number one, I've never been 73 years old before. I don't know how to do it. I've never been married to an elderly woman before. I mean I mean she's not here, don't tell her I do not do not tell her I said that. Shut that tape off But come on, she does have needs she didn't have. She has weaknesses she never had before. I gotta learn, God, I need help to be here. I've never had my son as my pastor before How do I react when people come up and talk to me about that? How do I encourage him without sounding like a dad? I could go on and on, but here's what I'm trying to say to you. Every day is new with the Lord, and it doesn't matter if I'm 40 or 85. God, I need you in my life. And and Lord, I need you to lead me and help me. And just because my chronological age is growing, Lord I've got stuff to learn. I've got a purpose in living. You've got something you want me to accomplish. Lord, help me to keep the spirit of forward Because I don't ever want to retire from you. I got saved at Landmark Baptist Temple back in Cincinnati, Ohio. My preacher was John Rawlings. I don't know how many of you knew Rawlings, but he was a character, that's for sure. At ninety-six, he showed me his ten-year ministry plan. Can I let that sink in again? At 96, he showed me his 10-year ministry plan. Give me that spirit And give me the spirit of Caleb that if I've got to wait 45 years and if I'm 85 and God lays it in my lap, God thinks I can do it. And God can be with me in the doing. And then here's number six, and I'll be done. He never let obstacles keep him from victory. Joshua 15, verses 13 through 19 tells how Caleb organized his family to fight the enemy and to overcome the mountain, that walled city, and all of those giants. Everything in his life. Had been an uphill struggle. Everything in Caleb's life, from his name, his family, his tussles with the Edomites, his time with the twelve spies His time of wandering in the wilderness, his time now that he was going to take what God had given him in Kirjath Arba, everything was uphill You get what I'm saying? Preachers, do you ever just wish for a downhill day? Just an easy season? And sometimes we get so weary as dads. We get so weary working. We get so weary at ministry. We get so weary thinking, man, why does everything have to be as hard as it can be? And I just want you to know that real men keep trudging uphill. This story will be done. I I used to jog. I will never say I ran, because it would never come close to it. But I used to jog. I quit when two 70-year-old women power walked past me. But I used to jog. And and I ran three miles every day for probably eight or ten years. That's why I have no knees left. But But I thought to myself, well, this will get easier, and I'll probably have to increase to like four miles or five miles. And here's my testimony. May not be your testimony, here's my testimony. Not one day did it get easier And every time I ran three miles, it came to a point where I had to say, be a man, be a man, one foot in front of the other, do not quit. You gotta finish. You keep going And most of the time I did. Hey preacher, you're not allowed to quit. Hey Sunday school teacher. No, no, no. One foot in front of the other. You keep going. Hey, hey Dad, keep going. Keep going. Keep going. You say you don't know my boss. Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. You don't know this. You don't know that. We don't understand. I know, I get keep going. And they run when it's hard and they run when it's hot and they run when they're tired and they run when their lungs are burning and they keep moving forward and forward and forward because others are coming. Behind them. And they can't quit. You say, well, that's too hard. Be a woman. Men keep going. Hey Caleb, I am so grateful at eighty-five years old. You still had the same dream. You still had the same goal. You still had the same determination. You still were moving forward for the Lord. Thank God for the lessons we can learn from Caleb. Keep moving forward. Would you pray with me? Father, we thank you so much for this day and for the opportunity I've had to speak to these men. Lord, the character of a man is not seen by what he attempts. Dr. Bob Jones said it's seen in what it takes him, or what it takes to stop him. Lord, may there be nothing that stops us. Yeah, we may not be the most biblically literate. We may not be the most articulate. There may be a lot around us that say it can't be done We may have been at it a long time and not seen the victory we thought we'd like to see. We may not serve in a place where anybody knows our name or acknowledges our great talent. We may be getting older and getting tired. And it may seem like it's always uphill, always uphill, always uphill. God give us the strength. One more step. One more step. Until we come to that place where that mountain is ours. Lord, give us the mountain of godly families Give us the mountain of fruitful ministries, if anybody ever knows our name or not. Give us the mountain of completing the course, whether it's all uphill or not. Our race is all uphill. Help us to finish it. Help us to be like Caleb, I pray. And Lord, where we need to seek encouragement Where we need to tune things up, help us to do that, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Would you stand with me