Deuteronomy thirty two. Deuteronomy 32, starting in verse 35, it says, To me belongeth belongeth vengeance and recompense. Their foot shall slide in due time, for the day of their calamity is at hand, and the things that shall come upon them make haste, for the Lord for the Lord shall judge his people, and repent himself for his servants. When he sees that their power is gone, and there is none shut up or left, and he shall say, Where are their gods, their rock in whom they have trusted? Which did eat of the fat of their sacrifices and drank the wine of their drink offerings? Let them rise up and help you and be your protection. See now that I, even I Am He, and there is no God with me. I kill and I make alive, I wound and I heal. Neither is there any that can deliver out of my hand, for I lift up my hand to heaven and say I live forever I'm going to use this mic. Um Here's the thing, I have a I have a I have a list I I don't have many pet peeves, pet peeves, but I do have a couple. Uh but there are two things that especially get under my skin. Actually there are many things that get under my skin, but most of them only apply if you're a teenager. Um but two of the things that um that get under my skin is A When people don't put shopping carts in the little things, they like the where they go? Bothers me. It it bothers me incredibly. Um now listen, if you're a long ways away if there's only one of them, or if they have an empty them or something like that, I understand. But when you're set you know when you're like three parking spaces away, in my and it it's almost Bible that you should put it back Alright, because that's I say almost Bible because it's not at all Bible. But um but it it's really like it like when people just like leave it there and you know you're gonna park there and you're like you're driving and you sit and you're like yes and you go in it and someone's like cart right there. And you can't like get out of the car and go move it. So instead you just think angry thoughts forever. And I really hate that. And my other pet beeve and one of my other pet beeves that I really, really, really, really don't like is when people don't know what they're talking about with the Bible. And not non-regular people. Listen, if you're in conversation with someone and you're discussing something, that's completely different. But when people who are in positions of power don't know what they're talking about when it comes to the Bible. I I on occasion um probably probably more than I should listen to talk radio. And I enjoy talk radio, and there's a certain host I listen to that c claims to be a Christian, but he makes these comments that are completely wrong. Things such as, God is not the God of the Old Testament Our God today is not the God of the Old Testament. And by the way, he's not the only one who says that. A lot of people actually use that line. A lot of people say that the God today is not the same as the God of the Old Testament. Now listen, I understand dispensationalism as well as just about anyone. And I understand what did um I understand law and I understand grace, but I also understand the very, very, very, very plain fact that God is God and God does not change. Now, did God give us um uh Christ and did he give us um a uh a forgiveness of our sins through Christ? Absolutely. But God has never changed. God is God. And that just bugs me. And if I hear it all the time. It's like, oh well, you know and you know, it especially with this whole uh Uh it bugs me because you hear people and uh listen, especially with this whole um listen, I know and I know this and people can argue me with all that, I know there's some there's some kind Muslims in the world I know that for a fact. I've met some. Very kind people. That never did me any harm. I don't think they even harbor any hatred towards me at all. That doesn't excuse the fact that a lot of them are kind of evil. I didn't say most, I said a lot. This is excuse the fact that if you're talking about people in Europe killing people right now, killing Jews right now, then Muslims are probably the ones doing it. Now, I'm not gonna get all political, I'm not even gonna talk about that. What I'm gonna say is that people that are that are president and again I don't want to get political, but he instead of ever calling out um Islam called out Christians for the Crusades, which happened in the what, eleven hundreds? Or was it eleven hundred years ago? I can't remember. It might have happened in the nine hundreds. He called Christians for the Crusades, which haven't happened for a thousand years. Again, I'm not going to get political. But that bugs me But then I hear those same people who talk about that, then they say, well, you know, Islam's a bloody religion, but have you read the Bible? And in Tania, they say, yes, have you? And they say, well look how cruel God is. Well, they're just stupid. Killing people doesn't make you evil. Killing people without a reason makes you evil. Listen, there's a lot of reasons to kill people. One of them if they're trying to kill you. Another reason if someone's trying to kill someone that that you love. That's that these are all good reasons to kill people. Another one is in war and another one is protection. There's so many good reasons. And in God's mind he has so many more reasons because he can not only see the he can see the future, he can see the past, he can see the present, and by the way, we are all guilty, so God has the right to kill any one of us at any moment that he chooses. Because he's God. Now most of you wouldn't argue with that, which is good. Because you don't really have a chance to right now. Um, but uh and you don't have a chance to afterwards because uh Because if you start arguing with me about my sermon, I'll just leave. And then you'll have to lock up. And then when you can't lock up, you see the security code, then we're gonna get broken. I'm gonna say, hey, there's that guy. Um but um But uh that won't happen because you guys are great. But uh God's killed a lot of people. God has killed a lot of people. Now you can say, well isn't every death God's death because he allows it? Yes, God does allow every death that happens. That's absolutely true. However, there are certain people that God kills. There are certain people that God actually directly kills. In fact, in the Bible, it is estimated That over 25 million people, God had a part in killing. In the Bible. Now most of that, most of that, most of that is in the flood. They estimate that the the earth was probably populated to twenty million people? I don't know where they got that. I think that's a ridiculous thing to just say Off of the very little evidence it's in the Bible. But they say it's about twenty million people, that's fine. And then they say about two point five million, five million were actually killed in the pages of the Bible that talks about. And again, that's fine. God's killed a lot of people and God is a just God and everyone that killed First of all, they deserved it because they were sinners, but we deserve it too, so that's actually beside the point. But God did no wrong in killing these people. The sermon tonight is called Five Reasons God Might Kill You Five reasons God might kill you. I actually had a lot of fun writing that title, and then I actually had to write the sermon. Because uh Five reasons God might kill you. Now you're going to say, are there more reasons? Absolutely. In fact, my sermon consists of ten reasons God might kill you. However, it's called Five Reasons God Might Kill You. I'll get to that in a second. You see, some famous there are some really famous deaths in the Bible, all directed by God, all personally directed by God. Two of them are Ananias and Sapphira. Guys remember that? They uh lied about what they gave to the church. We'll get to them in a second, but they lied about what they gave to the church, and they just openly lied about it, and God killed them. Another Herod, the unnamed prophet in uh 1 Kings, uh Belshazzar, the people of the flood. God's directly killed a lot of people in the Bible. Sometimes he indirectly killed people. Sometimes he used someone else. He killed Goliath through David. Don't tell him that David killed Goliath on his own. David wouldn't even tell you Goliath he killed Goliath on his own. God used David Indirectly, he killed the people that uh the thousands that killed uh that were killed by Samson. Samson didn't kill those people, God killed them through Samson. What about the uh tens of thousands through Gideon and his men? Or the thousands and thousands and thousands killed by Joshua? Or just the people of Israel. Sometimes God would direct them something, and then he'd put their hand on them and they would move. God has killed a lot of people, directly or indirectly, in the Bible, and there's five reasons that might happen that I found The first one is to punish sin. To punish sin is a and uh to punish sin is a really uh A big reason God might kill you. Now listen, we're under grace, we're his children. In my mind, God doesn't punish us, but he does chastise us. However, he can also bring us home. Now to punish sin. Now most people when I announce the title for the sermon, what they'll say is, Oh, there's in uh be by the way, many other preachers have preached this sir uh a sermon like this in which they'll say three sins or five sins. that well that God will kill you for, that that will earn you death in God's eyes, or three unforgivable sins in God's eyes. That's not the sin. Because sin is only one of my reasons that God might kill you Sin is only one reason. See, Romans 5. 12 says, Wherefore as by one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin, so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned. If you've sinned, you have a death sentence. Now God's given you grace, and if you're and you're saved, God and you you'll listen, your death is pretty much you going into another life. That's all it is. It's just the passageway. However, God can God can kill you. He can end your earthly life for sin. Deception is one of those sins. Deception. Ananias and Sapphira. If you go to uh Acts 5, 1 through 11, we're going to read through this. Acts 5, 1 through 11. We're going to read this. Acts five, one through eleven. I'll begin reading. But a certain man named Ananias, and Sapphira his wife, sold a possession and kept back part of the price, his wife also being privy to it. They sold a possession. kept back part of the price, his wife also being privy to it, and bought a certain part and and brought a certain part and laid it at the apostles' feet. All these people and if you go to the verse before that, having land um there's a couple And with a bunch of people were having our hell's land and rich people were taking it and poor people and everyone was selling their stuff and giving it to the church for the further into the gospel. Not a lot of people in today's day and age will sell something to give it to the gospel. I'm not saying that uh that you should I'm saying that you should let God lead. However, in this day and age people the church was completely broke. And people were selling what they had to give to the church, give more to the church. Now, Ananiz and Sapphira, they wanted to be in on it. It seemed popular. I don't know quite why why they felt compelled to lie. Why they had to give only part of it and not all of it. Now here's the thing, there's nothing wrong with giving half of something or not giving everything you have to God. There is something wrong with lying about it. Let's keep going And Peter said to Ananias, Why hath Satan filled thy heart to lie to the Holy Ghost and to keep that part of the price of the land? While it remained, was it not thine own? And after it was sold, was it not thine in thine own power? Why hast thou conceived this thing in thine heart? Why thou hast not thou hast not lied unto the men, but unto God? And hearing these words fell down and gave up the ghost, and great fear came upon them that he hurt that heard these things. What it sounds like to me is Anonis and Zephyr promised this land to the church. They promised it not only to the church, not only to the people of the church, but to God. And then they kept part of it. Now, and in the uh and the young men arose uh wound him up and carried him out and buried him And it was about the space of three hours after, when his wife, not knowing what was done, came in. And Peter answered unto her, Tell me whether ye sold the land for so much. And she said, Yea, for so much Then Peter said to her, How is it that you have agreed together to attempt the spirit of the Lord? Behold the feet of them which have buried thy husband are at the door and shall carry thee out And then she fell down straightway at his feet, and yielded up the ghost, and the young men came in and found her dead, and carrying her forth, buried her by her husband. And fear came upon the church, and upon as many as heard these things. Now To those of you who say that to those that say God is not the God of the Old Testament, God doesn't kill people, God doesn't punish them like He used to, that Is my evidence to say the contrary? You see they lied They lied to God. They lied to the Holy Ghost, it says. They they collabed together a lot. Now here's the thing. I say one of the five reasons that God might kill you is sin. One of those sins might be deception. Lying to God is a major offense in the Bible. Now, the difference between lying to God and lying to man is that you know when you're lying to God. You know when you promise God something and then you break it. You know. God will bring that guilt in your heart. The Holy Spirit will convict you of that. You will say, you know, I promise this, but I don't want to do it. I promise to tithe. I promise to give to missions. By the way, it is called faith promise missions. Faith promised missions. And listen, I I understand I understand getting behind. I understand that. But when you promise something to God, you better be careful to go back on that. When you promise something, God when you promise God I I I want to I want I want to give this I want to be better at this I want to do this God I will do this when you those words leave your mouth and when they leave your heart and they go to heaven You need to be careful not to back out. You need to be careful not to back out. I'm not saying God will kill you, but these are five reasons that God might kill you. That he's killed before. Another one is pride. Um in Acts twelve, twenty-three it says immediately and actually uh Oh yeah, and immediately the angel of the Lord smote him. It's talking about Herod here. Smote him because why? He gave not God the glory. And he was eaten of worms and gave up the ghost. All these people were gathered around him saying, Oh, how great you are, Herod! How wonderful you are, Herod! Oh, you're like a god. Look at this man. And instead of saying, No, I am not God, he said nothing. Because he liked it. And he was eaten of worms and gave up the ghost. He said nothing. You see, pride is a dangerous, dangerous sin. Listen, it's something that we struggle with. I listen, none of these sins that I have here. Are really that out there. But there is a tipping point. There is a tipping point. Herod, and by the way, Herod was a really bad dude, so don't worry about him. Um But you didn't give the glory to God. Instead, it was like, you know what? I am that awesome. I am that great. I am that wonderful. And instead of saying, no, it's God, he said, hmm. And God killed him. Five reasons why God might kill you. Deception or sin to punish sin is one. And under that, deception and pride. Also under that wickedness. Wickedness. Just disregard for God. That's how I describe wickedness. Wickedness isn't necessarily to put down, so I just said disregard for God You read about people in the Bible being wicked, but people in the Bible um they're uh they're committing adultery, they're uh they're committing fornication, they're worshiping other gods. What is all that? That is all disregard for God. It's all them looking around and saying, you know what? I don't care if God's here. I don't care if He's uh uh everywhere. I don't care I don't even know if I believe in God. I'm gonna do what I want, no matter what He says, no matter what the Bible says, no matter what I'm saying. No matter what the law says, I'm going to do what I want, and God answered that by killing them. A lot of people. Let's talk about Daniel uh in Daniel 5. He killed Belshazzar. He went to Belshazzar did, he took the gold from the temple and he began to drink out of the uh cups of the temple. What he said he was he was uh he was defacing God's property He was defacing God's property. This is not necessarily the same thing, although I will say this, but we don't have a lot of kids or teenagers in here. Don't run in our hallways. Don't don't disrespect God's property. Because God killed someone for it. Now listen, is it the same thing? I don't know, but it's the same principle. Now again I it's not the same again, I'm not I'm not saying, you know, although you know it might help some it might help the running if I say God's gonna kill you to every kid that runs by me. But But disrespect disregard for God. Just saying, you know what, I don't I don't care what God says about this. I'm doing my own thing. I'm doing what I want. You know, the people of the flood had a disregard for God. By the way, if you read the Bible, this is really interesting. I did my Cain and Abel sermon a while back. During the flood, a majority of the people on earth I say majority because Because that's how I that's how I see it. Um again I don't have a lot of proof of it, but I have more than twenty million people on the earth. A majority of the people in during the time of the flood, right before the flood, were descendants of Cain. Which is interesting. Majority of the people were descendants of Cain. And they were wicked. And that's all the Bible says. They were wicked. They didn't care about God. They didn't care about right and wrong. And it made God hurt inside. We talk about God hurting sort of. It made God repent, saying, Ah, I why I even make these humans. They are nothing but evil. They don't care about me. And God killed them all. You know, one of those things, and I've heard this, I've heard this before, I'm going to hear it, I know, for the rest of my life, and your children are going to hear it for the rest of their life, and uh and you're probably going to hear it for the rest of your life if your children hear it for the rest of their life. That's just how that works. Is that God doesn't care, or I I don't I don't care what the Bible says, I was born this way. Usually when talking about homosexuality, they'll say, I was born this way. Now here now listen, we just went over this in teens, but I was born a sinner, and yet I still try not to sin. I was born with desires in my heart that are evil, and yet I still try not to do those. But no one wants to talk about that, but that's fine. We can we can just push back that. But people say, Listen, I was born this way. I you know, I don't yeah and you say, Well this is what the Bible says and and even some people who claim to be Christians and homosexuals will say Well yes it says that, but I since I was born this way, I just disregard that and it'll completely disregard the verse. Do you know who else did that? The people of Sodom and Gomorrah where God rained down fire. Now listen. I'm not saying God will kill you for homosexuality. I'm not saying God will kill you for your sin. But I will say that he might kill you for disregarding his word when you know what's right and wrong. And by the way, the people of Son Gomorrah don't feel bad for them. They were wicked, wicked, evil people. But So are we sometimes. Five reasons God might kill you To punish sin is one. And under those we have deception, we have pride, we have wickedness, just disregard for God, and then we have disobedience. Disobedience. They say, is that the same as disregard for God? Probably, but I put it under a different category. You see, wickedness is a way of life. It's saying, I don't care what God does at all. But disobedience might be one point in your life. You see, let's say that you're a prophet of God. Let's say that you're a man of God. Now say that you like a prophet of the Old Testament, it takes, you know, it takes some major spirituality to get that. I mean I I don't know a lot of people who are just like regular Joe's who, you know, went to church, you know, once a m you know, I don't know, once a year and uh became prophets. That's not how prophets work. And preacher prophets gave themselves over to God. And imagine that you were told by God. By the way, this is interesting, because we sit there and I say, Man, if God spoke to me and told me not to do something, or told me to do something directly, You know what I'd do? I would not do it or I would do it. And that's what we think, right? If God was like, you know, God was like, uh, Ken, don't eat any more Brussels sprouts ever. Okay, like God com God tells you that? You're like, alright dude. Now if he says like something about like like bacon, you're like wheeling a deal and you're like, what about bacon bitch? Alright, like you know but but but God says something like you're pretty hard pressed not to do it. Right? Mind you The flip side of that is that God did give us his word that is directly from him to us and we don't always follow that. So if it helps you to where it's in speaking voice in God's voice, I recommend getting an audio audio Bible. That'll solve that. Um that's a joke, you don't have to laugh. But uh so imagine you're this prophet. And God said, in this case, you know, once you will prophesy, you're not allowed to eat, and you're allowed to drink until you get out of that land. Imagine for a second. Crazy, crazy example. It's like not even real, except it's in 1 Kings. And uh in 1 Kings 13, 1 through 24 is where the story is found. I'm going to read verse 4. And went after the man of God and found him sitting under an oak. And he said unto him, Art thou the man of God came as from Judah, and he said, I am. Then he said to him, Come home with me and eat bread. And he said, I may not return with thee, nor go in with thee, neither will I eat bread nor drink water with thee in this place. So the man of God says, Hey, listen, two men of God sitting there. One man says, Hey, aren't you the prophet, the man of God from Judah? And he's like, I am. He said, Let's go grab a bite to eat. Because they're Baptists. They're like, let's go grab a bite to eat And he says, listen, I am not allowed to, let me do this again. I am not allowed to eat or drink water in this place. And I'm not allowed to go in. I may not return with thee or go in with thee. And he does. For it was said unto me by the word of the Lord, thou shalt eat no bread, nor drink no water there, nor turn again and go by the way thou cameest. And he said unto him, I'm a prophet also. So the guy's like, the first prophet's like, listen, I'm not allowed to eat, I'm not allowed to drink in this land, and I'm not even allowed to come back the way I came. Weird rule rules, they're rules. And then the other guy says, and the other guy says, I am a prophet also as thou art. And the angel spake unto me by the word of the Lord, saying, Bring him back with thee into thine house that he may eat bread and drink water. But he lied unto him. So he went back with him, and did eat bread in his house and drank water, and it came to pass as they sat down at table that the word of the Lord came unto the prophet. that brought him back. And he cried to the man of God that came from Judah, saying, Thus saith the Lord, for as much as thou hast disobeyed the mouth of the Lord and hast thou and has not kept the commandment which the Lord thy God commanded thee, but came back, and has eaten bread and drank water in this place, of which the Lord said unto thee, Eat no bread and drink no water, thy carcass shall not come unto the sepulchre of their fat of thy fathers. And it came to pass after he had eaten the bread, and after he had drunk, and after he had saddled him the ass, to wit for the prophet whom had brought him back. And when he was gone, a lion met him by the way and slew him, and his carcass was it cast away, and the ass stood by it, and the lion stood also, also stood by the carcass. He was a man of God, and he disobeyed a simple request, but he knowingly disobeyed a simple request. Yes, he was lied to. But he should know that God's unchanging. Listen, sometimes you know something's wrong, but you have a good intentions. It is still wrong. But he was a good man, and he made him and he didn't make a mistake. He disobeyed God. Disobedience, no matter where you stand with God, is still a sin. And it is a sin that God might kill you for. Five reasons God might kill you to punish sin. Next, to prevent sin. To prevent sin. This is different. You see, sin has already happened when you're punished for it, and then God kills you. And again, God might not always kill you. But these are things that God has killed people for in the past. I wouldn't do them. So He did it to punish them, but then to prevent sin. To prevent sin, other sin from happening. Coradazon and Abraham rebelled against Moses, and God killed them. Yeah, he punished their sin, but he also killed them to prevent other people from falling into sin. To prevent other people from falling into sin. It happens in Numbers 13. Maybe the reason God kills people sometimes is because he knows that you're going to lead someone somewhere else in a future. He knows that you will be the cause of someone else's sin. So to save that person's soul, to save them from sinning, he will take you out. Just think about that next time you try to lead someone down the wrong path. Next time you try to take someone and say, I know this is what the Bible says, but you know, I'm going to teach you to do it this way. Think about that. Before you do it. Because God will kill people to prevent sin. That is the shortest point ever. But I like it. Now here they one that we don't talk about much. To punish someone else's, to punish someone else. You see, the first one is to punish sin. The second way reason God might kill you is to prevent sin. The third one is to punish someone else. David and Bathsheba. Does anyone remember what happened to David and Bathsheba? Like what physically happened to them because they'd uh committed adultery and David basically committed murder You see, physically, I don't remember anything happening to David or Bathsheba. I remember a couple curses going on in their house, but that's about it. But I do remember God taking David's unborn child. You see, here's the thing. This is the unfortunate part about humanity. You see, that baby was an innocent, it was an innocent baby It was a baby. It did not commit the sin. It didn't commit uh murder. It didn't commit uh it didn't commit adultery. In fact, it was an innocent little baby, and God took it. Why Because he wanted to punish David. Here's the unfortunate fact of life. God might kill you. God might hurt you. God might do something terrible to you. And it's not your fault, it's someone else's. But do you know why he does that? Because I know, and I bet you know too, that no matter what would have happened to David himself God taking that child had more effect on him. God taking that child was much more devastating to him than God doing anything to him because David knew it was his fault. Unfortunately, David does this twice. Someone else is punished for David's sin twice. David numbers the people. David's told by God, hey, don't number the people. And David goes and he's like, you know what? I wonder how many people we have. And it wasn't an issue of private. He decided, you know what? I'm going to see how many people we actually have in Israel. So he counts them all. And then The Lord sent pestilence upon Israel, and there fell of Israel 70,000 men. Seventy thousand people died because of one man's sin. We always talk about Achan and how I believe that thirty men died because Achan sinned. And we say, Oh, what a great tragedy that thirty men would die for one man's sin. But David It's one sin, David's prideful, wicked sin, caused seventy thousand people to die, seventy thousand men to die, seventy thousand families to go without fathers and husbands 70,000 for one man. Be careful when you sin. Be careful when you do something wrong. Be careful when you when you willingly disregard God because you might not be the one punished for it, and that is so much worse. And that is so much worse. I already brought up uh uh Aiken. I already brought up Achan. Uh his whole family died for his own sin. All his kids, all his grandkids, his whole family, his wife, all of them died for his sin. And lastly, and if uh to punish someone else's sin section, lastly, think about the firstborn of Egypt. The firstborn of Egypt. See here's the thing. I read the story of the ten plagues. And it's actually kind of a fun story. Moses goes to Pharaoh. He's like, hey, let my people go. Pharaoh's like, nah. So God's in the play. And it seems another plague. And you know some of them, you know, there's frogs, which is kind of a hilarious plague. And there's not so hilarious ones like boils, because boils are awful. But everything that happens, by the way, every plague was Pharaoh's own fault. None of the people's, but Pharaoh's own fault. And Pharaoh decides, I'm going to be prideful. I'm not going to let these people go. I am a God. That's how Pharaoh thought. I am a God, not your God. And Pharaoh felt this way. So the ten plagues happened. The ten plagues were all punishments for one man's sin, not for all of Egypt's sin. But say, you know what, Egypt was kind of a bad country. They kinda didn't treat the um the Hebrew people like they should have. They were kind of mean to them. They kinda put them in slavery, which is wrong. You know what he did? God decided to take the firstborn of every Egyptian Firstborn son of every Egyptian. Because he knew that it was more effective that when people cared about people it was and by the way Pharaoh's son died, it was more effective to hurt someone close to them than to hurt someone than to hurt that person themselves Because God is all knowing. Now someone asked once asked me, they said, uh, it happened recently. They said, isn't Isn't it strange that God commands a man, you know, you shouldn't pun it and it's in the Bible, you shouldn't punish the father or the son for the father's sins. You shouldn't punish the father or the son for the father's sins. That makes sense. Yet yet Achan's whole family is killed. And all these Egyptians uh were killed, yet David's son, unborn son, was killed, all punished sin. And they said, Well, isn't that a contradiction? And I looked and I told them What he tells you and I to do, he is not bound by. He is God. We are not allowed to punish a son for a father's sin, but God The all-knowing, all-powerful God is allowed to do that. He has that right. So be careful when you disregard God because you might not be hurting yourself. You may be hurting someone else. Five reasons that God will uh God might kill you to punish sin, to prevent sin, to punish someone else, and next to protect his saints. To protect his saints. You see, you and I, if you don't know, you and I are considered saints in the Bible. What it means is we're just on our way to heaven. We are cleansed by God by Jesus' blood. We are on our way to set heaven. We are saints saints in his mind and when someone attacks one of God's saints, one of God's people, God not happy about it I just uh talked about the ten plagues. What they were doing, they were they were putting they were putting the uh Hebrew people, God's people, into slavery. They were treating them wrong, they were smoking they were doing all manner of terrible things to them, and God sent plagues upon them. upon them. Why? Because he was protecting his people. We talked about the Red Sea we can talk about the Red Sea when the Egyptian army is chasing the people of Israel and they're going and you can see the the Egyptian army behind the army or behind the people of Israel and they're running and they're running and they're running and then all of the Egyptians get wiped out. But had they not been trying to attack God's people, they would have been fine. They would have been fine. You see, God doesn't like it when you kill his people. And again, this is not what the sermon's about. But one of the reasons, one of the I guess many, many, many reasons to be against abortion is that uh every baby that's born is automatically God's until it sins, until it becomes of age, and God doesn't like it when you hurt his people. Well God doesn't like it when people kill babies. He's it's the great abomination to him And and I and you know usually I say we all agree, but but God doesn't like it when you k hurt his people. Now listen, you say, well I'm his people, this point does not apply to me, and that's wonderful. Unfortunately, God's people can hurt God's people. You know, we were talking about in the teams today in uh Proverbs, I believe sixteen, uh or it's uh Proverbs uh six, chapter uh six and verse I think verse number 20 or 21, it says that an abomination to God is to sow discord among brethren. To sow discord among brethren is an abomination to God. When you hurt someone else, when you attack someone's reputation, when you attack someone in a t in you in in our in our circles, in our in our in our Christian family, when you attack someone else, when you're cruel to someone else, when you're on someone else and they don't deserve it, when you're being cru when you're being mean, that Is attacking one of God's saints. And we nor lost people. Have any right to do that. Deuteronomy 31, 6 says, Be strong and of good courage. Fear not, nor be afraid of them, for the Lord thy God. He it is that do go with thee, and he will not fail thee nor forsake thee. Psalm fifty-four says, Save me, O God, by thy name and judge me by thy strength. Hear my prayer, O God, and give words to my mouth, for strangers are risen up against me, and oppressors seek after my soul, and they have not set God before them. See, behold, God is mine helper, and the Lord is And his Lord is them that hold up my soul. He shall reward evil unto my enemies, cut them off with truth. I will freely. And actually that's the end of my page. But he will work evil under mine enemies. This is David talking. Listen, this works great for you. This works awesome because there's someone attacking you. God's gonna stand up for you. Don't worry. The reason God says, uh vengeance is mine, saith the Lord, the reason you're allowed to take revenge is because you're not quite good enough at it. That's one of the reasons I think. I think it's because God knows what God can attack someone. It will never come back to you as a person, and God can take vengeance on someone. Now, sometimes it's because God wants to show mercy, but sometimes you're just not, why would you want to take vengeance when an Almighty God can take vengeance for you? This works great for you. God's going to stand up for you. But if you attack someone else, if you attack another Christian, God will stand up for them. It's kind of scary. You see, like I said, to uh the five reasons are to punish sin, to prevent sin, to punish someone else, and to protect his saints. There's one last reason that God might kill someone. That I have. There's probably others. One last reason I have that God might take the life of someone. You see, the first person I named was guilty, sinner, to punish sin. The second person I named was to prevent sin. It was someone who would be guilty. The third person may not have been guilty at all. The fourth person was trying to hurt someone. The fourth person was violent. But this fifth person is innocent. You see, the fifth reason God might kill someone. Maybe say this way, the fifth reason God did kill someone. Was to provide a sacrifice. Romans 5. 8, but God commend us his love toward us that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us So I deliver and in uh first Corinthians fifteen thirteen four, for I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received. How that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures, he was buried and rose again the third day according to the scriptures In 1 John 2 2, he is the propitiation for our sins, and not ours only, but also the sins of the whole world. You see, another reason God might kill someone, he killed Jesus, he let Jesus die, he gave Jesus up to die for the sacrifice. Now, here's the thing. I could put that under to punish someone else. But a sacrifice and a punishment are different things. There's that whole thing of willingness. You say, why are you bringing that? How how are we supposed to apply that? I give you applications for everything else. You say, how are we supposed to apply the fact that Christ For was did God kill Jesus for a sacrifice? Did God give us a sacrifice through Jesus? Then you need to accept Christ as your Savior. But secondly, you we just need to be reminded of it I don't know that I should ever go throughout a sermon without mentioning the gospel. I think that's wrong. One of the things I appreciate about our pastor here is that he never really goes through a sermon without giving the gospel. At least invitation. He's very good at it. And you wanna know why? Because as much as that he was he's commissioned to preach um How to live and how to be a better Christian and how to be a better servant of the Lord. He is first commissioned to preach the gospel. And the gospel is that Christ, that the first, that uh that God uh one of the people that God killed was his only son for your sake. And if it means nothing else, if you're saved, if you're doing everything else right, you might as well just be thankful for it. This is a very long term, I didn't I didn't intend it to be. But what are you doing that God might kill you for? What are you doing? What are you doing that someone that God might kill someone else for? Where are you leading people that God might have to kill you? Who are you attacking that God might have to take vengeance on you for it? So bow your head, I'd like everybody to bow their head and close their eyes as the general comes. Five reasons. You see, it could be as simple as pun is that you're sinning. Five reasons God might kill you. It might be as simple as that you're just sinning You see, it's something that everyone does. It's the nature that we're born with. But remember that you don't have to be a murderer or a rapist for God to kill you. You might just lie to God. You might just have some unrepentant pride. You might just be disregarding God in your daily life. And you might just know what's right, know the right thing to do, and then just not do it. As the piano plays, why don't you uh I would I'd like everyone to stand up, stand on their feet. I'm not saying God will kill you for these. That's not right. But I am saying If these is our these things are serious to God. These things are important to God. These these uh these things I named Why live a dangerous life when you don't have to? Are you leading someone else into sin? Maybe it's simple. But are you leading someone else into sin? Are you allowing other people to get hurt around you? Are you attacking one of your brothers and sisters in Christ And for nothing else, I just I hope that you're thanking God right now that He sent His Son to die for you. That the only truly innocent man that God ever killed was Jesus Christ, your Savior. Oh I don't know the full power. Dear Lord, I just want to thank you for your grace, God, and your mercy, Lord. You have so much mercy upon us, Lord. And you always have had mercy, Lord. And we just want to thank you for that, Lord, and praise you for that. And um Lord, I just pray that everyone has a safety of home tonight and just say thank you for everything you've done in your name. Amen. You may be seated. The ushers come