Studying the book of First Peter, and uh um we are uh working our way through verse by verse, sometimes almost word by word. and uh seeing what uh this has for us. We're beginning chapter two, first Peter chapter two, and I'm going to begin reading in verse number one. Now I am sure That you got your Bibles there. You're not just laying on the couch in your pajamas and uh you're set up and you're listening carefully and And uh I get something out of this. So I hope you're praying that God will use this. Alright, 1 Peter chapter 2. Look with me if you would. At verse number 1, I'm going to read down through verse 3. Wherefore, laying aside all malice and all guile and hypocrisies and envies and all evil speakings. As newborn babes, desire the sincere milk of the Word, that ye may grow thereby. If so be ye have tasted that the Lord is gracious. Now, I just want to get started in this. I'm not going to give my whole message sermon on this passage here. But I want to look at this. Just give the introduction to this thought. Five things that kill a desire for God's Word. Verse number one gives us five things that will steal or kill our desire for the Word of God. Let's pray together and we'll give some, as I said, some introductory thoughts. Let's pray. Father in heaven I'm so grateful for the Word of God. I'm glad your word and your Holy Spirit cannot be quarantined. And Lord, as it goes forth, you promised that it would not return void But it will accomplish the purpose for which you have your word going out. Or now it's going out through the internet, through the airwaves somehow. But we know that it is being received In hearts and homes across the area, and I pray that you would stir us and bring revival to our hearts. Help us in this time of crises to seek you with all our hearts And Lord, I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. I pray you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit. And you would do a real work, a life-changing work A heart-changing work in each of our lives. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Now if you remember, we were looking at the last several verses of chapter one in the previous Sunday night And in verse number 23, Peter, under the inspiration of God, brings up this subject of being born again. Look with me if you would there at verse 23, being born again And then he explains a little bit, not of corruptible seed, and saying not of physical birth, that corruptible seed, that corruptible life that uh is temporary and and and uh sickness and whatnot and die We're born again, not physically, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible, that spiritual life that lasts forever, eternal life. We're born again, this spiritual life, the spiritual life by the Word of God. So he brings up this subject of being born again, this second birth. This spiritual birth into the family of God when we trust Jesus Christ as Savior. Now we get to chapter 2 And he's following up on that, or he's carrying that through. Notice verse number two. He says, as new as what's the second word there? As what? Newborn babes. Desire the sincere milk of the word. So he's he's following through with that subject of being born again. He was alright, you were born again by the Word of God, you were born spiritually by uh believing the message of God's word, the gospel, you trust in Christ, you've been born spiritually. Now as a newborn babe, you've been born again with this new birth And then he goes on and builds on that. And that's what the subject is here. But as I was looking at this, I noticed something here And that is this. God makes it clear, and it's true through all the scripture, but he makes it clear that you and I have a personal responsibility for our own spiritual well-being. In other words, we are what we are spiritually because of decisions we make as individuals. I am personally responsible for my own spiritual well-being For instance, verse 23 of chapter 1, being born again. How are we born again? Well, I have a role to play in my new birth I have the responsibility to repent of my sin by trusting Christ, by turning to Christ for forgiveness and cleansing of my sin. I make a conscious decision to put my hope, my faith, my trust in Jesus Christ. And uh and I accept what he's done for me, and then the Bible says, as a result of that, Romans ten thirteen, whose service call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. So I have a personal responsibility. Listen, if you're listening to me and you've never trusted Christ the Savior, you are responsible yourself. for trusting Christ and getting that matter settled. Other people try to witness, we pray, do all we can, but every individual is responsible to either accept or reject what Jesus Christ offers. in the gospel of Jesus Christ. But then, once we do make that decision, we accept Christ, then we have a personal responsibility for our spiritual growth for our development as a believer, as a child of God. And God gives us some instructions here. We are to trust God and follow his instructions. heed his warnings and claim his promises. I am personally responsible for taking these actions that develop me, that promote my spiritual growth. He says, as newborn babes. desire the sincere milk of the word. That's my responsibility. And so we have a role to play in our spiritual growth and in our spiritual well-being. Now, in verse 2 of chapter 2, we see that the key to spiritual growth, now this is important The key to spiritual growth is having and developing a desire or a hunger for the Word of God, as newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the Word. I have a wonderful announcement to make. I am so thrilled. I've been waiting to make this announcement forever. It's just been announced that Kathy and I are going to be grandparents for the second time. Oh, what a wonderful thing, I hear a chorus of amens going up all across the land. And uh but we're excited um about uh baby number two, a little girl, Sam and Karen out there. And uh so we're excited about that. Now uh you have a baby a newborn babe in August they're new in August so when that child is born Uh uh there's a sincere, earnest, genuine desire uh for nutrient, for milk, for that baby to grow. And and Peter's telling these New Testament believers, he says, just like that baby has that desire, that appetite, that hunger for the word, uh, for the milk, you and I ought to have that desire, that hunger for the word of God. I really believe. That the key to spiritual growth, one of the, if not the most important ingredient in my spiritual development, the strengthening, the development of my faith, my growth as a Christian Is dependent upon my desire, my hunger for the Word of God. That is how we grow by the Word of God. Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by what? The Word of God. The Word of God. As newborn babes, desire the sincere milk of the Word. I say this all the time. Some of y'all are sick of hearing me. Some of you that maybe are saying, good grief, we thought if we said it home, he quit saying this all the time. But I'm going to say it again. Every Christian ought to read their Bible every single day Amen. I can hear you saying amen. That's the truth. And uh it is key in our spiritual growth. Um you have a baby born? And we say, boy, that uh that baby, man, uh he she's got a great appetite. Boy, a good healthy appetite. What does that mean? That means that's a good, healthy, growing baby Got a good appetite. Tell you, if you have a little baby that doesn't have an appetite and doesn't eat and has no hunger, you say something's wrong. Something's not right. The baby's not eating. Baby has no hunger. A lot of times when someone gets sick, they get very sick, they lose their appetite, they lose their hunger. And I tell you, a Christian that has no desire and no hunger for the word of God, there is something seriously, seriously wrong. And so he says, as a newborn babe desire the sincere milk of the word. Now I want us to look at verse number one. Before we get into chapter two, there or verse two of chapter two, I want us to look at verse one of chapter two. He makes an interesting statement here. He starts off with a very important word. He says, wherefore. Now, anytime you see the word wherefore, you want to stop and consider what it's there for. And the word wherefore me has this idea, because of what has just been said, because of the truth that has just been presented. Now, what was just said? What was the truth? Verse 23, being born again. Not a corruptible seed, but a bincruptible seed, by the word of God, which liveth and abideth forever. Because of that, wherefore, because you've been born again, because that is true, the following things need to be true in your life. The following statements need to be take place in your life. And notice what the very first thing he says here, wherefore, because you've been born again, look what he says. Wherefore, the next two words are what? Laying aside. Laying aside. Then he gives a list of five things that we're to lay aside. Now, what does he mean by laying aside? It's a very simple term. It's not difficult to understand. It literally has this idea of uh putting something off like you take off a coat. I've got my suit coat on and uh lay it aside and sometimes you'll see preachers summertime and they take their coat off and they lay it aside. They put it aside And uh uh the laying aside. So that's what he's talking about here. He says, laying aside these five things. Now I got looking at that phrase, laying aside And uh I noticed it's used and it's translated a couple different ways. We'll look at them uh throughout the whole New Testament. Over and over and over. The Bible mentions things that need to be laid aside, need to be put off like a jacket. And by the way, that phrase laying aside has this idea. It's a deliberate act of the will. It's something I need to stop and consciously decide that I'm going to do. Laying aside. It's an instruction and I can respond uh uh and uh and and trust God and follow his instructions. Well I say, no, I'm not going to do that. And so laying aside is a deliberate act of my will, taking these things, taking them off, and putting them aside So, how is it used throughout the New Testament? All right, I'm glad you asked. Take your Bibles, if you would, and turn with me to Romans chapter 13. Romans chapter thirteen. And I want you to notice with me Uh verse number twelve, Romans thirteen, and verse number twelve Let me get there. Romans chapter 13 and verse number 12. Notice what the Bible says here. He says, the night is far spent, the day is at hand. Now look at this. Therefore, what's the next two words? Cast off the works of righteousness, and let us put on the armor of light. Those two words, cast off come from the exact same word as what we read there in Peter, laying aside. Casting it off. Taking that thing off and casting it off. Now in here, what is he telling the Roman believers to cast off, to lay aside? He's telling the uh works of darkness, the works of darkness. Now we can preach a message on that, but all he's saying is this listen Anything that does not conform to the holiness of God, anything that is contrary to the holiness of God, we need to put it out of our life. We need to make a conscious assessment of our lives. If there's something in my life that is contrary to God's will, is contrary to God's holiness, that does not conform to uh the holiness of God, I need to make a conscious decision to put that thing off. If you would turn with me to Ephesians chapter number four and verse 22. Ephesians 4 22 Again, it is used there. Now I was looking. It's also used in the book of Acts there where uh when Stephen was uh stoned The Bible says that they took their coats and laid them at the feet of Paul. I think it's chapter 8 or 9 And uh that's the same phrase there. They took their coats off, they laid them at the feet of Paul. That's what the Bible's teaching. That's what Peter's talking about. That's what Paul in Romans is saying. There's something in your life and my life that doesn't conform to the uh uh to the uh holiness of God, I need to take it off and cast aside, just like they did their coats. Ephesians chapter number four. Look with me if you would at verse 22. Ephesians 42, look at this. That ye, what's those two words? Put off. I underlined them in my Bible. Put off concerning, look at this, the former conversation of the old man, which is corrupt according to the deceitful lust What's he referring to? That corruptible seed that Peter referred to in the previous chapter, that old life, that old sinful life, that natural life that comes that we're born with That old nature, uh I need to take that old lifestyle and uh take it off and cast it off and uh uh and uh not be a part of my life anymore, I put it this I put it this way. There is something wrong with the Christian who is still wearing the garments, quote unquote, of the old sinful life When we get saved, God calls us to a new life. God creates in us new creatures, and we put that old thing, that old life off Um, see we used to uh when I worked in the bus ministry, uh my wife and I worked in the bus ministry, you that's where we met in the bus ministry But we used to teach a little song to the kids, and uh we taught it to the teens then later. Good song it goes like this. Oh, the things I used to do, I don't do them anymore The things I used to do, I don't do them anymore. The things I used to do, I don't do them anymore. There's been a great change since I've been born again. And then you go on, there's been a great, great change, change. And we sing that. Then we'd sing, oh, the things I used to say, I don't say them anymore. And uh we'd sing that, then things I used to do, uh, and then we'd sing, uh, the place I used to go, I don't go there anymore. Oh, the words I used to say I don't sing. The girls I used to date, I don't date and uh we just sing all down the line. You know what that song is? Silly little simple little song, but you know what it's saying? Saying put off the old light Put off that former conversation. Uh that was from the corruptible seed and uh the old life the way you used to live. I tell you, uh when a person gets saved, they get born again Bible teaches God brings about changes and I need to make a conscious decision. Hey, I ain't living that way no more. I ain't going to the old bars anymore. Uh I'm putting off the old life. I'm pouring the liquor down the drain. No more. I'm a child of God now. Uh no more filthy shows, TVs, no more Talk. And so put off, put it off. Conscious decision. Look at verse 25 of Ephesians chapter 4. Look at verse 25. Wherefore, look at the next two words. I underlined them in my Bible. Wherefore, what? Putting away. Now what in the world am I supposed it comes from that comes from the same word. Now what in the world am I supposed to put off, put away, cast aside, lay aside. What am I? What is it? What does it say? Lying Wherefore, putting away lying, speak every man truth with his neighbor, for we are members one of another. What's he saying? Saying as a Christian, a child of God, someone that's been born again into the family of God, hey, my lips ought to be truthful. My lips ought to be honest. There is no place for lying in the life of a believer Our God is truth. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the light. Jesus Christ is truth and you and a lie is as contrary to God as you can possibly get. I believe one of the most ungodly things a person can do is to lie. Satan is a liar and the father of it And God tells us, my children, people have been born again, through faith in Christ, you need to make a conscious decision to put off lying. Just stop it. Put it off. Put it away. I'm going to speak the truth. I'm going to speak the truth. Uh if you would come over to Colossians chapter number three and verse number eight. Colossians three, eight, just a few uh pages over. You've got Philippians, Colossians Chapter 3, look with me at verse number 8. If you got it there, notice what he says. But now ye also, here it is, there's those two words, put off, comes from the same word. Translated laying aside in 1 Peter 2. 1. Laying aside, put off. Now what are we supposed to put off this time? He gives a list. Look what he says All of these, not a few, not some of them, not most of them, all of them put off these things. What? Anger. Christian ought to put off anger, uh, wrath, malice. Blasphemy, Christian child of God ought to never blaspheme, ought to put that off. Filthy communication, saying bad words. uh nasty, crude uh language. Put all that off. Christian ought not to talk that way. Our words ought to be pure and and good and right and and uh and uh upright. Uh filthy communication out of your mouth, lie not one to another. He says, put all that stuff off. Hey, that's the old life You need to make a conscious decision. I'm going to be careful. Oh, be careful, little words, what you say. I'm going to put off anger. And he goes down through that list. Come over, if you would, Hebrews chapter number 12. Hebrews chapter 12. We're working our way back to our text. Hebrews chapter 12, one of my favorite verses in the Bible. I've quoted this often, and we took Verse 2 of Hebrews chapter 12 and use that for our our motto for our church, looking unto Jesus And that's been a blessing to me. But look at verse 1, Hebrews chapter 12, and verse number 1. Notice what the Bible says. Wherefore, seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, look at this, let us what? Lay aside. There it is. Exact same word. What in the world am I supposed to take off like my jacket? What am I supposed to lay aside? He says, take that thing off and lay get rid of that. Lay that aside What am I supposed to lay aside? Look what he says. Every weight. I'm trying to lay aside some weight I got physically. That's not what he's talking about, though. He's talking about spiritual weights. Things in our lives. That are not necessarily sin, but they hinder my spiritual walk. They hinder my spiritual growth. They hinder my witness. Sometimes a good thing can be the enemy of the best thing. And God is saying, listen, I need to stop and assess my life and assess my behavior, my lifestyle And if there are some things in my life that aren't necessarily wrong in and of themselves, but they're hindering me, they're keeping me back from growing in my faith. being the Christian God intends for me to be, then I need to lay them off, uh put them off. Now it could be any number of things. What's a weight for one person may not necessarily be a weight for another person. I heard a preacher years ago said that he loves softball. He loves to play softball. And uh there's nothing in the world wrong with softball. I enjoy softball. But for him it was so obsessed him And it so took over him and brought out the flesh, and he said, finally he came to the point where he had to put that aside. I just can't play softball. He said, it's not sin, it's not wrong. You can play it and keep it in its place. Fine He said, but for me, it hindered my spiritual walk. It hindered my witness. It hindered my testimony. I had to lay it off. I was thinking about our dear members with the Lord now, been a number of years, but old brother Mike Stubbler And just the man got the guy grew, got saved, and became a witness, and just a uh growing Christian. And he called me one day and he said, Preacher He says, I've uh something's bothering me. I said, What's up? He says, you know, I love hunting. And uh he says I'm I'm very active in it, and he was, and we hunted together. We we enjoyed it And he says, you know, God's really dealing with my heart. And he says, I think it's becoming a weight to me, and it's hindering my spiritual growth. It's hindering, it's just, it consumes. so much of my life that uh it's like it's uh God is second to uh my hobby of hunting. And uh he says, um Do you think he says, I think I need to just put that aside and lay that aside and not let that be a part of my life. I said, Well Mike, listen, it's not sin, obviously, but um you know if it's a weight, uh we went to this passage here. I said, if it's a hindrance You need to lay that aside. Now he's not. Nobody's suggesting that outdoors and stuff is sin. Of course not. But if it takes the place of the Lord, if it hinders me I've got to lay that off, laying aside. And it could come in any many different forms, uh sports, outdoor things, video games, uh uh just anything in the world, any kind of hobby Not sinful, but uh it hinders my spiritual life. And so we have to stop and evaluate. Then he says the besetting sins, lay aside every weight And the sin what does so easily beset us, you know, all of us have certain sins that we're prone to. We're vulnerable. They are besetting sins. And uh it's just like man that's one thing it keeps hitting me over and over and up and he says you need to put that off. You need to made a make a conscious decision and get that away and get victory over that and put that aside And now, if you would come to James, another verse here where this is used one more time, real quick, James chapter number one And look with me at verse number 21. James chapter 1 and verse 21. Notice what he says. Wherefore, look at the next statement. Lay apart comes from the exact same word that we have in Peter chapter 2. Lay aside. Lay apart. Alright, what does James tell us we're supposed to lay aside or lay apart? All filthiness. and superfluity of naughtiness. Wow. Superfluity of naughtiness and um and uh filthiness. In other words, the filthiness there he's talking about moral filthiness. Just nasty, dirty stuff. Uh we ought to put that off. That ought not to be a part of our life. Anything that is morally or spiritually filthy and bad and dirty, all that talk and shows and music and all that. We ought to put that we need to put that off, lay it aside, not be a part of us. But then he says this superfluity of naughtiness. I looked at that and I thought, what in the world is superfluity of naughtiness? Now, uh, you won't believe this, but when our boys were small, they were naughty sometimes. And um uh when I was growing up my sisters were naughty. Um I wasn't so much, but they were really. But uh what does he mean by superfluity of naughtiness? Well I got looking at that. And uh it simply means this. The word naughtiness means they're troublemaking. Um troublemaking. And he's talking about just uh somebody, uh just this attitude of just always wanting to stir up trouble. Just always wanting to stir up trouble. Just make trouble for people. Always finding something that I can cause some trouble. He says you need to put that aside I thank God we don't have too much of that in our church. I praise the Lord for that. But over the years in the ministry, I've had to deal with folks that uh they I just hate to say it, but they were they had a superfluity of naughtiness Uh they did cause trouble. They just always tried to find something unhappy with, something they're mad about, something they were dissatisfied with, something that wasn't right, this wasn't right, and that wasn't right. Just always stirring things off. And James is saying, under the inspiration of God, listen, as a child of God, somebody been born again in the family of God, you need to put that off. Lay that aside. Get rid of that. And don't let that be a part of your life. And then we come back to Peter, where we started off at. 1 Peter chapter 2. And he says, wherefore, verse 1, wherefore, laying aside. Putting it off, getting it off like a jacket. Just take it off and get it off get rid of it. Throw it aside. And uh then he gives a list of five very specific things That these new believers, newborn babes, five specific things they need to put off because these five things will hinder our hunger and desire for the Word of God. Now we're going to look at those. I want to spend a little time on each of these. Just about all of them have to do with attitude. And so we're going to look at that, Lord will, on next Sunday night. And we're going to look down, work down through that list of these five very specific things that need to be put off because they hinder our spiritual growth. Let me just say this. There are some things that do not belong in the life of a Christian. There are some attitudes that a Christian ought to never have. And when they show up, we've got to put them off There is some behavior. There is a lifestyle that Christians ought not to live. It needs to be taken off And thrown aside, just like we take off a jacket. They must not be tolerated. Now we look very quickly at just the list of them here that the Bible touches on And Lord will, and as I said, next week, I want to look at this very specific list here, and we're going to see what the Bible says about that and how it applies to our lives. So let me challenge all of us this evening Of course, number one, if you've never been born again, you don't have assurance sins forgiving, never been born in the family of God, I plead with you. Trust Jesus Christ as Savior. Get on your knees right where you're at there. Confess to him your sin. Call on him. Believe that he died for you and rose again. And trust Him as your Savior. And God promises He'll save us. And those of us that know the Lord, it's very important that we grow and we get in the Word of God. And I want to challenge all of us that know Christ this coming week Today through next Sunday, let's spend time every day in the Word of God. Let's ask God to teach us. Let's ask God to speak to us and direct us, challenge us, convict us, encourage us And through his word, and you watch, you'll grow, we'll grow. This coming May, in just a few weeks, May 7th I trusted the Lord Jesus as my Savior. Forty-one years ago, I trusted Christ as Savior. And um and uh I'll tell you, uh I've been reading my Bible ever since then. I won't talk about that when we get to chapter two But I'll tell you this, read my Bible every day. I never, ever, ever regretted spending time in God's Word. Been times where I missed it, and boy, I regretted that But I want to challenge us all. Let's get in the Word of God. Let's ask God to speak to us. When something comes up we see it isn't in line with His will, put it off, lay it aside, get rid of it. I wish we could give an altar call because it's so important that we respond when God deals with our hearts. So I challenge you there in your home, wherever you may be. Just bow your heart and your head before the Lord and say, Lord, have your way. Help me. Show me the things that need to be put off in my life. Show me the things that need to be put aside. And if we're sincere and we mean business, God will show us. He'll help us. There's no doubt about it. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask now that you would use this passage, that you would help us to lay aside Lord, there's a lot of things that say that we need to put on, and that's another message. But tonight is lay aside and help us to become clean with you. Lord, help us to take our Christian well-being seriously, our spiritual well-being seriously. And Lord, we want your will to be done in our lives. We don't know why This is happening in our world. We don't know why everything's been turned upside down. You've allowed it. You have a plan and purpose. And I can't help but believe, Lord, that you are trying to work in our individual lives to help us Get our priorities right, get things straightened out, and get in tune with you as you intend. So bless us, we ask now. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen.