First Peter chapter two and verse number one. I'm going to read verse one, two, and three. You follow along as I read. Wherefore, laying aside all malice And all guile and hypocrisies and envies and all evil speaking, as newborn babes, desire the sincere milk of the word that ye may grow thereby. If so be that you have tasted, the Lord is gracious. He says to lay aside five things, five things that will hinder our desire for the Word of God. Five things that will hinder Our spiritual growth, our development as a newborn babe. These five things are toxic to spiritual growth And so we're going to look at these tonight. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father in heaven, I thank you for the Word of God. I thank you for Sunday, the Lord's Day. when we can, in this case, assemble together through the internet and online and like this. And so we're grateful that we're able to do that. And I pray that your presence would be now tonight in the service, and wherever we're gathered, in a car, at home, there, wherever we may be, that your presence would be very evident as your word is preached. Lord, I have nothing in and of myself that's of any spiritual or eternal value. And so we need you, Lord, to speak to our hearts We need you, Lord, to take your word and through me apply it to each of our lives. I'm just the messenger, I'm just the conduit. So fill me with your Holy Spirit is my prayer. I yield my will and my body to you anew and pray that uh you would help us. And um And have your way. Your will be done in our lives. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. If you remember, last Sunday evening we pointed out that uh verses one, two, and three of chapter two of First Peter are a continuation of the thought that he ended chapter one with. If you remember back there in verse 23 of chapter 1, He says we are born again, being born again, and he explains, not corruptible seed, physical life, but of incorruptible seed, spiritual life, born in the family of God Then he goes on and explains it's through the Word of God, by the Word of God that this message of eternal life comes to us. We believe it. We receive it. And we're born in the family of God. Verse 1 of chapter 2, he says, Wherefore, because that's true, because you've been born again, uh, because you have this eternal life, this spiritual life, through faith in Jesus Christ. You have a whole new nature about you. Wherefore, now that that this passage here is not for unsaved people. This is for Christians, those who have been born again. And he says, wherefore, then he says, laying aside. And if you remember, we we spent the message last week was really uh That thought of laying these things aside, it's like taking off a jacket, taking off a coat, getting rid of it. We went through the Bible and the New Testament in particular about laying things aside. Now tonight what I want to do is look at these particular things that he says that Since we've been born again, we need to lay these things aside. He's saying there are some things that do not belong in the life of a believer. There are some things that we have to put off, like a jacket, he names five of them, and these things are going to hurt our spiritual growth. These things are going to steal our desire kill our desire for the Word of God. And uh by the way, this passage here, this dawned on me as I was looking at again this week This passage here is telling us that when a person gets saved, when a person is born again, they do not become sinless Some people have this idea of I've had people I've witnessed to, and uh had the idea, well, if I get saved, then I'll never sin again Uh being saved from sin means becoming sinless. I'm telling you, that doesn't happen until we shed this old corruptible seed, till we lose this physical life, as long as we're in this flesh, in this body We're going to fight sin. It's going to be a lifelong battle. And so he's saying to these newborn, he says, You're newborn, you're born again, it's a newborn babe You're going to deal with this. You're going to have to deal with some of these sinful things, and you've got to put these things off. So let's look at these. He lists five of them here. And just very quickly, I want us to notice these. Notice the first one he mentions, wherefore laying aside, now before we look at this word, let's look at the word before it. Therefore, look at your Bible there, follow along. And wherefore laying aside what? Talk to me, you guys here, talk to me. Laying aside what? All malice. Notice he goes on and what? All guile. Come down to the end of the verse and All evil speak ye. Three times he uses that word all. He says, all malice, need to put it off. All guile, need to put it off. All evil speaking need to put it off. I got looking up the word all. It's used three times in this verse here. And I noticed that it means this. And it means, again, what you would think it would mean It means each and every individual one. Put it off. And the whole idea behind that word all is this. It is an all-inclusive. There are no exceptions. There is no situation where any one of these five sins mentioned here, any one of these five attitudes really, there is no situation, there is no circumstance. where they can be excused, where they can be justified in my life. You say, oh, but my situation. No. It says all. No exceptions. There's no exclusions to this. When he says all malice, he means every single situation. So let's look what these are. All of them. Not one of these is to be tolerated to any degree in any circumstance. So the first one he mentions is this word malice. Put off, wherefore, put lay aside all malice. Malice. The word malice is translated various ways in the Bible, the word it comes from. Sometimes it's translated evil, sometimes wickedness. It's used outside of the Bible. It's used to another word that is used along with it is maliciousness. And its definition would be this. And I'm taking various definitions I've gotten from various sources and kind of put them together, come up with my definition. Is this this is what I come up with: vengeful bitterness. Malice, vengeful bitterness, or um an angry, smoltering, smoldering hatred for someone, a smoldering anger towards someone. Uh some of you know I like to have a little campfire out behind our house on the We got a little deck there and I have a little fire pit. And I like to build um a little fire. It's usually six feet high in the air, the flames, but I just like a little fire there. And uh I noticed something, the different sticks you put on, they burn differently. Put little twigs in there, boy, they'll flare up, they'll burn up, and they're gone. And they're just ashes. But you get those coals going, throw a big log on that thing, especially if that log is hollow in the inside, has a little hollow, that'll get burning inside there And that that heat in there, those coals inside that log, they'll just smolder in there for a long time, sometimes all night long. Come back in the morning, throw some sticks on, boy, it fires up again That's the idea of this word malice, a smoldering anger, a smoldering hatred deep down inside. I saw a video some time ago of a tree that was struck by lightning. And outwardly it didn't look like anything really with the tree, but they came up looking. There was a knothole in that tree. It was hollowed out And inside that tree it was just glowing red coals inside. That's the idea of this word malice. Just a bitter hatred down inside that's just smoldering there, smoldering there, and it produces a desire to do evil to the one that I'm angry at. That's the whole idea of malice. There's this smoldering anger and hatred, and uh I want to hurt that person. I want to do harm to that person. It's this attitude. If I could get away with hurting that person without being caught, I would do it If I could get away with harming them or injuring them in some way without being caught, without consequence to me, I would sure do it. That's malice. And God's Peter is writing to these New Testament believers who have been persecuted severely, who have been run out of their homes and their jobs. Some of them were rejected by their family. And he's saying to this Do not allow this malice to take root in your heart and life. You've been mistreated. Somebody's been unkind to you. Maybe you just imagine that they've done some things against you He says, do not allow malice to take root in your heart and life. If you would turn with me to 1 Corinthians chapter 5, and notice with me verse number 8. 1 Corinthians chapter 5. And verse number eight, Paul, writing to the church at Corinth, references this malice that is a real danger to Christians. 1 Corinthians chapter 5, look with me at verse number 8. He says, Wherefore, therefore, let us keep the feast not with old leaven. Now look at this, neither with the leaven of malice. And wickedness, but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth. He references the leaven of malice Now, if you know I'm not a chef, or I'm not a cook in any way, shape, or form, but leaven, I know this, leaven spreads, leaven expands. And I think the idea here, Paul is saying, under the inspiration of God, malice is like leaven. It will spread and it will contaminate everything it touches. If you and I harbor this malice, hatred in our heart, bitterness, wanting, uh desiring in our heart evil or harm to somebody else, If we allow that to be in our lives, it is like leaven. It will spread and it will contaminate our entire Christian life. It will kill our desire to read the Bible. It will kill our ability to grow. It will stunt our spiritual growth. And Peter is writing to these believers, and he's saying, you need to put that off. You need to put all of it off. Do not tolerate that. If you would, come with me to Titus chapter number three. Titus chapter three in your New Testament there, right before Hebrews You have Titus, Philemon, Hebrews, after Timothy, Titus chapter 3. And I want you to notice verse number 3, Titus verse 3. Follow along there as I read. He says, we, for we ourselves also were sometimes, what's the next word? Foolish. We also, we ourselves also were sometimes foolish. Now he explains, he describes how they were foolish, what that foolishness Involved. We were sometimes foolish, disobedient, deceived, serving divers, lusts, and pleasures, living in what? Malice. Titus is saying it is foolish for a person to harbor malice in their heart and life To harbor anger and hatred. Say, preacher, you don't know what they did to me. You don't know how they hurt me. You're right, I may I don't know that. I don't know that. I don't need to know it. But I know this, God says, you better put it put that attitude off, you better put that malice off, or you'll never grow. It'll kill your desire for the Word of God It'll hurt you spiritually. It is like it is it is it is a can it will contaminate every area of your spiritual life. I'm telling you, malice has derailed more Christians and taken Sunday school teachers, busworkers, choir members, preachers out of the ministry because they allowed malice in their heart and life And Timothy, or Peter, I'm sorry, writing to these new believers that have been so mistreated, have been so persecuted, no doubt some of them had seen maybe a mother, father, a brother, sister, or child murdered, killed because of their faith in Christ. And this is a real danger. Now you say, Preacher, uh, you know, I've been mistreated, no doubt. No kidding. All of us have. And we have to watch out. We have to be very, very careful that we don't let that malice uh uh uh be a part. We've got to take that off, put it off like an old dirty coat and get rid of it and do not tolerate. All of it, all of it Anger and hatred smoldering smoldering in my heart and soul is foolish for a born-again person, a child of God. So number one, he says, malice, put off all malice. Notice the second uh thing here that will kill our desire for the word of God, that will hinder our spiritual growth. He says guile. Now again, he says all guile. All of it. Under no circumstances is this to be tolerated. There is no situation where a person is justified in harboring guile in their heart and life. Now what is guile? We don't use that word very much. It simply means this. It's similar to malice, it's in the same family, to a desire or an attempt to harm another person by using deceit Guile has the idea of deception, of trickery. Oh, I'll get them. And uh in Guile we'll use Guile. If you remember in Acts uh uh the enemies, the Apostle Paul, when he was being held in prison. They wanted the pr the the captain of the guard to bring Paul uh down to another city and they were gonna lie in wait. They were gonna hide. And whenever Paul came down, they were gonna ambush him and kill him. That was guile. They were deceitfully getting him out of the prison into a position where they could do harm. And Peter is saying to these New Testament believers, these dear Christians He's saying, Don't let guile in your heart and life. It means this, to use trickery to achieve my own way. It means to use deceit for s for uh selfish ends One dictionary I was looking at, I was looking up the word, it had an interesting definition. It said this, to put out bait Now that caught my attention to put out bait. Now first thing I thought of is I enjoy deer hunting, I enjoy bow hunting, and uh one of the great things in Maryland is you're allowed to bait the deer I would hardly shoot any deer if we couldn't bait him. It was up to my hunting skills. But we are allowed to use guile To uh to get that deer. Now here's my goal. Here's my selfish end. I want to eat deer meat. I want deer meat in my freezer. Now and I found that deer generally do not voluntarily give themselves up and and die and let me and uh go in my freezer. I have to go get them. I have to do them harm And I found I can use guile in achieving my goal of eating deer meat. I'll put that bait out, put the camouflage on. hide myself and uh boy that deer comes in there la-di-da he everything is honky dory safe. Oh look at this a wonderful four course meal of corn and oh this is better than uh Golden Corral, I can have this great meal. And he's tricked into coming eating that, and me, the dead eye shot I am. Pooh! And that deer drops, and I achieve my goal That is guile. When I was young, we used to trap. We'd trap raccoons and muskrats and and different things. And uh again, we used guile. We'd put a little uh uh l dig a little hole there under a a stump or something, dig it back in there, stuff some sardines in there. Oh, it smelled great to the raccoon. Uh clear it out and and put a little trap and cover it up a little dirt and dust and put some leaves over it And those raccoon come walking in there and snap! I got him. I used guile. And God is saying to us here that we should never, ever, as a Christian, I should never Use guile or I have guile towards another. I'll get them. I'll it's a form of manipulation Notice in 1 Peter, you're here in chapter 2. Come over to verse number 22. Same chapter we're in, 1 Peter 2. But look at verse 22 with me. There's a statement about the Lord Jesus Christ And guile. Look what it says. Verse 22. Who, speaking of Jesus, who did no sin, neither was what? Guile found in his mouth. Jesus Christ never, ever, ever allowed guile in his heart and in his heart and life. Never came out of his mouth. Oh, it's saying kind things to somebody I hate, but doing it in such a way so that I can get at him. So that I can somehow undercut them. Peter's saying, don't you do that. You put that off, all of it. Don't tolerate that in any way, shape, or form. Look at the next one he gives here. Number three, hypocrisies. We know what hypocrisies is. um laying aside all malice and all guile and hypocrisies. What is hypocrisy? It's acting like something like I'm something I'm not. It's uh putting on a show for my own selfish ends. Now I got studying this uh this uh word hypocrisies here and the idea behind it, putting on a show, just something I'm not, and I have a question, and I wish we could do feedback here, but I have a question. Uh if I if I uh uh if I wake up grouchy in the morning, sometimes I let her sleep and Sometimes I no I'm sorry. No no no no. Uh uh but suppose uh it's Sunday morning and I didn't sleep well and I wake up and I'm all grouchy and I'm grumpy And I just got a stinky attitude and uh I come over to church and folks are pulling in and uh I think uh I think, well, I don't want to be a hypocrite, so I'm just biting everybody's head off and snapping and being mean and grouchy, everybody. Is uh is that what he's talking about? Don't be a hypocrite. Let me ask this. If I would come over, I'm grouchy, I don't I'm um Uh and and this never happens, I'm telling you, but just hypothetically, um I'm grouchy and I'm I'm in a bad mood, and I come over and I thought I can't Be that way, I'm the pastor of the church. I gotta be nice, I gotta be friendly to people. And so uh I just put on a show And uh, hi, how are you? Oh, I'm fine. And uh how are you? Good. Oh, it's good to see you. Inside I'm uh and uh but outwardly I'm happy and smiling. My question is this: Am I being a hypocrite? Is that hypocrisy? Should I just be grouchy and mean to people because that's the way I am? No, that's not hypocrisy. You know what that is? That's kindness That's being nice to people. That's putting away. That's putting on charity. That's saying, you know, I'm not what I ought to be, but I don't want to hurt other people That, in that case, it's a concern for the well-being and being a blessing to others. Hypocrisy is when I put on a show to advance myself. When I put on a show to accomplish my own goals or bring attention to myself, the Pharisees had perfected hypocrisy. And they love to stand in the uppermost places and pray big long prayers and wear these all fancy clothes. And oh, they were so righteous. But Jesus says inwardly You're a bunch of dead man's bones. Inward, you're whited walls on the outside, but inside the cup it's all corrupt and wicked. That's hypocrisy. That is hypocrisy. A hypocrisy is selfishness putting on a show for selfish game. It's hiding wickedness in my own heart in my own life so that I have the appearance of goodness. And Peter is saying, you've got to put this off. It's interesting, it dawned on me a number of years ago we did a study of the of the uh Sermon on the Mount, and over and over in the Sermon on the Mount Jesus addressed the disciples and he made this statement. He says, Be not as the hypocrites. Be not as the Pharisees, hypocrites. Don't be as a hypocrites. Don't be as a hypocrite. And I got thinking, why is he telling disciples don't be like hypocrites? You know why? Because we have a tendency to be hypocritical. Hypocrisy is a real danger for the child of God. And Peter is telling these believers as they're scattered throughout Asia Minor there, he's telling them Do not allow hypocrisy to be a part of your life. You put that off. Put it all. Jesus hated hypocrisy, and he constantly warned the disciples You say, well, uh then I'll just be me. No, be nice and be kind and be gracious and get your heart right with God for Pete's sake. But uh but don't put on some big show how wonderful and great what a great Christian you are and inside You're full of dead man's bones. And so he says, put that off. Now quickly, let's look at the next one. Number four, uh Envies Put off, uh, lay aside all envies. What is envy? Envy is an evil desire to have something that someone else has. It is a form of covetousness, but it is taken to another degree. It means to think bad of another person because of something they possess. Uh, because something they have, and I think bad of them. Can you think, I wish we could do feedback here, but can you think of anybody in the Bible that is a classic example of envy? You guys here? Anyone? Who do you think of? Joseph's brothers were envious of his coat of many collars. Anybody else? We're studying on Wednesday night a four-year study of a fellow that was eat up with envy. King Saul! He eyed David. Boy, David had the praises of uh of the people of Israel, and David had these victories Uh King Saul, he slew his thousands, but David is ten thousands, and all that ate up Saul, and how envious he became to the point that he uh he wanted to kill David The Bible says that the chief priests were envious of Jesus Christ because all men heard him. In fact, it became their motive for turning Jesus over to the Roman authorities. It was their motive for killing Jesus. They were envious. Now, for sake of time, we won't turn there, but 1 Peter 6, verse 4 says that envy is rooted in pride. You know why I get envious at someone else? Because I love myself more than I love them. You know why I get envious? Somebody else has something and oh, it just gets me. You know why? Because I love myself too much. Pride Again, Titus chapter 3 and verse 3. We read the verse here a few minutes ago about malice, but here that same verse says that envy is foolishness. Listen, if I'm talking to you and you have envy in your heart towards someone and you think ill of someone because they have something you don't have. I'm telling you, you're acting foolishly. You're playing the fool before God, and it will absolutely steal your love for the Word of God. And it will hinder your spiritual growth. The last one, he points out, is evil speaking. And again, he says, all evil speaking. What does it mean? What does evil speaking mean? It means using words to tear another person down. It has this idea of tempting to get other people to think bad about this certain person by the way I talk about them. I'll say things about this person, so these people will think bad of him, will think less of him, will think ill of him. That is evil speaking. In 2 Corinthians 12 and verse 20, it's translated backbiting, saying things about people behind their back to others, so that others will think ill of them. Proverbs chapter 18 and verse 8, and Proverbs chapter 26 and verse 22 says that tail-bearing, evil speaking, hurts people deeply. Wounds wor wounds people deeply. And I'll tell you who tail bearing tear bearing bearing hurts the most, not the one I'm talking about, but the one doing it. Nobody respects a gossip. Nobody respects a tailbearer. Somebody that runs someone else down, has nothing good to say about someone, want tries to get everybody to think bad about them, points out every fault they have. Points out every mistake they can find, the little moat in their eye. They want everybody to know about it so they peep people think ill of them. I'm telling you, nobody respects that type of action And Peter is telling these believers who've been persecuted and beaten and treated so badly, he says, don't you run those people that treated you bad, don't you run them down. Don't you be a tailbearer. And um my mom, I talked about my mom this morning again when we were little. She used to say, if you don't got anything good to say, what's the rest of it? Don't say nothing. Something like that. Don't say anything. You don't have anything good. Listen, if you don't have any good if you've got a bad attitude towards someone and you don't can't think of anything good to say about them, just just don't say nothing. How about that? And a couple years ago they just had an attitude and we sat down in the office and talked and they were just going on and on and I tried to show them some Bible verses and stuff and finally the lady Uh she got a little huff and she goes, Well, in that case, we just won't say nothing. And I said, Well, that's probably a good policy right there. That's a good place to start. Evil speaking, put it off. All of it, put it off, put it off. Every born-again person must put off these five, their attitudes really, just about all of them are attitudes, these actions, these sins. We've got to put 'em off 'cause they will kill they will kill our desire to read the Bible. You know what? You got malice and guile in your heart, putting on a show. Talking bad about somebody. I probably know I know one thing that's probably true about you. You're probably not reading your Bible too much. Because these are Bible-reading killers. You're probably not growing. You're probably shriveling up, hurting spiritually, and you know it, you know it. And we've got to put these off. All of them. You say, yeah, but my situation. Ah He says all of it. There's no justification, no excuse for tolerating any of these sins. This past week I read about a young lady That was um attacked by a fella. He raped her violently and he killed her. Of course, he was caught arrested, he was tried and found guilty, and he was sent to prison for many, many years. So I read the hit her st the story of this girl and this whole situation. It was said that her mother was a dear Christian, a faithful church member, involved in the church, and uh loved the Lord, uh, been uh walked close with the Lord. But of course, when she found out about her daughter and what this man had done to her daughter, raped her and killed her, she became so bitter And her heart was filled with malice. And hatred for this man took over her whole life. And uh she would spend her days plotting, somehow I can get to this man, and I will hurt him, and I'll make him pay for what he did to my daughter. Over time, it just ate her up. She began reading her Bible less and less. Her church attendance dropped off. Her walk with God became stagnant Finally, after a period of time, the Lord began dealing with her heart, and she became so convicted about this malice, this evil speaking, this guile in her heart. And finally she broke down on her knees in her living room. She asked God to forgive her. In tears, she confessed her sin and she repented of it. And she said, God, I forgive this young man. I forgive this man for what he's done. Seemed to help her. She got reading her Bible again a little bit, got back in church Of course, it was a constant struggle, but she maintained her decision to forgive this man. After a while, God began dealing with her heart, and she thought, you know, forgiving this man is not enough. I need to try and reach out to him and bring him to Jesus Christ. She began visiting him in his prison. First he wouldn't vis he wouldn't accept her visits. She'd come in and you know make a visit and he wouldn't accept it But she persisted. She kept at it, kept at it. And finally he agreed to sit down with her and visit with her there in the special area in the prison. And she told him that she forgave him and that she was concerned for his soul. He blew her off to begin with, but she stayed at it, and she stayed at it, and she stayed at it, and she won this man over. And the prison chaplain, the chaplain of the prison there was having special church services for the prisoners, and in this situation, somehow they allowed the guests to come in and be with the prisoners during the service. And the chaplain, knowing about this man, what he had done, and this lady that had been visiting with him, he noticed they were sitting side by side in the special church service. And as he went out, he was able to greet with folks, and he went out. And as he was talking to the lady, he noticed that she had given to this man that had raped and killed her daughter. She had given to him a Bible. And the prison chaplain noticed on the Bible it was engraved, to my son. And this dear lady was able to put off her malice. Her guile, her hatred, she was able to put that off and become so filled with the love and spirit of God and compassion of Christ That she had won this man to Christ and viewed him as her own son and was helping disciple him in his new faith in Christ Isn't that an amazing thing? That's what Peter's talking about. The Christian life is a supernatural life Where we put off these works of the flesh. We lay aside these attitudes. We live in a sin-filled world where people hurt people and people sin and we do. And he says we have to put that off if we're going to grow and if we're going to be what God wants us to be. I don't know who it was that hurt you. I don't know what you've got in your head about somebody that they did you wrong, but I'm telling you this, God, if you know Jesus Christ as Savior, God is saying, you've got to put those attitudes off. You've got to lay them aside. You will never grow. This Bible will never be what it ought to be until we lay these aside. I hope we'll do some heart searching tonight. I pray the Holy Spirit will use this passage and bring a real revival to our hearts, where this Bible becomes alive to us again. And we grow as we lay aside these five sins. That will kill our desire for the Bible and will hinder our spiritual growth. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I pray you'd use this passage tonight to challenge us and help us go forward in our Christian life to grow. And of hunger, the Word of God. And help us to put these off. I have no doubt, I have no doubt, some folks are struggling with some of these tonight. I have no doubt, Holy Spirit, you're dealing with some hearts. Please get the victory. Help us to submit to you and trust you and obey and lay aside these sins here. And help us be a good witness. And we ask these things now in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen.