Alright, 1 Peter chapter 2. I'm going to begin reading in verse 1 and read down through verse number 3. The Bible says, wherefore, laying aside all, and then he lists five things here. We looked at these in the previous message. Wherefore, laying aside all malice and all guile and hypocrisies and envies and all evil speaking. So he says, Lay these aside, put them off, like taking a jacket off. Get them out of your light. And then he goes on, he says, as newborn babes, desire the sincere milk of the word, that ye may grow thereby, if so be that ye have tasted that the Lord is gracious. As newborn babes, desire the sincere milk of the word, that ye may grow thereby. As newborn babes. Let's pray together And ask the Lord to speak to our hearts tonight. I hope they're at home you'll bow your head and ask the Lord just to speak to your heart and challenge us and help us. Let's pray. Father. I thank you for a good day. My heart is filled. I thoroughly was blessed today by seeing folks and just serving you. And so we're grateful for your goodness to us And I pray now as we look into the Word of God again this evening across the airwaves and around the community here in our homes and Wherever, I pray that uh you would use your word to challenge us and help us, convict us, encourage, and help us grow in our faith. I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, dear Lord, as I yield my will, present my body anew. God, I have nothing in and of myself to offer anybody that is of any spiritual, eternal value So I pray you would use your word, that you would be the preacher, you would speak through me, and help us, Lord, challenge us. Don't leave us alone, Lord. Provoke us on to spiritual growth. I ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Uh the Christian life, I'll begin by a few making a few statements. The Christian life begins with a birth. That's How the Christian life begins. Not a physical birth. We looked at this in depth back in verse 23 of chapter one, being born again, not of corruptible seed, not physically, but of incorruptible speech, spiritual birth. So the Christian life all begins with a birth. I put this down. The Christian life does not begin with a baptism. Baptism is important. Baptism is a uh identification of the fact that I have been born again spiritually. I've asked people over the years, I say, do you know for sure are you saved? You know Christ is Savior, you know you're on your way to heaven. And I've had people on occasion say, Oh yeah. I say, How do you know? They say, I've been baptized. No, no, no. Baptism does not give me eternal life Baptism does not give me spiritual growth uh spiritual life. I am not born again by being baptized. So uh uh Christian life begins with a birth, not with a baptism The Christian life begins with a birth, not with a below a belonging. Now what I mean by that is uh being a member of a church I've had folks, I ask them, are you saved? Are you Christian? Oh yeah. How do you know? Well, I'm a member of this church. I had a fellow tell me one time, oh I know I'm saved. I know I'm going to heaven. I've been a Sunday school superintendent for 41 years Listen, belonging to a church never gave anybody eternal life. Belonging to a church never gave anybody spiritual life. We're not born again. We're not uh Christians because we belong to a church Christianity or a Christian life begins with a birth, not a baptism, not a belonging, not a behavior uh is not where the Christian life begins. Uh do you know for sure you're saved? Do you know for sure you have eternal life on your way to heaven? Oh yeah. How do you know? Oh I do right. I do this and I don't do that and I don't smoke and I don't chew and I don't do this, that, and the other. That's not what gives us eternal life. That's not where uh the Christian life begins. It begins with a spiritual birth by trusting Jesus Christ as our personal Savior. Then Once we're born spiritually, once we've accepted Christ, we're spiritually born into the family of God, that begins a lifelong transformation. That begins a lifelong development of me growing in my faith, growing spiritually, and being conformed to the image of Christ Becoming more and more like the Lord Jesus Christ, taking on his characteristics, taking on the life of the Lord Jesus Christ, transformed into the image of Christ Developing my faith in God, getting stronger and stronger as time goes by, growing in my faith, growing in my love for the Lord. So the Christian life begins with a birth. When I trust Jesus Christ as Savior, I'm born again. I'm born spiritually. And then it continues on and develops Throughout my life, it is a series of transformation, a lifelong transformation, a lifelong development of trusting God, becoming like Christ, loving the Lord. Now That development, that spiritual growth that takes place from the moment we're saved throughout our whole life, there's a vital ingredient in that. There's something that is absolutely necessary and vitally important for us to grow spiritually. And that is simply this, the Word of God. The Word of God. It's a vital ingredient in the spiritual growth of every Christian. Just like the Bible is the means of our salvation. Back verse 23, chapter 1. We're saved through the Word of God, by the message of the Word of God. By the way, if you don't have Bible salvation, you don't have salvation. And so the Bible is the word is the means by which we hear the gospel and we come to Christ through the Word of God. So just as the Bible is the means by which We are born again, it is also the means by which we grow spiritually. It is vital. It's necessary if we're going to grow. Now I want to give you three points here this evening, real quickly From verse number three and verse number, or I'm sorry, verse number two and verse number three. Number one, I want you to notice the desire for God's word. The desire for God's word. Look at verse 2. As newborn babes. Desire the sincere milk of the Word. The Christian, the person that's been saved, been born again, must set their heart on the Word of God. The person that's been saved, you're listening to me tonight, wherever you may be, however you're tuned in, if you're saved If you're a child of God, if you've been born again, you must set your heart on the Word of God. Spiritual growth is dependent Upon the believer feeding on God's Word. Now, there's two thoughts here under that heading, the desire for the Word of God. First, he mentions, he he addresses here the intensity of this desire. Look what he says. As newborn babes. Desire the sincere milk of the word. As newborn babes. Now, he uses that word as there. He's not saying the people he is addressing here, the people that he's writing to, Peter, under the inspiration of God, he's not saying they were newborn babies. He's not addressing them, all right, you just got saved, you've just been born again, uh, you need to uh desire the sincere milk of the word. No, he's saying as a newborn baby The fact of the matter is, it's not just new Christians that need to desire feed on the Word of God. Old Christians need to feed on the Word of God. Middle-aged Christians need to feed on the Word of God. If you were saved last week. You ought to have a desire for the Word of God. If you were saved last year, you ought to have a desire for the Word of God. If you were saved last century, you ought to have a desire for So he's not saying this is just for baby Christians He's not saying this is just for uh uh uh uh new newly saved people. He's he's comparing, he's illustrating The intensity that every believer, regardless of how long you or I may have been saved, we ought to desire this intensity of a desire we ought to have for the word of God. He's illustrating the necessity of this desire for the Word of God. Just like a newborn babe. Desires the sincere milk. That's how you and I ought to desire the Word of God. I remember when our boys were born. We have two boys, Sam and Dan. They're grown adults now And uh but when they were first born, uh what I I tell you what, one thing will change your life more than anything. Uh they say you get married, it'll change your life. Yes, um you have baby, brother, that changes everything And uh those boys were born and uh hold them in our hands and uh what a blessing. And uh uh I tell you, they get hungry. and get that little bottle of uh milk out for them. I can still see those guys just little uh little worms like there. And uh man they see that bottle, those legs would start kicking. And those arms would start flailing and oh, they wanted that bottle of milk bed, middle of the night. If you could uh translate Bible baby talk, it would be, I want that bottle. And uh I mean they wanted it bare. Their their legs kicking, their w their uh uh arms flailing around. They wanted that milk. And Peter is saying, listen, just like that baby wants that milk so intensely, wants it so bad, desires it, that's the way you and I ought to desire the Word of God Uh not you say, yeah, the new Christians ought to desire it. No, no, no, it's not what he's saying. He's saying whatever your age is spiritually, however long you've been saved Just like that baby desires that sincere milk of the word, you and I need to desire that. I like what Job says. In Job twenty three and verse twelve he says this. Listen to this. Listen very carefully what Job says, and we'll not turn there for sake of time. But he says this I have esteemed He's speaking to the Lord. He says, I have esteemed the words of thy mouth more than my necessary food. Did you catch that? Job says, I value, I I desire, I need the words of thy mouth, the word, God's word, more than my necessary food. He doesn't say more than chocolate pot. He doesn't say more than peanut butter uh uh fudge brownies. He didn't say he said I need it, I desire it more than my necessary food, than the amount of food I need to to stay alive. You know what Job was saying He's saying if I gotta make a decision to have between having enough food to keep me alive or having the Word of God, I choose the Word of God. Wow, you talk about an intense desire for the Word of God Maybe that explains why Job was so strong in his faith. Maybe that explains why God honored Job so highly. Uh and was uh and and uh was willing to put him through such a trial because he knew his faith was strong. And uh he desired the word of God. So Peter here references the intensity of this desire for God's word. But then also notice in verse 3 Verse 2, he references the purity of the word that we are desired. Look what he says here. As newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the word. Now, he uses that word sincere. What does he mean when he says the sincere milk of the word? Why didn't he just say, as newborn babes, desire the milk of God's Word? Desire the Bible. But he puts that word, again, under the inspiration of God, he puts that word sincere in there. I got looking that word up and uh see how it's used other places in the Bible and what it means, where it comes from And I found this, the word sincere has the idea of genuine. If somebody's sincere, they say, yeah, he's genuine. He's the real deal. He's sincere. It also has the idea of being without additives. Being without additives. Uh if you go buy some food from the store and you look on the on the um uh what's it called ingredients And man, there's all kinds of stuff in there. Words I don't even know how to say. I have no idea what that stuff is. And they put these additives in to uh that that uh food item. And Peter is saying to these believers, he's saying, the desire, the sincere, the genuine word of God, the word of God that has no additives. Another definition I found for the word sincere is unidulterated. In other words, it's not been messed with. It's not been altered in any way. It's undefiled You say, why in the world would he say that about the Word of God? I'll tell you why he'd say that, because there's a lot of people messing with the Word of God. And that's nothing new for our day and age all the way back as the New Testament's being written. Read Galatians and others where people would twist the scriptures and people would change them and take words out and add things to. And I tell you, there is a lot of synthetic Bibles floating around out there. There's a lot of Bibles that are not sincere. They've been altered. They've been messed with. They've been defiled in a lot of ways. Verses. Entire passages. Removed. Words mistranslated. Some deliberately so. Some of the cults will translate the Bibles to fit their doctrine. And that is not the sincere word of God. And so he's saying, Listen, you be very, very careful that the f food you're feeding on spiritually, the milk that you're speed feeding on Spiritually, the Word of God must be sincere. It must be the genuine Word of God. As I said, so many have all these new translations And adding words too, and taking passages out and twisting the meanings. Uh I've been studying the Bible for a long time and I'm certainly no scholar, I Uh I like to believe I'm a student of the Word of God. I don't know that I describe myself as a scholar, but I've learned this one thing, and I am absolutely convinced God has preserved the sincere milk of his word in the King James Bible for English speaking people. And I believe that's where we can go to and we can read our old King James Bible and we can be sure that we've got the Word of God Uh straight up. And so there's a lot of synthetic Bibles out there. Let me say this. There's a lot of synthetic Christianity out there. Uh there's a lot of stuff goes on in the name of Christianity that has nothing to do with the Lord Jesus Christ. Uh there's a lot of There's a lot of uh stuff and doctrines being taught and actions being taken and and uh uh things being done in the name of Christ, in the name of Christianity that are so far from Scripture That has absolutely nothing to do with the Lord Jesus Christ. And so the sincere milk of the word, uh the unidulterated, unfundefiled, without additives, genuine. Word of God, we need to stay on that. I want to encourage you, settle for nothing less than the Word of God. Settle for nothing less than the total word of God. Now, uh, we've been giving out the last week. We do this all the time, a little devotional. Uh we give out every other month, it lasts for two months, the Baptist spread. I like it. It's a good little devotional. But I always say this, I always say this. Do not substitute your Bible reading for a little devotional book. You must supplement your Bible reading with a devotional book. I'm telling you, if we s if we put aside our Bible and we just read that little devotional book Uh we're missing that that sincere milk of the word. We've got to read the Bible. You say, Well, I've got time to read a devotional, or I've got time to read the Bible. Which should I do? Read the Bible. Read the Bible That's the sincere milk of the word. Can I give you a statement? I hope you'd write this down. I believe this is an important statement. Never underestimate the importance of the Word of God. Let me say it again. Never underestimate the importance of the Word of God in your life and in my life. Let me reword it a little bit. Never underestimate the value. Of the Word of God in your life and my life. As a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, as a born-again child of God, I absolutely need The Word of God on a regular basis. On a regular basis. So, first of all, we see the desire for the Word of God. Second of all, quickly, I want us to know this the design of the Word of God, or what's the purpose? Why did God give it to us? Look at verse 2 again. As newborn babes, desire the sincere milk of the word. Why? That ye may what? Say it with me. Grow thereby, that ye may grow thereby. That word that, he says uh that ye may grow thereby. Uh the word that there means this in order that or for the purpose of. There's a reason God has given to us the Bible. There's a reason God has given to us His Word. And it's not just so that you and I can be spiritual or scriptural eggheads. You know what I mean by that? An egghead, you go to when we were in college, you had these guys who were eggheads. Boy, they had all these facts They could tell you every little thing in the Bible, the statue that Daniel saw. Oh, brother, they had all these facts about it. and the the shoulders and the head was gold and the waist was uh ir uh legs of iron and mixed and the toes and they knew what the toenails were. They knew what the dirt under the toenails meant. Oh, they knew all these facts. They had all this stuff in their head, and they never witnessed to a soul. Never want anybody to Christ. Never really carried out what the Bible is for. So God didn't give us the Bible in order that we can have all these facts stuffed in our head, or so we can have these theological debates. About this, that, and the other. I get people all the time, oh, they want to debate this, and they want to they want to argue about that, and they've got this little take on one doctrine, they've got some little take on this scripture. Listen That is not why God has given to us His Word. God has given to us the Word of God so we can grow in our faith So that we can become more like the Lord Jesus Christ, so we can be a more effective witness in this old sinful world. And God uses His Word to develop us. That's the word grow there, that ye may grow thereby. So that I can develop and increase my strength, my spiritual strength, my faith in God, my love for God, my conformity to Christ, my witness to this whole world. That's why God gives us the Bible. Not to have theological debates and know all these facts. Now we should know the Bible and we should know our theology, absolutely. But that's not the purpose. The purpose is for us to grow, for our lives to be transformed. Uh I got in my back room there a little study back there and uh we fixed up and uh I've got uh some plants. Uh I got these little planters And in one row, I have a row of zucchini. I stuck little seeds down in there. You know, you got those little pods, stuck little seeds down in there. And then the next row in my little greenhouse planter, I have um tomatoes. I put tomatoes all across there. And the next one I've got uh red peppers. I plant a whole slew of red peppers, and then the next row I put a bunch of little flowers and little flower seeds, just the seeds Stuck them all in there, put um got it all wet like you're supposed to, put that little plastic lid on it, set it in the sunshine, and uh sit there watching it. Alright, come on you guys, let's go And uh yesterday I went in the morning, I got up and went back there to read a little bit, and I looked at my thing, and lo and behold The tomatoes had the tomato row had little uh little sprouts coming up out of those little pods. And I said, oh, praise the Lord. Life And I looked at the other row, the zucchini, and there was little sprouts starting to come up out of there. You know what they were doing? They were growing. They were developing first that little sprout and then it grows little branches and leaves come off of there. As time goes by, it gets Bigger and bigger. I'll move them out when the there's danger of frost is past. Around here it's July sometime. I'll move them outside. and uh plant them out there and those things will grow. I can taste the tomatoes already, zucchini, fried zucchini, and uh make it on the grill uh and uh uh peppers and we don't eat the flowers but I'll plant them around. And uh those things will grow. That's the idea here. Uh uh just uh begin to sprout and then develop. I'll tell you one thing about being in the ministry, being pastoring a church for 20, almost 27 years now It's exciting to see Christians grow, isn't it? See Christians develop and their lives become more and more like Christ and their witness becomes more and more effective And they stand out more and more in the world and become a brighter and brighter light. What an exciting thing it is to see people, Christians, grow and experience that growth ourselves. He says that you may grow thereby. And again, he's coming back to the Word of God. That I grow by the Word of God, by desiring the sincere milk of the Word. You say, how do I grow by the word of God? Do I just there was a fella when I worked at the meat packing plant when I first got saved, I had a whole slew of these little um Gideon Bibles. Remember those little Gideon Bibles? I don't know if they still have them or not. I had a whole bunch of them. I was giving them out to guys there at work, and this one fella Uh Kevin was his name. I said, Kevin, uh here's a Bible, and I had it marked in there, how to be saved. I said, here, take that. And uh he says, Thank you. And he took it and stuck in his back pocket uh like this. I always carry one in my back pocket. Here's a little and so a couple weeks went by or month or so. We were working next to each other one day. I said, Kevin, I said, uh do you got that little Bible I still gave you? He goes, Oh yeah, he says, I got it right here. He reached the back pocket and pulled it out. I said, Wow, praise the Lord. That's wonderful. I said, uh are you reading it? He goes, No, I never opened it yet. I just carried it around with me everywhere I go Guess what? He ain't gonna grow. Uh he's not gonna he need to get saved first, but just carrying that Bible around, having a Bible set on your coffee table, having a Bible in your dash of your car in the Vug box your car, uh even having it in your b in your pocket, that's wonderful, but that's not going to make you grow. I've got to feed on it I've got to you say, how do I do that? Well, I ought to meditate in God's Word every day. Get in there and read it and try and meditate. What is He saying? What does this mean for me? Studying it out? Getting under the preaching of God's Word And brother God uses His word and He would begins to change our thinking, He changes our values, He changes our desires And next thing you know, we start growing, growing, growing, growing. We had some people come by today in our drive-thru fellowship and had gotten saved, you know, in recent months, and it's just exciting to see them come by and talk about the Lord and have prayer with them. They see the Word of God developing them and seeing them grow in their faith. Oh, uh the Bible is so important. Never underestimate the importance of the Word of God in the life of the Christian. Can I say this? No Bible, no growth. If you're not reading your Bible, I can tell you one thing: you ain't growing spiritually. There is no growth apart from the Word of God. Then, last of all, let me end with this. Look at verse 3. He says, if. So be that ye have tasted, if so be ye have tasted that the Lord is gracious. He says, as newborn babes, desire the sincere milk of the word that ye may grow thereby. If You have tasted that uh if so be, you have tasted the Lord is gracious. Why would he say that? Uh that word if there means is an implication behind that word if The implication is not everybody that's reading this has necessarily been born again. Not everybody he's addressing has necessarily tasted of God's grace. He says, if you've been saved, if you've tasted of God's grace, then man, you need to desire the sincere milk of the word so that you can grow. But not everybody that claims to be a Christian is Christian. And not everybody says they've been saved has necessarily been saved. Most important thing in life is knowing that I've trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. I hate to say this. I wish it wasn't true But not everybody that's a member of a church, uh let me put it this way, I hate this is what I hate to say. Uh I'm afraid they're just gonna get in hell and find out people were church members and never born again, never saved, died and went to hell. Isn't that an awful thought? That an awful thing. Well, I'm a Christian. I'm a Christian, but never been saved. Never tasted and seen that the Lord is gracious. And if you're not saved, I urge you to be saved. Trust Christ as Savior. If you know Jesus Christ as Savior, then desire the sincere milk of the word that ye may grow thereby. You say, preacher. I've been saved a long time. I don't need that Bible. You're only fooling yourself. You're only fooling yourself. I have in my hand here a uh uh uh uh a little notebook It's uh uh my fat father passed away here about six weeks ago, went to heaven, be with the Lord, he's been with the Lord, and we've been cleaning out the apartment and and getting all the estate together and everything, and I was going through the apartment, get everything out. And on his desk, I was kind of looking through things, and on his desk was this little uh notebook. I thought, I wonder what that is. And I opened it up, and there's a picture of a missionary in here, and There's some quotes he's got written down and prayer letters and different things of church bulletin. And I got looking at it and I realized that what I had in my hands was my father's daily journal And the last date is 310-20. It's a Tuesday, the day before he went in the hospital. He wrote down that day the scripture he read that morning, what it meant to him. few things he did that day. And I got looking through that, and as I went through his belongings, I found literally boxes and boxes. Of journals just like this. The earliest dated one, I haven't gone through all of them yet, but the earliest is 1980. For all these years, 40 years at least. My daddy's been keeping a daily journal writing down the Bible verse he read that day and what it meant to him. I tell you what, that stirred my heart. Daddy's been saved a long time, got saved in 1970 And up until the last day that he could possibly read the Bible, he read his Bible every single day. In fact, uh, I got looking at his stuff. I think he was reading his Bible more the last years of his life than he ever did before in any time of his life. And that challenged me, and that explains to me a little bit the strength of my daddy's faith and his faithfulness and his consistency because he desired the sincere milk of the word If you're saved and you're not reading your Bible every day, I implore you, I plead with you, make Bible reading, Bible meditation a part of your every single day schedule. Spend some time in the Word of God. I tell you, grow. There's a lot of things I might not know about you, but I know this. If you're not reading your Bible regularly, you're not growing spiritually. The Bible is the Word of God. Never underestimate the importance of feeding and meditating and reading and studying and memorizing. The Word of God, it's how we grow. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you'd help us to love the Bible. I ask you to help us to desire the sincere milk of your word that we can grow. And that you speak to our heart and you bring about changes in our thinking, in our values, our priorities, and we become more and more like the Lord Jesus, and our faith in you grows stronger and stronger. Through feeding on the Word of God. In Jesus' name I pray, Amen