Ephesians chapter two. Now this is uh I'm in a little bit of a pickle here this morning because a week or so ago I was, you know, I'm always praying or always thinking ahead, what would the Lord have me to preach on? What's the what's the passage that I should be preaching on? About a week or so ago, I zeroed in on Ephesians chapter 2 and verse number 10, and it says there that we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus unto good works Which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them. And I've been looking at that and praying and studying that. But as I put the message together, the whole The whole my whole attention and the whole message kind of uh shifted up to verse 8 and 9. And so I'm going to preach a little different than what I had announced in the bullet, Tim And maybe Lord will, and maybe next Sunday I'll pick that up. But I want to look at verse 8 and 9. I'd like for us to read these two verses together in unison. Let me ask this question. Let's do a little poll. How many people are familiar with Ephesians chapter 2, verse 8 and 9? Anybody familiar? Sure. If you've been in a Baptist church or Bible preaching church any length of time, uh Ephesians 2, 8, and 9, uh you're familiar with that. Let me ask this question. How many folks have preached her, I could quote those verses, I could quote them word for word I know Ephesians 2, 8, and 9. Any like that? Sure. Great crowd. And uh so uh uh uh a very familiar passage, but you pray as we look at this. Let's read verse 8 and 9 together. Would you? You got your Bible there. Let's read it together. All begin verse number 8. Ready? Here we go. For by grace are you saved through faith, and that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God. Not of works, lest any man should boast. This is what I want to look at this morning is six characteristics of salvation. Six characteristics of salvation. This is really, as I said, the introduction to the message I intended to preach. And Lord will, and maybe next week we'll we'll come back to that. Let's pray together and I'll share what I have. Father in heaven. Lord, it's been a good day. Sure it was a blessing to see that sun come out, Lord. I thank you for that. That encouraged my heart. And Lord, to see everybody come out to the house of God and sing these songs. Lord, it just uh stirs. That does our spirit good. To be around other believers and to sing hymns and laugh and fellowship a little bit. Now, Lord, we have our Bibles open, and um, Father, this is your word. It's not mine or our church or any individual. It's the word of God. And we pray and ask that your Holy Spirit, the author of your word, would uh open our hearts and minds and apply to our lives these truths that we're going to look at, as you know we have need. Lord, you, the Holy Spirit, you understand this matter of salvation perfectly. You're the author of it. And so I ask that you would speak through me, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit and help us and do what I cannot do. And teach this great, great truth in a way that's very helpful. Lord, by chance, any that would be with us or under the sound of our voice that do not know for sure. That their sins are forgiven, their soul is saved from judgment and hell, that they have eternal life. If that's not a settled fact, Lord, please settle that today. Don't let anything keep a person back from trusting Christ as Savior. I yield my will to you, present my body as a tool in your hands, and pray you'd fill me and speak through me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I believe Ephesians 2, 8, and 9 are touching on, without a doubt, the most important issue in life. How a person is saved, the matter of a soul salvation. This past week I was had the opportunity to preach a revival service up in Farmington, Pennsylvania, the big city of Farmington, Pennsylvania. And we had a great meeting, great meeting, Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday night. And I don't do this a lot, occasionally, as the Lord leads, but Monday night I preached on the subject of hell. I preached on a sinner's first day in hell. And what a sobering thought that is, as we look at what the Bible says about what happens when a person dies in their sins And they find themselves in this horrible place that Jesus referred to as hell. No escape for all eternity. End up in a lake of fire. If hell is true, if what I preached Monday night is true, and there's no doubt in my mind it is, the Bible is very clear. By the way, let me make this statement. I made it Monday night You can't believe the Bible. You can't take the Bible literally and not believe in a literal hell. You can't do it. It's clear, clearly taught in Scripture. If it's true that there is a place called hell, and a person who dies in their sins goes to hell and spends eternity there, then what Ephesians 2, 8, and 9 are talking about are the most important issue in all of life. And that is a soul salvation from sin and hell. You can be very successful. A person can be very successful in business. They can be a great entrepreneur and begin a business and be very successful, make millions and millions of dollars. But if they don't have the matter of their soul salvation settled, that person's lost. And in a very real way, they failed in life. They failed in life. You can be the best mom that ever lived. You can be the best dad. You can be the ideal student in school. You can get all the honors. You can do all of that. But if your soul's not saved, If you don't know for sure your sins are forgiven on your way to heaven, you've lost. You're lost for all eternity. Can I say this? You can be the best, you can be an ideal church member. Huh? You can be an ideal church member. You can sing in a choir. You can teach at Sunday school. You can have perfect attendance. But if your soul's not saved, if you don't have this matter of your soul salvation settled, I hate to say this, and you die in that condition, you're lost for all eternity. All eternity. The salvation of a soul. So we're looking at Ephesians 2:8-9. Like I said, my focus initially was on verse 10. What salvation produces. And Lord willing, as I said, maybe we'll look at that another time. But this morning we're going to zero in on these couple verses here. I believe verse 8 and 9 is perhaps The simplest and clearest passage on what it means to be saved, on how a soul is saved, perhaps in all Scripture. Now, the truth is all through Scripture, there's no doubt about it. Salvation, that's the scarlet thread that runs through the Word of God, the atonement of Christ, the salvation of a soul. From sin and hell, how God saves a man from sin and hell. That's the message of all scripture. But you get to Ephesians 2, 8, and 9. And man, he brings that thing down in such a clear, simple statements that it's very, very helpful. I believe that perhaps verse 8 and 9, Ephesians chapter 2 are perhaps some of the most significant verses in all of Scripture on salvation. Now I don't mean they're all there and there's many others and man you could go just about anywhere in the Bible And preach on salvation and find teaching in salvation. Romans, the whole theme of Romans is man being acceptable with God. Galatians touches it. All through Scripture But you get to Ephesians 2, 8, and 9, and in such a concise, clear statement, he addresses the salvation of a person's soul. So I want to share this morning, and I don't know exactly how this will go. I pray the Lord will help. And uh pray the Lord will use this. You're saved and you know Christ as Savior, maybe this will solidify that and help understand clearly what all that means If you're here and you're under the sound of my voice, people listening by radio and internet, folks sitting here now, and you don't have this matter settled. If there's one doubt, there's one question. Your heart and mind, about whether your sins are forgiven or whether you're on your way to heaven. I want to urge you, with all my heart, pay close attention this morning and you make the decision that needs to be made and trust Christ as Savior. I thought this morning, and uh I tell you, she's such a blessing. Mabel was such a blessing to me and been to our church. I just thank God for her. Visit her a couple years ago, Shirley asked me to go out. You remember Mabel. Come out there and visit her house at the farm there. Tell you, she's the hardest working lady I think I've ever met in my life And uh she came in, invited us in, and I think James Kent and I were there and talked a little bit and uh she asked me we got talking, she asked a couple different questions, I tried to answer. She asked this question. She goes, Pastor she Pastor Loman How can a person know that their sins are forgiven, that God has forgiven their sins? You know what I say? That's a great question. That's an important question. And that's what this is addressing here. I'm glad I was able to show her and she trusted Christ. I'm glad for that So let's look at this. I got six characteristics of salvation or six observations from this passage about salvation. You might want to jot these down. I think they'll be helpful. straight from the Bible, nothing uh complex or complicated about this. Here's my first observation or the first characteristic I put down. Number one, salvation is all of grace Salvation is all of grace. Look at that first phrase in verse number eight with me. For by what? Grace are ye saved through faith. For by grace are ye saved. Oh, grace is a good word. I believe grace is maybe one of the most important words in all the Bible that matter grace. Uh we sing that great song uh uh amazing Grace, how sweet the sound. Brother, I've been singing a lot from this pulpit lately. This is Uh scary. But um grace, for by grace are ye saved through faith Question is, this is an important word, maybe the most important word in all the Bible. Question is what is grace? What in the world does he mean by that? For by grace are you saved through faith. What does that mean? Well, uh, you give a very detailed, complicated theological definition. I'm simple. I like simple definition. It's simply this. Grace simply means this. It's the, I guess the classic definition is the undeserved favor of God. In other words, God does for something for mankind or for an individual, man or woman or child. God does something for them, and here's the key: that they do not deserve. Grace is giving, a God giving me something, God doing something for me that I do not deserve. For by grace, the unmerited favor, the gift and the kindness and forgiveness of God that I do not deserve is bestowed on me. Grace is God giving me something I do not deserve. Now, there's another word in the Bible that is also very, very important. And it's used many, many times all through Scripture. The Psalms references it over and over. And that word is mercy. Grace and mercy. How many folks ever read your Bible and you came across the word mercy? Anybody? Sure. You're not going to read very far. You're going to find it all through Scripture. Mercy The mercies of the Lord are new every morning. The mercies of the great is thy mercy. Mercy. The mercy of God. What is mercy? Mercy is kind of a spin on grace. Grace is God Giving to me or bestowing upon me or doing for me something I do not deserve him to do for me, something I do not deserve him to give to me Mercy, on the other hand, is this. Are you listening? Mercy is this. God withholding from me something I do deserve God withholding from me or keeping back from me something I do deserve. In other words, I've sinned against God. You've sinned against God. We've broken God's law God has given us a standard that mankind was created to live by. Mankind was designed to live by this. standard of righteousness, the standard of holiness, and uh he created us to do that to live by that, but um uh mankind failed. Anybody here ever read the beginning of Genesis where Adam and Eve disobeyed God? Anybody read that? That's where God, we've disobeyed God. Mankind has failed God. We've broken his laws. And the consequence of breaking the laws of a holy God, there's no exception, there's no loopholes. When a holy God, the Creator, the eternal God, that is sinlessly, perfectly, blindingly holy, and his standard of acceptability is broken Then there's consequence of that. And the consequence of that is judgment. God, by nature, by his very holy nature, judges sin. That is the consequence of the disobedience of a holy God. And you and I have sinned. You and I have not lived up to that. We've said things we ought not to say We've done things that we ought not to do. There's things we should have done that God expects and required of us that we failed to do. And we've broken God's law and we're sinners. The Bible says, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. The Bible says there's none righteous. No, not one. None of us have lived up to that standard of righteousness. And so we are what we deserve as sinners, we're under the wrath and judgment of God. We die in that condition. As I mentioned a little bit ago, we end up separated from God for all eternity. A horrific place called hell. Now that's what I deserve. That's what you deserve. But God is a merciful God. And God's mercy says, I will withhold that judgment. They deserve it. Man has broken my law. He's lied. He's taken my name in vain. He's uh lusted, he's coveted, he's uh hated people, he's murdered, if not outright physical murder, he's murdered with hatred in his heart. And he says there, my holiness requires that he be judged, but the love of God says, I don't want man to be judged, I love him. And he withholds that, he shows mercy. And withholds that. So he says here that salvation is all of grace, grace and mercy. Mercy is God withholding his judgment upon me. And grace is God giving me that which I do not deserve. I haven't earned God's loving favor. I haven't lived up to the standard that's required for a holy God to accept me. But his grace gives that to me and bestows that upon me even though I do not deserve it. Everybody with me? Everybody follow what I'm saying? How many people agree with me? Grace is pretty important in mankind's experience. Yeah. Our existence. God's grace. We need his grace. Amazing grace. How sweet that sounds. And so salvation is all of grace. This is what we're getting at. A man to be completely forgiven for his sin, a woman or a young person to find complete total forgiveness of sins. To be accepted by God, to have eternal life here and now, a new life, and then to be able to spend eternity in heaven with God and never one minute spend in hell That is something that God does for me that I absolutely do not deserve. It's his grace. Grace is the God loving the unlovely Grace is God forgiving the guilty sinner. Not one person here under this, not one person sitting in this building, myself included, not one person deserves to have our sins forgiven. We've not done one thing to earn the forgiveness of our sins. It is grace, God doing it for us. God, God forgiving us. No one earns eternal life. No one earns God acceptance. Nobody ever can live their life in such a way But I stand before God at the judgment and say, God, I've earned you to accept me. I deserve. No, nobody can say that at all Nobody can say that. We've fallen short. We've come up short. I was visiting out here, not too far from here, out the road here a little ways, this a number of years ago. And a little road went up there. It was kind of a dead end road. And I was knocking on doors up there, hardly anybody home. I got to the end and I knocked on a fellow's door. He came to the door. I said, I'm Pastor Leatherman from the Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. I'm just out inviting folks to church. And uh I want to leave an invitation with you. Come and visit our church sometime. The invitation just happened to be a gospel tract. And uh I said, here's a little invitation, come and visit our church. He goes, Well thank you very much. He says, we're new to the area here. I said, Well, wonderful. I said Uh maybe you can come and visit with us and he says, Well, we talked a little bit. Finally I said to him, I said, you know, as much as I want you to come to church and as important church is more important than church going to church is knowing for sure that our sins are forgiven, that when we die, uh that God forgives us, we go to heaven, not to hell. I said, do you ever give that any thought? Oh yeah, I think about that I said, well let me ask you this. Do you know for sure that when you die your sins are forgiven? You're on your way to heaven. And uh he says, yes, absolutely, no doubt in my mind I thought, wow, this is an amazing thing. And I said, well, well, let me ask you this. I said, what gives you that assurance? What makes you so confident? That you you die, you go to heaven, not to hell. And this is what he told me. He said, I keep all of God's commands. Now, if you've been around any length of time, you know that's probably not true I said, all of them. He goes, every one. I said, Wow, that's amazing. And I tried to show him from the Bible that nobody keeps all of God's man's for all sin and come short of the glory of God, the required acceptance of God. Now, I didn't think of it until later. Anybody here do this? You think of all these great answers afterward And later on, I should have asked him to name for me the Ten Commandments. You know what? If I was a Betting man, now I'm not a Betting man, but if I was a Betting man, you know what I would have bet on? I would bet he couldn't have named half of them. Very few people can. And I'm not trying to make fun of this fellow. And I tried to share the gospel with him. I never could get him to trust Christ But my point I'm trying to make is this. He was fooled into thinking he was keeping God's commandments. Nobody keeps all of God's commandments. You know what the very first commandment is? Thou shalt have no other gods before me. I tell you, you live a whole life and never put anything before the Lord. I don't know anybody that's ever done that. Nobody apart from the Lord Jesus Christ has ever done that. And so coming back to our text here, for by grace are you saved through faith. Nobody can come and say, God, I kept your law perfectly. God, I never sinned one time. God, I Never said anything I shouldn't say. I've never thought anything I shouldn't think. I've lived a perfectly sinless life and I've earned heaven. I've earned your ex- Nobody can do that God says anybody going to be saved, they're going to have to receive it by my grace. It's going to have to be all my grace because Nobody deserves it. Did you get that first point? Salvation is all of grace. All of grace. Here's my second thought. If you're writing this down, jot this down. Faith is the means by which God's grace saves us. Faith is the means by which grace saves us. Look here again. Verse 8, first phrase, for by grace are ye saved. But it doesn't stop there. Look with the next statement. What are the next two words? Say it with me. Through faith. Through faith. That word through has this idea by means of, or it has this idea through the channel of. This is how it flows This is how it comes from God, this undeserved favor, this forgiveness, eternal life, acceptance by God, which none of us can earn. None of us can deserve it. We can't be good enough To earn this from God. And so God says, I'll show you this, I'll bestow it upon you freely, just you don't deserve it, but I'll bestow it upon you. But I do it through faith That's the channel by which it's applied to my life. Everybody with me? Everybody follow what I'm saying? Salvation is all of grace. God, if it wasn't for God's grace, not one person would ever be saved. And God's grace is offered freely, fully to all. But how is it applied to my life? How does this grace apply to my situation where I find forgiveness and I can know that my sins are you, and I can know And he says it's through faith, through that channel. That's the conduit through God's grace is made available to me. Now, what does it mean to have faith? For by grace are you saved through faith. Now, what in the world is faith? This is my definition. I've looked at what others said and kind of put it together here. This is what I believe it means. It means to be thoroughly convinced. To the point of complete trust. In other words, I am so, I believe so thoroughly, I am so thoroughly convinced that what God says is so, that what he offers is true, I completely trust him To do for me what I cannot do myself. I am trusting him to do that. Now I was trying to think of ways to illustrate faith, and there's a lot folks have used over the years. Sometimes folks will use the illustration of sitting on a chair. Folks were walking in here, and I was up here, and I was watching folks come in, and I noticed we stood up for the uh uh first song, we all stood, and then afterward Mark came up and he said, You may be seated And you know what I noticed? Every single person just flopped right down on that pew. I mean, without thinking, without looking around, they just sat right down on it Nobody uh I'm I'm tethered to this pulpit. Nobody uh went and took that thing uh you know and felt it. Uh I'm gonna make sure, check out those Screws underneath, make sure this thing's structured. And uh no, you know what? You just exercised faith. You believed that thing would hold you, and you just flop down. Now some of y'all I was I was a little worried, but um uh I'm joking. And uh, but uh now Pastor Matt, he checks out the chairs before he sits down on them. But faith! I'm so completely convinced that this is true, it's reliable, I put my total trust in it. So that's why I've used the idea of flying in an airplane And uh you get there, you can believe that that plane can fly me from down uh Brother Dave Heath, one of our men he's down in children's church uh down there with the kids, but he had to go to um uh where'd he go? Sweet Switzerland uh this past week and uh he went down to the the airport in in DC, I think national, and uh and uh You know what? He stands there and he believes that plane can fly him over to Zurich, I think he went, direct flight over. And he can stand there and look at that thing all day long and see the pilot and be totally convinced that plane can fly him there But that plane ain't gonna get him there until he does what? He's gotta get on that thing. He has to trust it. He has to put his faith. in that big mm sh big machine and the guy that flies that thing he has to have complete faith and get on that thing and fly it over him. That's trust. Uh can uh question can David fly himself over there No, he can flap his arms all he wants. He ain't getting nowhere. Uh he can he can uh he gets on that plane. Does he need to hold on to be able to make No, he just sit there and just sit and take a nap. Knowing Dave he slept. And uh he just just let that thing take him there. But the only way he gets from DC to Zurich is he's got to exercise some what? Faith. He's got to get on that thing for it to get him there. That's what he's saying here. For by grace are ye saved, saved from sin. Safe from hell, safe from God's judgment, eternal life. It's all God's grace. I don't deserve it. But the way you get in on that, the way it's applied to you, the way it g that grace becomes effective in your life is you must exercise faith. You must exercise faith. You've got to trust that what God says is so Um uh another way, I was talking to my wife, I said, well, how in the world can I illustrate faith? I said, we've got the chair, you know, in the plane, always do that. And she goes, well, what about you have uh some a mother has a little baby And they love that little baby. It's precious, most valuable thing they have. And they've got to go somewhere. They've got an appointment, or maybe they come to church, and they take that little baby and they put it in the hands of someone in the nursery And they have complete confidence, they trust that person there, we know them, maybe a babysitter, and I know them, I have complete confidence And I'm going to trust the most precious thing in the world. I'm going to have faith. They'll take care of that baby. And when I come back, they'll return it back to me. They have complete trust, trusting faith. You follow what I'm saying? Faith Faith. Faith. Um I was going to illustrate, but then I thought of the crowd and I reconsidered. I I was going to give a hundred dollar bill to one of our church folk and say, I'm going to trust you to give this back to me at the end of the service. And um I couldn't muster up the faith to do that. And uh trust completely and uh no not really, I just didn't have the hundred dollar bill. But um But you follow what I'm saying. For by grace are you saved. We don't deserve it. God does it all for us. God does it all for us. But to have it applied to my life, to to receive it, to make it effectual for me, I must have faith in Christ. I must exercise faith in the Lord Jesus, that what he did on that cross And coming up out of that grave and his promises to forgive me if I put my faith in him. I must trust him to make that faith effectual. A couple oh, it's been a month or two ago, I was on the social media, one of the social media things And somebody had a post on there, and it was a picture, it was just this picture, and this man was sitting in a chair and he was reading a book, and you could see the cover of the book And the cover of the book said this: my role in my salvation. My role in my salvation. He was reading the cover of the book. Outside it said, My role in my salvation. Well, the next panel that you looked at, you could see inside the book, he was holding the book open, and inside the book the pages were completely blank Completely blank. Now, what was that little statement making? What was the statement being made there? That I have no role in my salvation. Right? That's what the statement was being made. What's my role in my salvation? Nothing. I looked at that. I showed it to my wife, and I said, that's wrong. That's not true. I can't save myself. It's all of God's grace. But I've got a role in my salvation. I've got to believe that what God says about it is so. I've got to exercise faith in what Jesus Christ has said. Listen, nobody, listen very carefully, nobody ever finds eternal life, nobody ever escapes hell, nobody ever gets to heaven Who doesn't put their faith and trust in the Lord Jesus Christ? God, can I say this? God never saves someone against their will. God never saves anybody ignorantly that they don't know. God just, yeah, hey, you and I do have a role in our salvation. We can't save ourselves. We can't earn it. We can't live good enough to get it. We can't uh uh we can't keep God's law enough to deserve it. I cannot It's grace of God, but I've got to make a decision whether by faith I will receive what He's done for me or not. Romans 10, 9 and 10. Thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead. Thou shalt be saved. For with the mouth confession is made unto salvation, and with the heart man believeth unto righteousness. Then verse thirteen, for whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord Shall be saved. Do I have a role in my salvation? Absolutely. I've got to put my faith and trust in Jesus Christ. Would you keep your place there and turn not very far away? Back to the book of Acts. Now if you go backwards in your Bible towards the front, you have Ephesians, then you hit 2 Corinthians, 1 Corinthians, then you hit Romans, then you'll hit the book of Acts. I like the book of Acts. If you go to verse chapter number 16, Acts chapter number 16, here we have a fascinating story. Paul and Silas find themselves in jail. Now, what in the world did they do to get in jail? Were they out public drunkenness? No. Did they rob a liquor store? No. Did they uh assault somebody and uh uh break into a house? No What did they do? They did they did one thing, one thing only. They were preaching the gospel. And the the the authorities determined that they would not do that, they could not do that, and because of them preaching the gospel that I'm preaching right now They were thrown in prison. Now that's where we pick up. Notice in verse number like this, verse 25. At midnight Paul and Silas prayed and sang praises unto God. And the prisoners heard them. They're just rejoicing. They're in jail. Their feet are in the bonds. They're uh beat up, no doubt, and they've been scourged. And they're just singing, praising the Lord God, and God saved us. And uh the prisoners heard them and God sends an earthquake. Well the the warden of the prison, the the the guard the jailer there He uh he thinks all the prisoners escape, you know, the bars are down, the doors are knocked open, and and uh he thinks, good night, everybody escaped. Well, it was pretty harsh back then If you're the jailer and you let prisoners get out, you're going to take the punishment they were supposed to have. So he thinks he's going to be killed. So he pulls out a sword and he's going to kill himself because he thinks I'm dead anyway And Paul says, do thyself no harm. We're all here. Nobody's run out. And he's under such conviction. He heard Paul and Silas singing the gospel and sharing the gospel. And he comes in, and look in verse 30. He falls down before Paul. It says, and he brought them out and said, Look at this, sirs, what must I do to be saved? I put in the margin of my Bible life's greatest question: what must I do to be saved? Now notice what Paul says. Paul doesn't say, oh no, you have no role in your salvation. Oh no, you don't do anything. If God's going to save you, you'll be saved. If God doesn't not gonna save you, you'll die and go to hell. You have no say in it God's determined before the foundations of the world that who's going to go to heaven, who's going to go to hell, you don't have any choice in the matter. You have no say. Paul doesn't say that at all. What does Paul answer him? And he said what? Look at there, verse 31. Are you there? Sirs, what must I do to be saved? Verse 31. And they said. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. And thy house. You know what the old boy did? He believed on the Lord Jesus Christ. And God saved them. God saved them. Salvation is all of grace. God does it all. God paid for our sin on Jesus Christ. When he suffered hell on that cross, he rose again. God gives us eternal life. He forgives our sin. He accepts us into heaven. He changes our lives here. It's all him doing all that. But the way it's received, the way it's applied to me, is through faith. Through faith. John 3. 16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish. You say, what are you getting at, preacher? This is what I'm getting at. I believe all across our community. In many places. I think it might be maybe more characteristic in country areas and rural areas. But folks grow up and they believe the Bible's true. Oh yeah, the Bible's true. Yeah, Jesus, Son of God, he's the Savior. Yeah, there's heaven, there's hell. And they know all these facts, and they know all these Bible truths. But they never make a conscious decision to turn to the Lord Jesus Christ and put their faith and trust in Him so that that faith is applied to their life, so that grace is applied to their life. And they're since given. You follow what I'm saying? I believe there's a heap of people, I believe there's a heap of people in hell knew Jesus died on the cross. They knew Jesus was the only way to be saved. They knew the gospel, but they never exercised faith in Christ. And for whatever reason, they never put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ for him to be their personal Savior. I was thinking this week, Charlotte, is Charlotte in here? Mm she's out. Oh, she's homesick today. Uh I thought of Paul Sines this week. Paul Sines, a good man. He's been with the Lord a number of years now. Paul Sines was a faithful church member, attended faithfully. He was a, I believe he taught Sunday school years ago. He was a deacon in the church years ago. And if I understand the story correctly, if I ever create, one day a pre evangelist was preaching. Evangelist was preaching very similar to what I'm preaching right now. And God began dealing with Paul's heart. And he says, you know, I'm a religious man. I'm a good church member. But I've never trusted Jesus Christ personally. I've never put my faith in Jesus Christ. And at the invitation, old Paul walked down this aisle right over here, and one of our men, one of the men back then, this before my time, took him back in the little room here And there Paul put his faith and trust in Jesus Christ, and God's grace was applied to him, and God forgave his sin and saved his soul. Faith is important, faith. For by grace are you saved. Uh salvation is all of grace Through faith, faith is the means by which grace saves. Faith is the channel through which God's grace is applied to my life. Let me give you a last. Uh here real quick. Number three, there's nothing in and of myself that produces or earns salvation Notice what he says here. For by grace are you saved through faith. That not of yourselves. That not of yourselves. Oh, there's nothing, uh there's nothing that I can do. You can have the most honorable character. I would like to think that You know, I try to be honorable in my dealings with people and pay my bills. You can have the perfectly honorable character, and that will never save your soul. You can be a child. How many people think, how many folks here think children ought to obey their parents? Raise their hand. I noticed all the parents raise their hand on that one. A child can be the perfect child. Oh, you said, preacher, your your boys, they're preacher kids. They were perfect. They obeyed. Everything you said. Oh yes, they did, absolutely. A child can obey their parents wonderfully, but that won't save their soul Amen. You can pay your bills on time. You can be honest in your dealings. Your word can be as good as uh as anything, but uh it won't save your soul Not of ourselves. There's nothing in ourselves. Our work ethic, I'm grateful. We were talking this week. I'm grateful. I believe my parents instilled in me a good work ethic. I like to try to work hard. But that never save a soul. Never save a soul Religious observations. You can be religious at church. I already touched on this, but it won't ever save your soul. Jesus in Matthew chapter 7, he addressed, he says, in that day, the judgment day, many will say to me, Lord, Lord. And he says, Not everyone that says to me, Lord, Lord, shall enter the kingdom of heaven. And they'll say, Oh, we did many wonderful works, we cast out devils, and we taught this, and we did that. Oh, we did all these works, Lord, we are so religious. The Lord said, depart from me, I never knew you. Your good works and the things you're doing, as wonderful as they are and as important as they are, they will not save your soul. Isaiah 64, verse 6, the Lord makes a strong statement. He says, our righteousnesses are as filthy rags. And that phrase there, filthy rags, he's talking about the old lepers, years ago, the lepers who have running sores and pus and just nasty and stinky and Yucky and they would take old rags. The folks in town would throw rags out to the lepers who couldn't mingle with society. And those lepers would take those old rags and wipe the pus and fluids coming from their open source. And you can imagine this flies and the maggots and the stench that would be From all of that. And the Lord says that all those good things you're doing to try and make you uh acceptable to me and make you earn salvation, he says there's nothing but those ugly, nasty, stinky rags They don't do any good as far as your salvation is concerned. What the Bible clearly teaches, you and I can't be good enough to be saved. We can't earn it. It's not of ourselves. Let me give you the fourth observation I make here. Salvation's a gift of God. For by grace are you saved through faith, that not of yourselves. It's a gift of God. Romans 5, verse 15 through 18, gift, gift, gift, gift. Six times he says that salvation is a gift. Romans 6, 23, for the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life. A gift. It's all grace. God does it all. I don't deserve any of it. I put my faith and trust in Jesus Christ. Nothing of myself that earns God's forgiveness and salvation. I just trust Him. And God says that salvation then is a gift that He gives to me. Kind of ties in with that grace idea. I don't deserve it, I can't earn it. He just gives it to me as a gift. Now what is a gift? Well, you can't buy a gift. If I offer a gift to somebody and they want to pay me for it, it no longer is a gift. It becomes a what? A purchase. Something they're buying off of me. On February 14, 2020, just this coming February, February 14th, Valentine's Day, it will be Kathy and I's 33rd wedding anniversary. I married her on Valentine's Day. Whoo, what a Don Juan I am. Wow. Phew, you say, good night. Our preacher's romantic and wow, married her. Actually, it was very practical I have reminders every year when my anniversary is I never forget And I come home and I've got a $75 rose book uh bouquet of roses, our 33rd anniversary, and I've got a necklace and six hundred and twenty-five dollar necklace and um I got her uh uh what's those fancy perch uh uh purse um uh what is it Michael? Michael Coors? I never heard of that one. And I got her a $400 Michael Kur Coors parse. And uh and uh roses and what's that come to? That's about twelve hundred bucks there. And uh I come home with all this stuff and she goes, oh she calls me Den. Oh Dan, you're the most romantic man in the world. I said, No. And uh and then I say this to her, twelve hundred bucks, woman, pay up. Let me ask you a question. Would that be a gift? No, she'd be buying it off me, wouldn't she? She'd be buying it. You know what it you know what's a gift? I just say sweetheart I love you. Trust me, it can't it ain't gonna go down exactly this way, but uh I say, sweetheart, I love ya. I just want I just want to give this tea. I just offer it to you. No payment What if I come home with all that stuff and I say sweetheart's anniversary and she goes, Oh and I say, but first I want this floor scrubbed, I want those dishes done, and I give her a list of duties, jobs to do. Would that be a gift? No, it'd be what? It'd be a payment. I'd be giving her payment for work she did for me. I come home. I ain't no dummy. Uh I come home. I say, sweetheart here, I just I just give this to you. I want you to have it. It's a gift. You don't pay me anything, you don't do anything for it. I just offer it to you here. And she has and for it to be a gift, she does one of two things Either she accepts it and takes it to be her own, or she can reject it and say, No, I don't want it. I know her well enough. She ain't rejecting that, I guarantee you. And she just receives it. She just accepts it. You know what God does? He loves us. He didn't create us to die. He didn't give us life for us to end up in hell and the lake of fire. That's not what He loves us. But we've sinned. We've broken His law and His holiness requires judgment. There's no options. It's judgment. God says, I love you, and I just want to show grace. You've sinned, you don't deserve it. But I'll come down and I'll take that judgment for you and I'll suffer hell for you. And I'll rise from the grave and I'll offer you to come I'll offer complete forgiveness, total, full forgiveness. Nothing you can do, and all you do is just by faith you accept that gift from me and it becomes Eternal life, a home in heaven, escape hell, a new life here on earth, a good life. And I give this to you. And you just by faith accept it. It's not of ourselves. It's a gift. It's a gift. Let me give you the last two and I'm done. Number five, I put this. My works play no role in the salvation of my soul. Now it's a little redundant here, but look what he says in verse 9. Not of works, not of works. That word not is an absolute negative. It means this. In no way, at any time, in any way at all, it's absolutely impossible. Nobody ever got to heaven because of good works, because of how they lived their life, because of any of that. It's God's grace that saves me. It's God's grace that forgives my sins. It's God's grace that gives me a new life. It's God's grace that makes me ac And I receive it by faith. My works play no role whatsoever. What are works? Anything I produce, any undertaking I make, any act or deed I do. None of that Saves my soul. I put it down this way: there is absolutely nothing I can do to do, nothing I can do or produce to merit my salvation. It's God's grace. And then my last one is this, and this is what I wanted to preach on. Verse number 10. Salvation produces good works. Good works do not produce salvation. I can't be good enough to get to heaven. I can't live a righteous enough life to earn heaven But when I by faith accept this salvation, gift of salvation that God gives me by his grace, it produces a profound change in my life. I am changed in my very fundamental being. The Bible says I am given a new nature. The Bible says in 2 Corinthians 5. 17, I become a new creature, and God changes me. Now I'm not sinless, well that's another subject, but now there is within me this new nature, this divine nature of God. And look at verse 10. For we are his workmanship. Look at this. Created in Christ Jesus. What's those next couple words? Unto good works. Not by good works, but unto good works. You say, why in the world, why in the world Does Brother James Scott and his wife, uh, what's her name, Tiffany? I think? Why in the world would they leave America, pack up their newborn baby, have a baby? Pack up their belongings, and why would they go to Japan? Strange language, a whole different culture, and give their whole lives. To try and teach the Bible and share the gospel with those dear Japanese people. Why would they do that? Oh, they're doing that so God will accept them so they can be saved. No, no, no, no, no. You know why they're doing it? Because they're saved. God saved them and forgave them. And they said, I want to live for God. Why did our bus workers this morning rainy that I mentioned this morning was just bluff? Oh, it was yucky, uh, cold and damp and and uh why in the world would our bus workers get up early And show up on a rainy, yucky day and get those cold buses out there and run. And they're going to take people home. For some of them, it'll be 1. 30, 2 o'clock this afternoon before they get back. Miss like why in the world? You say they're doing that, so God accepts them. No, no, no, no, no. You know why they're doing it? Because they're saved. God did such a work in me. God's forgiven me and saved me, gave me new life. Oh, I want to serve Him. The whole Christian life, listen, the whole Christian life is lived not to be saved, but because I I see. God puts in our heart a purpose. I want to preach on that so bad. Maybe next Sunday Where his workmanship, what his salvation does in our life, the change it brings, the new purpose, but it's all of grace, it's all of grace, it's all of grace And it's received simply by faith. Turning to him for forgiveness of sins, a new life, trusting him. May 7, 1979, I knelt by that old bed I didn't know what, I didn't understand half of this, but I knew I was an old sorry sinner. I just cried out, oh Jesus, I believe you died for me and rose again. I'm calling on you. I'm trusting you to forgive me and save me from my sin. You know what happened? God did exactly that. I read about a husband and wife, I'll end with this. Read about a husband and wife up in Winnipeg, Canada. They've been fussing and fighting. He's been out running around cheating on her, drinking, carrying on, smoking dope. Just a young couple. They got a couple small children. And she was so sick and tired of it. She is absolutely at her wit's end. And she decided she's had enough. She's out of here. This thing's over And she said Sunday morning she had gotten up and he had never come home the night before and she was doing some dishes. The little kids were there, she had the TV on. Well, a Bible preaching church in that town had a little Sunday morning service on the community channel of the TV. She happened to have it on there. And him preaching caught her attention. And all she heard him say at the end of the service was this, why don't you, if you have needs in your life and there's problems, why don't you come on out to church? Maybe God can help you with that. She said, I could not fix those kids up and pack the bags fast enough. We're going to that church. Driving to church, she said, driving to church. I was Determined I was going to get God to help me to get enough nerve to dump this sorry husband, get out of this mess, and start my life anew. They showed up at church, and that morning the preacher preached a message on how to be saved, how to have your sins forgiven, find a new life, home in heaven. When the invitation was given, this dear lady walked the aisle. And she said, I called on the Lord Jesus Christ, and Christ did something I didn't expect. He changed me. He forgave me and gave me a new life. She didn't leave her husband. She went back home. He eventually came home. She told him what happened. And she says, God's done a wonderful thing. He's forgiven me. She goes, and he's changed me. And she started sharing the gospel with him. About three weeks later, he came to church. He sat there, the preacher preached the invitation. He came forward and he trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, all of grace, all of grace, and he put his faith and trust in Jesus Christ, and God forgave him and saved him. That was many years ago. Now the as I was reading their story, they said now they're faithfully serving in church, teaching Sunday school, working, doing all that. And they say this, God's grace changed our lives. God's grace changed our lives. I'm telling you, you may be a good church member or your life may be a mess, but either way, I know the most important issue in your life is knowing for sure that your sins are forgiven. And that by God's grace you trusted Him through faith as your personal Savior. And my Bible says God will forgive all your sins, He'll save you from hell. You know for sure you're going to heaven. All of His grace. And then that produces a wonderful change in our life. Amen? Father in heaven, I pray you take this attempt to look at these verses and pull some truths out. I pray that those of us that know you as Savior, that have already trusted you, I pray you'd help us to allow you to develop those good works in our life and that new life you have for us, that new purpose, new meaning. I pray that would be true in our lives. Lord, those that maybe are listening, maybe good church folk, maybe religious, maybe mess. Whatever the case may be, I pray that this day would be the day of salvation. They believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and find eternal life. Be saved from sin in hell. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many this morning say, Preacher? I know I'm saved. I remember I trusted Christ. I've got that settled. No doubt about it in my mind. I did what the Bible says. I put my faith and trust in Jesus Christ. But you'd say this, preacher, I want to grow as a Christian I want to be everything that a believer ought to be. I want the Lord to develop these good works in my life and that I can be that kind of Christian. He saved me to be. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? And you'd say, preacher, I've got some growing to do. I've got some growing to do. God bless you. God bless you. Turning this morning say preacher I don't I'm not sure there's some questions there, some doubts. I hope I'm go to heaven. I hope, I hope. God says you can know that for sure. It's by grace, by through faith. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. I need to put my faith in Christ. I need to trust him and get this settled and get these doubts and questions out of my mind. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I need this settled. I need this short. God bless you. How about it? Others? Any others around? God bless you And this morning say, no more doubts, no more questions. I want to settle this by God's grace. Know that he's forgiven and saved me from sin. Now, whatever you raise your hand for, we invite you to come to this old altar and just do business with God. Give it to the Lord. Let the Lord have his way. Maybe you need to be baptized, church membership. I don't know. But you invite the Lord to come this morning and you make decisions. Father, bless their invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's plan our invitation hand. This is important