Job chapter one. Oh, this is good. I tell you, I've I've I've got three messages in my Bible tonight And uh I really struggled with it, but and yet I have felt all along this is the message that God wanted me to preach tonight. So somebody needs it And if not here, somebody watching over the internet needs it, but whatever it is, hopefully you'll get blessed by it, okay? If I was the title of the message tonight, it would be this seven Amazing observations in Job. I mean seven things that are amazing. I have a number of messages on Job there This thing is a cornucopia of just Bible truth, Bible truth, Bible truth. Throughout the book, there's so much here that is so good Tonight, though, I'm going to give you seven amazing things in the book of Job. Notice verse 1. There was a man in the land of us whose name was Job. And that man was perfect and upright and one that feared God and eschewed evil. Let's pray. Father, we come to you in the name of the Lord Jesus. We thank you for our time together. My, we've heard good preaching. We have fellowshipped around the Word of God. We've fellowshipped around food as well. We have fellowship just in company with one another. It's good to be with your people. Meet with us tonight in a powerful way, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Job is an amazing book. Of course, Job is known for his suffering But there's a lot more we can tell you about Job as well. In this book, we do see his suffering. We see his dealing with it. We see patience in this book. We see victory in this book. We see responsibility in this book. And it's amazing for a number of reasons. Apart from Christ being the Truly perfect individual, the only perfect individual to ever be on the planet. We look at Job and God said some amazing things about Job In verse 1, we just read it. I want to get the very first thing. This amazing observation is what God says about Job. Look at verse 1. There was a man in the land of us whose name was Job, and that man was what? Tell me. Perfect. Now I believe that the idea of that doesn't mean that he never made any mistakes, doesn't mean he didn't do anything wrong, because we're going to see that he justified himself more than God. That was something wrong You say that proves right there he wasn't perfect. No, no. He was perfect. In other words, he was complete. He was mature. He was a man that could truly be said of him, Matthew 6. 33, Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. That identifies Job. That's him. He was perfect. And I know this shocks ladies who think that there's never been a perfect man on the planet. They're wrong. Right here. Job was perfect. Okay? Not only that, and he was upright. This man was upright. In other words, had he been a lawnmower repairer man, and if you brought your lawnmower to him, And you paid him for fixing it. You got home and halfway through mowing your lawn, it broke down again. You could take it back to Job, he'd do it for nothing. If he was a car repair man, man, if if you got on a trip the next day, he just repaired your car and you had paid him and it broke down again, you could take it back to him and he'd do it for nothing This man was upright in his dealings. We used to have a lot of men like that around this country. You don't see them so much anymore. As a matter of fact, if you went to the doctor and he was a doctor and he operated on you and you only got worse, he'd give you another operation and make you well for nothing. It's amazing. They make mistakes, you still got to pay for the next operation. What is that, man? There's something wrong with that. Not only that, he feared God. And the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. Fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. Because he feared God, we know that he hated evil. Because the Bible tells us that you fear the Lord, you'd hate evil. I mean, this is an amazing man. Not only that, it says here, and he eskewed evil. That is He avoided every appearance of evil. This man, his testimony for a righteous, holy walk was extremely important to him. This is a man like Joseph, who when Joseph, you'll remember, was propositioned by Potiphar's wife, he fled out of there. He just got out. He was not going to commit such a great sin against God. Now that's an amazing story to me in itself, because you understand, as far as we know, that Joseph didn't have a Bible yet. It hadn't been written yet. I mean Moses wrote the first five books of the Bible. And here's Joseph. He didn't have a Bible, but he understood good and evil And knew that God was good and holy and he wasn't going to commit a sin against God. He didn't have to have an independent Baptist preacher teach him that. He had brothers that would do it But he wouldn't do it. That's an amazing thing. Here's Job. He didn't have a Bible. They tell us this is the first book that was written. I don't know if it's first in age or not. But if he had a Bible, he didn't have much of a Bible. But he eskewed evil. He did everything to stay away from evil. So the first amazing thing is just the testimony, and I want you to get this. This is God's testimony about Job. This isn't some good friend. This isn't coming from his children who loved him. This is coming from God. God says all this about him. What if God had recorded a testimony about you? What if he'd recorded a testimony about me? God's testimony about him in that day, that age, that's absolutely amazing. That's the first thing. Second thing. was Job's reality concerning his children. I want you to look at verse 5. It says, and it was so when the days of their feasting was gone. About uh gone about that Job sent and sanctified them. It's speaking about his children, his sons and daughters, they're mentioned in verse 4. And rose up early in the morning and offered burnt offerings according to the number of them all. For Job said It may be that my sons have sinned and cursed God in their hearts. Thus did Job continually. Now we know that they had a great father, and I believe also that they had a great mother. I'll say more about that in just a little bit. But so here are here's adult children. And he is offering sacrifices for his adult children. His adult children were getting together to have a good time of fellowship Dr. Smith mentioned either this morning or yesterday, or maybe we were just talking about it. I don't know. My memory is so bad about the joy of being able to get together with children and grandchildren and no fussing, no fighting, but enjoying one another's company and being able to talk about the Lord. I think that would have been Job's family. But Job realized something about his adult children that are meeting together, that in that time of enjoying one another's company, They might say something in their heart or think something in their heart that would dishonor God. You know, when I when I started preaching, I I started I end up starting three Christian schools The first one that we started, the thing that amazed me the most is how naive Christian parents are about their children. I've asked this question many times. I'll ask it here tonight. How many of you ever did some ever did something That your parents never knew about. Anybody here like that? Anybody here? You did something your parents never knew about? Sure, I did too. But you know, Christian parents today don't think their children would But they will. And don't you go ask them. No sense in getting over it now. Just stay dumb and happy about it, I guess. That's the funny thing about these Christian school parents, you know, they they believe everything they hear about everybody else's children. But they don't believe anything they hear about their child. Their children will never do that. Their children would never say that. They'd never be this way. They'd never be that way. For some reason, this is crazy, but there are actually Christian homes that will not, the parents will never go into their child's room And check out to see what they've got in the room. Well, don't you trust them? Well no, why would you, man? They're covered with flesh. They got this stuff on them. You understand that? Paul says, I know that in me that is in my flesh well no good thing, for the will is present with me. But how to perform that which is good I find not. We've all got it. The same devil that hates you hates them. I mean we need to understand some things about our children. They still got hearts that are deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. Who can know it? And the Bible says to us, keep thy heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. You've got to keep your heart with all diligence, and then you don't think your children have to do the same, and if they don't, they're going to get into sin. You understand? You don't have to be a bad parent for your children to do wrong. We need to understand that about our kids. Job was not naive about his children. And that's absolutely amazing to me because in 50 years of ministry, I've seen a lot of parents extremely naive About their children. They'll leave churches because somebody saw their child do something and had the gall to actually tell on that child to the parent. And that's not being a tattletale. I can't correct my child from doing something wrong if I don't know that they did wrong. And I feel the only way I can help my child is if I know. So here's Job. He's not naive, amazing. Let me give you another amazing truth. Job's response to learning is lost. Now, this is amazing. He loses everything that he has. And you get down there in chapter 1 of the book of Job. Notice verse 20. It says, Then Job arose. He's lost everything. He's lost his children. They're dead. All ten of his children are dead. It says, then Job arose And rent his mantle and shaved his head and fell down upon the ground, underline it, and worshiped. You don't find him getting mad at God. He worshipped at a time of great loss, at a time of great heartache. Is a time for the child of God to worship. Matter of fact, you look at verse 21 And he said, Naked came I out of my mother's womb. Naked shall I return thither. The Lord gave, the Lord had taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. And all this, Job sinned not, nor charged God foolishly. This is absolutely amazing. I can't imagine losing one child. But think of having ten children and losing all of them at the same time. And he worshipped. Then I read that and I just sat there and meditated on that for a while. What an amazing man. Where did he find the strength? Because he turned to the right one. He worshipped. That's awesome. And then he loses his health. Time to get bitter on God, isn't it? Well, not Job. That's not the way that he did it. Look in verse 10 of chapter 2. Matter of fact, look at the last part of the verse, just the last part. We're going to cover the first part in a moment It says, in all this did not Job sin with his mouth. He was careful what came out of here. He has suffered heartache. He has suffered loss. He blesses God. He worships. And he's careful about what he says. You know, when the Bible says, Keep thy heart with all diligence, for out of into the issues of life, the very next verse says, put away from thee a forward mouth Because you see that mouth. That mouth is an overhead projector of your heart. You better be careful about what comes out of your mouth. People hear what comes out of your mouth. And when you allow the wrong things to come out of your mouth, it sets the wrong things on your heart. In a sense, according to Matthew chapter 15 and Mark chapter 7, that mouth is an overhead projector of what's on your heart. Be careful what you say. Especially in a time of grief. I know it's hard. I know it hurts. There's a lot of hardship in life There's a lot of tragedy in life, and some have a lot more than others. I doubt very many have ever beat Job For heartache and life, but they only turned him to worship. He's not running from the church. He's not staying home for six months. See, I don't understand that either. Alright, you have a loss. Don't you want to be with God's people? That's the people I'd want to be with If I sit alone and stew, it won't be long. I'm going to be saying all kinds of things I shouldn't be saying. When I'm hurting, I need to be around God's people. But mind they come up and they say, I'm so sorry, and they love on you. That's what you need. That's why they're there to help in that great time. Let me give you the fourth amazing observation in Job. And it's this: it's God's response to Job's wife. As you know in chapter two, after they've lost everything, she's no longer shopping at Bloomingdale's. She's not shopping at Target. She's boycotting. She's not even shopping at Walmart anymore. She's down at the Goodwill store. That's where she's shopping. She's also lost all ten of her children. And now her husband, her strength, the one who has been her companion, who has been her leader, who has been a rock. In all the trouble, it looks like he's gonna die. She's broken. Now God did not choose Job's wife to be his champion in this battle against Satan. He chose Job. There's a sense in which she is collateral damage. She says to Job, curse God and die. Job responds by saying, You speak as one of the foolish women. Now that tells me something about his wife. He wasn't used to hearing that kind of talk come from his wife. He says you speak as one of the foolish women. He doesn't say, why is it you always get like this when anything happens? He doesn't do that. Doesn't do it at all. What does God say about Job's wife? Nothing. She's broken. Right now, this is about Job and the confrontation between God and the devil He's the hero. But I want you to know something. God ends up giving her ten more children. God restores Her joy. I've heard preachers make fun of that and say God was getting even with her by making her have ten more children. I don't think she saw it that way. She didn't live in 2024 America. Children are a heritage of the Lord, and the fruit of the womb is his reward. This is amazing. God doesn't run her down like a whole lot of preachers do. That's amazing. It's amazing about God's response to Job's wife. Let me give you a fifth thing. Man, we're running through these things. I don't think I've ever gone through four points in my life this fast. Number five. Job's response to the show of his friends. When you get to verse 11, an amazing thing, an absolutely amazing thing, takes place. It says, Now when Job's three friends heard of all this evil that was come upon him, they came every one from his own place, Eliphaz the Temenite. Bildad the Shuhite, he wasn't very tall. And Zophar the Naamathite. Yeah, I wish you'd get that quick. I don't want you laughing five minutes from now. Alright. And and if the person next to you hasn't gotten it yet, please tell him Beldad the Shuhite, Zophar the Naamathite, for they had made an appointment together to come to mourn with him and to confront him. You understand they didn't have telephones. And these men were rich men. There's no telling how much Job had owned in land, but these people, now Job had more than they did initially. But these people, their land would have probably gone for miles. They couldn't get in the car and drive over to one another's house. They didn't have email They couldn't send a text. Now they could have sent a servant to try to make plans to go be with him, but it would have taken quite a journey. When they got there, notice what takes place. And when they lifted up their eyes afar off and knew him not, they lifted up their voice and wept, and they rent every one his mantle And sprinkled dust upon their heads toward heaven. Now look at this. So they sat down with him upon the ground seven days. And seven nights, and none spake a word unto him, for they saw that his grief was very great. This is amazing friendship. These people have left their families They have left their business, they have left their homes to go and to sit with their friend. They sprinkle the dust on their heads, a sign of mourning. They see him in great agony. He cannot speak. And they stay silent with him for seven days and seven nights. I believe if I had a heart attack tonight And was put in the ICU that my wife would be there every minute she could be there. I believe if it meant seven days, seven nights, if it meant seventy days and seventy nights, I believe my wife. Would be there. I don't think that I would have three friends Who would leave their homes and sit there for seven days and seven nights. Don't misunderstand me. I believe I have friends who would come up to the hospital to see me. I don't believe they'd be there seven days and seven nights. This is the first positive thing that has happened to Job. What an amazing example of friendship. Now you say, wait a second, preacher, they're going to accuse him of some things. Why? Let me tell you why I think. Now, what they do is wrong. God's going to rebuke them for it. I believe they're going to end up being sorry about some of the things that they say But you remember when Job lost everything, he worshiped. When he lost his health, he still did not charge God foolishly. He still spoke right about the Lord But after seven days of seven nights and saying nothing, his praises stopped. You get to chapter 3 and verse 1. Notice, after this Opened Job his mouth and cursed his day. Now it doesn't say he cursed God. He didn't curse God. He cursed his day So here are three good friends that have left everyone, everybody to come over to be with him. Seven days and seven nights they have sat up with him. They are there for him. And when he finally speaks, he curses his day. Now they say a lot of wrong things, but not everything they said was wrong. I'll mention one of those in just a moment But I believe it's because of the only thing that they had heard come out of Job's mouth was him cursing his day that they thought, uh-oh, something's wrong with Job. That's why he's suffering this. Now they didn't know what went on in heaven. They didn't know about the battle of the diet. And Job doesn't know about it. This verbal battle between the devil and the Lord, and the Lord's chosen him as his champion. They don't know about it. But you know it's funny for Christians When they see something happen in somebody else's life, they suddenly automatically know why in somebody else's life and don't have a clue in their own So these men speak up. Job, this obviously you've done wrong. They praise him in one point. Well, the one man says to him, Job, you know, when other people were hurting, you were there. But now it's happened to you, and you're falling apart. That sounds kind of harsh. But you know, they didn't have the woke culture around back then. And people could take things a whole lot better But these guys are wrong. And like I said, God's going to rebuke them for. But I understand why they came to that conclusion. I think the amazing thing is, and I believe the problem with Job in this particular time was that he went seven days and seven nights without praising the Lord. Seven days and seven nights without the worship. Praise ye the Lord. Praise God in his sanctuary. Praise him in the firmament of his power. Praise him for his mighty acts, praise him according to his excellent greatness, praise him with the sound of the trumpet, praise him with timberland dance, praise him with strength instruments and organs, praise him upon the loud cymbals Praise him upon the high-sounding symbols. Let everything that hath breath praise the Lord. Praise ye the Lord. Bible says, Rejoice in the Lord always. And again I say, rejoice. Bible says, rejoice evermore in everything, give thanks, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you. You say, but preacher, it is hard. I know it's hard. That's why you need to do it. Because if you don't, you'll be giving over to opening your mouth and cursing your day. Oh, you never curse God. I get that. Job doesn't curse God But that opens the door for him to spend the rest of the book trying to justify himself. And God's going to get after him about that, too. So I believe this is an amazing thing. Job's response to the show of his friends. The first good thing in several days that's happened to him. And he responds that way. Well, that leads me to the sixth thing. Now we're covering this book fast. Go over to chapter 32. Job chapter 32. This is amazing. What's amazing about this is Elihu's rebuke. And there's a few things in his rebuke that are absolutely amazing. Notice verses one through four. It says, so these three men ceased to answer Job because he was righteous in his own eyes. Then was kindled the wrath of Elihu, the son of Barakel the Buzzite Of the kindred of Ram, against Job was his wrath kindled because he justified himself rather than God. Now, God's not going to get after Elihu about that statement. As a matter of fact, God's going to get after Job because Elihu's telling the truth. Then he says, also against his three friends was his wrath kindled, because he had found no answer, and yet they had found no answer, and yet had condemned Job. Now, here it is. This is the first part of this amazing response by Elihu. Now, Elihu had waited till Job had spoken because they were elder than he. When Elihu saw that there was no answer in the mouth of these three men, then his wrath was kindled Down in verse 7 it says, I said days should speak before multitude of years should teach wisdom. Eli who kept his mouth shut until older people had their say. And I've run into, I'm sorry, I've run into way too many young preachers. You know, when I was a young preacher and I got around older preachers, I listened. I wanted to hear what they had to say. I thought that that might save me from some of the problems that might come about because of my youth and dumbness. And yet I run into so many young preachers who think they have all the answers. I mean, I know of one young man. He'd been pastoring for five years. He had 24 when he started pastoring. After five years, he still had twenty four. He wrote a book on how to preach. He called me up and he said, Brother Allison, he said I'd really like you to read my book and and put a little he had it on Amazon and he said put a little word in it so other people would want to read it. I read his book. I didn't put a little blurb in there. Because he hadn't learned how to preach yet. I mean, obviously his preaching hadn't accomplished very much. Now I'm sorry, that wasn't the time for him to write books. I'd want to read books like by John O'Rice about preaching. Or Dr. Sheldon Smith. I want to read books by him. Man, they've done it. They were successful at it. God blessed it. I mean, young preachers need to pay attention. I know I was one of those young preachers that would sit in what we called the happy corner at Tennessee Temple, where the young preachers would sit around and discuss how to really do things right. It's funny in all those conversations, nobody ever said, well, let's do it like Dr. Robertson. I believe it works. We thought we had the answer. No, we didn't. We were ignorant. Ignorance always knows all the answers. But a lie who's rebuked, here's a young man who keeps quiet while the older ones speak. There's something to learn. And then he finally does speak up, and when he speaks up, he stands up for God In verse 2, then was kindled the wrath of Elihu, the son of Barakel the Buzzite, last part of the verse, because he justified himself rather than God, that's speaking of Job. He's standing up for God. Go over to chapter 34. Chapter 34 and verse 10. Therefore, hearken unto me, ye men of understanding, far be it from God that he should do wickedness, and from the Almighty that he should commit iniquity He's standing up for God. You go on down to verse 12. Yea, surely God will not do wickedness, neither will the Almighty pervert judgment. He is standing up for God And then what I like even the most about what he says is in verse 9, back in chapter 32. Go back to it. Chapter 9, verse 32. He says, Great men are not always wise. I can't tell you how much that verse has helped me. When I went to Tennessee Temple, I had a teacher in the school by the name of Fred Athman. He became a good friend of mine. I loved him. He was an Old Testament scholar. He was good friends with people back at my home church. And questions would come up about when the couple preachers would get to fighting one another publicly, and he would say, remember this, the best men are still men at best. It doesn't make them bad men. May I say good men are not always wise? Yeah, we ought to respect our pastor, we ought to respect other men of God, but understand, there are going to be times when they're not wise, and most of them will be the first to admit it That they've made some decisions that if they had it to do over again, they'd have done something different. You understand? We want to be wise. We want to do things right. We want to do things the very best way we can to honor the Lord. But we're men. And no matter how much we want to do right, yeah, we're still covered about with this flesh too. And sometimes, oh I hate to say it, sometimes in some situation I've been one of Job's friends. I thought I had the answer, only to find out later I didn't have the answer I believe Job's friends, or Elihu here. It is amazing how he responded. He waited until they were done talking, and then he simply told the truth and uplifted God. Because he understood great men are not always wise. David wasn't always wise, but he was still a man after God's own heart. Man, you don't give up on a preacher just because they might have responded like they shouldn't have. In your opinion, you might be the one who's wrong, by the way. Understand that, because great men are not always wise. That includes great men in the congregation. Doesn't mean they're not great. Now, let me give you the seventh and last thing. Now, this is the topper of the whole thing. This is so anti-what we are today. You go to chapter 38. God comes on the scene. Conversation has taken place. Elihu's had his say. The three friends have had their say. Now God has already spoken about Job's three friends. Now God turns to Job. Notice verse 1. Then the Lord answered Job out of the whirlwind and said, Who is this that darkeneth counsel by words without knowledge? Gird up now thy loins like a man, for I will demand of thee, and answer thou me. You know what Job had just gone through Do you know what he's just suffered? Yes, he was God's champion and he didn't know what had gone on. Job, though, had spent a lot of time justifying himself and not God. God doesn't come on the scene and say, Job, I know you've been hurting, man. I know you've had it tough. I want to thank you. I want to thank you for being the champion that I told the devil that you were. No. Job, sit up and listen like a man Then he asks Job 84 questions and never waits for an answer. Think you're so smart, Job? Well, who did this? Who did this? Who did this? Who did this? What about his feelings? I tell ya. Pardon me, all these women's sports announcers of men's sports drive me nuts. Drive me nuts. Because as soon as they get here they are on the sideline, pardon me, but here they are on the sideline. They see the play like everybody else. The game's over. Here's the star. He caught the pass. And they go running up to the guy and they say, How do you feel? I don't care how he feels I want to know about the play. You had to run past this guy, the ball was a little higher, you had to reach behind you. How did you get it done? No, how do you feel? And then they let him into the locker room, which is wrong again. They let him into the locker room. And here these guys are, man, they're rejoicing, they're exciting, they they won the championship. And she takes her microphone, she says, How do you feel? Sports isn't about how you feel, it's did you win? And every man, when he wins, feels good. And then they go over to the losers. How do you feel? Get out of here, lady. How do you feel? We are so in touch with feelings. We've lost our manhood. He says to Job, he says, gird up now thy loins like a man, and I will demand of you. And Job's to sit and listen. And when God gets done with him, he says in chapter 42, I abhor myself and repent. He then needed to get right about some things. This nonsense where we've got to take care of everybody's feelings, it's time adults grow up and become adults. And yeah, hard things are going to take place. I get that. It's going to break your heart. And yes, it's going to hurt. But we're not little kids anymore. We're adults. We shouldn't be ignorant of the fact that there's pain, there's heartache, that's part of life. But we have a great God who's promised us a place where there is no pain, there is no sorrow. Hallelujah! That's coming! Until then, we're to glorify our God. Let's pray. Father, we come to you in the name of the Lord Jesus. Thank you, dear God, for these amazing things that you show us out of the book of Job. And there are many more I know we could spend more time on. But God, please use these truths to help us tonight. That when the trials come We show our faith. We show our faith in our God who will take us through. For we ask it in Jesus' name