Would turn there. I can get a couple ushers up here. You're gonna be excited. I got a handout for tonight. I love handouts. I like making them up. I like giving them out. I like filling them in I like them. So we're going to give them out to you, and you get an extra star if you fill in all the blanks. Proverbs 1130. Now, I might be, uh it's kind of a continuation of what we were preaching Sunday, not by design. It's the first It's not the first Wednesday of the month. I'm telling you, my mind is still somewhere over the Pacific. I'm a week off. I just realized that. All right, too bad. But normally the first Wednesday of the month we give tips on soul winning. And for some reason I had in my mind tonight was the first Wednesday of the month. So we're going to do it anyway. But it's a little continuation of Sunday night and a little repetitious. I know you're shocked to think that I would ever be repetitious. in any of my messages, but um nevertheless it probably is going to be a little bit. Alright everybody got one? Everybody got a handout? Alright. You need some more? You can have 'em. There will be a quiz on this. Spelling does count. Look at Proverbs 11:30. We referenced this Sunday night. It says this: the fruit of the righteous is a tree of life, and he that winneth souls is wise. And we try to take one Wednesday a month and talk about tips for personal soul winning. And so that's what we're going to do tonight. Let's pray. And uh I'll give you what I got here. Father in heaven, I thank you, Lord, for uh that old lighthouse that was sung about here just a moment ago. And my mind did go back to the night that I called on you to be my Savior and you rescued me from the rocks of sin and gave me a new life, a new direction. And Lord, we think of so many thousands and thousands and thousands of people around us. that are still lost in sin, that are still without Christ. And so I pray that you would stir me and our church. And us as individuals that we be uh a little more bold in our witness, a little more confident, maybe a little more um uh gracious and uh uh effective in sharing the gospel and that we could see other people say, so please bless this lesson, fill me with your spirit, I pray. Speak through me and teach us, Lord, to be good soul witness, good witnesses of the gospel of Christ. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I want to answer your question and start off with just by way of introduction. I think there's a lot of reasons. There's many reasons why we ought to try to win souls to the Lord Jesus Christ. We ought to try to get other people saved. Can somebody give me what you think are some reasons why we as Christians ought to try to win others to the Lord Jesus Christ. Somebody help me out here. Keep people from going to hell. That's huge. Huge. How about any others? What's that? We're commanded to do so. God has told us. Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. Not a suggestion, not a uh uh not some advice, but a command. Dorothy Just caring for other people. That's good. We care about them and their well-being. Any others? Motives? Reasons why we would seek to win souls? Okay, bring hope into their life. Yeah, bring some hope there. Any others? Cindy? Has a profound impact on the home. Homes are changed. communities are affected. The more Christians you have in a community, the better off that community is. I agree. That's good. Any others, who else would come up with something? Reasons to win sober. What's that? We get rewards in heaven? I don't think it's wrong to work for rewards. The Lord wouldn't offer them. He tells us, I'll reward you. So that's a good one. Anything else? It pleases the Lord. It pleases the Lord. I put down these, and you've added two some good ones. I put down well God's commanded us to. I've put down, and there's no place on the blanks on these. I'm not at I didn't open the teapod yet. So we'll open that here in a minute. But um God's commanded us reality of heaven and hell. And these are the other two I put down and you touched on them. I thought of this having a part in the transformation of someone's life. 2 Corinthians 5. 17. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away, behold, all things become new. And think about having a part in that That God would use me to transform an old drunkard into a sober guy, that God would work through me to do that. Well, I tell you what, that's rewarding What about the woman at the well? Now of course this was the Lord Jesus Christ, but here you have a woman. She's very promiscuous, obviously, in her life. And she comes the Lord Jesus Christ, she gets saved, and no doubt she's a new creature. God transforms her life. And one amazing thing that is And I was preparing this, I was thinking, just looking out over the congregation of a Sunday morning folks that I knew before they came to Christ and what they are now and how God has so transformed their lives. What a powerful motivation to try and win others to Christ to be have a part in a person's total transformation. And I put this one down, and again, you all expanded on this, but bringing hope into the lives of others Take your Bible, if you would, and turn to Ephesians. And Lord willing, we're going to look at quite a few verses here. Ephesians chapter 2 And he makes a almost a disturbing statement about the condition of an unsaved person, Ephesians chapter 2. And look with me at verse 12, Ephesians 2, 12. He says that at that time ye were without Christ. Alright? He's writing to the church at Ephesus. And he's saying, before you came to Christ, at that time you were without Christ. Now Paul shows up and they get saved, but he's telling them what they were like before he showed up, before he brought the gospel. He says you're without Christ being aliens from the commonwealth of Israel and strangers from the covenants of promise. Now look at his next statement, having no hope. And without God in the world. Verse 13, but now in Christ Jesus, ye who sometimes were afar off are made nigh by the blood of Christ. You think about Paul. I thought about Paul writing this letter to them, thinking about what the believers there were like before he came, before he shared the gospel with them, before he won them to Christ They were without God, without hope in the world. They were alien from God. He says, but now I brought the gospel, you believed it, you were saved, now you're here. What an amazing thing. I thought about the fe the uh Philippian jailer. Now I wanted to turn there, but we if I turn to all these, we won't have time. But Acts chapter 16, verse 27, there was a tremendous earthquake there Paul's in prison, the jailer. The jailer thinks that everybody escapes. How does the jailer respond to his thinking that everybody's escaped? What's he going to do? He's going to kill himself. He's going to commit suicide. However, and you can look this up sometime on your own, but if you come down to verse thirty-four, after he calls on the Lord He says, what must I do to be saved? Believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. The Bible says he and his whole house were saved. And in verse 27, he says that he is rejoicing. His whole household is rejoicing. So in just a handful of verses, he goes from committing suicide to now his whole house is happy and rejoicing. Why? Because Paul told him how to get saved. Paul pointed him to Christ and he believed and got saved. And what a transformation. Going from no hope whatsoever. There's nothing to do. The only solution to my problems is take my life. To now his whole house is happy and rejoicing in the Lord. And so what a tremendous thing to uh have a part in taking the message of Christ, sharing it intelligently and understandably. with an unsaved person, that unsaved person understands it, grasps it, they call on the Lord, their soul is saved from hell, their life is transformed, and you and I have a part in that. How many people agree with me? That's something that's pretty exciting That's pretty exciting. Do you think these doctors that save people's lives do these transplants, do you think they find fulfillment? I saved that person's life. They were going to die. I extended their life? Sure. Think about what soul winning is And the fulfillment in that and the joy that comes with that. So we have a lot of motives. There's a lot of reasons for you and I as Christians to invest ourselves and give time and effort into trying to get other people saved. Now I want to give you some tips. These seven peas in the soul-winning pod. Nothing is new. We've heard these many times over, but I've just kind of put them together. And uh just kind of stir us on here on this once a month uh tips on soul winning. Number one, here's your blank. Number one, soul winning is my primary purpose I'll try and make sure I follow how it's worded, how I worded it here. Soul winning is my primary purpose. It's actually two P's in that one, but we're only going to count one. Soul winning is my primary purpose on earth. Luke chapter 2, write this reference down. I thought I'd put that on there. Write this reference down. Luke chapter 2, verse 2. 49. He makes a statement of I must be about my father's business. I must be about my father's business. Then you go over to Luke chapter 19 and verse 10. Alright, 19 and verse 10. Luke. Does anybody know what Luke 19 verse 10 says? For the Son of Man is to come to seek and to save that which was lost. So he says in chapter 2, he says, I have to be about my father's business. Then all the way over to chapter 19 he tells us what that business is seeking and saving that which was lost. Now I do want you to turn to John chapter number 20 and look with me at verse 21. So he says, I must be about my father's business. My father has work for me to do. He has a business I'm involved in. I need to stay focused on that. I need to be about that He says, that business in chapter 19 is seeking and saving that which is lost. Then in chapter 20 and verse number 21, look what he says. He's talking to his disciples. And verse 21, John 20, then said Jesus to them again, peace be unto you. Look at this next statement. Look at it. Are you see it there? As my Father has sent me, what's the last statement? Even so send I you. What's he saying? He's saying, the same purpose I came to earth. That my father's business seeking to save that which was lost, that's I'm sending you to do the same thing. Now obviously he's not saying we die on the cross for people. I can't save anybody. I can't give myself to be a sacrifice, an atonement for someone else's sin. Only Jesus can do that. But the purpose of his coming, the business of his coming, was to have lost people be able to find salvation in the Lord Jesus Christ. And he says that's Well, I'm sending you. I'm giving you that purpose. Why does Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church exist? So that we can bring other people to the Lord Jesus Christ. It's our primary purpose here on earth. We are given, I put it this way, and this isn't no blanks there in your handout, but I put it this way, we are given the same overall purpose of Christ But I thought about this also. We're given the same spiritual power as Christ. Now here's something very interesting. When you read through the Gospels, if you're reading through the Bible this year, you have a Bible reading schedule. When you get to the Gospels, I want you to take note when you read through there. How many miracles does Jesus perform before his baptism? Can anybody tell me? How many miracles did Jesus perform before his baptism? Zero. Zip, nada, zilch, none. What happens at his baptism? Something very unusual takes place at his baptism. The Holy Spirit As a dove comes upon him, and he's filled with the Holy Spirit. All of Jesus' miracles were performed after He was empowered by the Holy Spirit. Isn't that interesting? Now I could be wrong on this, but I don't see any recorded conversions. Of the Lord Jesus Christ before his baptism, before his baptism, before he's empowered by the Holy Spirit. That tells me something. We need the power of the Holy Spirit if we're going to be effective soul winners. If we're going to see other people saved, we need the power. So God gave us the same purpose. Our primary purpose here is seeking to save that which is lost. But he also gives us the power. Can you think of a verse somewhere where God says that he will give us the power of the Holy Spirit to win souls. Anybody think of a verse? How about Acts chapter 1, verse 8? But ye shall receive power after that the Holy Ghost has come upon you. Then he says this, and ye shall be witnesses unto me. In fact he told the disciples uh to To wait to pray 120 days. Wait till you be endued with power from on high. Acts chapter 1, he says that. And so our primary purpose here on earth Our primary purpose here on earth is the let me tie into the song they sang. Our primary purpose is to keep that old lighthouse shining Keep that message of Christ going out. Get that to every single person. Every little corner, every little alleyway, every little shadowed corner, every little apartment building, every every basement apartment every garage apart everywhere get it to every single person that's our primary purpose all right there's P P number one in the pod our primary purpose all right number two I must present myself to the Lord for Him to use me. I must present myself to the Lord for Him to use me. I mentioned this a minute ago, but I can't save a soul. I can I can save my own soul I've told this story a number of times, but we had a fella here not long after I showed up. He had come here from California. He was kind of running from the law, I think. He didn't specifically say that, but every time a policeman went by he hid And so he's kind of coming running from the law. He came out here and the old boy got saved. And he got baptized or coming to church. Dave Stork. I don't know if any of you all remember Dave Stork. I always point out he's about that tall standing up and he is about that tall laying on his back. I mean he's just round. And um Old Dave, and when he first got saved, he got baptized, he was really excited. He kind of struggled for a little while there in his Christian life, but God intervened and chastened him and worked, and man, he took off And uh he would I like to tell this story. He would sit right about where Cindy is or Derek or uh or um Ken or it might have been over there, I don't know, but No, it was in this area here. And uh his wife and and I'd be preaching and he'd just his face would get all red and he'd be squirming around And uh one time I went out and I was in the back shaking hands, he came by and says, Pastor, when you're preaching, I just want to say amen. I said, Dave, let her rip, man. Let her rip. And uh the next Sunday I said something I don't know what. Amen. He was so happy. One Thursday night, we're going out visiting, and he says, Pastor, I'm coming out visiting Thursday night. I said, That's great, Dave. I said uh I said, uh if you got some buddies, you know some people that aren't saved, we'll go visit them. We'll talk to them about the Lord and see if they won't trust the Lord. And uh he so he showed up Thursday night and he said, Pastor, I got some guys. I told them I was gonna bring you by and you would save them. Now I know what he meant, right? We know what he meant. I was going to lead him to Christ is what he wanted to happen But he didn't word it quite right. And I had to say to him, Dave, listen, I can't save them. I couldn't save you. I can't even save myself. Christ is the one that saves. And so when we engage, when we get involved in soul winning, when we get involved in winning other people to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ, what we have to understand, it's not me, it's not me doing it, it's Christ working through me. It's Christ speaking through me. And so what I need to do is simply present myself to the Lord and basically say something with all my heart, meaning it say something like this, Lord, here I am. Take me and use me. Speak through me. As I go out and visit folks tonight. As I visit with somebody or talk to somebody or confront someone, Lord, I just want to be fully presented to you. I want to be a full a vessel in your hands that you work through me And you convict them of their sin, you draw them to yourself, and you save them when they call on them. And so that's what it's all about. All I am, all a soul winner is, and this takes, I'm telling you, this takes a lot of the pressure off. If I just view myself, I'm just a conduit, that the Holy Spirit, that God is speaking through me, I'm giving the Word of God, and God is just working through me into their hearts There's been many times, and some of you involved in soul winning on a regular basis, I know you've seen it, there's been many times, and I'm giving the gospel, I'm going through the plan of salvation, no different than I have a hundred other people. And while I'm giving it, you can just see the conviction. Of the Holy Spirit of God settling in on them. Anybody know what I'm talking about? You just sense it. And that's not me doing it. I'm not doing any different than others where I didn't send it. But the Holy Spirit of God, God is working through me. and convicting their heart. I'm just a conduit. I'm simply the delivery man. And by the way, my life and my lips are that conduit. What I'm saying, but also, we've got to watch this. We neglect this sometime in our soul winning, but how I live my life. is extremely important. And the Spirit of God will work through me. I see that in my father, I say so many times, but I saw Christ in my daddy, how he lived Not as preaching to me so much he didn't nag me, but man, I saw Christ in his life. That brought great conviction God would work through him But you still need the lips, you still need to express and give that gospel. So I must present myself to the Lord. Now how do I do that? What all does that involve? I think that means I have to walk close to the Lord I've got to keep my heart and my mind pure. Um God i God God can use a donkey If he needs to, right? We've read of that. And so God can use his word can work through about anything. The Bible says that if if the people didn't praise him, the rocks would cry out. So he can use a rock if he needs to. But um when it comes to us, God uh will be more effective if our heart and life and mind is pure and we stay close to the Lord, keep short accounts of the Lord. I think we need to meditate daily in God's word, spend time Every day in the Word of God. Let God speak to my heart. Let God keep me close to Him. Keep short accounts with the Lord. Uh if if sin, if and when sin does show up. Wait, confess that and forsake it. I was reading my devotions Uh yesterday, the day before, just recently, I was reading in Proverbs. It would have been the 24th. When was that? Saturday. I read my devotion Saturday where it says that whoso covereth his sin shall not prosper. But he is it the twenty fourth. It's in there somewhere. See me afterward I'll show it to you. But uh it says who shall covereth the sin shall not prosper, but he that confesseth and forsaketh his sin shall find mercy. And I wrote in the margin of my Bible, two things you do with sin. You say, I got some sin. All right, there's two things you should do with it. Number one, confess it. And number two, what? Forsake it. Confess it, forsake it. And so if I want to be presented to the Lord, yield to the Lord, I need to get this sin. So I confess that I forsake it. I walk close with him, spend time in his word. I'm earnest in prayer. And here's something I started years ago. I try to on a daily basis, but um I try to of the morning when I have my devotions, I try and just say something to express this to the Lord one way or another, say Lord, I'm yours today. I yield and submit and surrender my will, myself to you today, however you see fit to use me. And so if I want to be an effective witness, I must present myself to the Lord. Lord, you can use me I keep my heart and mind and life pure. I walk close to you, and you just I'll just be the conduit and you work through me. Alright, number three, the third P in the pod, in the soul-winning pod. I like this one, I hope this one helps us. B, I must be persuaded that God will use me I must be persuaded that God would use me. I've found that folks that had this idea, oh God could never use me. You know what I found out? He don't. Oh, God could never use me. But he can You know, if I walk around and say, oh, it can't be done, it can't be done, it can't be done, guess what? It won't get done. And I've got to get to the point, say, hey, you know, God could use me. To bring somebody to Christ. I must be persuaded. I must have faith that God can and God will use me to win others to Christ. Now I want you to turn to this verse, if you would. Psalms 126. Psalms 126. John R. Ice used to preach on this passage a lot. Psalms 126. Let me get here. And I want to begin reading in verse number 5. Psalms 126, verse 5. By the way, this is a good verse to underscore in your Bible or highlight in some way. Psalms 126, look at verse 5. They that sow in tears, what's the next word? Shall it doesn't say might. And say, maybe says they that sow in tears shall reap in joy. Now, verse 6 kind of expands on that. He that goeth forth and weepeth, bearing precious seed, shall what? Doubtless come again with rejoicing, bringing his sheaves with him Doubtless. What does doubtless mean? Without a doubt. There's no doubt about it. He's saying this. Listen, I want you to understand. When you go forth and sow the Word of God You go forth, and for the context of our message, you go forth and you're going to give out the gospel to people with the intention of seeing them trust Christ and be saved. When you do that, you shall doubtless, without a doubt, Come again with rejoicing, bringing your what? Sheaves with them. It's the whole concept, and Jesus used this in the Gospels a number of times, the whole concept of sowing and reaping. He says, you sow that seed, you're going to reap a harvest. You sow the Word of God, you sow the gospel, you doubtless shall come again. with rejoicing. Now, those two words, I circled the word shout and the word doubtless, and those are what I like to call certainty words. There's certainty words. I can be certain of that. It's not a maybe hope so think so. You say, could God use me? You need to be persuaded. God can and God will use you. I am positive if we get involved in soul eating, does that mean that every time I witness to somebody they're going to get saved? No, that doesn't mean that. He's not suggesting at all, but he does mean this, that every time I share the gospel with people, it's going to have an impact. It's going to have an effect. I had a lady years ago who was so faithful coming out, visiting, visiting, visit, visiting. And one time she came to me and she says, Pastor Leatherman, she says, I visit and visit and visit and I never see anybody get saved. She goes, I I don't know if I should even do it. And I said, Sue, you need to keep doing that. God's using you. You might not see the results. uh right there. But I'm telling you you're having an impact and it's having an effect. And doubtless you'll come again with rejoicing. God will use what you're what you're doing. You follow what I'm trying to say here Sometimes that that effect, sometimes that God is using us in ways we're not even conscious of. God will use us in ways we're not even conscious of. There's a illustration I use on this, and one of our missionaries, can anybody think what I'm thinking? That God used someone to have a profound impact on them and they never even were aware of it. Anybody know who I'm thinking of? Sean Lunday, remember? The guy put that tract on this windshield. Sean gets saved, goes off to Bible college, becomes a missionary, and to this day, and when Sean was here, we talked to him about it, to this day that guy put the track there. if he's still living, probably has no idea the impact of that little witness had on a on a young man's life Doubtless come again with rejoicing. God can and will use us. We must be persuaded of that. If I trust Him and I get involved and I go out and do this, God will use me. God will use me Sure. That's a great point. In other words, me being faithful and going witnessing and engaging people and being active, proactive and sharing the gospel with others. may influence another Christian to do that, and that other Christian may win someone to Christ that I never could have, that God used, but indirectly my influence affected them, which brought that person to Christ. See And so we've got to be persuaded if we just step out and do it, just get involved, just take that act and share the gospel with people, the impact, they doubtless shall come again with rejoicing. So sometimes we're conscious that he's using us, sometimes we're not conscious. But nevertheless, I must be persuaded he's using us. Think about the hundreds of thousands of gospel tracts that we have distributed over the years here. You will never convince me for one minute that God hasn't used some of those. in ways that we will never know till we get to heaven. What about that Chinese gal in Morgantown? Remember that? Just left the track. We would have never known if that fellow wouldn't have called us, we'd have never known the impact that's there So we must be persuaded. You must be persuaded. I must be persuaded that God will use me if I simply trust him and obey him. Number where are we at? Four? The fourth P in this pod. Plan to win souls. Plan to win souls. Be proactive. Oh, one of these days, someday I'm gonna get involved, someday. No, no, no. Just put it down and plan on it. Um Last night, uh, late afternoon, I had made some visits. I went and saw Charlie and did some, put swords out and did a little thing around a kind of kind of a down day I was just trying to recoup a little. And uh but it did that and I had got back around 1. 30 and I had a little time in the afternoon. I thought, eh, I don't want to just sit around. And so I thought, oh, I'll go out to the tree stand, I'll do some work on the tree stand. I threw the fishing pole in Just in case. Um just in case, you know. And so uh I got done there early. I still had a couple hours. It was a beautiful day yesterday. And I got that fishing pole out and guess what I was planning on doing when I threw that pole out there? I was planning on catching fish I wasn't planning on just standing there making a worm wet, you know. I was gonna catch some fish. I was out after something. I was planning on it. And I'd like to report I succeeded tremendously But um uh that's the way it ought to be when we go soul winning and we ought to plan on it. All right, I'm gonna go out there, I'm gonna go and get the gospel to somebody. If we just wait around for it to happen, it's ain't it ain't gonna happen And uh we must plan on that. All right, I am going to get out there. Be proactive is what I put out. When an athlete enters a race, he plans on winning that race. Um a wrestling team, they get out on that mat. They play I don't know, I wouldn't I wouldn't root for a guy that didn't plan on winning. Right? Well, I don't plan on winning this. What? You knuckle ahead. Why don't you even bother doing it? And so we got to plan on it. Plan on it. Plan on it. Pray regularly for the lost. Do I have a list there under that one? Pray regularly for the lost. Seek to contact them about their need for Christ. I mean just say, alright, there's some maybe it's an individual, maybe it's a neighborhood, all right. I'm gonna make contact. I'm gonna somehow make contact with these people about their need for Christ. Next, be interested in their interests. And that's where somebody said about caring about them. Just care about people. I found out that those people believe that I really care about them, they tend to listen to me a whole lot more. And so be interested in their interests. And then last one, keep on keeping on until they're saved. Now I might not be the one to see him saved, but I want to say this: don't ever give up on anybody. Don't ever give up on anybody. You keep on trying to be a witness to them. Share the gospel with them. You know, you may have to adjust it after you've shared it 970 times. You might have to, you know, take a little different approach or whatever, but just stay at it and stay at it and stay at it. I always say this I'm so glad my daddy didn't quit praying for me and trying to win me to Christ after seven years, because it was eight years till I came to Christ. Uh I was thinking, I was reading about um uh the fellow that had the children's home over in London. Um Mueller, Mueller, George Mueller had a fellow he was praying for, trying to win to Christ For twenty years he died, the guy was unsaved. It was a number of years later that guy got saved, after Mueller had died and gone on to heaven. Finally that fellow came to Christ. I'm glad he didn't quit, right up to his grave. He kept trying to win that guy, kept trying to win that guy, kept trying to get win that guy. So don't ever give up on that. So plan to win souls. Number five, I've got to give you these last few here real quick. Be prepared for the Lord to use me. Be prepared for the Lord to use me. I learned something in these years, a few things about the Lord. I found out the Lord always doesn't work on my schedule. How many people ever found that out? He's usually slower than what I want to be. You know, I usually got to do it now. I found out he's never late, seldom early, but he's always on time. And so I need to be prepared at any given moment when somebody's going to cross my path to be a witness to them, to be able to share the gospel with them. I told you this before, but a number of years we had a fellow here, this is a long time ago, and he came out visiting and I had a somehow I had a contact with somebody and I said, would you and so-and-so go visit this fellow and try and win him to the Lord? And he said this, he goes, Oh, I can't visit him. I said, why not? He goes, my testimony to him is terrible. He would never listen to me. I mean if you'll agree with me, that's a shame. That ought never to be. I ought to be prepared at any moment, any place, to be able to share the gospel with anybody And if there's somebody that my testimony is wrong with that I couldn't witness to them, top priority is I need to go and make that right so that I can. And whatever it takes, humble myself and make that right. And so I need to be prepared at any place, at any time. On an airplane, we tried to witness on the when we were on the plane, anywhere we're at, at work, in the m grocery store somewhere We ought to be available at any time. Lee Bowman had a little Bible college over there for a number of years, and I taught for a couple years in his little Bible college. And uh I forget what night it was, it was a week night, and he'd have me go over and I taught two classes and so it was kinda long. A lot of times it was late in the evening. I hate to eat before I speak very much, so I would just not eat too much before So I get out about 9, 9. 30. It's about two-hour drive over here, hour and a half, two hour drive over here. I get to about Morgantown and I was about starving. I mean I was s I was skin and bones, just nothing. It was terrible And so uh I pulled in this McDon uh the Burger King there at Sabreton Exit. I went in there as a Burger King. I went in. And I didn't feel like eating and driving, so I I got it to for there and I ordered my uh double triple uh quarter pounder with cheese and bonus fries. I don't know what I ordered, but I ordered my meal And a diet coach. And when I was done, I said, uh, by the way, I said, can I leave a little gospel track with you? There's a young lady there who said, Can I leave a little gospel track with you? It tells how you can know for sure you're going to heaven when you die And uh she goes, Oh, thank you very much. I said, You're welcome. And so I got my meal and went over. It's like ten thirty at night, ten o'clock, ten thirty at night. And I'm sitting there and and just enjoying my meal. I think I had a book, I was reading a book And finally she came over. She goes, Sir, she says, Are you a preacher? And I said, Well, yeah, by the way, actually I am. I said, at a Baptist church in Oakland. She goes, Can I ask you a few questions? I said, Sure. I said, have a seat. It was very public. She sat down across from me and she started telling me some stuff going on in her heart and life. And I said, well, did you read that tract? She goes, I just kind of looked at it. I said, well, let's look at it I got it out and I got my Bible out and that gal across the table from me bowed her head and trusted Jesus our Savior. You never know. At any moment, at any given place, we ought to be prepared to share the gospel with people. And so the point is be prepared for the Lord to use you. We never know. God doesn't work on our schedule. That would have been terrible if I said, now wait a minute, it's not Thursday night. You know, I only go soul winning Thursday night, and it's not Thursday night. We can't do this. I had a lady tell me one time she would not get saved. She was an elder lady over here across 135. She lived in a little trailer. This is right when I got here And she would not get saved. She says, if I ever get saved, it'll be in a church house. I said, boy, you might never make it to the church house. You better get saved. And so people, it ought to be anytime, anywhere, we ought to be prepared to share the gospel. Number six, let me give you this one real quick. I like this one. I am part of a team in the winning of a soul. Very seldom is it just one person that witnesses to a person they get saved. And I think I've touched on this Wednesday night in the message or Sunday night in the message Hardly ever you one person comes up, meets a person, the first time they hear the gospel, the only person that's ever been a witness to them, and that person gets saved. You know the way it works There have been people in their past been praying for them, gave a gospel tract to them, been witnessing to them, having an influence in them, and I just happen to be the one at the right time when that apple is right, and I can pull it And they get saved. It's not just me. There are many, many other people. And so sometimes me giving a gospel tract to someone, they may not get saved then. But I'm part of a team. I'm part of a series of witnesses that are in their life that eventually down the road, I may sit down with them on their porch. and uh go through the plan of salvation with them. They may not get saved. An interruption may come up. Something comes. I don't see them get saved. But maybe I'm part of a team of people who is having an influence, a witness on them, at some point they'll get saved. And so we have to be very, very careful. Boy, I led this person to the Lord. Well, I had the privilege of them calling on the Lord. But wait a minute, there's a whole lot of other people that no doubt have been praying, been witnessing, and working on them I told you about the time we were going to a trip, it might have been to Puerto Rico one time, I think we were going down there, and it was down at in in DC at Dulles Airport. And it was late it was early in the morning, late at night, something like that. There's hardly anybody there. And I was going through security. My shoes are off and everything there. I'm hoping I'm keeping my pants up, you know, my belt and everything's going through. And I said, here, can I give you a gospel track? The guy working behind here. He said, What is it? A gospel tract tells how you from the Bible, how you know you go to heaven, not the hill. He goes, Oh, hey Bob, here's one of those papers you've been giving me The guy down several belts down there was working the thing. You know what was happening? That guy'd been witnessing to him. So what'd that make me? I was part of a team. That was working on him. And so it's very some just us. And the last one, I like this one too. I am a partner with Christ. I am a partner with Christ. Do you have a reference under that? All right, let me give you a reference. 1 Corinthians chapter 3. And I'll read it to you just for sake of time here. 1 Corinthians chapter 3 and verse 7 through 9. So then neither is he that planteth anything, neither he that watereth, but God that giveth the increase. Now he that planteth and he that watereth are one, and every man shall receive his own reward according to his own labor. For we are laborers to I like this statement, for we are laborers together with God Ye are God's husband and ye are God's building. What's he saying here? It is us working with God. God allows us to have a part in his salvation of a soul. It's not just me. I had this idea early on in witnessing. I went down to and when I got from the moment I got saved, there was a desire in my heart to share the gospel with others. It was just God did it I got down to temple and under Dr. Lee Robertson and the s and the church there, it was soul winning. Boy, and I got stirred up and I wanted to be a soul winner. But I had this mentality in my head that I had to get everyone I witnessed to, I had to win them to Christ. And man, I was under such pressure and I was like, oh, I gotta win them to Christ. And I'm gonna go to this door. I've got to win this person to Christ And they come there and I witnessed to them and I couldn't leave until they were safe. And I put myself under such pressure until after a while I learned, wait a minute, it's not me Saving them. It is God allowing me to have a part in Him saving their soul. Does that make sense? It's the Lord doing it. It's the Lord doing it. And he has chosen to use us as his partner Workers with him, together with him, and bringing the people to Lord Jesus Christ. And um it's kind of like, to me, I picture it this way. When the boys were small and uh we had to move um let's say we had to move a board, uh two by six or something, we had to move this. And I'd have the boys and they couldn't carry that. But I'd get them to help me and so I'd get the big part of the board and they would have just the little light in and they would carry it and they would be helping me carry that board. That's kind of the way I look, soul-winning It's God doing it all. But He lets me have a have a hold of that board and help me carry that board and bring the gospel to people and see people saved. But it's Him. I'm a worker together with Him Isn't that a blessing? That takes so much pressure off. And so all I've got to do is get a hold of my board and get out there and just start telling people about the Lord Jesus or invite them over to the house or some way, somewhere another. And give them the gospel. Seven peas in the soul winning pot. I hope these are helpful. Let's pray and ask the Lord to make us soul winners this year. Let's pray and ask the Lord that these next, what do we got, ten months left out of the year that we could really see some people saved, lives changed, that God would do it, but we would do our part in bringing people to Christ. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now. And fill us with your spirit. Give us this burden. Give us the boldness that they prayed for in the book of Acts to speak the word of God as we ought to. And Lord, I look at this old world as so crazy. And I don't know what's happening to our country. And uh, but I know they need Christ. And so I pray That you would help me and all of us as members of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church to be faithful and be active In this matter of getting the gospel to the lost people and doing all we can to urge them to trust you. And we ask now that you would bless in Jesus' name. Amen.