Back to Psalms 119 with me. How many grandparents do we have in the service here? Grandparents. Look at that. Man, that's a bunch. There's a lot of old people here I haven't attained to that yet. But uh Bill Cosby cracks me up. He said um talking about his children's grandmother. He said, my kids think that my mom, they gotta think about this, it's because we said, my kids think that my mom is a great, great woman. He said, I'm trying to tell them that is not the woman I grew up knowing. He said, she's just an old woman trying to get into heaven I thought that was humorous. Psalm 119. Uh I'd like for you to read with me verse number 30. Psalms 119, verse number 30, if you would. Read that together with me. Ready? I have chosen the way of truth. Thy judgments have I laid before me. That phrase, first half of that verse, really catches my attention every time I read it. I have chosen the way of truth. The psalmist here says, I've made a conscious decision. That I am going to go the way that is true. Now, using that verse as a foundation, I want to speak this morning on what I believe are seven vital decisions That needs to be made in our lives. Seven decisions that we have to consciously decide if our lives are going to be what God intends them to be. So let's have a word of prayer and um we'll look at this uh this thought. Father in heaven, bless now our study of your word. God, our hearts are heavy for uh the condition of our land, this whole world is so sinful. Lord, it's almost beyond comprehension. We ask God that you would help us as Christians, those of us that know you as Savior, help us to draw close to you I pray that in this dark, dark hour we would be lights shining clear, crystal clear of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ and the truth of the Word of God. And I ask, Lord, this morning, especially that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I present to you my body anew. I yield my will to yours. I ask you would speak through me, challenge us, and I pray, Lord, that every one of us here Would make these seven vital decisions in our lives, have them in place, and God, we can see what you can do for us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I don't think anybody ever starts out determined that they're going to fail. I don't think anybody not seriously starts out a uh school, their education And decide, yeah, I'm gonna completely fail, I'm gonna bomb out uh right from the start. For the most part, reasonable people, they start out and they're determined I'm gonna succeed at this, I'm gonna make this something. Um very f reasonable people don't start a new job and say, alright, I'm going to completely fail at this job. That's my goal. That's what I'm setting out to do. be a total failure and uh be fired from this. Reasonable people don't do that. Reasonable people determine I'm going to succeed at this. I want to maybe work my way up the ladder. I want I want to make progress here. I want some uh uh opportunities for advancement in my life. People want to succeed, reasonable people, wise people want to succeed. Nobody starts out in a marriage saying, yeah, I want this marriage to completely fail, be a total disaster. That's what uh we're going to plan on shoot for. Uh no, nobody reasonable people don't do that. People want to succeed. So I think our danger in life, one of the dangers in life, is not that we don't pursue success in various areas. But our danger in life is that we seek to succeed at things that have little or no value. We want to succeed at something that in the grand scheme of things is meaningless. Years ago, um, as you know, I enjoy outdoors fishing. and hunting those types of things. Years ago, I was uh watching a hunting show and uh the fellow was displaying his trophy room And he had this huge, huge room built on his house, obviously a very wealthy man. And he literally, I think if I remember correctly, he said he had a hundred and fifty trophy white-tailed deer mounts in that room. I mean it was just rows and rows and rows and rows of them. And it represented a lifetime of hunting. The man was a tremendous success at shooting trophy deer. And I thought this. He comes to the end of his life. What does he have to show? A bunch of dead animals hanging on a wall Stand before the Lord Jesus Christ. He was very successful, but was it something that really mattered? Was it something that really affected the world in a positive way? No, I'm not saying that's wrong. There's nothing wrong with that in and of its place. But I'm afraid we pursue things in our lives, even as Christians. We pursue things and we determine we're going to be successful in areas that really are meaningless. When it's all said and done. Years ago I read about a preacher that had a young man, if I remember correctly, he was early twenties, he was college age. And um and uh the preacher was saying this man young man had trusted Christ as Savior and was just on fire for God And uh his life had been changed, and he was trying to forgot, and there was a revival meeting going on in a neighboring town, and the preacher wanted to go to the revival meeting, so he invited this young man to go along with him. And they traveled over and spoke to the Lord and what God was doing in this young man's life. They had the service. Apparently it was a very powerful service. God stirred hearts. And while they were driving back, The young man, uh, they got talking about the young man's future and different things, and the preacher made something about, you know, not failing. In a success. And the young man made this statement. I thought was was pretty wise for a new Christian and a young man. He said this. He says, at my age Failure is not really my greatest concern. He said, My concern is that I will succeed at that which does not really matter. I thought, wow, what insight. I don't want to succeed in life at something that is meaningless. Now, success in the Christian life, as is in any other area, doesn't just happen. Nobody is a successful Christian by accident. There has to be certain things in place. Listen, if you're just waiting to be a good Christian, you're just waiting for that to happen of itself, I'm telling you right now, it's not going to happen. You have got to put some things in place. I put three down. This is not the message, just setting it up. But if I'm going to succeed in my Christian life, if I'm going to stand before Jesus Christ At the judgment seat of Christ, as a believer, at the judgment seat of Christ, and I'm going to hear Christ say to me, Well done. If I want to hear him say to me, Well done, I've first of all that's going to require some decisions on my part. I have got to decide that some things are going to be true about my life and some things are not going to be true about my life. I cannot just let things happen. I used to tell our teenagers when I was youth pastor in Indianapolis, I used to say this to them. I said, listen, if you're going to be a drug addict, drunken, failure punk Do it on purpose. Don't just let other people uh just don't let it just happen to you. And that's what so many do. So many Christians fail. They don't make any decision. They just let life happen and they come to the end of their life and they have nothing to show for it. So there must be some decisions put in place. If I'm going to hear Jesus Christ say to me, Well done, Dennis Leatherman. I have got to be sure that in my life I made some wise decisions. Second thing has to be true, and that is there must be discipline. I can make every decision I want. I can kneel at an altar every service for the rest of my life. But if I don't have discipline in my life to carry out the decision I make, I'm still going to fail. Follow what I'm saying? Like it or not, the Christian life requires discipline. We're talking in Sunday school about uh in an adult Sunday school here class here, we're talking about daily Bible reading. and tips and how-to and helpful things there. And we said, one of the things, if I'm going to read my Bible every day, I've got to discipline myself to have a time every day when I read my Bible. Doesn't just happen. So there must be decision. There must be discipline. And I put this one down. There must be divine enablement. In other words, I cannot, in my own strength, with all the decision and all the uh discipline I can muster up, I'm still not going to be a good uh successful in my Christian life if God doesn't help me. I need the Lord to enable me. I need the Lord to be working in my life and enable me, working in me that which is according to his will, and God giving me that strength. So success. Succeeding in areas that are meaningless. Decision, discipline, divine enablement. Now let me give one other caution. I'll give you these what I believe are seven vital decisions. The other caution is this. Don't mistake Let me put it this way. What the world considers success and what God considers success are two very different things. You follow what I'm saying? You go out into the unbelieving world and ask them to define success, and you go to the Word of God and ask God to define success, you find two different things. Proverbs chapter 14 and verse 12, and then he says it again in chapter 16 and verse 25. God says this: there is a way which seemeth right unto man. The way that seems very successful, this is the way that we should go to man. But the end thereof are the ways of death. In other words, you can be as successful as possible in the world's definition of success, and yet fail in God's definition of success, and the end of that is disaster. Disaster. So we need to understand God's definition of success. We must not allow the world to conform us into its way of thinking. Don't let the world, the pressure of the world and the influence of the world, make us think the way the world thinks. If we as believers, how many folks here, you're saved, you know your sins are forgiven, you're on your way to heaven, that is a settled in your heart and life, say amen. Now those of us that just testify to that, that being true, we must work very, very diligently. We must decide, we must discipline ourselves. We must seek God's help in not allowing us to think the way the world thinks. We can be very successful in the world and be a total failure before God's eyes. If we're thinking the way the world thinks, do not allow the world to conform you into its values. What this world values and what God values are two very different things. We must not allow this world to conform us into its definition of success. Proverbs 15, 16, I read this yesterday morning in my devotions. It says this, better is a little with the fear of the Lord than great treasure and trouble therewith. What's he saying here? He's saying all you may have is a little shack to live in with a bulb hanging down from the ceiling, a little stove and maybe a wooden chair. But if you have the fear of God, if you're living for God and living a life that is according to the scriptures, you are a success. Or you could have The biggest mansion, the house full of everything you could imagine, but you have no fear of God in your life, and you're a total failure. And so we must be careful that we understand God's definition of success and the world's definition of success. Hey, keep this in mind. The world does not determine our rewards when we get to heaven. Christ does. So why should I let the world affect my life? I'm not going to answer to the world when I stand before God. And so, and by the way, you happen to be here this morning, you've never trusted Christ, you don't have assurance of your sins forgiven. Listen, this world doesn't decide whether you go to heaven or hell. God does So, why let this world influence your eternal destiny? Come to Christ. And He'll give you eternal life, and you can have that assurance. And so, definition of success: the world's and God's success. Would you agree with me? Our country is in desperate, desperate need I tell you, I I I thought what do I change my message? How do we respond to what in the world is going on in our country? I thought after the elections, sodomite marriage now legal in so many s countr in uh so many states Just the whole mentality of our country, then mass slaughter of little children. I got doing some little research, and I I don't want to discourage us this morning. But I want us to see what this world is that we live in. Don't be, listen, we can't be blinded by these world's pretty lights and its Hollywood facade. The reality behind this image the world puts up is a horrible, horrible place. I did a little research. The latest statistics I could find was 2009. And I found out that just under 6,000 little babies are slaughtered a day in the United States of America in their mother's womb. And nobody sheds a tear. And no news media shows up and interviews people associated with it. And nobody says what an awful thing it is. Now I'm not trying to minimize the horror that took place up in Connecticut a few days ago. But what I'm saying is that horror multiplied times a hundred Takes place every day. And not some deranged man walking in, their own parents doing it to the kids. Think about the world we live in. That's acceptable. That's not a tragedy in the world's eyes. It's something to defend, it's something to celebrate. This world is in desperate need of the Lord Jesus Christ. This world is in desperate need of Christians. Who are sold out to Jesus Christ and are representatives of what God can and will do in a person's life if we will just let him The world needs to see the real deal. So how do we do that? How how do I get to the point where as a Christian I'm a godly, spirit-filled, successful Christian, and I actually have an influence in this world for Christ. Well, our lives are very much the result of decisions we make, right? I am where I am, I pretty much am what I am where I am, and I pretty much am what I am because of decisions I've made throughout my life. And same for you. The fellow sitting in the jail downtown here this morning. I I'm not thinking of anybody in particular. I don't think any of our deacons are there that I'm aware of. Um I'm sorry. I don't know why I do that. I I'm very grateful for our deacons. I really am. They're good guys for the most part. And um But uh the guy sitting in jail in the jail downtown Oakland here this morning, he you know why he's there? Because of decisions he made. Years ago I had uh, this was a long time ago, there's a family they don't tend here, they haven't for a long time. time. But um one of their children I was remember the food lion used to be down here at the bottom of Walmart. I was we were in there uh a Sunday afternoon. We ran in to get some things Before church, and I saw a child of this couple and the uh young person, and they were smoking a cigarette. Preacher song. So I came back and they were in church and after the service I went and said, Listen, you know, I just thought you I would want to know this if it was my situation, I thought you would want to know. I saw your time and uh and I told him I saw him smoking a cigar. cigarette. As I thought you would want to be aware of that. I said uh and you know what happened? That parent laid into me And chewed me out and told me it wasn't that child's fault and all these reasons why it wasn't their fault that they were doing that. In fact, implied somewhat it might have been my fault. And finally I said, wait a minute. I didn't see anybody holding their hand, forcing that cigarette into their mouth. I said, by all appearances, that was their own free will. They were putting in their mouth, inhaling, and blowing it out. So as far as I could tell, they could have thrown that on the ground and stomped it out at any point Listen, we are what we are, and we're where we are, primarily because of decisions we make. We decide to do this. We decide not to do that. We decide to go to this place. We decide not to go to this place. Listen to me. This world will seek to conform you and I into the way of thinking that we blame other people for our decisions. That doesn't hold up before God. That doesn't hold up. So decisions Seven decisions that are given to us in Scripture that I believe if we have these seven decisions, we make these seven decisions, we have them in place then the other areas of our life, we will have the wisdom, we'll have things in place so that we can make wise decisions in these other areas. And when we come to the end of our life, we stand before Jesus Christ at the judgment seat of Christ. And we can hear him say, Well done. Or I can decide not to make these decisions, make alternative decisions in my life. And if I'm saved, I'll still stand before the judgment seat of Christ, but hear him say, just wood, hay, and stubble. You have nothing. Your life has been a failure as far as Christianity is concerned, your testimony is concerned. I don't want to hear that. Let me give you the first one. I'd suggest jot these down if if they apply to your life and maybe you could help others with it. Number one, uh the salvation decision Salvation decision. John chapter 1 verse 12 says this, As many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God. 1 John 1 verse 12 and 13 says this, uh he that hath the Son hath life, and he that hath not the Son of God hath not life. These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may know that ye have eternal life. God says that my sins being forgiven and me going to heaven is a decision I make. I decide whether I'm going to put my faith and trust in Jesus Christ and Him alone to forgive me of my sin and take me to heaven someday, or I choose to trust the church or some ceremony I did or some ritual I went through or my good works or something I'm doing or Something I'm not doing. I can either trust myself or trust Christ. It's either depending on what I do or what Christ has done. The decision is mine. Nobody goes to hell because of somebody else's fault. It's a choice to accept or reject the truth that God has given me The truth of the gospel. Sometimes people will say to me, I haven't had this recently, for whatever reason, but over the years I've had people say this to me. They would say, Preacher! I'm not rejecting Jesus. I'm just not ready to accept him. I said, well, then you're making a decision not to accept him, which is in effect a decision to reject him. You're here this morning. You say, I've never trusted Jesus Christ my Savior. I don't know for sure my sins are forgiven. I'm going to heaven. But uh, I'm not going to accept Christ as Savior. That is a decision to reject Him. And if I'm going to stand before God and have any hope of having eternal life, of entering heaven, escaping hell, I must first of all make the decision to accept Jesus Christ. As my personal Savior. If I do not do that, I am lost, I am without God, I'm without hope in this world, and if I die in that condition, I'm separated from God for all eternity. Nicodemus, John chapter 3. We're familiar with this situation. By all standards, according to the world, Nicodemus was a successful man. He held a leadership position in his community. He was a ruler. He was very wealthy. We gather that from what we know about him. Socially, he was successful. Financially, he was successful. He was a very religious man. In the world of religion, he was successful. As far as the world standards are concerned, Nicodemus was a successful man. But there was something missing from his life. And he knew it. And he heard of Jesus Christ and something in his heart and soul Had to get to Christ and find out what he was missing. Something was missing from his life. Very successful. And so he comes to Jesus Christ by night, John chapter 3 tells us. And he makes some nice compliments to the Lord Jesus. We know that thou art come for God, for no man can do the things thou doest. He's being very complimentary. He's a very polite man. He's very uh proper and appropriate. He's a successful man. And he knows how to approach people. And he says the nice right things about the Lord Jesus Jesus Christ cuts right to the chase, cuts through all of that. And the very first thing he says in 6 Nicodemus, you must be born again. Well, what about all this? And what about my success here? He says, Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. He says, unless you're born again spiritually, you are a failure. You have no standing before God. You have no part in God's kingdom. You are outside. Without God, without hope in this world. So the very first decision that must be made in life is the decision to accept Jesus Christ as my personal Savior If you're here this morning and you have not decided to accept Jesus Christ your personal Savior, listen, it is vital that you do that today. Today. And we have folks, it's not we're not talking about joining church, we're not talking about baptism, we're talking about a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. And we folks can show you from the Bible how to do that. So, number one, do you have it written down? Salvation decision. Number two, jot this one down. The decision to absorb the scriptures. The decision to absorb the scriptures. Once I accept Jesus Christ as Savior, for me it was May 7, 1979 Once I make that decision, the second decision I have to do is I need to get the Word of God into my heart and life. I need to absorb it. I use that word absorb deliberately. I thought about using the word ingest. Taking into my heart and life. I listened to 2 Peter 2 and verse 15. Study to show thyself approved unto God. In 2 Peter 2. 2, as newborn babes, desire the sincere milk of the word that ye may grow thereby. Joshua chapter 1 and verse 8, this book of the law shall not be part of mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night. That thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written in, for then thou shalt make thy way successful. Then thou shalt make uh be prosperous, and thou shalt have good success. I must take the Word of God. Listen, as a believer, we've got to make the decision that we are going to ingest, we are going to absorb, we're going to read and incorporate into our thinking and our lives the Word of God. I must ingest the Word of God on a daily basis. Without a steady intake of God's Word, I will fail in the most important area of my life, and that is my walk with God. I cannot maintain a walk with God without a continual, consistent intake of the Word of God. You hear what I'm saying? That is vitally important. Number one, there must be a salvation discipline. Number two, there must be a decision to absorb the Word of God. Take the Word of God into our lives. Number three, write this one down. There must be a decision to separate from all that is ungodly. I must decide as a Christian that I am going to put a distance between that which has an ungodly influence on me and myself. I am not going to allow ungodly sources affect me. Now, you've got your Bibles with you. Let's use them now. This morning, okay? Turn with me if you would. I tell you what, we're here in Psalms. Go to Psalms chapter 1, first chapter of the book of Psalms. Then we're going to go in the New Testament. Psalms chapter 1. In many ways, the term blessed is God's term for being successful. You could use almost in many cases use that synonymously. Successful is a man. Blessed is the man. And in Psalms chapter 1, he is telling us. How a child of God, the people of God, can be blessed or successful in their life. And notice what he says in Psalm chapter 1. Blessed is the man, or for the sake of our message, we could say, successful is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly. I put in the margin of my Bible, that's bad advice. Bad advice. He says here: don't even listen to advice that is contrary to Scripture. They say, well, I just want to listen to it, see what they had to say. You know what I found out? When I hear stuff, it affects the way I think. Anyone know what I'm talking about? I never even thought of it that way. And so he says, listen, the successful man, the blessed man, uh walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, the advice that the world has to offer. People that do not believe the Bible, people who have rejected the principles of Scripture, and the advice they give us, I am to not walk in that. I am to separate myself from that. That comes in the forms of self-help books. It comes in the form of talk shows on TV and radio. I tell you, I'm at the point now where even a lot of these conservative talk guys get on my nerves. But the music and the language that is not godly. Just because it's conservative does not mean it's godly That means talk shows on TV, advice columns. Good heavens, it certainly means the horoscope. Can I get an amen on that at least, please? Walketh not in count. Listen, if my life is going to count. If I'm going to be something in this old sinful world, what in hey listen, read the news. Why in the world would we be interested in this world's advice? We live by the world's advice, we live by the world's values, we live by the world's principles, we live in the world's pleasures, and guess what? We get the results the world gets Why do we expect anything different? We do what the world does and we reap what the world reaps. I've got to make some decision in my life as a Christian at some point. No more I want to be what God wants me to be. I want God's blessings on my life. I want God's success. I want success in God's eyes. I don't want what the world has. Good night. The decision to separate from all that is ungodly. Look what he says. Blessed is man that walketh not in the counsel of ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners. I put in the marks of my Bible bad associations. I've said this often over the years, and I'm more convinced of it now than I ever have been. I am now what my friends are, or I am becoming what my friends are. You want to know what kind of person you are? Look at the people you choose to associate with. That is exactly what you are. Come on now. I'm not talking to the teenagers only, I'm talking to all of us. Bad associations. Uh evil communic uh evil um Well I'll put it this way, bad friends make bad me behavior. Produce bad behavior, right? So look what he says. Blessed, successful is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the godly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. I put in the margin of my Bible aside that bad attitude. Bad advice, bad associates, bad attitude. You know, I listen to the wrong well I listen to the wrong stuff. By the way, uh that includes music. Come on now. I and others worked very, very hard 13 years ago to get a radio station in Garrett County that has some decent music. has some decent programming. Listen, there's no reason to listen to the world's garbage when God has given us something good. We got CDs coming out of our ears of good godly Christian media. Why do we listen to the world's garbage You know why? Listen, I'm so far off my notes now it's I'm in over my head. You know why? Because our flesh likes it. Not because we haven't prayed over it and said, God, is this is a um Lord I I just want your blessing on Lady Gaga. What? I want your blessing on Taylor Swift. God, I just want to be a good Christian, so I'm going to let Myri Cyrus. What's her name? Myri Cyrus. Miley Cyrus. Lord just bless this C my new rock and roll C D come Come on. I know I'm not making any friends this morning. Bad advice, bad associates, you know what that produces? Bad attitudes And all of a sudden I start getting critical of the things of God. All of a sudden I start getting critical of those that are trying to live for God and do right. Suddenly I'm sitting in the seat of the Corner. I'm criticizing standards and I'm criticizing Bible version, I'm criticizing convictions. Listen, if I'm gonna be the Christian, this is a decision that has to be made. I must choose to separate from that which is ungodly. And if you can't figure out what's ungodly, come see me. I'll give you some suggestions. You know why chur n I'm like I said, I might as well just go ahead. You know why churches use rock and roll music in church? Not not to reach more people, it's because they like rock and roll music. They like it. Not because it's godly, not because it's scriptural, not because it pleases the Lord. They like it Separation is two-way. It's from the ungodly influence, and it's to the Lord. I've got to decide, hey, I don't want that garbage in my life, but not stop there and say, I just want to I just want to live for God. I just want to please God with my life. Listen, if you will make that decision, that will help you in so many other areas of life. That, hey young people, that'll help you in your dating life. I'm gonna separate from all any ungodly influence I don't want anything to do with it. That uh associations, advice, attitudes, I don't want I don't want any that'll help you in your dating decisions. That'll help you in your job, Bobby Christians. That'll help you in what you do next Saturday night. Making that decision. It's vital. Ask the Holy Spirit to show you what ungodly influences there are in your life. Do you have the nerve to do that? Give the nerve before bow before God and say, God, I want you to show me every area in my life that is ungodly, all the influence in my life that are ungodly. Show me what they are so I can separate from them. That would take a little bit of guts on some people's part. You know what I found out? When I pray that prayer, Holy Spirit shows it immediately. In fact, I would venture to say, I'm not clairvoyant, but I would venture to say, just me saying that a f a moment ago brought thoughts to some people's minds about the Holy Spirit. I brought something to mind that say that is an ungodly influence in your I've been doing this long enough. I figured out a little bit how the Holy Spirit works, and I guarantee you the Holy Spirit of God, in the last 90 seconds, has spoken to some hearts about an ungodly influence in your life. Guarantee it. Make a decision. Ask the Holy Spirit to show you. Number four, jot this down, would you The decision to surrender my life fully to the Lord. I love Romans 12, 1 and 2. That is one of the most significant verses in my life as a Christian. Years ago particularly it gripped me. It says this, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable to God, which is your reasonable service. Present your bodies a living sacrifice. Make the decision that I want to fully yield my life to the Lord Jesus Christ. As a daily worker, as whatever it is, I just give my life to Jesus Christ. I dedicate my life to Jesus Christ. My future, my plans, my hopes, my dreams, my everything. I put it in the hands of God. It's his. To lead me and direct me and use me in any way he sees fit. To give that which he chooses to give, to take that which he chooses to take. I'm his What a great decision. That'll affect every other area of your life. I like what Andrew Murray said. He said God is ready to assume full responsibility. For the life that is wholly yielded to him. Boy, wouldn't it be great to say, you know, I just want God to take over? Um when I'm in a car, I like to drive the car. Anybody? It's some type of psychotic twist. But occasionally on a long trip or something, it's kind of nice to get over in the passenger seat and just kind of relax and let somebody else take responsibility. Right? Can I get a witness? Some say no, uh-uh, never like that. Years ago, my grandmother passed away. We were out in Utah actually. My grandmother. I flew back early. I met Kathy at the airport in Pittsburgh and we drove from Pittsburgh straight over to my family in Philly. And uh we were there, had the funeral service, and we were coming back. If I remember correctly, it was a Monday, we were on our way back. And so I had been flying, it was just nonstop. I was exhausted. And so I said, Kathy, we're going across 78 in Pennsylvania, some of you guys know, we're heading to 81. I said, Kathy, you drive. I've got to sleep. So I'm telling this story because Kathy isn't here. If she was here I'd have another illustration. I wrote in my notes, if Kathy's there, use this illustration. If she isn't there. And so I got in the driver's passenger seat and I was I fell asleep like that, which is very unusual. And she's trying to I said now going across seventy-eight, you're gonna run right into Route eighty. I said you can't miss it, it runs right into it. I said eighty-one, I'm sorry. Sorry, route eighty-one. And uh you can't miss it, runs right into it. I said when you get to eighty-one, go south. Which way do you go? South. South. I said, if you're not sure, wake me up. She says, okay, it's simple. You're just going south. What can you do wrong? I said, okay. Okay, I was out. I slept about two, three hours. Woke up, I'm looking out, and there's these huge stone uh where they cut through sides of mountains. and stuff. I thought I don't remember any mountains in Hagerstown or Chambersburg. And I'm looking around, I said, where are we? She goes, uh we're going north on we're heading to Maryland. We're going north on eighty one. I said I said north and uh we got going we were right at the New York state line. I mean we were I said, Kathy, we're in Pennsylvania. You go south to get the Maryland, not north. And uh I forget why I'm telling the story. She's looking through the window out there and I am dead meat. No pork chops today. But it's kinda nice to just kick back and let somebody else take the response. Responsibility for the direction I'm going. Now, needless to say, I never did that again. But I can take my life and I can put it in the hands of the Lord. And I can be fully confident I'm going to end up in the very best place God intends for me to be. He said, Preacher, if I do that, I'll end up somewhere I don't want to be. Now you know what will happen? You yield yourself completely to God, and God will give you the desires of your heart. And wherever you God has you end up, that will be exactly where you want to be. be guarantee it I've been in it a long time I know how it works present your body a living Just say God, I'm all yours. Regardless of what your age, regardless of what your wherever you're at in life, just say, God, from here on out, you call the shots, you lead, you direct. Number five, write this down quickly. The decision to be a soul winner. I think every Christian ought to decide I am going to be a witness for Christ and do everything I can to try and bring people to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. If this country ever needed soul winners, it's now. Everywhere. Pointing people to Christ. Listen, the answer to our country's problem is not legislation, it is not military, it's not laws, it's not anything, it's Jesus Christ. Changing hearts and lives, and only the gospel does that. We've got to share that. I cannot stand the direction our country is going. It is wrong Our country is just going the same direction as the whole world is going. Evil men and seducers waxing worse and worse. Perilous times. Men are lovers of their own selves in the most perverse sense of that word. Unthankful, ungodly, unholy. And the only answer To the problem of this world is Jesus Christ, God's people, taking the gospel of Jesus Christ and sharing it with others. That's the answer Unsaved, perverse politicians do not have the answer to our nation's problems. We need Christians who care enough about others to share with them the gospel of Jesus Christ. Proverbs 1130 he that wineth souls is wise A genuine commitment to bring in others to the Lord Jesus Christ gives me God's perspective on others. Gives me God's perspective on my times, my abilities, my possessions. It affects every area of my life. When God stirred my heart about being a witness and doing everything I can to get as many people to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ, it affected my handling of my money. Affected how I use my time. Transforms our priorities To God's priorities. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life. I see things the way God sees To find people find Christ and have everlasting life. Number one, the decision, salvation decision. Number two, decision to absorb the scriptures, ingest the word of God on a continual basis into my heart and mind. To separate from all that is ungodly, to surrender my life fully to the Lord, to be a soul winner. Let me give you number six real quick. The decision to be sincerely grateful. Man alive, if the church in the United States of America is guilty of anything, it's ingratitude. We are so selfish, we are so unthankful. Hebrews 13, 15 says, let us offer the sacrifice of praise to God continually. You know what the greatest prayer a Christian can pray? Thank you, Lord. It's the greatest prayer you can pray. Thank you. Thank you, God. You know what we pray most of the time? Give me. Give me. Give me. Me. If we would thank God for the things we have as much as we ask Him for the things we don't have, I think we'd be a whole lot happier. We'd be a whole lot better off. Deciding to be grateful for God's goodness, regardless of circumstances, will produce a healthy mental attitude. It will produce faith that brings about stability and maturity to my life. Years ago, years ago, I had a person come and they had messed up bad. Made some, I was gonna say stupid decision, they made some sinful decisions And man, they were reaping the consequences. I was trying to help them, they they got things right and they worked through it, and praise the Lord for that. But the person made this statement to me. This was years ago. It's burned in my mind. They said, you know what my problem was? I wasn't thankful to God for what He had given me. That was the root of all my problem. Wasn't thankful for what God had given me, and I thought I had to have something else. I had to have something else. I'd just been thankful for what I had. I would have saved my heart and life so much misery. So many people on Wonder Hurt. I'd have just been thankful. You know why people make stupid decisions and not grateful for what they have? You know why people make stupid decisions in finances? Not grateful for what they have. Would they make stupid decisions in church involvement and church attendance? And they run church to church to church to church. You know why? Because they're not grateful for what God gave them. Always have to have something better. Why don't we decide? Listen, gratitude is a decision. Say, I just don't feel very grateful. Well whooply do Who who who asked how how you why you why you how you feel? What does that mean? Decide. I've got to be grateful Thank you, God. When I help people in the struggle through different struggles, one of the first things I have them do is write down five things you're grateful for. Get your thinking correct. Being grateful is more than just good manners, it's spiritual maturity. Somebody said, if I'm not grateful for what I have, I won't be grateful for what I will have. It's a good point. Number one, salvation decision. Number two, absorb the scriptures. Number three, decide to separate from ungodly. Number four, decide to surrender my life fully, Lord. Number five, decide to be a soul winner. Number six, decide to be sincerely grateful. And number seven. uh decide to love the Lord Jesus supremely. Fellow came to the Lord Jesus Christ, and I wanted to go to this reference, but we don't have time. Fellow came to the Lord Jesus Christ. He said, what's the first commandment? And the Lord said, The greatest commandment is: Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind, with all thy strength. And the second is like unto it: love thy neighbor as thyself. He's saying the first thought the root of all your problems, the root of all your success has to do with your love for the Lord Jesus Christ. That will affect every other area of your life. When I fell in love with my wife, We got married, that affected my relationship with every other woman in the world. It governed it. When I decide that I'm going to love the Lord Jesus Christ, He is the most precious thing in my life. He has my affection. He is my priority. That affects my relationship with every other area of life. Loving God is a decision. Loving others is a decision. Do you notice there's a lot of people in the world that aren't really that easy to love? Now don't look around, alright? We're not asking for volunteers. But there's some people that are just not lovely. And you know what? Naturally my flesh says, ew. But you know what I gotta decide? I decide I love them. You know what's helped me over the years? I see someone that naturally I just I ask God to help me think of this every time. Jesus Christ thought that person was worth dying for. Jesus Christ thought that person was worth suffering eternal hell for. Who am I? To say, oh no. Love them. Love for God, love my neighbor. Just make that decision Deciding to live an unselfish life, caring for the needs of others, enables me to show forth the love of God. Listen, I cannot expect to live by worldly selfish values and expect to have biblical blessedness. It's not going to happen. When these seven vital decisions are in place, the Holy Spirit of God can change my life. And bring about stability to my Christian life, bring the blessings of God, and I can have biblical success. In my home, my marriage, my work, my witness, every area of life, these seven in place, enables me to make the other decisions that are pleasing to God. Young man was coming back from the revival service with his pastor. The pastor said, I really want to work with you, I want to help you so you don't fail. He said, You know, my biggest concern at this point in my life is not failing. My biggest concern is succeeding at that which really doesn't matter. Let's not make that mistake. Let's determine we want to be successful in the year 2013. If for no other reason, for the sake of our country and our fellow neighbors, let's determine. To make these seven decisions and be successful in the eyes of God. Father in heaven, help us, Lord. You've challenged my heart, you've challenged us this morning. Out of these seven decisions, no doubt, every one of us. Have decisions to make. Lord, no doubt your Holy Spirit has dealt with us about at least one of these seven. God, maybe there's someone here that's never trusted Christ as Savior. I pray that today would be that day. Lord, maybe there's someone here that's not reading and taking in the Word of God on a regular basis like they should. I pray they'd make that decision. Lord, no doubt there's some that have ungodly influences in their life they need to separate from. I pray they'd make that decision. To surrender themselves, the Lord, you're dealing with some hearts, no doubt. To be soul winners, to be thankful, to love you. Help