I'm as much as they are kind of an abnormal version of Christianity, which I mean it depends on your uh definition of cult, because they do have extra biblical writings. However However, unlike um however, unlike the uh Jehovah's Witness, unlike the Mormons, they don't put anything above the Bible. Now and and and and while the Mormons and the Jehovah's Witnesses will say that, um pardon me actu uh they actually are uh very firm on this. Now they do have extra biblical writings and testimonies and prophecies and such that uh And we'll get to that in a few in a few minutes. But uh in those things, how to interpret the Bible. And so that's what that's where it borders on whether it's a cult or not. Is it a cult? Because, and by the way, they also believe in salvation by grace. Now a lot of religion will say that, but not actually mean it. So it so they border on cult me, um, but uh they are definitely abnormal and they definitely make stuff up. And they don't just use the Bible to say weird things, they put things in the Bible or around the Bible that uh that shouldn't be. But uh they were born out of the second great awakening. Uh and based mainly on the prophecy found in Daniel and Revelation. Something very interesting about the Seventh-day Adventist. They would not exist without uh Eschatology without uh what's a better word for eschatology? Um without end times uh theology. Without without people getting really then listen, I like studying the end times. I think I think it's interesting. I think Daniel Revelation, I think it's really interesting. But it is I'm not gonna say it's dangerous, but that's there there's a lot of theories that can be had there and and if you don't aren't and you if you're not comparing scripture with scripture You can come out with a lot of weird stuff. And one of those weird things is you can know is according to these guys, you can know exactly when Jesus Christ comes back. Now, of course, they ignore the Bible where it says that you can't know when he'll come back in Matthew twenty four thirty-six. But um anyways, unlike other cults Um it was born out of a discussions about eschatology in newspapers. Uh people would uh write articles. And this wasn't in uh this isn't like a rare thing back then. I'm gonna pick on a guy named uh William Miller William Miller was a Baptist pastor. I'll get to his story in a second. But uh he's the one that um Seventh-day Adventism comes out of. He is not their founder, he is just where it comes from. Because at that time a lot of people outside of Miller and outside of a lot of circles were just predicting that Jesus Christ was going to come back during uh from you want to say from uh between nineteen uh eighteen forty three and eighteen forty four. And you say, well why'd they think that? Well in Daniel uh eight through nine it talks about twenty three hundred days. And they say, well, that actually means twenty three hundred years. And then they say, and by the way, it actually means 2300 years, which comes around, well, uh, you know, 1843 to 1844. And so they say according to uh Archbishop Usher's chronologically, um they say they they they were confident to say that Jesus would return in 1843. By the way, he didn't, if you guys were wondering. That didn't happen. Now, according to Matthew 24, 36, if everyone could go to Matthew 24, 36. Matthew twenty four thirty six Uh it has uh and uh we'll just read this uh shortly. But of that day and hour and knoweth no man, no not the angels of heaven, but my father only. So here's the thing. People are saying, well, obviously they he didn't know the day or the hour, but he ought but we can know the year, is what they were saying. Well they they couldn't Um and also there's something very interesting and you'll uh read a little longer. Um the apostles did thought that Jesus Christ was coming back in their lifetime, or so it seems. They they figured that it wasn't going to be two thousand years, they figured it'd be a few years. Um and maybe maybe maybe 30, 40 years. They they had no idea he would come back. They thought he would be coming back quickly. And here's the thing, once you start saying, Well, I know the day or I know the year that Jesus Christ is coming back, you're saying you are smarter than the apostles. And you know, I mean if you are, bully for you, but I'm not. And a lot of people were saying, well, you know what, I found this. I found this part portion right here that says that Jesus Christ is coming back in 1843 to 1844 And this is when he's coming back. And then they would live and then they would and they would study that principle and they would feel very, very prideful about themselves, knowing this that what no one else has figured out. You need to be we need to be very careful. I you and I need to be very careful studying the Bible so we can be better than people. And by better I mean more prideful, more more uh uh uh in our own minds a better person. Not not just a not just a um A more sanctified person, a more clean person, but a uh but oh I'm better than you because I know this about the Bible and you don't. Ha ha ha ha Listen, theories are great about the Bible. Not every God there is a there is a hat that has not been told. There's so much about God and about this world that we don't know. And that's wonderful. Because that makes it kind of more kind of uh more special. Because that gives us something to look forward to. And it's fun to theorize what what this will be like or what that's like or why someone did this. But once we start taking those things and saying, well this is what this means, even though we don't know, that's dangerous Now, here's the thing. William Miller, a Baptist pastor, by the way, if you remember this, Baptists are also slightly responsible for Mormons getting started. Because uh it might have died out quickly if a Baptist pastor hadn't been like, Yeah, let's do it and like take it took in his entire congregation went over there. But because we're independent Baptists, we don't have to claim him. Um we're you know, we're We were if we were Catholic, you know, everything that Catholics do, oh we gotta claim, you know, Catholic, oh we gotta claim. But Baptists were like, well that guy is completely different than us because we're independent. So uh we're only responsible for things we do, which is how God meant it, by the way Um is that we're only responsible for the things that we say and we do. Um but anyways, William Miller, he's a Baptist pastor, he makes the prediction Like I said, he was not the only one claiming this, but he makes the prediction that uh Christ would be coming back uh between March 21, 1843, and March 21st, 1844. Now here's the thing. Like the founder, if you want to know his backstory, he was uh uh born in uh 1782 in Pittsfield, Massachusetts. Miller, despite being a religious a besite a deeply religious mother, he became a deist. Now a deist is someone who believes that God created everything, however, God just kind of left it alone. It's known as the clockmaker theory. A clockmaker builds a clock. And then lets it go and doesn't mess with it. A lot of uh deists, which is uh uh what uh some very famous people in history have been, a deist said, Well Uh God created us and then let us go and he has not been involved since. Well he became a deist Now later on, after a lot of soul searching, he became a Baptist. Here's the thing, I am not a fan of uh of Charles Tays Russell, the starter of Jehovah's Witnesses I am not a fan of uh Joseph Smith, the founder of uh of uh Mormonism. Um I'm not gonna say I'm a fan of this guy, but he does seem much more sincere in what he believes than the others. However, like it says here, like the founder of Jehovah's Witnesses, and actually the founder of Mormonism, William Miller had no formal theological training. And again, listen, I I I think, you know, you want to become a preacher, I salute you. Guys, if you want to become a preacher, guys, I salute you. Sorry, women. Um But if that's what you want to do, I and by the way, I guess women can preach the gospel, but they can't be pastors. Let's just clear that other way. That way we you know we're all supposed to preach the gospel to people. But all of us are meant to be pastors. There's the the side note, that's over. But anyways, um Yeah, no theological training. If you want to be a pastor or a preacher or anything like that, listen, I I salute it. I think that's wonderful. But it does help to have to be taught by people You do realize that Jesus didn't just talk to the disciples, he's like, alright, you guys are saved, good job. Now go go preach. No, Jesus made the disciples spend twelve or made spend three years with him. Even Paul, when he got converted, man, they made him spend two years, uh, two years learning the Bible, and he was a Pharisee, so he already knew the Old Testament pretty well. Listen, the problem listen, I like I said, once you get saved, you can start preaching the gospel to people. But being saved does not qualify or and qualify as maybe a bad word, but being saved is not mean that everything you say will be right. And everything you read in the Bible, you're like, oh that's it that's interesting. Oh, I'm gonna connect that to this. It doesn't technically say this maybe, but but it it sounds like it might this might work This might work as a really dangerous place to be. Or this might be what this says is a dangerous place to pr dangerous thing to preach to other people. And the reason that is is because you end up like William Miller, who had a huge following. And he said, Jesus is going to come back. And by the way, he he th he didn't just think of this like the week before. He's like, oh, it's coming back this year. He thought of this in 1818. He was studying, he said, well, Jesus is coming back in 25 years. That's what this says. And so he preached it for 25 years. When Jesus was coming back. And by the way, he had a huge following. And you know what happened? Jesus didn't come back. And so then he um um then he actually came up with a second day, and that's because of it what they call s uh seventh month uh theology. I don't I didn't understand that. But what they call seven months theology said he would actually come back a few months later. So his followers were like, Yeah, we were just off by a couple months. He's coming back this time and then he didn't. And then his name was pretty much Mud. And more importantly, what happens to his uh is what I think happens to his followers. On side note, these people were very zealous. Man, when they heard that Jesus Christ was coming back and they knew the date, they were zealous for that entire year. I guarantee it. I don't think anyone would go soul winning less. I don't I I don't think anyone had ever went soul winning as much as they did during that year. I don't think anyone had tried to stay as close to the b biblical living as in that year Listen, we can we can uh tell them that uh we don't if we can say we don't want to imitate them for not for believing the wrong thing and for not studying out the whole word of God, but we should imitate their zealous their uh zeality, zealousness. Zeal. Man, you shouldn't shorten words to make it that's weird. Like awesomeness, that's a full word right there. But zealous should not go down to zeal. But uh thank you, Pastor. But that's what we should imitate. Listen, I am not I don't I what I don't understand, and I guess it's because they have to But Mormons and Jehovah's Witnesses are, I mean, you see them everywhere. In fact, when someone knocks on your door for uh uh for a religious purpose, it's most likely one of those two groups And they and they have like a s and again I apologize to well no, I don't. But they kinda have a stupid religion. I mean their their beliefs are messed up and wrong and And yet they're the one thought that go out more. And that that I mean, I think that zeal is important. Even if even if I mean I don't know. I don't I don't know how God I don't know how God marks this up in his book. Again, they were wrong, and they should have known they were wrong, because like I said, the Bible's pretty clear about them not being able to know which day um God was coming back But they gotta get credit for their zeal, at least. Although zeal's not uh the Bible does warn against uh uh zeal without uh knowledge. But we can keep going. Um Anyways, March 21st, 1844 came. And uh so then he said, Well no, it's in October. I was wrong. It's between this time and October. Um I didn't understand. But as we know, God didn't come back in October. So from this point on, because they realized that their leader was wrong, the Millerites, as they were known, the Millerites disbanded. And they didn't know what to do. And it was actually a very sad day. I read it, I read an account of uh see his name is of uh Uh Hiram Edson. I read an account of him. And he said that they, you know, there's a bunch of them in the town that he was in. And they were so ashamed To show their faces on the day that Jesus didn't come back, that they actually would walk through a cornfield instead of walk through town to get where they needed to go. And it really broke them up. But what happened is A few of these sects, a few of these groups broke up or uh split off into different sections and they said, Well You know, we'll believe this and you guys believe this and you guys believe this and and instead of instead of saying, well let's go find a religion that that uh that maybe was right, maybe maybe one of the ones that wasn't preaching this, maybe even the one that uh Miller came out of But instead of doing that, they said, well, let's believe this all meant something else. And I'll get into the what the groups believed and how they ended up uh transforming into the Seventh-day Adventists here in the second. But you need to know that Miller, the one I've been talking about this entire time, was not the founder, uh William Miller was not the founder of Seventh-day Adventism. He didn't believe it. In fact, he called them heretics. He said they were preaching heresy. But here's the thing, Pastor. None of those groups would have started had he Maybe he had a little less pride. Had he maybe studied the Bible out? Maybe if he would have taken some knowledge from someone that was older and wiser than he was. And I I wrote this down James uh three one through five. James three one through five, it's uh written on the top of the second page. It says, My brethren, be not many masters. We just heard a sermon on this a few weeks ago. My brethren, be not many masters, knowing that we shall receive the greater condemnation. For in many things we offend all. If any man offend not in word, the same as a perfect man, and is able also to bridle the whole body. Behold, we put bits in horses' mouths, that they may obey us, and we turn by their whole body. Behold also the ships, which though they be great, are driven by a fierce wind, yet they are turned about with a very small helm, whatsoever the governor lifteth. Even so the tongue is a little member and boasteth great things. Behold, how great a matter, a little fire, kindleth. Now here's the thing, I've always thought of that, and I've always separated the verse one from the other verses. But a tongue And you think, well, tongue controls a lot about your life, about a lot about what happens. But the tongue of a teacher controls a great much more. What you say as a teacher, as someone as someone instructing someone, as someone with a following, as someone who is listening to you You're not only moving your body and your circumstances, you're moving their circumstances, and in turn you're moving who they affect as well. It's not just that passage isn't just about your own tongue, but it's about your tongue as a teacher as well. And the and the damage that this man did, because he kept on preaching something. And by the way, this preaching, when you're unique and you have a unique theory, you get more followers. See here's the thing. If you preach plain Jane straight Bible, you might not get a lot of flowers, but if you have a weird idea, people are like, well, that's weird, I like it. And if you want to disagree with me, look at Mormonism. It's weird and stupid. But people were like, oh, you know, that's unique. I want to be unique. Look at Jehovah's Witnesses. Oh, you know, that's unique. I want I want to be unique. And and and I think he carried into it so everybody's like, well this is an interesting theory. So this is what my entire theology is going to be based around is that Jesus is coming back on this state. By the way, that's a terrible theology for everything to be based on Our theology. We shouldn't preach when Jesus is coming back as much as we should preach that people need uh salvation by grace through Jesus. Our theology should be about our life. Listen, eschatology, the uh study of the end times, is a fun study to do. It's a fun thing to learn, and it's a good thing to know what and it's a good thing to build uh your knowledge on it However, that won't affect you as much as learning how to love your neighbor. It won't affect you as much. It won't be as good for you as learning how to witness to others, as learning how to forgive others. I love theory. I love conjecture and ideas. But those come behind, in my opinion, those come behind actually doing what we were actually supposed to do. Now here's the thing. So like he said, he uh he taught the all the groups after him, he wrote letters to him telling them that they were heretics. The first group was the Hiram Edson group. They proclaimed the doc they were known for the doctrine of the sanctuary. I'll get to their doctrines here in a second. Um, the Joseph Bates group was next. They brought with them the doctrine of the seventh day. And then Ellen G. White, she brought with them the spirit of pro her with her, her group had the spirit of prophecy. And uh the manifest of the re and the remnant. Now, uh I'll explain what each of these means uh in just a second. But are the writings of these three groups from 1844 to 1847 make up the basis for Seventh-day Adventism Now these three groups, they went to Battle Creek, Michigan, and before they called themselves anything, they all met together. They were probably just called the former Millerites. And they got together and they decided, you know what, I like you, you like me, I think we can agree on some stuff, I think that's a neat idea. Let's all put it into a big book, and that's it. Now here's the thing. The founder Or at least the headship, I believe, of Seventh-day Adventism is a woman by the name of Ellen G. White. She was in the third group. You see, here because here's the thing. Uh the first group, the guy had an idea about what the uh what 1844 actually meant. What I mean uh Jesus obviously didn't come back, so what did happen on that day? Why was it so important? And the second guy, well he said, well, you know, instead of uh we should uh keep the Sabbath and uh and uh worship on Sundays because the Sabbath's going to reinstitute in Revelation is what he says. And she said, Well, we believe that we have the gift of prophecy, so we win. Because when you can tell people what the Word of God is, you win. Um so she was technically the founder. Now she was born a devout Methodist. Uh or two devout Methodist parents. However, when she was thirteen year old they thirteen years old, they became uh Millerites They continued to remain in the Methodist Church until 1843 when they were disfellowshipped for the belief in the premillennial second coming of Christ. Um after uh the eighteen forty four Great Disappointment, that is actually what they actually call it by the way, and some they have they call it the Great Disappointment. 1844 Great Disappointment. While visiting a friend in Portland, Maine, she experienced her first of many visions, the vindication of the Adventist faith. So, like I said, here's where someday Adventism really starts to become a cult in in how they believe. She received her first vision. And this was you know it was confirming that she was right all along, even though they just found out they were wrong, but she was right all along. And here's the thing, they believe uh some uh Seventh-day Adventists believe that everything she ever wrote Or said what is a doctrine and is important as the Bible. That is not the main belief, however So let me say that again. Some believe that everything she wrote, she was a prophet, so everything she wrote or said was uh is Bible. By the way, that's not how prophets work even in the Old Testament. Otherwise the book would be a lot the Bible would be a lot longer. But uh some beliefs are that fanatical about it. However, most of the Adventists say, well What she she had to get the prophecies, so not everything that she said was out of inspiration, but the things that she testified and things that and some of the things she wrote, they were completely inspired like God's Word, but not equal to God's Word And we'll get into that idea of prophecy here in a second. By the way, Matthew 7, 15 through 20 says, beware of false prophets which come in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravening wolves. You shall know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles? Even so every good tree brings forth good fruit. But a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit. A good fruit cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit. Every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down and cast into the fire. Wherefore ye are fruit wherefore by their fruits ye shall know them. Here's the thing. Well cle and uh and the reason I read that is because we really is because I I Ellen G. Why you don't find a lot about her that's bad. You don't it it's not like it's not like Charles Caesar also who we found out was a megalomaniac and he and he loved himself so much. that he started his own religion so they could pretty much worship himself. And it wasn't like Joseph Smith who was basically just a pedophile and wanted to marry a bunch of women. You don't really find a lot evil about her. You don't find stuff like that about her. However, what are teachings have led to is some is some very big problems. And fruits aren't just your works, fruits are what happens to your people. Now let me get go to this. Like I said, while claiming that the Bible is the only inspired word of God The Seventh-day Adventists also believe that her testimonies were inspired. But they're not inspired in the same way as the Bible, so it can never succeed the Bible, or so it never superseded the Bible. However, It was inspired so that we know how to interpret the Bible. But here's the thing. So her her uh all of her testimony, all the things that she claimed that she prophesied, those things did not supersede the Bible is what it says. In fact, it all it said was that they basically explained or defined in the Bible. But here's my question. What's more powerful? A single word or the definition of that word? Definitions and how you define things are more important than the words themselves. And I say that because what you can do is you can take things and twist things. You can twist any sentence you want into meaning something if you can change the definitions of the words, which is a lot of what Seventh day Adventist feel. They add in a lot of scripture, or they add in a lot of thought and idea and theology, and I'll get to those in a second. Wait a minute. And they add in a lot of thoughts and ideas and uh and things that just aren't in there. And thing is Not only is that adding to the Word of God, which is forbidden in Revelation, and multiple other parts of the Bible, but If if hers isn't as important then it then it's different. We'll get on to their uh doctrines here in a second. Doctrines as they are currently Oh by the way, so here's something so they came out with the clear word Bible. They looked at the Jehovah's Witnesses and the Jehovah's Witnesses had the New World Translation and they're like, Well that's nifty. Because that means that their Bible says everything you want to say. So the Seventh-day Adventists comes out with the Clear Word Bible. Which is the Bible as they've retranslated it, um with some changes here and there and there and here, and then notes. But to give you an example After Genesis 28, there are about three pages of comments after that one passage, after Genesis 28. And then there are 40 references to Ellen G. White's works. Now, Genesis 28 is not very long. It's maybe a page and a half. Or, yeah, a page and a half. Maybe a little less. Depending on your Bible. If you have a giant Bible, it might be bigger. But then they have three pages of comments on it. I don't have any problem with commentaries. But then they have 40 references to her works Now tell me, what is more important to them? The words of the Bible, or how she says what the words of the Bible mean Now in public, uh the denomination, the Sunday Adventist denomination is kind of currently in the have been for a few years, trying to distance himself from uh Mrs. White, but her influences and testimonies and prophecies and all that saturate the entire religion So, uh, these are doctrines as they are currently. This is all taken from a book called Questions on Doctrine. It's written by a Seventh-day Adventist. The doctrine of the sanctuary, this is that first group that I was talking about, uh Hiram Edson's group, this is what they brought to the table. You see the Millerites, back when there was Millerites, were very confident they had the day of Christ's return correct. So here in Edson spawned the idea that the day was correct, but the event that they were planning on happening, Jesus coming back to earth, was obviously false. Instead of coming to earth, um they said they'd uh to cleanse the earthly sanctuary. They believed meant that uh Christ would begin to cleanse the heavenly sanctuary. Or the Holy of Holy sanctuary. Now, if you're sitting there going, what does any of that mean? Good. You're paying attention. The c Christ would come again and uh and cleanse the earth. Not a bad idea, right? Like not a bad thought. Um it's not biblical, but it's not a bad thought Well, since the Bible is still correct and their theory of what would happen was wrong, they said, wait a second, in eighteen forty uh in eighteen forty-three or forty-four, what really happened was Christ went from uh cleansing heaven to cleansing the holy of holies. Now, um According to their beliefs, this is what this means. The forgiven sins of Christians went to the heavenly sanctuary where Jesus basically ministered to forgive them. He worked to forgive them. However, in 1844, Christ moved to the Holy of Holies and decided to do that work there. He basically switched offices. Now here's the thing. They get this from Hebrews chapter eight, um one and two, in Acts three nineteen, and believe that the sanctuary From the Old Testament, the sanctuary where uh they had uh not the temple, but before the temple, they had a sanctuary with the uh tent the that was basically a copy of one in heaven and Christ just did the same thing Now how they get that is by being very, very, very, very literal with the Bible. And I believe in being literal with the Bible, but when it's actually making an allusion to something, because the Bible does use examples It's like listening to uh it it's incorrect. So it's like listening to Jesus tell a parable and being like, Yeah. But the coins were coins, right? It's it's like it's being that literal. When the when the Hebrews when it's talking about Jesus being the high priest, they actually think that Jesus was a high priest and there's a holy of holies in heaven, although you know That's not quite true. There's no there's no sanctuary in heaven where Jesus has to continually forgive your sins. And here's the thing. Your sins were taken care of, and this is why they're very confusing, because what happened is, and this is my own belief about Seventh-day Adventism, what happens is they looked at the Bible. And they got all these theories and wrote all these papers, and then they preached on it for a long time. And then they looked at the Bible again and was like, well, this does not make any sense So he changed it a little. So he said, yes, we believe that Christ is continually ministering to forgive your sins in the sanctuary and is now in the Holy of Holies. However, all the work that was done was on the cross. So he has to work them in heaven, but all the works are but they're already forgiven. My question is, why is he still working if they're already forgiven? But that's just me. The doctrine of investigative judgment. So the day that Christ began cleansing the heavenly sanctuary, he began to judge the works of man out of books that are in heaven. Listen, by the way, that's true. Jesus every good every deed we do is written down in heaven, and we will be judged on it. Now here's the thing: I think that happens in front of us. But it says that it's it's constantly happening. Um there's no evidence for this, that Jesus is just up there judging works with a ledger saying good, bad, good, bad. There's no evidence for that. Except for in her writings. Now in fact John 5 24 says, Verily, verily I say unto you, he that heareth my word and believeth on him that sent me hath everlasting life, and that shall not come into condemnation. But it's passed from death unto life. It's an instantaneous thing. God isn't still up there currently judging everything you do. You are justified by Jesus' blood. Instantly. He doesn't do it every second of every day. Now Uh the second the next uh thing is uh is the doctrine of investigative judgment. Oh that's what I'm sorry Uh Romans 5, 8-10 says, But he commended his love towards us that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Much more than being now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from the wrath through him For if we were enemies, we are reconciled to God by the death of his son. Much more being reconciled, we shall be saved by his life Here's the thing. We are cleansed by God's blood immediately. They say yes, however, it's not immediate. They are and I I know you're like, well, what's that saying then? They're saying both sides of the story. They're saying he's still forgiving your sins, and at the same time they're saying, well, he did all the work already. He doesn't actually have to do anything else, but but he's still forgiving them as they uh come up. Next is the doctrine of the seventh day. Seventh-day Adventists believe in upholding a Sabbath. They do not believe this saves you, but it's merely a test of loyalty because it's found in Revelation. Uh Colossians two sixteen however it says, Let no man therefore judge you in meat or in drink or in respect of any ho of any holy day or of the new moon or of the Sabbath days, which are a shadow of things to come, but the body is of Christ. I will say this. They judge us all the time. Like if you and again, I don't know many Seventh-day Adventists, but I know that they think we're stupid for worshiping on Sunday and not keeping the Sabbath. And yet it says here in Colossians they're not supposed to judge us for that. The doctrine of the spirit of prophecy. Now here's uh Ellen G. White was filled with the spirit of prophecy according to them, but only to amplify God's word and define it, not to supersede it. The doctrine of atonement. Like, and this is what I was talking about earlier. Christ atoned for everything on the cross. However, he works out that atonement constantly in heaven. Doctrine of salvation. This is where, again, I think many, I think many Semite Adventists, I think, I think a few of them this is why the cult is a little thing, because they do believe in salvation by grace Through faith, although they rarely say through faith. They forget that a lot. But they do believe in salvation by grace, and they believe, and they're very, very, very strict on the fact that it's without works. If you if you read if you uh if you re and again I've read a lot of this stuff, if you read their testimonies, they're like no, works will not get you heaven, you cannot work your way to heaven, works do no uh good to get you any more grace than you would have had. And they're very, very clear that works do not get you to heaven. However, here's the one problem I have. Is uh Parts of their doctrine include them saying, one who truly accepts the teachings of the Seventh-day Adventist Church can assuredly know he is born again. That hits me oddly. Because it I guess you know, if if the church is teaching the right things, sure. If the church is teaching salvation by grace through faith, then yes. However, it says whoever accepts the teachings of the church. And the church teaches a lot more than just that. Now like I said, they believe and I and I've read this ten times from like it's it's over and over again in this book. So maybe I'm taking this way out of context. Although I don't feel taking out of context. Maybe I'm taking this way out of proportion. But while it says that, you know, a bunch of other Christians decide Seventh day Adventists are going to be in heaven. They believe that it's their church that gets you to heaven, which again, like I said, they believe in salvation through grace. You might run across the Seventh-day Adventist. that is completely saved and on their way to heaven. But then again you might believe uh run across one who believes that uh they're select because they're a Seventh day Adventist church member. Let me say that again. There are some that believe that it's salvation by grace through faith. That would be our type. That would be the type that are going to be in heaven. And there are some that believe that because they're a Seventh-day Adventist, they're going to be in heaven. Doctrine of eternal punishment, they do not believe in eternal punishment. They believe in the finality of punishment. This is called annihilationism. And disagrees with our teachings found in Matthew 25 and in Revelation 20. They believe that if you were um men believe that if you were an unsaved person when you die, You come back for the judge or sorry, when you die, it's annihilation. So when you come, you either uh are off into eternity and you don't exist anymore and you're just nothing. Or they believe that you get reawoken to be cast in the lake of fire, and then you're nothing. They believe in what in uh they don't believe in eternal punishment. Uh next in soul sleep. Um Let me skip over that one for time's sake. Uh the doctrine of uh unclean foods. And it's not really a doctrine. So uh they have uh their teachings that say a lot of uh Seventh day Adventists are vegetarians Um that's in fact when you back in the day apparently, and I've never been back in that day, and nor am I ever been a vegetarian. So maybe I was back in the day, I just didn't know. But back in the day, if you were a vegetarian, your best friend was the Seventh day Adventist church Because that's where you could find a lot of vegetarian foods. They say they don't believe this is because of Moses' law. And I was reading, and he says very clearly, we believe that you have the liberty to eat whatever you want. But he believes, but they believe, and this is what they teach in their church, that your body is the temple of God, and you should treat it as so, so you should eat healthy foods. That's not actually wrong. It's just it's just a downer. Um, because I like Unhealthy foods. But uh but uh I you should treat your body as templates. I mean that's the same that's the reason I don't believe in tattoos, that's the reason I don't believe in piercings That's the reason I don't believe in drug use and and I mean a lot of things that will hurt your a lot of things that will hurt your body. I agree with them on but they but they're very strict about their foods. They say, you know what, you have to stick to this diet and not because you have to, although it does break into a little bit of legalism. And not because you have to, but because that's what is good for your body. And by the way, it's good for you to eat healthy foods. I'm just not going to preach about it when there's much more important things to preach on. Um Things that we agree with them on, we agree that Christ is bodily resurrected, and we agree that uh about uh the second coming Not not their first belief on the second coming, their other their new belief on the second coming, which is that Christ is going to come back and it's pre-millennial and everything. Um Seventh-day Adventism today. This is interesting. Um and the only statistic I defined for it was from 1962, so uh sorry about that. They gave six times the average amount per person in other denominations. Oh, in sixty in uh nineteen sixty two most uh the average amount was uh forty six dollars They had a people gave to uh it was forty-six dollars that people gave per year to their church. Seventh-day Adventists gave $225 uh per year. Now here's the thing. Say what you want about Seventh-day Adventists. They put their money where their mouth is or where their uh yeah put their money where their mouth is. They actually believe a lot of a lot of what they believe. Um oh now here's the thing. One of the biggest problems with them was a great deal of pride from early mockers. And uh pride by the way, mockery does one of two things. It beats people down and it builds them up at the same time. It always build if you if you yell at someone, if you tell someone they're stupid, if you mock them, one of the things that I believe it does is it'll beat them down, but in the back of their mind it'll build up their pride. So we'll build them up in the wrong ways and beat them down in the good ways. And so they start thinking they're special. This is one of the this is called the doctrine of the remnant remnant. They believe that they're the remnant. Uh that while you might be saved, they're the special Christians and have a special place in heaven because they actually follow the Bible. That's how they feel. Um Again, and I read and I read that and it was very prideful and then like a little while later I read the uh guy who was writing the book and he said, We don't take this as a source of pride, we just you know, think that we follow the Bible and you don't. And that's what he said. And it sounds a little prideful. By the way, um and by the way, that remnant found in Revelation twelve seventeen. In a public theological discussion, this is really interesting, they are told to conceal their faith. If they're in public and they're having a theological discussion with someone, they're told don't say you're a Seventh-day Adventist. Don't tell anyone, but when it comes your time, speak our faith, but don't tell everyone what they are. That's because again, they people kinda think they're weird. And what and the thing is is if if they if they attack it that way, if they attack it without telling you things, then you'll be like, well that's a good point. Oh I never thought about that way And then and so soon if you're not strong on your doctrine, you'll be like, well and you'll go up to someone and say, Well did you ever think about this? And maybe if they're not strong in your doctrine, they'll believe the same thing. Listen, people are stupid and I hate to admit it, but me and you are people. And when we hear something, our initial reaction, this is silly, but our initial reaction is to say, oh I believe that. Now some people are real cynical? And so if it if it's like a friend or someone they don't like, they'll say, Well that's not true automatically. But most people they hear it they're like and they have no evidence against it, they'll say, Well that makes sense. And then that sometimes automatically becomes your new belief And that's why they're told to do that. By the way, it's very common among cults to hide who you are. Mormons are very, very, very, very strict, or at least careful, to say that they are LDS. With the Church of Latter-day Saints. Because no one knows what that is. Well, and I guess some people I guess people do, but A lot of people, I mean, they're like they watch a commercial on TV and it and there's like, ooh, I get a free Bible from this church called Latter-day Saints. It's like, oh, it's a it's a church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. That's fantastic. That's Jesus Christ, that has saints in it That's ladders? I mean that's great. I mean like and but they're to say oh hi if they're walking up and say hi we're Mormons you're like no that's how people are we we that it's very common among cults to uh conceal their faith Sunday I've been okay, so here's your takeaways. It's born from a man who said it was heresy Careful what you teach people. Careful what you say. Careful what you spout off without knowing things. By the way, we're human. I'm human. I'll preach myself for a second. If you don't know something, say you don't know it If you have an idea or a theory about something, especially when it comes to the Bible, say this is a theory. Because someone can take your teachings and it will influence them. And then they'll twist it and then you'll say, that is not what I taught you, but you're the fault, but it's your fault that it happened because you didn't because you taught them that way. Um Sem Dead Benz theology all stum stems from eschatology. Everything they believe, or I their entire religion was started not out of um not out of uh grace or faith. Not out of salvation. It wasn't started out of witnessing. It wasn't started out of uh out of loving your neighbor. No, their entire theology was started out of end times theology. Here's the problem with that. We are commanded the the great commission is for us to um preach the gospel. And the first commandment is the love God, and the second commandment It's uh love our uh love our neighbor as ourself. Those should be what our religion, what our what everything is based on, not this is the year that Christ is coming back. And lastly, Sunday Adventists can be saved. I mean that in two ways. The first way is this. You might be a Sunday Adventist who's like, yes, Christ died on the cross for my sins, and because I have faith in that I'm saved by grace. And you'd be like, oh. Well, since you're not doing anything Sunday, you can come to church someday. That's what I would say. Um, but because they go in church on Saturdays. But anyways, um so they can be saved. But I mean it's another way is that the ones that just believe in the church, they can be saved too. One of the things that I wish I would this is a point that I should have added on every cult Each of these people can be saved, but they won't be saved without someone telling them You might find someone who was born in the Seventh-day Adventism, and because they've been raised a Seventh-day Adventist, let me read this over one more time and I'm done. Because they um Because they were born a Seventh-day Adventist, they say this. They they read something like, One who truly accepts the teachings of Seventh-day Adventist Church can assuredly know he is born again. And because they were born into that church They think they're on their way to heaven. Well, that's not how it works. Because their mother believed it, therefore they believe in their heart that they must automatically believe it, and they've never actually made a decision like that Sunday Adventists need to hear the gospel. By the way, Baptists need to hear the gospel. Catholics need to hear the gospel. Mormons, Jehovah's Witnesses, Muslims need to hear the gospel. But they don't hear, and the Bible is so clear about this, but they don't hear without a preacher. We need to preach that gospel. All right, very good