Wasn't thinking much about heaven or hell. I was n I was eighteen years old, fixing to turn nineteen. I wasn't planning on dying for a long time and so heaven and hell wasn't the issue. The issue for me was that I was a horrible sinner And that sin was destroying my life, and I needed God to come in my life and give me, cleanse me from my sin and give me new life And that was my whole motivation for for salvation. So I was coming to the Word of God. And I was praying, God, you have to help me. I don't want to be the man I'm becoming. God, I don't want my life to be what my life is. There has to be something more to life than this. There has to be something right in life And God began showing me from the Bible. As I would read late at night, two, three o'clock in the morning, God was showing me that I was a sinner, that my my sinful nature was the problem. And he started pointing me to Christ, pointing me to Christ. And then of course May 7, 1979, I bowed my knees beside my bed And I called out to Jesus Christ, Commend my heart and life and save me from sin in hell. And uh from that point on, uh God began working in my life and changing me in all these 34 years now God's been working and working and and changing me. I found out shortly after I got saved, not only was he taking those sins and changing my life, but he also gave me a home in heaven, that when I die I'm going to heaven And uh I found out, man, I escaped hell. I'm not going to hell by trust in Jesus Christ. I escape hell. I'm going to heaven when I die. He's giving me a new life here and now. Boy, what a great deal And so I'm glad I got saved. Now I said all that to say this. When God saved me, he put in my heart a hunger for the Word of God. To read this Bible and to get in and find out what God has for me and what his will is for my life and and and how to make decisions. And all these years I've come to find that a daily time in the Word of God is vitally important for you and I as Christians. For God to lead us, God to help us. And that's what I want to talk about. What exactly are daily devotions? And are they really that important? Is it really that important that I as a Christian spend time in the Bible every day? Well, let's look what the Bible says. Look with me, if you would, at Joshua chapter 1 and verse number 8. The Bible says, this book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to do, according to all that is written therein For then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and thou shalt have good success. Have I not commanded thee, be strong and of good courage? Be not afraid. Neither be thou dismayed, for the Lord thy God is with thee, whithersoever thou goest. Notice he says in verse number eight, This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night. That thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein. Now keep your place there. Come over to the book of Psalms. You open your Bible right in the middle, and uh you're probably in Psalms. Come to the beginning of that book Chapter 1. I want to read the first few verses. Notice the Bible says, Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. Look at this. But his delight is in the law of the Lord. And in his law doth he meditate what? Day and night. And he shall be like a tree, planted by the rivers of water, that bringeth forth his fruit in his season, his leaf also shall not wither, and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. Let's have a word of prayer, and I just want to share a few principles from God's word that I believe with all my heart will help us Help our homes, help our lives in every aspect. So let's ask the Lord to bless. Father, fill me with your spirit is my prayer tonight. I yield myself to you. I present my body anew I pray you'd open our hearts and minds. And my prayer, Lord, is that everyone, under the sound of my voice, would take this truth, this instruction from your word, and incorporate into our lives And Lord, if every one of us here would establish daily devotions, God, what a change could take place in our lives, in our homes, in our community. God, we need your help. Your word's powerful. So please help us, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Personal daily devotions. And um uh uh it is impossible, I'm convinced, it is possible, it is impossible to be a growing victorious Christian. Without uh daily devotions. I'm absolutely convinced of that. Now let me give you a few points here. And I just want to boil down. I want to get right to the point tonight. Number one, I encourage you to jot these down, maybe. Number one, my personal daily devotions must be directly focused on the Word of God. In other words, I need to, as a Christian, I need to establish sometime every day that I focus on to the Word of God. Look with me here at Psalms chapter 1 again. But his delight is in the what? Law of the Lord. Do you still have Joshua there? Flip back there. Notice what it says. This book of the Law shall not be part and a mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein. The law of the Lord, the book of the law. What's he talking about? He's talking about the Word of God. Every Christian Should spend time every day in the Word of God. Now, there are many, many helpful devotional aides out there. We give one out every other month, the Baptist Bread. Distribute it freely. We want everybody to get that. That is a good supplement to my daily Bible reading, but it is never to be a substitute for my daily Bible reading. There's a lot of great stuff. When I was in Bible college, Dr. Lee Robertson always recommended a little devotional book that's divided up, 365 days. It was called Streams in the Desert Uh written by Mrs. Charles Cowan. Back in the nineteen twenties. Um him and her she and her husband were missionaries to Israel. And uh they wrote that little devotional. I tell you what, that little devotional is great. I've read that thing through scores of times over the years. And uh that thing is a blessing. There's tremendous truths in there, but nothing substitutes for the Word of God. We ought to focus on the Word of God, the Word of God. Now, how do I read the Bible? You say, Preacher, I don't read my Bible every day. How do I go about starting that? Let me suggest this: under the idea of focusing on the Word of God. Number one, be practical. Be practical in your Bible reading. What do I mean by that? I mean this. Don't set out and you're going to read 25 chapters from the Bible every day That is not practical. You're not going to do that. You might do that one morning, two mornings, uh unless you're retired, you don't have anything to do, then maybe you can. But um But anyway, be practical. Set out a realistic amount of scripture that you can read. So I'm going to read a certain amount. And be practical about it. I wrote this down. Be systematic. Don't just do helter-skelter Bible reading. Don't just open it up and read somewhere. No, be systematic. Alright, I'm going to read this book of the Bible. I'm gonna read uh I'm gonna start here and read so many chapters a day, maybe one or two. I'm gonna be systematic. Maybe I'm gonna read a passage from the Old Testament, a few chapters from the Old Testament, chapter two from the New Testament Maybe you would incorporate into your daily Bible reading a reading a chapter of Proverbs every day that I highly recommend Today's the 18th of uh of August. I read Proverbs chapter 18 this morning. And you read that, go through that thing every month uh as you go through the year. And uh uh but being systematic Not just Helder Skelder. I'm telling you right now, you just open that book up anywhere, and uh after a while that'll get old. It won't make sense You don't read the newspaper that way. You don't read a book that way. You go systematic through it. So, number one, be practical. Number two, be systematic. Number three, be thorough. Be thorough. Read that thing through Now, for a new Christian, somebody that's just gotten saved recently, I don't recommend you start in Genesis and read through Revelation. I think you'll uh get you'll get bogged down, you'll get overwhelmed. Uh I don't think that's the best way to go about it I think for a new Christian, you ought to start out reading maybe the Gospel of John. Very basic truths there, some very simple things on the life of Jesus Christ. And read a chapter a day from the Gospel of John Chap the book of Psalms is always a blessing. And you can take a psalm a day, read one chapter from the book of Psalms. I'm telling you, if you read either John or Psalms every day, God will bless you, and I believe God would change your life just in those two books. Now, once you've been saved for a length of time, if you've been saved for a period of time, I think there comes a point where you need to start reading that Bible through, all the way through. And many, many years ago, right after I got saved, actually, I established, I started reading the Bible through. Genesis, start out on January 1st. I read Genesis chapter 1, Matthew chapter 1, I read from Proverbs, Psalms And just read that thing through. Lord will, and at the end of this year, I'll have read the Bible through 34 times. What am I saying? I'm saying there comes a point where you need to be very systematic, you need to be very practical, but you need to be thorough. And every Christian ought at some point in their life read that Bible through. You say, preacher, I already read it through. I don't have to read the Bible anymore. No, no, no. Go back and read it through again. And then again, and then again, and then again, and boy that thing starts making sense and those puzzles, pieces of puzzles start falling into place, and then you see the overall picture of that book. So, what do we mean by having daily devotions? I want to challenge you. I want to encourage you. Set a time every day where you read the Word of God Focus on the Word of God. You say, well, I like this devotional. Do that as a supplement, not as a substitution. Read that in addition to it. Write this down, number two. This is my second point. Daily devotions should be daily and scheduled Daily and scheduled. Joshua chapter 1, verse 8. This book of law shall not depart out of thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night. Psalms chapter 1. But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night. You know what the idea is behind that? There's a scheduled time. There's a scheduled time. I believe at some point it's good for a Christian to start reading. I think you ought this is my personal opinion. I'll explain why here in a little bit. I think you ought to read your Bible first thing in the morning. Early in the day. And I'll give you some reasons here in a minute. But I want to challenge you this. Maybe in addition, add that at some point in your Christian life, your spiritual growth. Add reading the Bible at night. We just read two passages that God gives promises a special blessing on those that read the Bible in the morning and the evening. Now, God has blessed Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. And all these years we've been here, God's hand's been upon this in uh just in some wonderful ways. Can I tell you what I attributed some of that to? The faithfulness and goodness of God. And by that I mean when I came, God stirred my heart that I would read my Bible every morning and every night, and he promised that I would prosper and have good success. And I've endeavored to do that all these years. I can't say I've never missed a night. I can't say I've never missed a morning. But I've endeavored to read my Bible every morning and every night. And I tell you, I look to God and I can say, you know, God's been faithful. And he's promised to prosper that which and give us good success. And I believe he's done that. And I believe what he's done for me, he'll do for you. And he can help us. And so be systematic on this thing. It ought to be daily and scheduled. Daily and scheduled. Psalms 1 uh chapter 1, verse 2. Day and night. Look at, are you there in Psalms? Come over to chapter 5. Psalms chapter 5. David, this is a psalm of David. Look what he says. Give ear to my words, O Lord, consider my meditation. Hearken unto the voice of my cry, my king and my God, for unto thee will I pray. You know what I think David's talking about here? His daily devotions. Chapter 1, he's talking about meditating on the Word of God. Here he's incorporating prayer. But look what he says in verse number 3. My voice shalt thou hear in the what? Morning. You know what David did? He established a time. In the morning he would pray. I believe from Psalm chapter 1 that he read his Bible in the morning. Another place in Psalms he says, morning, noon, and night will I seek thee and cry aloud. David had scheduled times. That he would read his Bible and he would pray. He had scheduled daily devotions. Now I know, hey, I know what some of you are going to say and do. You're going to say, yeah, preacher, one of these days, I'm going to start doing that. No, you won't Not unless you schedule it. Not unless you say, all right, this is how it's going to be, this is when it's going to happen. God has given us in this day and age so many wonderful tools. To help us be disciplined. That phone in your pocket or in your purse that's turned off right now, right? That phone that has a calendar in it. You know what you can do? You can set little reminders on that thing, and that thing buzz, hey, it's 12 noon. I'm going to spend a little time in prayer. What? It's 7:30 in the morning. It's my prayer time And that thing can help you and I be disciplined. Schedule it. Just like you do, your meals, your work schedule, all that. Schedule your devotions and prayer time. And God will bless you. Number three, write this down. This is good stuff, isn't it? This stirs me up. Number three, write this down. Daily devotions must be deliberate and digested There's a word used in Joshua 1, verse 8, and Psalms 1, verse 2. A word that's used in each of those passages. Did anybody pick it out? This book of law shall not depart out thy mouth, but thou shalt Meditate. His delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate. Why would God use that word twice? Why would God put that in there two times? Because He wants us to get a principle. And that is this: when we read the Word of God, don't just let your eyes race across the words, but ingest it. That's the whole idea, that word meditate, taking it into my and digesting it into my mind and heart and soul, understanding what he's saying and making that a part of my life. Meditate therein day and night. The old word meditate, I like to use in this illustration, actually comes from the same word where we get the idea of a cow chewing its cud. A child a cow will wolf it down out there and just crop that grass off and swallow it down almost hole, and then boy eat Actually I just got a little bit of lunch. Came back right there. And um It's pretty good though. Soup. Uh but anyway, uh the whole idea is uh is man that cow bring and he'll chew it, and boy, by the time that cow is done, every little morsel mega uh molecule of nutrient has been squished and chewed and chomped out of that thing and he ingests all that. That's the whole idea of taking the word of God And getting through, I want everything, God, I want everything you have to be incorporated into my life. I want my home, I want my marriage, I want my work ethics, I want my finances I want my friendships, I want my values, Lord, to be all absorbed from your word. Meditate, ingesting that thing into my life, not just, oh, the preacher says you gotta read the Bible. Alright, I've read my Bible. That's not going to do you a bit of good. Amen? Pay me, give me a quarter, I'll do that again. This is what I'm trying to say. Take time, think through what's being said. Make every effort to minimize distractions. You're reading your Bible in the morning, you got fox and friends on, you're gonna have a hard time concentrating what that Bible's saying. Saturate your devotion time with prayer. You know what David did in the Old Testament? He would pray this prayer, open thou mine eyes, that I may behold wondrous things out of thy law. I can see David getting the word of God out. Now they had it laid out a little different. We did, maybe a scroll or some sort of parchment He'd get that thing out. He's going to have his daily devotions. He'd bow his head. Now, Lord, help me to see this. God, open my eyes. Help me to see what you have to say. Show me how this applies to my life. Lord, I'm yielding my will to your word and show me how I should live and what I should do and not do. And God help me. He saturated his daily devotions with prayer. Number one, our devotions must directly be focused on the Word of God. Number two. They must be daily and scheduled. Number three, they must be deliberate and digested. Number four, daily devotions will pay big dividends. Listen, I'll give you your money back. This don't work. But you read your Bibles every day as I've instructed here, and I'm telling you, you will see God's blessings on your life. Say, you mean I'll get rich? No, but I will tell you this: you'll have some peace in your heart and life. You'll find direction. You know what I hey, you know what I think you'll start finding? Victory over that sin you've been struggling with. That thing's dragging you down every time you get involved in it, every time you engage in it, you think, What in the world? What am I thinking? Why am I doing it? You get in the Word of God and you digest the Word of God and spend time in God's presence, you'll start seeing God give you victory God will bless you and lead your life. There are two significant motives for making sure that I have daily devotions. I have two significant motives. That drives me to have daily devotions on a daily, regular basis. Here's one of them: fear of my own sinful nature. Every one of us here, all of us, we have what the Bible calls an old man or a sinful nature, the flesh. And there is an aspect of my being that loves sin. By the way, so do you. There's an aspect of your being that wants your life to be lived for self. For me, mine, my will. And I tell you, that sinful nature that resides inside this body scares me to death. That sinful nature, if it has its way, it will destroy my life. It will destroy my marriage. It will destroy my ministry. There is nothing good that comes out of giving into the sinful nature. And that potential, that potential for sin scares me. I spent 20 years here in Garrett County, and I've tried awfully hard to have a good testimony. I've tried awfully hard to represent Jesus Christ and the gospel in a good way. Now I've not lived up to what I feel like I should, but I'll tell you this, that what that testimony I have established, I could destroy it in five minutes tonight. If my flesh got its way. And that fear of my sinful nature and what it would and could do to me drives me on a daily basis to the Word of God. To enable me to have victory over that and keep that thing at bay and to mortify it daily There's another motive I have for wanting spend time in the Bible every day, and that's this: my gratitude and love for God for saving my soul from hell. You know what that book is? That Bible is a love letter from my Savior. And I look in that book and I read that and I see how much God loves me. I see how he suffered hell for me. We're going to have Lord's Supper here in a minute. That is an illustration of the horrendous price that Jesus Christ paid for my sin and your sin. And I get in that book and I see what Jesus Christ did for me. My love for him, my gratitude for what he's done just grows. When I traveled and when I was in college, my junior summer and the summer I graduated, my my summer between junior and senior, then I graduated in that summer I traveled in neighborhood Bible time. It's one of the reasons I just love it Wife and I were just I don't think we dated the first summer I traveled. I met her when I come back. By the next year we were dating pretty definite. We kind of we pretty much knew that this was us were the we were the ones for each other. And she would write me letters as I travel. And um, you know, we're I'm out 13 weeks, 10, 13 weeks, something like that. And uh she's back in West Virginia, I'm out who knows where, traveling the country. We left, she wrote me a letter. Just nice little letter. I'm not going to tell you what it said. But a nice little letter. And each week I'd get a letter from her. We were allowed one letter a week. I'd get that letter. You know what I did when I got that letter? I'd put it up and say, I'll read that when I get a chance sometime this week. If I get around to it, nothing on TV, I'll I'll read that letter. You think that's what I did? Good heavens, that thing was ripped open before it got out of the mailbox. I'd get that letter, man, I'd flip that thing open and I'd read that through there, smell, see if there's col uh perfume on it. You know? And I'd read that thing through and put it up and uh then go do my responsibilities, traveling, and get a little boy it's lunchtime, I'd pull that letter out and read that thing again. And I'd put that thing up and go do the rally and preach and do all that, and that evening before I went to bed, I'd I'd have my devotion, I'd pull that letter out again, I'd read that thing again. Why'd I do that? That was a letter from someone that loved me. And in that letter, they she told me how much she loved me, and she told me how smart I was and how handsome I was. That's what always attracted me. She's so her so astute. In recognizing intelligence and handsomeness. And I'd read that thing. You know why I want to read this Bible? You know why you and I ought to want to read this Bible? This Bible tells me how much God loves me. And all the things he's done for me and what he's doing for me now. Also helps me have victory over that old sinful nature. He tells me what I should and shouldn't do to keep that nature at bay. Tell you what, reading your Bible pays big dividends. Big dividends. Here's what it'll do for us. Dot these down real quick. I'm just going to name them all. Number one, my daily devotions will produce an accurate view of God in my heart and mind. This world talks about God This world doesn't know anything about God. The only accurate view of God is found in that book right there, the Word of God. And this Bible will give me, every day as I open my Bible and I spend some time reading the Word of God, I'm going to get a clear, accurate picture of who and what God is. I'm not interested in what man says God is. I want God to tell me what he is. God's word shows me that. I get an accurate view of God. One of the great dangers we face in this sinful world and our sinful hearts is we fail to see how glorious God is. We fail to see how big and how awesome this God is that created us. We fail to see how holy he is and how good he is. We get going in our work-a-day world and we're saturated with this un this perverse, sinful world, and we fail to see Who God is him, what he's like, and we tend to minimize them and minimize them and the next thing you know we've got God shrunk down into some little container that we just keep off on the side and when we need them, when things are going bad, when things aren't what I want, then I'll call everything and get God out and get him to try and do a miracle for me. Listen, it doesn't work that way. When I read my Bible every day, I see God that He's the one in control, not me. He's holy and I'm sinful. And He's glorious, and He's all powerful. On a daily basis, I'm reminded and instructed from God's Word how great God is. Great God is. So number one, daily devotions, what are the dividends? One, I get an accurate view of God. I put this down, I get an accurate view of the world I live in. I meditate in scripture. I spent some time in scriptures. This Bible rips back the facade that this world presents. And I see how dark and wicked and sinful this world really is. Listen, Hollywood and the media are experts At putting out there this facade, that the world is some wonderful thing. And boy, this world can make me happy, and this world can meet my needs. What happens is we dive into this world and we engage in everything it offers, and you know we find out it was all a lie It was a lie. This world doesn't give me anything. It takes from my heart. It takes from my soul. These I tell you what get can I tell you what gets on my nerves? Well there's a lot of things that get on my nerves, but these beer commercials That is the obvious direct lie of the devil. Man, they got the beer commercial going and the ball game and Man, they're laughing and the girls and fancy cars and having a good time. It's Miller time. I've been working with people for almost 30 years. I've seen what Miller time produces. Those commercials are lies. There's not one home that has been made happier because of liquor. It's a lie! We were in Indianapolis, soul winning, like we were yesterday. We were going door to door, busy on the bus route. I knocked on one door and uh Little boy came to the door, the screen was knocked out, the top screen is just the bottom screen. His little nose just looked over the screen door and says, Your daddy home? No, he's He can't come to the door. I said, Well you give him these gospel tracks and we'd like for him to ride the sunny's You'd like for you to ride the Sunny's bus. You tell your dad. So I went the next one, I was knocking on the door and I looked there and I heard this awful sound House I just came from where the little boy was. I looked over there, I stepped back and looked over what in the world, and here was that little boy's daddy. I'd staggered out through that door and he was standing off the edge of the porch, all trashed, hanging over the edge of that porch, just vomiting. Little boy sticking his nose out there. He said, Daddy, Daddy, beer cans all over the place. I'll tell you what it was. Daddy was out drinking all night. They never show that on the commercials, do they? They never have. It's no other time than some drunken daddy with his kid blowing his eyes out, vomiting his guts out. They don't show that. This world is a lie. It puts the bright lights hypnotize, and the loud music entrance us. No one, I read this Bible. I find out that there's something more to this world than what the world offers. There's something true and good and pure and right. And it's found in the Lord Jesus Christ. I read my Bible and I get a good new view of God. He's holy and good. He loves me and He's powerful. I read my Bible and I look at this world and these commercials don't fool me and the facade the world puts on doesn't fool me because I've been in God's Word. I know what's true. When I read my Bible, I also get an accurate view of myself. Shows me what I am. You know what one of our big problems is? We generally think we're better than what we really are. We generally think we're better Christians than what we really are. And James chapter 1, verse 22, on to the end of the chapter tells us that the Word of God is like a mirror. The word the Bible uses is glass, but it's what we would call a mirror. And when I look into the perfect law of liberty, the Word of God, I see myself for what I really am. You know what I find out? I'm not nearly as strong a Christian as I think I am. I'm not nearly as smart as I think I am. My understanding isn't nearly as reliable as I thought it was. I read the Bible and I find out that God's wisdom far exceeds mine. It's kind of like getting up in the morning and you look in the mirror and your hair is sticking out everywhere. Well, some of y'all's hair is sticking out. I've never had that problem. But you look in that mirror. You say good night, I got a pimple in the side of my nose, and uh my hair is sticking out everywhere, I've got hair growing out. I don't have hair in my head, it all grows out my ears now. You look at that mirror and you say, Yikes, I thought I was looking pretty good until I looked in the mirror. We get thinking, oh, I'm pretty good, I'm alright, I'm alright. I look in the Bible and say, yikes, I'm not everything I thought I was. I got some work to do. Let me give you the last one here, real quick. Daily Devotions provides an accurate view of God's grace. The one thing you and I need the most is God's grace. God's grace. We have a tendency to think that we can produce in our lives what only the grace of God can produce. We look to others to produce in our lives what only God's grace can produce. Only God's grace can give peace. Only God's grace can remove guilt. Only God's grace can give victory over sin. I look at my Bible and I see all that grace of God that's available to me. It is God that worketh in you, both to will and do of his good pleasure. Praise the Lord for that. I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. Praise the Lord for that. Why art thou cast down on my soul? Hope thou in God. Oh, praise the Lord for that. I find grace from God to help me, help me, help me. I want to challenge you. What is family devotions? What is daily devotions? Daily devotions. is scheduling sometime every day in a systematic, thorough, but practical way, I'm going to read God's word. I'm going to ingest it into my life and my family. I'm going to follow its instructions. I'm going to claim its promises and heed its warnings. I'm going to let God lead me and direct me in my life. I'm going to saturate that time with prayer. I'm going to learn about God and my world and myself and his love for me. And God's going to do a great work. I'm going to challenge you to do that. I believe just that one act that I'm preaching on tonight could bring revival to this community, could bring revival to America. I was talking with a friend of mine just in the last couple weeks, I guess a couple weeks ago. And we're talking about revival in Washington, D. C. Revival in Washington, D. C. Revival in Washington, D. C. You know, I'm at the point I really don't care about revival in Washington, D. C. You know what I'm concerned about? Revival right here. Because it doesn't matter if there's revival in Washington DC. If there isn't revival right here, it's not going to do much. I don't misunderstand, but I'm at the point where I really am not that concerned whether Washington's right with God. I'm at the point I'm concerned that I'm right with God. My devotions help me. I read about a young lady called the preacher. Her daddy was dying. She called the preacher, can you come in and pray with my daddy? He's dying. Because I'll be right over. Walked in the bedroom, the little daughter brought him in the room, walked in the bedroom, the daddy was propped up on pillows on his bed. And beside his bed was an empty chair. And the preacher assumed that he was expecting him to come, that his daughter had told him that he was coming, and he had put that chair there. And he says, I'm preacher, you called for me. He says, I didn't call for you. He says, Well I'm here to say, I don't know who you are. He goes, Well, I'm the preacher and I've come by to uh pray with you and uh and uh try uh uh thing. I said, I assumed you were expecting me. He says, No He said, Well, I saw this empty chair here by your bed. And he goes, Oh no. He said, let me tell you about that empty chair. He said, if you would, close the door. The preacher went over and closed the door. Sat on the foot of the bed, and they were both looking at the empty chair. The man said he said years ago, he said I had a Christian friend. That told me that I should spend some time every day in prayer and Bible reading. He said, I had a hard time of that. My friend gave me a helpful aid He said, put a little chair there and sit down across from that chair and visualize in your mind Jesus Christ sitting in that chair. And when you read your Bible and when you pray, visualize that Jesus is speaking to you what your Bible is saying. And when you pray, visualize talking to Jesus sitting there in front of you. He said, that's been years and years. He said, I didn't want my daughter to see, because if she sees me talking to an empty chair, I'll think either she'll have a nervous breakdown or she'll think I'm nuts. He says, that's what the chair is. He goes, well, that makes sense. And the preacher had prayer with him and left. The next day, got a phone call. The daughter said, Daddy died last night, not long after you left. He said, We came in in the morning and found his dead body, but there was something strange. He had pulled himself halfway out of the bed and he had laid his head on the seat of that chair. The preacher immediately knew. He put himself in the lap of the Lord Jesus. The daughter said it doesn't make sense. The preacher said, would to God we all had a relationship with Jesus Christ like that. Devotions. Getting into the presence of God. Saying, Lord, I need you in my life. Need you to direct me and help me, be the man you want me to be. It's important. pray. Father in heaven, I ask dear Lord that you would help us