Remember before you got saved, remember the conviction that came upon you in uh in that time before you got saved. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Doesn't that describe that? You know, just miserable under conviction you're sin. So that's what he's saying. Then look at the rest of the verse. And he set my feet upon a rock and established my going. So God saved him and he gave some stability to his life. He put a foundation of Christ under him And he has real purpose now and and meaning in his life. And uh then he says this, and he hath put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God. Many shall see it in fear, and shall trust in the Lord And he says, God put a song that is different now that he's saved, now that his feet are upon a rock, now that his goings are established, he has purpose in life, he's He's living more than just uh here and now. He's living with eternity in view. Uh he has uh eternal life. And he says, God has put a new kind of song in my heart Not a song like the song I had before I was say, not something that's just an imitation of what I had before I was say, but something that is completely different Than the song I had before I was saved. And so we're looking at the third part of our series on why we do not use contemporary Christian music here at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. We get comments on that often. Some are very nice, some are the opposite of nice, but for the most part folks will come by and we hear statements like this Boy, our church doesn't sing those old hymns anymore. Or they'll say something like this. My dad says this. Every time he comes down, he says this. He goes, boy, I sure miss those good old hymns. He said, We don't sing them in my church anymore And he says, such a fresh air. He says, I wish he said this the last time he was down for the wedding. He said, I wish so bad I lived within driving distance. He said I'd come to church. here. And one of the reasons is because the great great pastor that's here is uh no I'm kidding, that's my dad. But uh one of the reasons is is uh is because we sing the old hymns and and he misses So let's pray and uh we'll pick up where we left off and uh give a few more thoughts tonight. Father in heaven, thank you, Lord, for the Word of God, for the instructions you give us. uh pretty clear what we are to do and not to do. And so, Lord, we pray that uh you would help us. I ask, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. God, more than anything else, I want to be true to your word. And God, I want to be a faithful pastor and a faithful teacher of the Word of God. And so in light of that, in light of this subject, I pray that you would guide me and help me to be honest and fair and uh and uh be thorough in this and so give us open hearts and minds we pray in Jesus' name amen. I take very seriously my responsibility as pastor to be an overseer of the Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. If I understand my Bible correctly, the day will come and each day goes by. It's a day closer When I will have to stand before Jesus Christ, me personally, before Jesus Christ, the creator of heaven and earth, and I will have to give an account to him for how I led the church and what I allowed and what I didn't allow and the direction I led in the church. I take that extremely Uh seriously. Uh I like that fun, I like to joke around and stuff, but uh I understand the responsibility God has given to me and I don't take that lightly The only thing, as pastor, that and all of us really, but the only thing we have to go by in determining how God wants his church to function is the Word of God. We have nothing other than the Word of God to go to to determine how does God want the church to function? What should the church do? What should the church not do? How should we do the things we do? How should we not do them? The only source we have to find the answers to those questions is the Word of God. And so when we make decisions as to the programs we have when we make decisions as to the music we use, the type of music when we make decisions as to um uh uh you know uh standards we might have We have to come to the Word of God because that's the source for determining what does God want for us to do. How does God want us to function? And so it's very, very important that everything we do. We do number one deliberately, and number two, we do it based upon our understanding of the Word of God Uh I've been around long enough, and there's a lot of churches, and I'm talking within our circles, independent fundamental Baptist churches, where they do not make decisions about things, they just let it happen Just whatever. I think that's a serious mistake. We ought to be very deliberate. We ought to be uh do what we do and what we don't do on purpose. So, having said that, we've already introduced uh idea here of why we don't use contemporary Christian music. Um again, uh just a reminder, there are strong feelings on this. It's very easy for some people to get into the flesh And react in this and when I make a statement or we do something, boy, people can uh I've had people so angry up in my face about issues like this. That is not what we want to do. That is not scriptural, that's not spiritual And so we're not trying to offend anybody, we're not trying to make anybody angry. I'm simply explaining why we do what we do. Number one, we said last week we introduced Uh the first reason that we don't use contemporary Christian music here is because it's uh it is characterized by worldliness. Christian music is characterized by worldliness. We pointed out, uh uh I felt fairly thoroughly that the Bible says there's to be a clear distinction between God's people and the world There is a clear demarcation we are not to imitate the world's lifestyles, we are not to adopt the world's values We are not to incorporate the world's priorities in our lives. Our priorities as a child of God are to be uh find their source in the Word of God, not in the world Our lifestyles as people of God will inevitably, if we're going to live by the Word of God, will inevitably be different than the lifestyles of the world. Our values Uh, if we're going to take God's word as as seriously at all, our values are going to be very distinct from the world's values One of the questions we asked on our fantastic survey that we use is does are God's standards of right and wrong the same as the world's standards of right and wrong? Now we're talking to unsaved people. In many cases, we're talking to people that haven't been in church for years. And inevitably, you know what the answer is? Are God's standards of right and wrong the same as the world's standards of right and wrong? You know what the unsaved people tell me? No. He said, no, God's standards are higher than the world's. Sometimes I have to explain a little bit. What God says is right and wrong. Is it the same as what the world says is right and wrong? And across the board, without exception, so far, I've had everybody say God's standards are not the same as the world's. And that's a biblical truth. We pointed out that for the most part, the basis of contemporary Christian music is rock and roll. And I think it's fairly easy to document, not just from the style of music itself, with the beat and all of that we talked about, but from the rock musicians themselves, unsaved rock musicians themselves. Acknowledge that rock and roll at its core is very worldly, it's very sensual, it appeals to the baser desires of our flesh And uh that is the uh and rock and roll is without a doubt the basis behind ninety-nine percent of our contemporary Christian music. Then we pointed out that um uh Uh well no we're not and we're on new territory here now. And I want to continue this thought as to the worldly characteristics of contemporary Christian music. If you will study the various artists that are Involved in contemporary Christian music, you will find that the vast majority either associate they associate and usually advocate secular rock and roll music. They associate with, or they will advocate, uh, secular rock and roll music. They uh, for the most part, they make no attempt to hide this. They uh um you can go through I have documentation from some of the biggest contemporary Christian artists that they will say that they get their inspiration from their music, from Rolling Stones, the Beatles Uh uh one of them said Led Zeppelin was one of their great inspirations for the music that they use. And these are blatantly anti-God, anti-Bible uh rock and roll groups. And so there's exceptions, no doubt, to every rule, but for the most part they make no attempt to hide this. You can go on YouTube, you YouTube uh YouTube. You can go on YouTube and look up various contemporary Christian music artists and look at the uh um video clips they have there and I have some I could take and show you where they are singing blanton rock and roll songs. Not Christian rock, I mean rock and roll uh Beatles songs um uh and down the road. And so uh this can be very easily documented. You can look it up yourself And so one of the reasons that I don't want to use contemporary Christian music at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is because of the worldly characteristics of the majority of it. Many, if not most, of the artists are openly associated with uh with uh secular rock music. Now my experience has been, I'm just talking from 25 years, holding the same position I held when I was 25 year old preacher and started out in the ministry. My experience has been when you have a Christian, maybe comes out of a good godly home, a good fundamental Bible-based thing, and they move over into the contemporary Christian movement arena My experience has been, and I know of no exceptions to this, I'm sure there's some out there, but my experience has been that once they move over into that, that opens doors to where they begin listening to secular rock and roll music also. My experience, without exception, has been when contemporary Christian music is injected or accepted, then secular rock and roll music isn't far behind where that is accepted also. And uh that in my book is going the wrong direction. Amen? Now, if if I could if I would see folks get into contemporary Christian music and they're drawn away, From Rolling Stones away from the different rock groups that are out there, uh, then I'd say maybe there's something to it. But I have not seen that ever in one case in my experience Where it is always drawn over there. So they associate themselves and advocate in many cases secular rock music. Very seldom Do you have contemporary Christian music and not somewhere in the mix secular rock and roll music also? Another reason for its work that I see worldly characteristics to it is this. Contemporary Christian artists generally live blatantly worldly lifestyles. If you look at their dress, often I know some of you are going to say, well, I know some exceptions, and that's the point. Those are exceptions But for the most part, their dress is very worldly. Their stage dress, I was uh on uh the the Turner or not Turner um Trinity Broadcasting Network, the Christian thing, and I was looking there, they had this gal singing, some popular song, the place was packed, they're going nuts. And I mean intensely low-cut dress form fitting. I mean it was like uh some uh American Idol type thing that was going on and I thought what in the world this is Christian And blatantly immodest, blantantly worldly in their dress. Usually there's dancing associated with contemporary Christian music. Some of the most famous and what would be considered most conservative of the cr of the contemporary Christian music performers, many of them have tattoos open, uh have pierced ears, sometimes pierced lips and eyes and I don't guess they pierce their eyes, but um uh have body piercings throughout it. Their hairstyles are very uh uh uh unscriptural in a lot of ways, with long hair particularly the older ones. Um few, if any, I have another article I read and I just kind of filed it away a couple of years ago about the time we were going through the issue with homosexuality Uh I was kind of sensitive to that and I saw an article about homosexuality within the the contemporary Christian movement, uh music movement And uh the the fellow went through very thoroughly documented that very few, if any, contemporary Christian musicians take an open stand against homosexuality. There are a few exceptions. The writer of one of the contemporary Christian music uh periodicals uh put a great concern is the acceptance of homosexuality within the homosexuality. Contemporary Christian movement. And again, this isn't across the board. I have no doubt there are exceptions to this and some people that take a good strong stand within it. But I'm saying, generally speaking, there's silence that comes out of the contemporary Christian movement on that sub on that subject Most major contemporary Christian music producers and distributors are owned by the world. Take your Bible if you would and turn to 2 Corinthians chapter 6. We're going to go to two other passages, and I want to give you some documentation here. 2 Corinthians chapter 6 I'm sorry, First Corinthians chapter six. No, I'm sorry, Second Corinthians chapter six Um it's one of those two. But while you're turning there, um Word Entertainment was one of the first and was one of the biggest producers of contemporary Christian music. When it first came out and got big, Word uh it used to be uh Word Publishers. They printed Bibles, they did most of your Christian books and all that type of thing. Word. Anyone familiar with the Word organization? They're back. Anyway, uh when Contemporary Christian music came out, anybody remember the name Amy Grant Everybody remembers that. She was one of the first big ones. There's a bunch before her, but when she came out, she really took it to another level. She got in under Word Productions. Word has since sold out, since contemporary Christian music has become a multi-billion dollar industry. They were sold out to the Warner Music Group. And any cr Christian artist that is being produced and distributed by the Warner Christian Music group. You know who else that same group finances and produces and publishes out there? Uh anybody out here ever hear of Madonna? Same publisher as uh a whole siou of these uh um Christian groups. Uh I don't I don't know a bunch of these. Amy Grant, of course, was one of them a long time. Uh Sandy Patty. Same same company that publishes that promotes and and produces Sandy Patty's stuff produces Madonna's Stop. Um anybody here I don't know much about this group. This was red hot chili peppers. Did we hear that Mark? Oh yeah. He's heard of them. Deacons heard of these guys. Uh whatever they are, they're not good, and published by the same group. Sparrow Records was a big publisher of contemporary Christian music. And um now they were they uh once it got big, then um EMI Group uh now publishes you might recognize some of these names. Stephen Curtis Chapman, Twila Paris, Zoe Girl, I don't know what that is, uh Carmen, Delirious, Newsboys, some of these, I don't know, they're probably dated. But that same publisher, the person that puts on their concerts, the person that publishes their records, the person that does their advertising, the company also advertises and produces and uses the money they make to promote Janet Jackson. Um Spice Girls. Uh some of these are older groups, but they're still making billions of dollars. Pink Floyd. The Rolling Stones, David Bowie. Same company. It's producing that. Now look with me, uh Michael W. Smith, who is huge in contemporary Christian Music, who by the way is a Catholic, devout Catholic, Chevrolet sponsors his concerts for him. And so look at 2 Corinthians 6, verse number 14. But be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers. For what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness? What communion hath light with darkness? And the answer to that question is what? None. We shouldn't have any fellowship with these uh these types of organizations, these types of people and and musicians. What concord had Christ with Belial? Would you agree with me Madonna is of the devil Come on now. Rolling Stones is of the devil. Grief, they sing sympathy for the devil is one of their big songs. And that same money, that same they're working together hand in hand with people producing these contemporary Christian music. Uh what concord hath Christ with Belial? What part hath he that believeth with an infidel? What agreement At the temple of God with idols. Would you agree that some of these rock groups are idols to people? Good night. What agreement do we have with them? Why would we want to be a part of that For ye are the temple of the living God. God has said, I will dwell in them and walk in them and will be their God, and they shall be my people. Wherefore, come out from among them. Be ye separate, saith the Lord, touch not the unclean thing. And I will receive you. What's he saying? He says, don't have anything to do with that crowd. Can you imagine? Now stop and think with me. Can you imagine if Dr. Sheldon Smith and the Sword of the Lord would pair up join up with a company that sells pornography. Would anybody have a problem with that? The Sword of the Lord publishing their materials but also but doing it under a corporation that and the same corporation publishes That type of material, I would say that guy's never coming back in this church again. I don't want anything to do with that. But that is exactly what these contemporary Christian artists are doing. They're joining up and working because there's and I the only motive I can imagine is there's tons of money there. These people can promote us. Another worldly aspect that I have a problem with contemporary Christian music is charging these unbelievable fees to come in and be a part of their ministry. Some of these tickets to get to some of these headline contemporary artists are 45, 50, 75, sometimes $100. And to go in and be ministered to. Tell you what, if I charge $50 to come and hear me preach, I wouldn't have any my wife wouldn't even come to hear me preach. So I have a hard time believing if it's that level of money you have to dish out just to get in there. I don't believe there's too much ministry going on. Sounds to me it's more like entertainment. Sounds to me it's more like feeding the flesh than doing anything from my heart and soul or bringing glory to God. Can you imagine if Dan Hummel was speaking of truth publishing the Romans booklets, the Gospel? Would go into and operate underneath a publishing company that publishes perverse materials. Imagine that. Would you agree with me? We would want nothing to do with speaking of truth if they were associated with that type of material. Would you agree with me? Then why is it in the music realm it's okay We wouldn't do it over here with the books and the printing. Why do we do it with the music? My Bible says sing to your song to your songs, sell songs, hymns, and spiritual songs. Making melody in your heart. How in the world do you take that and put it under a corporation that is financing it that is absolutely perverse and of the devil? How do you what concord do those two have? What agreement? What fellowship is there? And so a problem I have with the contemporary Christian movement is the worldliness associated with it. But that characterize it. You say, oh, but I know someone that's not that way. I know, and I'm sure there are exceptions, but that's my whole point. They are exceptions. They're not the rule Um can you imagine if Byron Fox would join up and associate with I don't even know who contemp who modern big rock and roll singers are Now. Um oh I know one. Uh he's the guy that looks like a girl, a little guy. Justin Bieber. Can you imagine if Byron Fox would come in here and say, hey, guess what, Brother Letham and I signed a contract with Justin Bieber's publishers, and we're going to be working hand in hand. I would say, Byron Fox, don't you ever shake my hand again. I want nothing to do with you. Stay away. I think people ought to quit picking on Justin Bieber. Leave her alone. I think you should do it. That's one of my favorite jokes in the whole world. Uh but do you follow what I'm saying? But uh I'm simply saying I have a problem with that. And if I understand scripture correctly, and I think I do, I understand we're supposed to be staying away from that stuff. We're not supposed to have anything to do with it. We are to be clear and distinct in our spiritual in our in our walk with God, in our identification with Jesus Christ. Christ, not blurring the two. Um let me give you another one. This one's uh just that that's the the biggest point of the four. Let me give you the second one real quick. The second reason we don't use contemporary Christian music, one is because of the worldly characteristics. Number two is because of the ecumenical characteristics. of contemporary Christian music. Anybody here help me out? What do we mean by ecumenical? When I use that term, what what are we talking about? Anyone take a shot at that? Blurring denominational line. Alright, blurring denominational line. That's a good Bible college answer. It's excellent. Anybody else? What are we talking about? Ecumenical m thing Alright, the word it's done. Oh yeah, it ties into one world church. Um, anybody else? Something's ecumenical. They're gonna have an ecumenical Easter service downtown. What does that mean? Yeah, everybody's just going to get together. The word itself, the literal definition of the word ecumenical, the narrow, strict definition, simply means this: to mix things together into one It's kind of the idea of making uh making some sort of cake or cornbread. You have various ingredients that are very distinct in and of themselves. Sugar is you don't confuse sugar with pepper Right? You don't confuse sugar with corn flour. Generally you don't, people don't. And so you take these very distinct ingredients, have their very distinct characteristics, and you ecumenicalize them. And you put it all together, and when you put the sugar and the cornbread and whatever else, lard I think, uh whatever else you put into cornbread, when it comes out, is it still sugar? No. It's become something else. It's become cornbread. And when we talk about being ecumenical in the Christian realm or in the religious realm, it means exactly what what brother Grant and Donna said, it simply means every denomination, whatever, loses their distinctives, sets that aside, and just comes together in this General, all-encompassing, all-accepting body. Um Billy Graham took a lot of heat back, I think it was in the 50s Uh when he started bringing Lutherans and unbelievers, uh religious groups that denied the Word of God, that denied the blood atonement, that denied the inspiration of Scripture. And he said, Well, I'm going to cooperate with them so that we reach more people. And what he was doing, though, you know, a lot of people got saved, and I think he's a man of of a great character in a lot of ways Nevertheless, he was violating scripture and so doing that. And I have found that contemporary Christian music is what, in their definition, is this, transdenominational. In other words, regardless of the doctrine of any individual group, we're going to work with all of them just in the general name of Jesus. Just in the general idea of getting people saved. I have an another passage if you would turn there real quickly, it's not far away, 2 Timothy chapter 4. Second Timothy chapter four, and notice with me verse number two. He says in the I think it's Second Timothy. First Timothy chapter four I'm sorry, Second Timothy chapter four. Ah, there we go, I found it. Not very impressive, is it? Let's uh look here. I charge thee, look at verse one. I charge thee therefore before God and the Lord Jesus Christ Who shall judge the quick and the dead as appearing as can look at this. Preach the word, be instant in season out of season. Alright, if it stopped there, that would be pretty good, right? That's our responsibility, is to give the word of God out. But look what else he says. Reprove, rebuke, exhort with all longsuffering and what? Doctrine. Sounds like the teachings of Scripture are pretty important. Look what he says in the next verse. The time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine. But will a but after their own lust shall heap to themselves teachers having itching ears. In other words, he's saying, Listen, you preach the word and you need to hold to doctrine. If it doesn't line up with doctrine, you read Reprove it, you rebuke it. Because the day's gonna come and uh end times of the one world church at the end Where they're not going to endorse sound doctrine. They're going to say we need to put away all our differences and anything that somebody doesn't like, we'll just ignore that, and we're going to all just get along in the name of Jesus in this general, unscriptural Jesus Now that's the extreme form of it. But I know of no contemporary Christian performers who take a strong stand for doctrinal purity. Every group that I know will go to any church for the most part. Charismatic. Michael W. Smith is one of the biggest, big names in Canterbury Christian music. He's devout Catholic In fact, he said after one of his concert, he said, I'm thrilled that so many Protestants are coming to a Catholic performer. What in the world? Um I I know of none uh that um who take a strong stand for doctrinal purity. In fact, our third reason for rejecting contemporary Christian music is that it's it is thorough and thorough charismatic. The vast majority are charismatic in their understanding and their doctrine. One more passage and then we'll quit. Come over to John chapter 17. And this is the big verse that a lot of ecumenical folks will use to say, listen, we just need to all get along, and music's a great way. We'll just say a lie to all our differences And we'll just praise God and we'll just worship God and we'll just have a great time together. And uh we'll do we'll just ignore our differences, and that's what God wants us to do. And they use John 17 And verse number twenty-one for this, but let's look at what it says. John seventeen, verse twenty-one. That they all may be what? 1. Well, let's go to verse 20. Neither pray I for these alone, in other words, the disciples right there, but for them also which shall believe on me through their word. In other words, people that get saved because the apostles witness. That they all may be one. Now that sounds great. Listen, should God's people get along? Sure. Should we be unified? Absolutely. There shouldn't be divisions. But wait a minute. Let's read the rest of that verse. That they all may be one. Look at this, as thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee. That they also may be one in us, that the world may believe that thou hast sent me, and that the glory which thou gavest me I have given to them. Look at this, that they may be one. Now look, he qualifies it. Even as we are one, this is Jesus speaking to the Father. He goes, I want God's people, I want your people to be one in the same way that I, Jesus, the Son of God, and you, God the Father, are one. Let me ask you this. What doctrines are set aside for Jesus and God the Father to be one? None. Jesus and God the Father are one in their understanding of the truth. There is no differences between God and Jesus that have to be laid aside for them to be one. And so when he says, I want God's people to be one Not one in putting aside scriptural doctrine, but one within scriptural doctrine. Does that make sense? Well, it goes to me. Uh, you know, there's a guy across town. He teaches that you have to be baptized to be saved. There's a church less than a half a mile from here. that teaches you have to be saved, or you have to be baptized to be saved. Well he claims to be a Christian. I claim to be a Christian. God wants us to be one. So when we get together, we're going to have a joint meeting, and we're not going to talk about baptism or salvation. We're just going to praise Jesus. That is not scriptural unity. That is disobedience to the Word of God. That's unscriptural unity. There's another church that believes you have to take the sacraments. You have to be uh baptized as an infant, you have to have last rites, you have to be married, you have to uh uh take part in the Eucharist Catholic Church downtown. You have to take part of the sacraments, or you can't ever make it to heaven. Well, they're going to have a contemporary, Catholic, contemporary Christian group, and man, those guys can rock. And people love them and they've got a platinum album. And tell you what, we'll get crowds out, so we're going to set aside our differences. We believe the Bible teaches you're saved by grace through faith, not of works. It's a gift of God. That if you trust in your works, you're going to die and go to hell. Well, tell you what, we're not going to talk about that. We're just going to say, come to Jesus in your own special way. And we're going to rock and roll, and we're going to flash the lights, and we're going to dance, and we're going to have a good time, and everybody's going to feel real spiritual. That's ecumenical. That's unscriptural. And as long as I'm pastor of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, we're going to have nothing to do with that. I I'm not a member of the ministerial association for that very same principle. I'm not going to yoke up with people that teach false doctrine and and people end up in I'm not going to overlook that. I'm not going to turn a blind eye to that. I'm going to warn people against that. Temporary Christian music, for the most part, does not do that. They will go into any church. If the church dishes out, for the most part, if they dish out enough money, You know what? There are good, independent, fundamental people that love God and believe that book, and they are going into churches that teach false doctrine to go hear rock groups who won't take a stand against God against false doctrine. That is sad. I was in Colorado interning a church. Before we came here, I was just filling in while they got a pastor. And another independent fundamental Baptist church, a guy that I went to school with, a group Good man, he was going to a Presbyterian church for a soul winning training. And he showed me the materials. And I said, This is pretty good, soul winning. I said, How do you he says, You got to go to the training to get it. I said, Where's the training? He said, this Presbyterian church. So the Presbyterian, they baptize infants and uh, you know, there's a lot of issues there. They're Calvinists a lot of things. I said, why I can't go to that. I said, Did you go there? He says, Yeah. I said, Did you take take your church people? He says he says, No. I didn't tell him where I was going. I just went for the training and didn't tell him where I went Well that sounds real honest. Listen, if I couldn't take the church people there, why would I go there? Amen. And so we have good people who are going into some are blandly false doctrine churches, and yet doing so under the guise, under the thing of contemporary Christian music. I have a problem with that. I would guess there are some groups out there that would say, you know, we're not going into that church, it's false doctrine. I'm not going into the church. They're not correct on their scripture. I want to make a clear stand. I imagine there's some out there, but I guarantee you they're not selling many tickets and they're not having very big crowds. I've never heard of them. So, two reasons so far. We have two more. One is they're worldly, and number two, ecumenical. And let's hey, and by the way. We sing the old hymns, but we do it with a smile on our face, and we do it sweetly. Somebody comes in there and says, Boy, I like Mercy Me. We're not going to get our hymn books out and stone them with hymn books I'm gonna say, well, come on in here and sing some old hymns with us. See what God does. And let me throw this caution out. Here's what hurts us. When we stand there and sing these old hymns, God said I am with no heart, no appreciation for the history of that hymn or the truth that's being presented. Just a dry day going through the motions. You know what that does? That drives people to the other extreme. And so let's sing spirit film. Sing with more heart. Look at the words, mandalive. That's an assurance. Jesus. Leaning on the everlasting arms. What a great shrink there. And so Trying to land this plane, so let's just crash dive here. Father in heaven, I pray you would help us to have open hearts and open minds. Lord, we don't want to be angry, we don't want to get in a flesh, we just want to be true to your word. And I pray you'd help us to think things through a little bit. Lord, all we